THE worst sequel of the horror genre .	This movie , in its attempt to be clever , ends up being just plain ignorant . It has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with the original , and as fantastic as was the original , this detestable sequel is just that bad . Four years later , what does she remember ? Apparently , what she does - not - remember are those acting lessons . I highly suggest that you watch the Exorcist , the director's cut ; skip this one , and move right on to Exorcist 3 . You won't even be able to tell you've left part 2 out of the cycle , that's how insignificant it is . It's really THE worst sequel to any franchise , even considering Batman Forever and Pet Semetery 2 . Just watch Exorcist : the Beginning , Exorcist 1 , and Exorcist 3 . You won't even miss Exorcist 2 . EDIT : I have to say that with the addition of the two prequels , this installment makes MUCH more sense now . It does now have a place in the run and should be viewed by franchise fans as a more necessary chapter of the Exorcist story . I'd give it a , now . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Putrid .	One of the worst movies I've ever seen . Poor Robert Guillaume . Whose sister did he anger to end up in this stinker ? This was AWFUL ! I should have known , when I saw Christopher Atkins listed in the credits . Remember him ? Richard from the Blue Lagoon with Brooke Shields all those years ago ? This was so slow , boring , uneventful , and just plain ignorant . The story was nonexistent and the execution was worse . They took something with potential like The Jersey Devil and did . . . nothing with it . They could have done so much more with this . The cinematography makes you want to hurl , the dialog belongs in a . . . no . This dialog belongs nowhere . It was demeaning to the audience to have to listen to it . And the acting . There are no words . This was pure emotionless , uninspired drivel , from the script to the delivery . I can not express how bad this movie was . The words fail me , so I will allow the rating to do it for me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
WtH is this ? Original Title : King Kong Lives	I was one of the masses who enjoyed the ' 76 remake , but this " sequel " absolutely reeked . I am at a total loss for what to say about this flick . I was totally amazed that Linda Hamilton had anything whatsoever to do with such a disappointing jaunt into the area of camp . The critics have knocked the ' 76 remake of " King Kong , " but next to this , it was of " Ben Hur " caliber . This is one of those movies you would be far better off not seeing . Especially if you are a fan of the original OR the ' 76 remake . It is a farce . A joke . A very bad joke . It turns out Kong did not die at the end of the ' 76 remake . He was taken to " the Institute , " where Linda Hamilton and her team of doctors and scientists , primatologists and whatnot revived his heart and have tried for ten years to come up with a solution to his ten year long coma . Well , it seems he needs a heart transplant and blood transfusion , and the only source just happens to be available . A female Kong who is recently captured . Go figure . Upon acquiring the female , they give Kong the transfusion , perform the necessary operations and poof ! Kong has a new heart . Trouble is , from a mile away , he can smell the female now that he is awake . So of course he makes trouble , escapes and finds her and together they run off into the mountains to make babies . With an historically inane story line , trite-filled dialog ( " It's the other monkey ! It's gone . . . apesht ! ! " ) , pure camp throughout , horrid cinematography , worse acting , and about the most poorly-done effects I've seen since " Killer Klowns from Outer Space , " this quondam legendary line of movies has reached its end with " King Kong Lives . " This is a prime example of a bad idea , gone worse . This should be required viewing in any cinema course : " What NOT to do with Your Movie 101 . " sighs from . . . The Fiend : . .
Fails On All Levels	Once a horror ( or creature feature ) fan has seen Jaws , they have seen the ultimate creature feature with a shark as the antagonist . Orca was awesome in places ( and is not a shark , obviously ) , but Jaws is the epitome of a masterpiece creature feature . It stands comfortably alongside The Creature From The Black Lagoon , and represents some phenomenal film making skills . This work , on the other hand , attempts to bring the " mad scientist " ploy into a cheap , slip-shod version of Jaws , attempting to class with the Invisible Man , Frankenstein , or even Bats . Sadly , it does not measure up , even to Bats . There are multiple problems with this work . The main problem I found ( and there ARE many ) is the simple lack of kills , on screen or off . However , a close second is the painfully wretched writing , and an even closer third is the utter lack of acting talent featured within this flick . Fahey is the best here . . . what does THAT tell you ? Further , dialog delivery is so plastic it goes to cement somewhere after the first 20 minutes . And speaking of plastic , once you get a load of these characters , you'll completely understand the tone of this review . These characters are less than one-dimensional ! Nothing about them is believable . Every single aspect of this work breaks the suspension of belief trust any good movie must engender . More importantly , I feel , is that the believability is utterly destroyed once the premise is introduced . Sharks are not capable of being " trained and taught " as featured in this work . That's why the government used dolphins in their earlier debauchery in the first two World Wars , so the whole thing falls apart and leaves the viewer hanging there in the conundrum of a wholly unbelievable story , terrible acting , and poorly done sharks . SO poorly done were the sharks , in fact , that even the FINS , which is basically all you see except for 3 or 4 times total , look like shiny plastic triangles . They didn't even bother to paint these things to make them look as if they had any texture whatsoever ! All in all ? This was pretty sad and a huge disappointment , as I love creature features ! Even straight-to-video films can be entertaining , but this didn't offer a single moment of entertainment . Every single aspect of this work breaks the suspension of belief trust any good movie must engender . This film fails on all levels and really isn't worth your time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Classic , traditional Chinese horror .	In a word ? BAD . This has all the elements of a badly done " B " movie ; ie : poorly developed characters , horrific cinematography , deplorable cacophonic soundtrack , and terrible over-dramatized acting . The CGI used does not even begin to redeem this detestable smack-fest of sugar-coated zombies / vampires / whatevers , the main monster looks like something an 8 year old put together for the front porch on Halloween , and the four main characters are totally indistinguishable from one another . The American version of this movie was cut , so it's possible we lost the character development on the cutting room floor , but honestly , even if we hadn't , I seriously doubt this movie would be worth watching . There is only ONE good element . The sets . The sets are nicely done , and that is literally the single enjoyable aspect of this entire production . Do yourself a favor and do something . . . no . . . do ANYthing else . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is Just A Rip-Off of The Neverending Story , And It's TERRIBLE !	This uses color and glitz in place of story , character development , and heart , and falls flat on its face in the process . There is a story here , but it's lost among the detritus of cheesy effects , bad CGI , and some pretty bad Spam performances by three underage over-actors . If THIS is what Robert Rodriguez had in mind , I mean . . . if he did this on PURPOSE , I fear for Sin City 2 & 3 , as he is producing , writing , and directing those , as well . But back to this trash . The characters have been poorly recreated , the setting is a planet , rather than a realm , and there is no Queen . The Nothing is replaced by the Darkness , and Atreyu / Bastian is now Max , whose adventure means nothing in the greater scheme of things , in place of the great quest of honor in search of truth , nobility , and self of Atreyu's tale . Also , some of this , like the Land of Milk and Cookies , felt more like Wonka's Chocolate Factory . . . or rather , a horrible disgusting CGI mess of it . Did I mention that this absolutely stinks ? It rates nothing for effects , nothing for story , nothing for acting , nothing for direction , nothing for concept . I guess that means it's a from . . . the Fiend : .
Griswold no longer dorky ; now he's just a jerk	Look out Vegas ! The Griswolds are coming ! Actually , it's Ellen Griswold who needs to look out . Poor Ellen ! Frankly , I would divorce a man like Clark and marry Wayne Newton ( were I interested in that sort of thing ) . I've never seen a Chevy Chase movie in which I hated his character more than in this one . Not only is he greedy , but he's downright ignorant , mulish and just plain stupid . Okay , okay , he is stupid in most of his movies , but this one is the topper . Clark W . Griswold deserves to be divorced , taken to the cleaners and left standing in the middle of the desert with no means of escape , and no hope of rescue . Ever . Again , totally NEW Rusty and Audrey . Though the original oldest female cousin ( Eddie's daughter ) is back , and she's the biggest whore in Vegas . Suspension of reality has to take place in all of the " Vacation " movies , but this one really pushes it . Shoves reality right off the highest roof of the highest building on the Vegas strip . I hated this latest installment of the " Vacation " series . Audrey becomes a wanton slut , Rusty becomes a . . . well , Rusty was always like that . Ellen is now a wanna be slut and Clark loses any and all traces of lovability . Avoid it at all costs , if you are a fan of these movies . It's not funny . It's just sad . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I've seen koolaid stands with better funding . . .	And that just makes this all the better . This movie was horribly low budget , blessed us with the worst acting I'd ever seen , and peppered with some really horrid sets . Honestly , this movie is not fit to watch . It is not scary . It is not eve a good attempt . The only decent factor about this attempt was the writing . The story itself was a decent fast-paced tale of zombies created by a virus . While not original by any means , it was a decent production considered it had no hopes of anything better than going straight to video . Some straight to video ventures are actually quite decent . Unfortunately , this movie is riddled with the low budget disease to the point of resembling a third-grade film project . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Horrible Disappointment .	After the blockbuster hits of the Mummy and the Mummy Returns , I thought , " They at least have an idea of what to do with the Scorpion King . " I was wrong . The reason this movie is pretty well universally disliked is because of the lone , simple fact that the story did not detail the legend itself that was highlighted in the Mummy Returns . That was THE element of disappointment . Personally , when I went to the cinema to see this movie , I expected the same cohesion of story that we got from the Mummy and the Mummy Returns . It wasn't there . Instead , we got some crap about the guy before he WAS the Scorpion King . We got nothing of the story to which the Mummy Returns eluded . I was bitterly disappointed , and in writing this , I realize I STILL am disappointed in this movie . I don't care if it was well done , or well enacted . It was not what it should have been and therefore is a complete waste of film , in my opinion . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dismally ignorant wannabe	This is more a " true " sequel to the idea behind the Halloween line than it is to Michael Meyers . However . . . Carpenter's intent was to have a fresh new movie each Halloween , each bearing the Halloween name and each with a new story and a new director . So based on his intent , this movie is the only " real " Halloween sequel . Unfortunately , that does not make it GOOD ! ! That having been said , this attempt is rather puerile and attempts to execute a plot line which could have been written by an eight-year-old . It is mediocre at best , bearing huge plot holes , major annoying contrivances and only a half decent story line . The song , " 8 More Days " is both memorable and possibly the most annoying commercial jingle ever created . The musical score is an odd blend of theater and church organry and in some places it's an almost unbearable combination of both . SPOILERSThe premise : An evil toy company has hatched a plot to kill all the children via some really freaky little Halloween masks , subliminals , and magick used with evil intent . This same company is the " largest in the world , " yet seemingly only manufactures three cheaply made masks , while it also manufactures androids and the AI to run them ? ! And they have aspirations of world domination . Of course they do . Plot holes and contrivances . The movie is riddled with them . The acting quality is laughable and the character development is non-existent . Not that either of these elements could have saved this attempt . It bears a distinct 80's " Children of the Corn " type feeling in that it involves the entire town , is horribly dated , and frankly , does not bear a remake . The story here simply does not rate it . Some critics have praised this story as " original , clever , inspired " work . Honestly , the reason why it had the advantage of never having been seen before is because it is about the most inane piece of garbage on film . I personally don't see anything " inspired " about it . It lacks intelligence on even the most base levels , utilizes cheap thrills ( not that there ARE any " thrills " ) and goes for that gag reflex , three unattractive elements for ANY movie . Unfortunately , those were the good points . Michael Myers or no Michael Myers , this movie reeked , all by itself . Other critics say this is a fine stand alone movie . Compared to what ? This does not stand , it lays there , so flaccid and weak it cannot even hold up its head . It rates a on the " B " scale . That's somewhere like a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Cinderella Man ?	This was a horrid , overdone , over-sentimentalized , over-written piece of garbage . Russell Crowe was terrible in this ! He came off like he was trying to prove something , and in so doing seemed to swagger across the screen one minute , and drunkenly waltz back , the next . His delivery of dialog was as plastic as anything in the Barbie World , and he seemed to be lost and confused throughout much of his performance . Quite honestly , his screen time seems to be a total waste , this time around . This was a complete waste of time and resources , but I won't grieve the time it took for me to swallow this terrible film , nor the time I wasted writing this review . This was a REAL stinker . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Weak , flaccid King remake	Trucks . Another faithful Stephen King adaptation that doesn't work . Compared to this work , Maximum Overdrive RAWKED ! ! It was a GREAT movie based on Stephen King's " Trucks . " Stephen King even wrote the screenplay for it which is a complete surprise to me , since I normally deTEST his screenplay translations / adaptations of his literary work . Not only did he write the original work , " Trucks , " but he directed the movie Maximum Overdrive , and had a bit part in it . This made for TV version , called . . . " Trucks , " is about as well done as a piece of Steak Tartare . The acting is shallow and campy , the characters possess about as much depth as a child's wading pool and I'm SO SORRY , but I needed to hear Yeardley Smith ( Connie ) screaming , " CURRRRRTIS ! ARE YOU DA-YED ? ? ? ! ! ! " Brian Taggert should be writing greeting cards and Chris Thomson should be directing TRAFFIC somewhere in the rain with no hat ! Trucks lost a lot in the translation . A LOT . While Maximum Overdrive was not billed as highly as it should have been , this remake makes Maximum Overdrive look like Stewart's " It's A Wonderful Life , " in comparison . Aaaand , I'm not even a casual fan of Emillio Estevez but Timothy Busfield ? ! Jeez , why not get Steve Webber ? Wait ! ! . . . you already DID that . coughs The 1997 Made 4 TV Shining Remake coughsThe cellphones are from the ' 80's as they attempted to " date " this piece to compete with Maximum Overdrive . Why , I'll never know . It's no where near the same level of excitement . Yeardley Smith MADE that movie . Without her , it's just some dumb truck movie . It's probably not as bad as all that . But compared to the movie it's supposed to " remake , " it ranks down there with Mom and Dad Saved the World . Sorry Timothy Busfield fans . . . wait . . . are there any ? , but it just reeks . Amy Stewart's and Brendan Fletcher's characters were the only ones which had any depth or believability to them , whatsoever . Their performances were rich as French Roast in comparison to the rest , and that ain't saying much . It has some good spots , but it just isn't much of anything . When the TonkaT truck is killing the Postal Guy , we laughed uproarously . It was campy and puerile and we couldn't help but laugh . We actually rented this movie , to write this review . Poor us . lol And tell me this . . . Just how many times can you chop someone with an axe in the SAME place without going more than 1 " deep ? C'MON ! lol The axe actually FLEXED in it's plasticity right there in front of our EYES ! WoW this movie was baaaad ! ! Okay , wow . And when the truck drove through the old man who'd been Ray's Father's service mate ? The CGI is so bad , you can literally SEE the truck drive straight through the old guy , and the guy's feet are still THERE IN THE SHOT ! ! lmao We laughed SO HARD . If you're bored and there's absolutely nothing else to do , clean your house , clean out the garage or worm your cat , but DON'T see this movie . " They're getting smart ! " " Well , we gotta stay smarter . " lmao Wow , with dialogue like this , no wonder it currently has stars with the IMDb . The pivotal moments are weak and as flaccid as overcooked pasta , as the cast embers are picked off one at a time for utter stupidity . And the ending ? WHAT ENDING ? ? ? WT . . . ? ! ? ! If you like this movie , see a shrink . Okay , okay , there's no accounting for taste . If you LIKE this movie , check out Maximum Overdrive . It's much , MUCH better . I was going to give it a half a point out of 10 . I don't know why it gets that much ; perhaps in memory of Maximum Overdrive , a MUCH BETTER MOVIE ! But because of the really botched ending , it gets absolutely NOTHING ( that's ) from . . . the Fiend : .
Boring , ignorant , lackluster affair	NOT to be confused with Universal's " Wolf Man " starring Lon Chaney , Jr . This was My first ( that I know of ) exposure to the Hammer Horrors . This has been billed as " the best of the Hammers . " If that's the case , I'm stunned at their popularity . I was not impressed with this movie at all . I was disappointed with the story , the performances , the direction , and the sets . Don't get Me wrong . It wasn't all THAT bad , but to be billed their " best , " just put Me off going out of My way to see any of the rest of the Hammers because frankly , it was not good . It was not entertaining . It was not intelligent . It was not fun to watch . If you're an avid werewolf fan , you may be able to find at least one enjoyable aspect in this work , but I ( an avid werewolf fan ) could not . It did have one interesting element which I won't name here , because it's about the only element which makes this movie worth watching . If you're just a casual viewer of horrors and / or werewolf movies , then do yourself a favor and go for that vasectomy / hysterectomy instead . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , They Get Kudos For Trying , But This Is Pathetic .	This is supposed to be a comedy , but it rolls more like a mock-umentary of ineptitude , insanity , and idiocy . Three men attempt to put together a piece of crap they think will be beautiful . It would be better if they had made a piece of crap that was just a piece of crap , but this is folded crap , which basically means this is a piece of crap ABOUT a piece of crap . It starts off pretty badly , but I hoped that by giving it a chance , I would be rewarded . Sadly , I was not . This was pretty sad , generally speaking . Even fans of Rap culture were not there to support this work . This is so bad , that it is nigh unwatchable . All in all ? I found no entertainment value here , whatsoever . This was just plain bad , and offers no redeeming qualities whatsoever . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
El Chupra-Alien ?	This was a painful movie to watch . The acting makes you wince like fingernails over the top of your car . Heidi Fleiss was atrocious to the point of being criminal , the dialog was trifling and unorganized , and the " alien " was the same horrible cheesy crap-fest of a special effects career-breaker that was featured in " El Chupacabra . " If it's not the same monster , it's his twin brother . Jeez . If anything could have saved this attempt , it would have been the ( only sometimes decent ) photography . But that was its strongest component , and it was so flaccid , it never even partially achieved the theatrical erection . It's a " B " movie and rates a on the " B " scaleThat's about a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Dr . Evil In The Hat	Dog the Grinch if you must , but it was LIGHT YEARS ahead of this muddled mess ! ! They were so worried about Carrey coloring the role of the Cat in the Hat , that they hired an actor who has one basic personality which he dresses with different costumes . This was nothing more than Mike Meyer's " Dr . Evil " character in a cat suit . He uses the self same gimmicks in his shtick as the maniacally irresponsible Cat , as he did as the irresponsibly maniacal Dr . Evil . There's very little difference between the two and what difference there was , he comes off as a very poor comic this time around . The creation of the city was quite nice and Dakota Fanning was a joy . The boy who played her brother and the fish were decent characters , but Mike Meyers ' interpretation of Dr . Seuss's Cat was extremely sickening . He was very under dramatized ( and must have been cememted in " Dr . Evil " ) for Cat in the Hat . While Dr . Evil was a likable character in the Austin Powers movies , he had no place in this work . Hindsight being worthless , they should have hired Jim Carey and not been concerned with the " Grinch " comparisons . He , at least , would have played DR . SEUSS'S character and not Mike Meyers ' character . The Universal Studios ad right in the middle of the movie was the least tasteful thing in a virtual sea of tastelessness . I actually PAID to see a Universal advertisement . I have just been violated . No . Really . Ah well , this will be remade in a few years , anyway . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
$hamele$$	I did not hate the actual featurette , what I hated was that it was only sold in addition to Shrek 1 , which everyone and his brother already owned , and had to buy again , just to get this 15-minute bridge into Shrek 2 . It was a shameless marketing ploy designed to shove a second copy of the original movie down the consumers ' throats , regardless of whether they had already purchased the original movie , or NOT . It was George Lucasesque in its gross thoughtlessness for the fans , and Dreamworks was considered to be above those shady tactics . The featurette should have been made available - at a REASONABLE PRICE - without forcing the consumer to buy another copy of a movie they already had . The practice employed here rates a . The featurette itself , for what it was , rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Kill the Klowns from Outer Space ! ! ! PLEASE ! ! !	This flick is filled with cheesy dialog , horrid direction , deplorable acting performances and the most inane script I've ever experienced . I fail to comprehend the cult following this flick has generated . This " work " is nothing short of absolute detritus . It doesn't even fall into the " Attack of the Killer Tomatoes " genre of good camp . This is suppoed to be an " arthouse " parody of " B " horrors . It isn't " arthouse . " It isn't anything but completely unintelligent , over-rated drivel . Having been written and directed by the cinematic equivalent of the Three Stooges ( Directed by Stephen Chiodo and Written by Charles Chiodo & Edward Chiodo ) , I expected nothing more . Good thing , because this attempt gives nothing more than the most disgusting display of pre-pubescent idiocy to which I have ever had the displeasure of being exposed . The producers and director in charge of these hokey , horrid , and even STUPID effects should have all been BURNED AT THE STAKE ! It doesn't rate a rating , but here goes . It doesn't deserve this much , but I'll be generous with a from . . . the Fiend : .
Two briquettes short of a barbecue .	I couldn't believe it ! They TOTALLY REWROTE the ending of Firestarter 1 , to accommodate this piece of trash ! The movie would've been fine . I would've even settled for Skye McCole Bartusiak shudders as a stand-in for Drew . Not that she could've ever hoped in a million years to fill her shoes . But to bastardize the original movie that the fans have come to love , just cheapens this already shaky film . Marguerite Moreau was a disaster as " Charlie " McGee . Her character was hollow and as plastic as a Barbie ? doll . Her performance was hesitant and off the mark completely . The only thing good I have to say about this " sequel " is that the effects were believable , but that doesn't begin to redeem this horrid waste of film . So disappointing to have them rewrite the ending of 1 like that . If they hadn't done that , I might could have liked it . It gets a sorry from . . . the Fiend : .
People simply can't BE this stupid and still be allowed to walk around in public !	The local video store where I have My membership has a section of self help , travel documentaries , religious ramblings , and so forth ; free for rental to the video store members . It was there I was first introduced to this video . I saw the title and I thought , " No way ! " and picked it up . Being Pagan , naturally I was interested in what they had to say connecting Harry Potter to real Witchcraft . First off , let Me start by saying that Harry Potter IN NO WAY contains Witchcraft . The books ( and subsequent movies ) have nothing whatsoever of any use as far as spell casting , weaving , or actual information . You will not find ONE GRAIN of Magickally factual information in these works . Secondly , let Me also state that this " mocumentary " also contains footage of an A & E Biography report done on Ms . Rowlings which I can only hope is prosecutable . I cannot believe A & E OR Ms . Rowlings would allow this interview to be used in this fashion . I would like to think this is a blatant case of copyright infringement ( or downright plagiarism , but if not , it's yellow journalism at its ugliest ) and that we will all be reading the details of the upcoming lawsuit in the very near future . Thirdly , I do not always number what I say . LOL Next , they take the words said by Ms . Rowlings out of context , dub over her voice as she's answering the interviewers questions and ANSWER THE QUESTION FOR THEMSELVES all the while , showing HER face ! It's downright inflammatory ! Throughout this blight of yellow journalism , they misquote Ms . Rowlings , dub over her own answers , and blatantly put words in her mouth . They have outright lied , in My opinion , in several places in this video , and I would like to see them prosecuted for this piece of garbage they've generated . They quote what they claim are " real witches " endorsing Harry Potter , stating that " . . . it's so much like the real way . . . " and that " . . . it's perfect truth . . . " blah , blah , blah . While Ms . Rowlings naturally DID study and research materials for these works , these works ARE her own invention , and NOT something taken from any single branch of Paganism ( of which Wicca is a path ) . The generation of information in the prewriting time is said on this video ( again , dubbed over her own answer and in the voices of these extremists ) is said to have been gleaned from Wiccan texts . However , I have studied Wicca for years , and , quite honestly , there is nothing whatsoever Wiccan about anything in these works . If Wicca is the source for her creativity , sobeit , but there are no Wiccan teachings to be found here . The BASIS for Magick , be it Wiccan , Rosicrucian , xtian , or any other , is visualization . You pray to your God , and you " see in your mind's eye " the trait or blessing you would receive . That's all spellwork IS , folks ; prayer . Anyone who says differently is trying to sell you something ( even if it's just to get your tithe money for their own gain ) . These works fail to even teach THAT ; the most fundamental of Pagan ( Wiccan or otherwise ) philosophies . I'VE JUST taught you more about magick in this single review than Ms . Rowlings " teaches " in all her works . So these people are just . . . WRONG . Opinionated , loud , obnoxious , and ignorant . This video is a personal attack on a very generous and talented individual . It is a typical Christian purist's spin of hatemongering , name-calling , and trite inconsequential drivel . It's christians like these who give them all a bad name . Too bad they don't feed them to the lions anymore when they get out of line . Don't rent this . Don't see this . Don't buy this . Don't support these defamers in their unholy and self righteous trifles . This crap doesn't deserve a rating . the Fiend : .
One of the worst " B " movies I've ever seen .	What can I say about " Midnight Mass ? " Well , the plot . . . wait . . . WAS there a plot ? I've dubbed a few movies " the worst , " but nothing I've ever seen ( aside from Brain Dead productions ) has ever come close to topping this crap-fest . It's one of those rare things that you have to see , to believe . The acting quality was non-existent ( really ) , the directing was atrocious ( what there was of it ) ; the storyline was not just weak , it was dead and buried long before they even SHOT this thing ; the sets appeared to have been put together by a group of nine-year-olds and the effects were the worst I have seen in a long , LONG time . This flick was a complete waste of film and of my money in renting it . There was not a single redeeming factor about this flick . Not one . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
The Fall of a Masterpiece ; The Death of a God	. : Major Spoilers : . The " Authorized " Version of The Shining : . Was a " Made-For-TV " movie done in 1997 to appease Stephen King's wounded ego over Stanley Kubrick's " unauthorized " movie version of his book , also entitled , " The Shining . " While faithful to the book , the remake was puerile and under-dramatized . It lacked . . . everything . Compared to Kubrick's adaptation , this remake had about as many " scare you " and " edge of the seat " moments as an episode of " Welcome Back Kotter . " Don't get me wrong . I have been an ardent Stephen King fan most of my life . I was the 9-year old with the t-shirt that read , " Stephen King Rules . " But that fact does not redeem this movie as the WORST piece of drivel ever made ! ! ! Other than to have an " official , authorized " version of his work , I cannot see any reason whatsoever for remaking this movie . It was a tremendous waste of time and resources , if you ask me . Ah , the movie review . Where do I begin ? Let's start with the casting . Although Rebecca DeMornay was a believable Wendy , her portrayal was as anorexic as the bare bones skeltal remains of Queen Nefertiti . But in all fairness , that's in comparison to Shelly Duvall's brilliant performance in the Kubrick adaptation . Steve Webber . Steve Webber vs . Jack Nicholson . Steve Webber ? ! I don't think I need to go here . I mean . . . have you seen " Wings ? " He's NOT my idea of an even . . . competent screen presence in a movie like . . . well , in ANY movie . His acting . . . " talents . . . ? " are much better geared for the " small screen " where he can enjoy the juvenile humor and poor emotional control ; be given short , easily remembered lines , with two weeks to film a 24-minute / 4-segment sit-com episode . Danny Lloyd ( now a mid-western school teacher without the slightest of aspirations towards an acting career what a loss to the movie industry ! ) was so very good in the role of Danny Torrence that I don't know who they could have hired to take his place and stand in his little shoes . However , Courtland Mead ( - " Young and the Restless , The " ( 1973 ) TV Series . . . . Phillip Chancellor IV ( 1993-1995 ) - ) CERTAINLY wasn't it . This child is a capable actor who probably followed the direction he was given , but his performance was sadly lacking . His character was hollow and as whiny as was Ms . DeMornay's but on a much more annoying scale . We'll blame that on the director . Who was the director ? Mick Garris . The same Mick Garris who also directed Stephen King's The Stand , Sleepwalkers , Tales From the Crypt and Amazing Stories , among others . So now that we know he CAN do good work , we have to stop and ask , " What happened here ? " Sorry Stephen King fans everywhere , but that leads us to Mr . King's teleplay . It was faithful to his original work and sanctioned by Mr . King , himself ; therefore was dubbed the " Authorized " version . There now . I do hope you feel better , Mr . King . I , as a fan , do not . We had the book . We read the book . We knew the book , and loved Kubrick's adaptation anyway . The Setting and the Scenes : A Comparison of the AuthorizedVersion Against The Kubrick Adaptation . . . Kubrick's version : the motel was an impressive piece of architecture and staging . It lent to the atmosphere , by having atmosphere itself . The furnishings and furniture was all period , and while the Torrences were becoming acquainted on that first day , they were told the motel was on an ancient Indian burial ground . The Authorized Version : the motel was a modernized prefabricated-looking piece of crap . The front lawn was small-ish and not very scenic . Also , there is no mention of a burial ground . There is mention - at great length - of a form of croquet which was developed by the man who built the hotel . Who CARES ? It had NOTHING to do with the story and nothing whatSOever to do with the plot . It was best left out , as in the Kubrick Adaptation . K : The maze was a magnificent touch , reminiscent of the Labyrinth in which the Minotaur of Crete was Guardian . When Jack Nicholson stands at the scaled model of the maze and stares into the center , seeing Wendy and Danny entering , it's a magickal moment ; one that tells you right away , there are heavy energies i that house ; there's something seriously wrong , already starting . A : Instead of the magickal maze , we got topiary beasties who wouldn't ( couldn't ? ) move if you were looking at them . This was NOT scary , either . The only feeling of " wrongness " achieved from these scenes , was in the writing of them . K : The several pan scans of the hotel itself , with the mountains looming behind , the cold air swirling about , mist coming up from the warm roof of the hotel , all adds so MUCH to the atmosphere of the movie . A : We got very little feel for the actual hotel itself from Garris's version . It appears as though he tried to not show the full hotel . Did they even HAVE an actual building ? or just a series of set-built rooms ? It felt as though the whole episodic monstrosity was filmed in a row of badly positioned office cubicles . K : The ghosts of the two butchered daughters of Delbert Grady were icons with which Danny could identify , and at the same time , be afraid of . They were hauntingly beautiful , and showed Danny how they were killed , in a rather graphic and material way . A : There were no little girls . K : The visions Danny had concerning the house gave you a feeling for what he was feeling and the things that had happened previously there . A : Danny's visions weren't enough to scare us . They didn't give us the history of the place . They didn't give us . . . anything . K : Tony was an attendant spirit , like a spirit guide which he acquired as a result of his arm nearly being wrenched off his body by his own father . He was . . . " the little boy who lives in my mouth . " He would manifest in the end of Danny's finger and physically spoke through Danny in order to speak TO Danny . A : Tony , Tony , Tony . Wow . To go from being an attendant spirit that Danny could not see , to a rather sloppy form of CGI , imposed over the landscape ; from " little boy " to teenaged-almost-man-boy . . . what a metamorphosis ! A disappointing one . While loyal to the book , in that King's Tony was the projection of an older Danny , sent back in a vain attempt to save his father , the idea of Danny going back in time to his younger self wasn't . . . scary . Instead , it seemed a bulimic attempt to bestow the tale with a haunting new-agey quality . It didn't work . K : The " Woman in the Shower " scene . It was dramatic , and frightening . Disgusting and scary . This is the pivotal moment when Jack . . . cracks . When Nicholson looks into the mirror and sees her decomposing flesh beneath his hands ; the look of sheer terror on his face was so complete and REAL ! A : The " Woman in the Shower " scene . . . didn't exist . That , too , was Kubrick's genius at work . K : When Wendy find's Jack's " screenplay " is nothing more than page after page of the same line typed over and over . . . when he asks from the shadows , " How do you like it ? " and Wendy whirls and screams , the baseball bat in her hands . . . is so poignant . It's the point where she realizes how messed up the whole situation is . . . how messed up Jack is . It's very scary , dramatic and delivers a strong presence . That coupled with Danny's visions of the hotel lobby filling with blood , imposed over the scene between Jack and Wendy make that the strongest and most telling scene in Kubrick's version . A : Webber's Jack Torrence talked about a screenplay , but never wrote a word . K : The " REDRUM " scene . Wow . What do I say ? What mother would not be totally freaked to awaken finding their young , troubled son standing over them with a huge knife , talking in that freaky little voice , saying REDRUM over and over ? It was something everyone could and has remembered . A : The REDRUM scene . What REDRUM scene ? There wasn't one . There wasn't even a sorry REPLACEMENT scene for it , and if there was , it was SO sorry that I missed it . Wait ! Could it POSSIBLY Have been that lame scene where Danny was attacked by the " dead " wasps ? Not possible . No WAY ! Talk about creative impairment ! K : Speaking of memorable scenes . . . Nicholson's final assault on his family with an axe was perhaps one of the scariest scenes of movie history . His ad-libbed line , " Heeeeere's Johnny ! " was a stroke of brilliance and is one of the most memorable scenes in the history of horror . A : Webber's final assault was confused , weak and NOT SCARY ! The weapon Webber uses ( a CROQUET MALLET ? ! ? ) was NOT scary ! I wasn't scared . l It IS however a memorable scene . I'll always remember it as the lamest climaxial scene in horror history . K : The ending . . The ending . . ? Kubrick's ending was perfection . I felt it ended beautifully . No smarm , no platitudinous whining , no tearfully idiotic ending for THIS movie . Just epitomized perfection . That's all I'll say on the subject of the ending . A : The ending was just as lame as the rest of the movie . It doesn't even deserve being commented upon , further , so I won't . I have two questions , Mr . King . Did you completely fail to notice that the TV version was NOT scary ? Do you fail to realize it is the most puerile piece of garbage I've seen on film ! " Howard the Duck " was " Casablanca " compared to this movie ! The Kubrick version , while unauthorized , was and IS about the scariest thing ever put on film , in the name of King and yet , because it wasn't YOUR version , you bastardized one of he greatest masterpieces of horror on film to date ! ! Was it worth disappointing your millions of fans just to uplift your own ego ? Frankly , had I the money to invest , I would back a multi-million-dollar budgeted Dean Koontz film . Perhaps " Dark Rivers of the Heart , " " Night Chills , " or " Darkfall . " But NOT a toned-down weak-ass version of one of the greatest movies ever made . Remakes are supposed to BETTER the attempt , not lessen it . This movie rates a - 0 - from the Fiend because it is the most grotesque , atrocious , despicable piece of garbage EVER MADE ! ! : .
Deplorable !	What has become of the grandeur of Disney ? ! This is the worst CGI muck I've seen since the Hulk ! I can't imagine what the Disney Corporation was thinking in approving this disgusting display of amateurish CGI animation , except to make a buck . And yet , they went on and released it ? ! I'm virtually in shock that this movie has received a 7 . 1 ( for now ) rating here at IMDb , making it the most over-rated piece of detritus in the Disney vaults . I must say it is THE single worst Disney presentation I've ever seen . I'd come to expect bad animation and horribly neglectful illustrations from Disney sequels , but this was no sequel ; it was a feature film ! We saw what could be done through CGI with Monsters , Inc . , A Bug's Life , Finding Nemo , etc . This is more the quality I would have expected at the very beginning of the CGI age , not presently . I was very disappointed with this attempt , and would admonish Disney to do better next time ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Absolutely Wretched ! !	This installment just didn't do it for me . The wonderfully rich , well-researched story line has gone to h3ll in a hand basket . The acting quality is not up to par and I find the whole production to be quite disappointing as a whole . It rips off Hellraiser with the " puzzle box " and a plethora of other movies . I really found the Djinn's constant metamorphosis to be unsettling and just wrong . He looks different in each and every installment . That's messed up . And the fake accents throughout this production are BAD ; obviously fake , and they don't seem to care . Sex is used as a sorry substitution for a good story ( something used as a distraction device by lesser directors and those lacking in talent and creativity ) and the effects were better in " Howard the Duck , " than in this . The invocation of the Archangel Michael renders this one a rip off of the movie Michael , as well , which done around the same time , and the flaming sword is really idiotic . I was very disappointed in this installment . I enjoyed the first , but as usual , the third movie in the set just reeks of bad acting , horrid direction and a total change in cast members . Apparently they thought that by keeping the Djinn mainly in his Djinn form , we would not notice the disappearance of Michael Divoff . You can sure tell that Wes Craven did not produce more than the first of these awful movies . That , and the obvious mainstream socioreligious connotations just ruined this whole series for me . Actually , Howard the Duck was a much better movie ! It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not the " sleeper hit " it was intended to be	Written and directed by Stephen Gaghan , this time-waster is quite obtuse in its intelligence . The characters wander around seemingly with no direction or idea what they are doing or where they are going . . . which is nowhere with THIS script . The screenplay attempted to be clever and edgy , but it failed miserably and while the characters were somewhat interesting , regardless of their inability to keep a single coherent thought , they were about as deep as the bowl of a spoon . Only after the entire first half of the movie , does it become even remotely interesting , and then . . . it stops being interesting and borders on pure drivel . The acting , instead of being dramatic , tense , fresh , edgy or even remotely scary , grows infantile and even campy . I liked Benjamin Bratt , and I like most of what he has done , but even he doesn't redeem this " work . " He couldn't possibly with the putrid direction he was given . This is probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen . It is highly overrated , as if the cloned sheep of the world believed the hype on the box as a " . . . spellbinding psychological thriller with ingenious plot twists that will keep you guessing until its electrifying conclusion . . . " That could not be less correct ! By the boring end , I didn't CARE who did what to whom , or for how many cookies ! It was unintelligent to the point of insulting the audience ! The box also claims that this movie has " . . . pulse pounding suspense and riveting performances . . . " If that isn't intentionally misleading , nothing is . This " movie " was anything BUT suspenseful and riveting . There was one bright and shining performance in this cast ( besides Benjamin Bratt ) . They were Melanie Lynskey ( Stephen King's Rose Red , Coyote Ugly , Detroit Rock City , among many others ) as Mousy Julie . She was a rose on the screen . Again , the directing was atrocious ! I mean it stank UP the place ! The horrid use ( and over use ) of strobe lighting was obnoxious and just wrong , the camera angles and flash-backs and flash-forwards were distracting and demonstrated a lack of maturity , art , and any sense of style . About the " twists " it promises ? They were so predictable that we had it figured out about of the way through the movie . So completely not any fun to watch . Extremely disappointing . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Oh My Gods this is dismal !	This travesty of a movie opens with a gay couple ( ? ) ( Don't get me wrong . I'm not anti-gay . I'm anti-bad movies . ) watching the most annoying kid in the whole world while he rides some idiotic-looking dolphin shaped paddle thingy on a lake ( ? ) . When the water begins to shimmer and drain , thereby endangering this horrid little demon spawn of a kid , the couple can't think of anything better to do to save him than shoot a spring loaded harpoon at him ( the kid ) ! ! ! Unfortunately for the audience , they missed killing him and saved him from being sucked into the lake ( ? ) . Meanwhile , Megalon , a giant flying roach ( ? ! ) is sent up to the surface to discipline those naughty humans who insist on firing their nuclear testing warheads into the water and thereby screwing up their kingdom so cleverly named " Seatopia . " major eye rollings ensueThe final bout features the Big G and his pal , the inflatable robot Ultraman . ( No , due to international copyright , he's NOT Ultraman . He's Jet Jaguar . But we must RUN like he's Ultraman ! - - thanks Austin Powers 3 ! ) versus Megalon ( the cockroach thingy ) and Gigan . I rate this as the most IRRITATING Big G flick . The plot is an annoying attempt at an action / adventure story that has little ( if anything ) to do with the monsters , the Big G gets a wall-eyed cartoony costume , the annoying brat's dubbed-in voice is a nerve-wracking fanny-smacking whine , the monsters ' fight scenes look like a gang of schoolyard dorks picking on each other , and the music is some gawdawful cacophony that sounds like it was performed by the director's tone deaf ADHD-suffering " help me I'm on meth-amphetamine and I can't help myself " nephew . The budget for this one was obviously just a bit of left-over cash from some other project , as the sets were minimal . They actually reused city destruction footage originally used for Ghidrah ( ! ) and some of the fight footage , if you can BELIEVE IT , was recycled from Godzilla vs Gigan . Next to Godzilla's Revenge , this is the nadir of the series . All that having been said ; however , this was a fun movie . Its target audience was obviously 8-12 year old boys and that shows ; boy does it show . This is one of those fun movies where the Big G jumps around like a crack-addicted butt-monkey and acts like he's got some martial arts abilities but is too afraid he'll show up his tag team partner , to demonstrate his talents . The cockroach-thing made Me laugh when I first saw this ages ago , and I found that it still makes Me laugh . As do the sheet-wearing Seatopians who were decidedly NOT Japanese . LOL Crazy stuff . Just crazy stuff . on the " B " Scale . I don't know if that even registers on the " A " scale . If it does , it's certainly not over a from . . . the Fiend : .
Historically Inaccurate and Unevenly Fictionalized Tale of the Salem Witch Trials .	Having studied this period well , I was shocked to see the historical inaccuracies and fictionalized events this work attempted to tout as " true . " It is alarming to think that people actually attempt to learn their history from any religions or cinematic source ! What happened to the age when we all read and studied for ourselves , rather than listening to the corner gossips , which is all this " work " amounts to . This is so over-christianized that it takes itself so seriously as to attempt to beat their ugly lies into anyone who would dare watch . This was a complete lie . The only thing they got right were the names of those involved . This was just sad . It doesn't rate a rating . the Fiend : .
Because We Believed . . .	When this movie was first released in 1979 , I saw it in the theaters . It is not a bad little slice of the entertainment cheese , but it was unfortunate that they had to lie to make it hit . On the big screen , and at home ( alone hiding under the covers in my bed reading the book late at night ) , it was an immensely scary venture into the world of the vengeful poltergeist . The main element which made this attempt more frightening than it really was , was the ( then accepted ) fact that this work centered around true events . It was sold to the world as a " True Story . " As it turned out , the only events which were true were the gruesome murders which were perpetrated before the Lutz's had ever heard of the house ; and that the Lutz's , the house , and Amityville all exist . The events which happened to the Lutz's described both in the book and the film , were lies . It was proved in court that the writer , " took ( generous ) liberties , " with the truth . Had this movie been released as fiction , it would not have left those of us who were truly frightened by the implications of this work , feeling betrayed and would still have a somewhat decent following today . We were able to overlook the horrid cinematography , the cheesy dialog , the plastic acting , and the obvious bad timing of delivery throughout this movie because we BELIEVED . We forgave it all because we were told it was a true story . It couldn't be the writer's or the director's fault because it wasn't a contrived plot ; it was real ! Now , we know it's all just a lie , and I ( frankly ) have no stomach left for it . Now , they're doing a remake . Frankly , I can understand a remake . It is horribly dated , and awful . It NEEDS a remake . But to perpetuate a lie ? I think not . There are far more worthy films in the studio vaults than this . Perhaps this newest generation of " young adults " will buy into the lie just like we did but for their sakes , I hope not . This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dismally Wretched ! !	As an absolute avid horror movie fan / buff , I had been directed to this movie over and over . This is one of the most highly praised ( if not THE most highly praised ) European horror movie of all time . Whenever anyone asks , " What horror movies are good ? What should I see ? " this movie is invariably in the elitist list . Its use of light and color is , indeed , a true study of cinematic technique and style . So what ? ! The one good idea Argento had ( the imagery ) was simply not enough to cover for the total lack of script , acting talent , meaningful dialog , horrible direction of these " actresses , " and the downright cheese-filled all-out crap ? fest that is Suspira . SPOILERS ABOUNDIn the first death scene , the acting was the most puerile trash I've ever witnessed ( and I've SEEN Killer Klowns from Outer Space ) . These girls did not die well , prettily , or with grace . In fact , they didn't die with talent , either . The " death scenes " were nothing but an indication to me that this should have been the death of the movie . There simply aren't words for how horribly these girls portrayed their parts . Honestly , if the red-head had actually fallen that far with a cord attached around her neck , the weight of her body would have popped her head off her neck , rather than the sloppy inane banality we were given . Inane banality actually sums up the entirety of this movie . I cannot believe how highly recommended this trite piece of garbage is in the horror field . This was actually much , MUCH worse than " I Still Know What You Did Last Summer , " which was a total waste of my time . A friend , who watched this garbage with me observed , " You know , Fiend ? Aside from no one being naked , this really reminds me of a porno . " Okay , hence the exploitation feel of this film . I don't care . How could I possibly care ? The " atmosphere " everyone raves about just came off as a really bad porn and nothing more . Nothing could have saved this film from Argento's lack of talent but a really good remake . Hopefully , they won't make the mistake of assuming that this was , in any way , to be considered " artsy . " The acting quality is nonexistent and the screen play should have been exorcised and then buried in about 7 tons of salt , if you ask me . Even the " ballerinas " were inept . I've seen better down at the local play house . Most of the players and the director being Italian is a far cry from making this " art . " European does not equate " art . " Sorry , but um . . . no . This is rubbish . Nothing but unadulterated crap . The " effects " are laughable and there was not one redeeming performance in this whole venture . All I've accomplished in watching this garbage is the wasting of 95-98 minutes . I should've taken a nap , instead . The time would have been put to much better use . The musical score sounded like something that a two-year-old crackhead relentlessly banged out on the kitchen pots and pans in an epileptic seizure to rival the mother of all epileptic fits . The sound effects were distracting rather than complementary ; cutting in and out at the worst possible moments , and coming off like some irritating noise an eight year old was making in the back seat of the car to annoy his dork brother . Refuse to be one of those mindless sheep who follow the herd . Don't allow yourself to be dragged into the whole mindset that because it's Argento , it's genius . That's just NOT the case , as Suspira MORE than proves . This is the most dismally wretched act of cinematic micturition ever to be committed to film , and I've seen some real stinkers in my time . If you waste your time on seeing this so-called " movie " after reading this , you've no one to blame but yourself . It scarcely rates a on the " B " scale . That does not register anywhere on the " A " scale , I assure you . the Fiend : .
Detritus	Where do I start ? The box should have been enough to keep me away from this attempt , but I'd been taught early on not to judge a book ( or movie ) by its cover , so I ignored the disgusting graphic quality of the box and rented it anyway . But common sense should tell you that if they can't do a single still image properly , then how dismal will the moving ones be , later ? Yeah . They were pretty awful . The actors in this flick appeared totally unaware they were being filmed , as just any expression seemed to do fine , regardless of the situation the characters were in or what they were reacting to . However , a good story can offset the downfalls of low budget productions . Good dialog can carry a poorly-funded attempt at times . Unfortunately , this was not one of those times , as the story was as weak and nonexistent as the other required elements of good cinema . There simply aren't words for how bad this was . Perhaps you can get the idea from my rating of - from . . . the Fiend : .
How awful ! !	Sorry Fulci fans , but I could not get through this one . The soundtrack was about as annoying as they come , the acting was puerile , the story has been done and done , and the direction was non-existent . Massacre honestly looked like a children's film project . But I've seen some of those , and they actually look better than this did ! It appears to have been so underfunded they couldn't afford . . . ANYTHING ! Not a DoP , not a director , no one who even remotely had a clue what acting was . It was a very poor cinematic experience ; one of my worst . This was about the worst suck-fest I've seen , next to Terror Toons which is second only to Killer Klowns from Outer Space . I've nothing else to say about it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sorry , slip-shod final act . sighs How . . . sad .	Where are the effects ? Nuclear Man has to be the lamest bad guy in a long sad history of comic strip bad guys , to grace the silver screen . And Jon Cryer ? Lenny should have been in a cage , not acting in a movie . Mariel Hemingway ? I admire her acting talents and truly believe she is a very under-rated and under-appreciated actress , but she belonged less in this movie than Arnold Schwarzenegger at a baby shower . What was she thinking ? And what happened to the budget ? Where are those effects ? Why does Superman fly like he no longer knows how ? They couldn't afford another wire for his feet ? And speaking of wires , when he lands on the moon , WHY didn't they edit out the wires ? ! Appalling ! And what happened to Clark Kent ? He was bumbling , but lovable . Now he's this dork who trips over his own two feet and can't carry on a coherent or half-way intelligent conversation ? What happened ? This has every aspect of a poorly-made " B " movie . How very disappointing . Did they put everything they had into " Masters of the Universe " and just say to h3LL with Superman ? What ? I do not know what anyone who was involved with this was thinking , but everyone should have just taken a breather , found a reality check , and done something else for 8 months instead . Margot Kidder , though still and always a bright beacon in every performance which I have ever had the pleasure to witness , looks drawn and tired ; as though she is still in shock at having been drawn into yet another of these movies . And Mark Pillow ? ! WTF ? ! Look him up here on IMDb . He's done a grand total of . . . . TWO things ! ! Nuclear Man in this and an appearance in some obscure TV show . Go figure . Again , with the low budget . The budget for this movie was obviously a paltry sum compared to the other three installments . A cheap and petty thing to do to Reeve . He deserved so much more from the producers of this travesty . And so did the fans . Do yourself a favor and just forget they made this one . Love 1 , 3 , and yes , even 2 , but skip this one . Keep your love of Reeve and Superman intact . Premise In the face of the end of the cold war , America has decided to strive to be " second to none " in their stockpiling of nuclear arms . Superman has been enlisted to help save the world from itself , by a young student . Meanwhile , the Daily Planet has been taken over by the tabloid king from H3LL , and Editor Perry White ( veteran actor Jackie Cooper ) is chomping at the bit to knock the new owner cold . Furthermore , Lacy Warfield ( Hemingway ) , the new owner's daughter , is after Clark , or Superman . . or Clark ? . . or Superman ? . . so on a double date with Lois , Lacy and Clark and Superman . . . all have a really tragic time . Confused yet ? So were the actors , apparently , as this scene was about the most ludicrous thing I've ever had to witness . This is where Clark Kent becomes an incoherent boob , instead of the lovable absent-minded , mild-mannered man we all admired . / PremiseThis production attempts to be political , but it just does not manage to pull it off . The whole lack of budget and lack of quality throughout does not manage to do anything but damage the franchise , in my opinion , and was a bitter disappointment . However , do let me state , that the flaw was not in the writing , but in the direction . The premise was a good one . It could have worked . They just had their minds on " MotU , " rather than on Superman , where it belonged . MotU , while it does carry with it some cult following , was a total bomb in the mainstream audience . Not even Billy Barty could save it . I LOVE Margot Kidder's acting . But WHY has she never grown accustomed to those dentures ? Or is that some kind of anomaly ? Just a question . Additionally , there are a number of irregularities in this film . Did anyone notice the fact that they had it daytime in the US , Italy , and in China at the same time ? Or that the capes billow even with no atmosphere on the moon ? Or that the whole fight scene on the moon was slow motion to imply 0 gravity , even though gravity would affect neither Superman nor Nuclear Man ? Or that the flag pole was irreparably bent when Superman was knocked onto it and yet it's straight as an arrow after the fight ? Or that Mark Pillow was about the worst excuse for an actor since Arnold Schwarzenegger in Conan ? Or that by moving the moon as he did , Superman would have destroyed Earth and everyone on it ? Or that Lacy would not have survived outside our atmosphere with or without Nuclear Man's being conscious ? Or that she would have burned up on re-entry , regardless of Superman's having her in his arms ? Or that Superman now has the ability to hover in the air , rather than fly ? When did that happen ? Or that Superman can move fast as a speeding bullet , yet when he's fighting or trying to save someone , he's about as slow as an 80 year old Alzheimer's patient on gin ? Wow what a disgrace . This sad attempt rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Total Garbage !	This is another hit for Bettany , and another dialed-in crapfest from Crowe . I do NOT GET the adulation awarded this film by critics . The screenwriters have completely bastardized a better story . Just for the sake of correctness , Nash didn't invent game theory as this work attempts to claim . He came up with a notion of equilibrium , which is simply brilliant and he more than deserves the Nobel . But Crowe does NOT . This was supposed to be a historical film , but due to Crowe's lackluster performance , backed up by his aggressive contractual negotiations , his character has been given credit for things he did not do ! In a learned person's opinion , this is an irresponsible , and disgraceful film mainly due to Crowe's contractual screen time , which necessitated giving his character credit for things he should not have been portrayed as having done , and his totally crappy , dialed in performance . This was a typical Hollywood whitewash of the truth , and a typical Hollywood performance by Crowe . When will they just STOP handing this untalented hack roles like this ? ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Scary , Not Intelligent , Not Entertaining , Not . . . Anything !	I know I'm in the minority , but . . . Uwe Boll is about as talented as a frog . Not even a toad ; just a frog . He's reminiscent of about a hundred other no-talent hacks who churn out one useless crap-fest after another . This movie ? Is a crap-fest . Slater's talent is only minimally utilized leading one to believe he's got other things ( like his failed relationship ) on his mind . Reid performs as if she has either forgotten her acting lessons , been severely hit on the head and MADE to forget her acting lessons , or has one of the worst directors in the history of film . I'm voting on the third choice , myself , although the other two are always possible . Uwe Boll has never done a single thing from which I've derived even the slightest pleasure . Frankly , I'm satisfied that he made this stinker . I was concerned with Bloodrayne competing with " Underworld : Evolution " for ticket sales . Now , I'm confident that Len Wiseman has nothing , and I mean NOTHING , to worry about . This rates a rating for this messy , convoluted crap-fest , from . . . the Fiend : .
Disgusting But With Good Performances	The performances rate better than the rating I've given this work , simply because I will not support a movie which shows any child or mentally challenged person how to obtain , cook , and inject narcotics into their bodies . This is a disgusting film , which serves no purpose in the world , but to glamorize and attempt to legitimize the narcotic lifestyle . It bears convincing performances , which add to my disgust . What were these people THINKING ? ! I could not enjoy a movie such as this . It's enough to make someone who has never done drugs , think about it , and those who have and have redeemed themselves , consider reversion . I'm surprised it doesn't make every clean junkie who sees it , fall off the wagon . There's nothing good about this " movie , " which stands more as a How To Get Strung Out docu-drama . This is the epitome of what's wrong with Hollywood . Utterly disgusting . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The scariest thing about this movie was the BOX ! !	Cujo is a Saint Bernard who is bitten by a rabid bat and contracts rabies himself . Tad Trenton and his mom , Donna , are having car problems , and in the face of Dad walking out on them , the poor things have to take the car to the mechanic's , all by themselves . ( If Mom hadn't been doing the handy man , that wouldn't have happened , but I digress . ) The car stalls in the mechanic's front yard , the mechanic's gone , and there's no one there to greet them but Cujo . I'm sorry , but a rabid dog , even under the conditions of isolation such as this movie presents , just . . . isn't scary . All the screaming that goes on is basically just the typical female victim in the typical female victim role in most poorly done movies . " Help ! Help ! I'm all by myself and I'm very very scared ! " Ridiculous . Take a dog bite and kill the thing . The shots are painful , but you don't take the chance of your kid slipping into a COMA while you're doing it . I found this movie rather pointless , and I , an avid Stephen King fan , found the book to be a bit worse . On a bright note , I found Danny Pintauro's portrayal to be very convincing and realistic . No wonder he did so well as Jonathan on " Who's the Boss . " Too bad he didn't have a story line to work with here . With his talent , this could have been a great movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Idiotic .	Changes in global weather is a reality . What is NOT a reality is the dire predictions and unscientific data hawked by Gore . The New York Times has recently found that this work is alarmist in nature , and should be tempered with " real " science . We are likely to incur a 30 year cooling period beginning soon ( between now and 2010 ) , and the oceans will rise . . . about 23 inches , not feet ! There have been cycles up to 20 times worse than right now , without affecting a polar shift . There have been at least 10 times , according to the experts , when global warming was a greater threat than right now . The UN Report states categorically that there is NO BASIS for believing Gore's presentation . My question is why ? Why did it take over a year and an Oscar win to make the scientific community stand up and say , " Wait ! Gore is exaggerating ! " He is creating a culture of fear where we are not even allowed to question this . They are teaching this in SCHOOLS now ! They know if they get the kids , then have the generations to come . The c02 doesn't cause global warming . There has been no rise , so you can't blame that . The last big rise was in 1945 , and global warming didn't occur ! You have to stop the consensus of the HYPE ! The incentive is 6 . 2 billion dollars US a year to make us believe this . They are using scare tactics and gross exaggerations to make us buy into their money machine . Listen to Glenn Beck , and feel your intelligence rise ! I've nothing for this bullt , and I wish the populous was more intelligent than to buy into it . This piece of detritus rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fantasy Flop .	Knowing some of the " inside story " with TSR , I will say this . . . 5 stars ( ) to the Corporate Martyrs who sacrificed for this movie to be made . Unfortunately for us fans of the game , it just impacts its failure all the more . I have always loved the game ; the role playing paper game , not the video game . I have even developed my own take of fantasy role playing games and developed my own systems . So it's a given that I was looking forward to this project with a great anticipation . Whenever you anticipate an event that much , there is simply no way it can live up to your idea of what the event should entail . There is no where to go but down . For that reason , I have waited years to write this review ; thinking that perhaps I would be less disappointed in the finished product once I had had time to review it in a less biased light . I'm completely over hating it from the original disappointment . Now , I just hate it , period . I don't know what other gamers expected , except for those blokes who walked around whining because there should have been DICE in the movie . Unbelievable . I never expected anything like that , but what I - did - expect was a cohesive story , good quality performances , adequate direction , and AD & D-worthy effects . I was sorely disappointed in all areas and on all levels . Time did not heal the wound that is Dungeons & Dragons . Save yourself a torturous 2 hours and avoid this stinker at all costs . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Typical low-brow , atrocious Brain Dead production .	This has to be one of the worst three films ever made . As a sequel to EvilMaker 1 ( which was no better , I assure you ) , the girl who survived tries to figure out what happened . . . She's clueless . She wanders around like no one could understand what was going on in the first one . All they needed was a kindergarten education to grasp the wannabe movie . She meets with some friends and they all wandered around and around , seemingly with no direction , the worst dialog you've ever had to sit through , the most disgusting performances since Alien 51 , and no story whatsoever worth even attempting to put on film . This whole thing looks like it was shot with a camcorder on the cheapest dollar store brand VHS video tape they could find , with the soundtrack recorded on a pocket micro-recorder which lent no distinction to the words said , whatsoever . There were even scenes in which you couldn't make out what they were saying , and I had the ( supposedly superior ) DVD ! It's fuzzy , grainy and garbled beyond understanding , and you don't care , because the story is so utterly puerile and lacking in intelligence that you really don't care if you can see it or not . At least , I didn't . There was no attempt at style , art , or artistic expression . This was just a sad , wasted 80 minutes . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I know what you should've done last summer .	I honestly do not understand the large following these movies enjoy . The acting , especially that of Ms . Hewitt , is amateurish , at best ; the plot is non-existent ; the direction was far below par ; and the " scares " are wholly lacking in effectiveness . Furthermore , the twists in what story there was , were so predictable that we had it figured out less than half way through the movie . This movie is pure ignorance . It did not satisfy even one of the criterion of enjoyability . In actuality , this could have been a good slasher flick . But the horrible casting , dreadful performances and predictable story line ( when there WAS a story line ) just left me feeling robbed of my 101 minutes . I won't sit here and break down the entire movie . It doesn't deserve that . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Unsalvagable Detritus	Corporate raiders use any trick conceivable to lure a genius into their fold . . . oh , and to win . This was a rambling and unfocused tale with some mildly interesting plot elements , which suffer completely convoluted execution . Other than some nice camera angles and lighting details , there is nothing at all to redeem this work . Not even Christopher Walken's wonderful performance could save this flop . Willem Dafoe comes close , but no cigar . I suppose it may be worth watching for their performances , but you surely have to be a connoisseur to derive a moment's pleasure , even from that . OH , they're good , don't get me wrong , but the screenplay is horrid . Simply horrid . All in all ? Don't bother . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Positively ignorant .	This movie is an extremely uneven execution of a dark comedy . At least , it aspires to be a dark comedy , but honestly I am still waiting for the comedic parts . While it does have some good elements , they are completely lost in the horrid acting , tepid direction , and lame comedic attempts . The comedy is added as an almost after-thought to the failed attempt to create an even passable action movie . There are not words for how detestable this attempt really is . It plods on , out of step with itself , just wearing you down with bad timing , incredibly amateurish performances and dull witted humor . I bought this at a video store closing for 50 cents , so I'm not out much , considering I made 45 good purchases otherwise , but I still found myself wanting my 50 cents back . Really . Shave your dog , rearrange your garage , or pluck those pesky nose hairs with a tweezer rather than watching this really disgusting production . If I HAVE to rate this , it's a from . . . the Fiend : .
Slow and Boring . If It Weren't For Bettany , This Wouldn't Be Worth Watching At All .	I'd like to give this a higher rating , if for no other reason than Paul Bettany's performance . He is exemplary here , and contributes a top notch performance . HIS Performance rates a . Billy Boyd was also a delight . This movie doesn't rate a rating . This was dull , boring , uneventful dreck , made as a vehicle whereby Russell Crowe could show off his talents . I have to admit that this movie does just that . It is lackluster , flaccid detritus , as is , in this reviewer's opinion , Crowe's acting talent . This was a prime example of perfect casting . This film would have suffered , regardless of who was in the lead , but Crowe's presence herein is a SERIOUS detractor of any and all enjoyment one could derive from said work . The pacing is dead , and the dialog delivery was like those horrible Dudley Do-Wright cartoons ! I'll save you , Nell ! ( Dudley voice ) That's how stiff and unoriginal Crowe was throughout . Frankly , I hated this . I had no expectations , so there were none to beat , and it STILL failed miserably . As usual , I'm in the minority , but I thought this was an entire waste of film , except for Bettany and Billy Boyd . Sorry , but this rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
What Can I Say ?	Okay , Mr . Murphy , we get it . By your choice of work of late , you seem to think that you have been shortchanged in terms of women , family , and life . Further , you seem to feel misunderstood as a father , as a man , and as a person . I don't know where this bitterness comes from , but in my opinion , it's ruined your career . Gone is the action hero with a promising future . Gone is the romantic lead with a bright career . Gone is the comedian with a strong and centered sense of humor . Enter , Murphy the fool ; Murphy the donkey . It really doesn't matter what this movie is even ABOUT , as it doesn't seem to know , either . But it seems pretty low , the lowest form of comedy , about a low rent relationship that falls apart because it has nowhere to go , while taking everyone around down with it . There , that's the synopsis in a nutshell . It's as if Murphy is saying that he wants his fantasy fairy tale life and he wants it now . Every movie he's done of late reflects everything he seems to want , I just can't help wondering if his apparent comfort in women's clothing is a part of that ? I hate to say this but if muddled stupid inane superfluous crap like this is all Murphy has to offer , then it is my opinion that he should stick to voicing the Donkey . Sorry Eddie Murphy , but you just ain't the man anymore . Unless something drastically changes , you're done . This is crap no matter how you look at it . It's a . from . . . the Fiend : .
Derivative	Yet another commonplace piece of detritus from Crowe . I did expect better from Ridley Scott , but after hearing what preview audiences thought of the film , I decided to go anyway to see how bad it really was . Frankly , the preview audiences ' reviews weren't strong enough to demonstrate just how bad this IS . It is 100 % predictable , and the moral ( was there a moral ? ) is the most common tripe ever presented . Ridley Scott is known for his anti-American sentiments , and he doesn't fail to sink his claws into us here . Of course , we are no-class , trailer park living inbred yokels , according to this film . Thanks for nothing , Scott , which is exactly what this film gives its audience ; nothing . Albert Finney is brilliant . Crowe dialed his performance in from the wax museum . It rates a NOTHING from . . . the Fiend : .
Art-house ? No , Just Drivel	I'm sure this was supposed to be an art-house film featuring groups of people and their impromptu conversations over cigarettes and coffee . What it IS , is a contrived piece of crap that made me long for my two hours back ! This is typical of Jarmusch and the trite , non-stylized crap he's passing off as art . There just aren't words for how boring , unintelligent , and devoid of intrigue I found this " work . " It was reminiscent of something a six year old could film at nearly any Starbucks anywhere in the world . There's nothing " artsy " about this , it's just total schlock . This is awful and bore no resemblance to anything with a script , direction , or talent . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inferior rat movie	This movie was well done and took the short story to its farthest limits . But it still REEKED ! Sorry , but since " Willard " and Michael Jackson's " Ben , " I've had nothing for rat movies . The actors did the best they could with this type of scripting , the director must've been on some heavy medications or something to even take this job , and the effects were typical , pre-star wars fare . Honestly , this was a dismal attempt with no scares , few creative devices , no suspense , and very little in the way of entertainment . Hated It ! ! I don't even care that Stephen King's name is on it . . . somewhere . And the end ? The monster at the end ? Isn't even a freaking RAT ! It's a giant BAT ! WTF ? ! It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Anti-American propaganda the Kremlin must surely be proud of .	I will endeavor not to critique Michael Moore , himself , although I may find it difficult to do that . Sicko is one man's attempt to convert America's views from private individualized health care to that of socialized medicine . That's it in a nutshell . This documentary is completely one-sided , shows not one degree of partiality , and attempts to hammer home the downfalls of the American health care system . He interviews hapless Canadians ad nauseum concerning their emergency room co-pays , deductibles , and overall costs . These folks look like they have no idea what's going on or why they would be asked these personal questions by an overweight , very excited and ugly man with an over-eager American-sounding camera crew . I submit that if Mr . Moore truly hates America as depicted herein , he should immigrate north and move in with his Canadian relatives . . . in other words , if you don't like America , buddy , get OUT ! This isn't a documentary . This is a 2-hour editorial . . . a whining opining worthy of Richard Simmons . Good day , folks . This is a total waste of time . It doesn't rate a rating , but since I can't GIVE it a " 0 " and have that counted , a . it is from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful and Sad ? How About Just Sad .	AKA : Mondays In The SunI have no idea what I just watched . Three men wander aimlessly and drink , grousing about everything and at everyone in their path . This is supposed to be a drama , but what it is , is a total waste of film , without a single redeeming quality . I have read reviews touting the performances herein as " wonderful , " " beautiful , " and " heroic . " I'm afraid I cannot agree , unless these men were supposed to come off as the dumbest most ignorant proto-humans who ever walked . All in all ? This was not a movie . It wanders throughout and loses everyone but the audience . I've watched this three times , and cannot for the life of me see what anyone sees in this garbage . There is nothing profound here , whatsoever . It's crap . It rates a ZERO / 10 from . . . the Fiend : .
Contributes NOTHING To This Society .	Not that everything on television will be uplifting , informative , or made for the family , but this is not so much a " show " as it is an exhibition of the most base demoralized miscreants in our world . If that entertains you , then more power to you . To me , it says that we have nothing whatsoever to do with our lives and / or our time , as to witness such a debacle as this . It's a sad statement of affairs that this show is even still on the air ! I see no reason for this crap to be broadcast , visited , watched , or admired . With a rating at IMDb , apparently many agree with this view , however , the ad dollars must be generating well , or it would have been axed a long time ago . Honestly though , this doesn't even qualify as a guilty pleasure . If you enjoy watching this stuff , there's something seriously wrong with your life . Get up off the couch , turn off the TV , and go FIND ONE . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not fun , not amusing . Just plain stupid	I like Rob Schneider . He's funny to watch , but not anyone I would want to be friends with . He's funny in that " you love to see him kicked when he's down " kind of way . His characters are typically stupid , fluffy , superficial little annoyances as people , and portrayed way over the top . His presence was the only thing that took away from 50 First Dates . Look at Hot Chick . Annoying ! This is no different except where Hot Chick at least had the element of magickal earrings to be found interesting , this attempt has NO element to be found interesting . His performance is his standard fare , and this character is even more annoying . Not even Adam Sandler's cameo could make me laugh this time . In an uneven anti-comedy / wannabe monster movie ( ? ) , Schneider ( Frankenstein's Monster ) is repaired by a would-be doctor ( Frankenstein ) with animal parts , lacking human ones ( stupid ) , making Schneider's character crave beaver milk , swim and call like a dolphin , and want to fornicate with goats / sheep / whatever . It's the most frivolous inane work Schneider's ever done . I was not entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Everyone and Their Brother Has Raved About This , But . . .	As usual , I'm in the minority , but this was about THE WORST movie I've seen in a while . Spoofed now over the years by scores of other works , acclaimed by the Powers That Be , and praised to the heavens by the average movie goer , this work is THE single most overrated film in the history of film , second only to Suspira in this aspect . This film doesn't teach you anything , doesn't tell you anything , doesn't show you anything , and in the end , doesn't even finish its own story . And if you're stupid enough to think you'll get the rest of the story , or find out what happened at the end of the first one by watching the second ? Don't bother , because you've been duped . Then why do they rave ? Because most people don't WANT to think , they don't WANT to see intelligent film . Most people WANT crap like this which is so superficial and superfluous that it's completely and utterly pointless . Well , if you're one of those people , I'm sure you'll love this , and agree with all the ravings here at IMDb with the rest of the sheople who think this is brilliant art-house neuvo classic documentary stylized art . BLECH ! This is crap and as such rates nothing . the Fiend : .
Horrid !	The movie opens upon Julian Sands , lying on his back , a black kitten drooling blood into his awaiting mouth from where he holds it , about two feet above him . That was so provocative , and I thought , " Here we go ! A good vampire movie ! " And then it died . That was literally the only scene which captured any part of the imagination . It was slow , uneventful drivel thereafter . I was vastly disappointed , as my previous experience with Sands ' acting was quite enjoyable . However , this attempt was obviously misdirected and the screenplay left a lot to be desired . Even Julian Sands's questionable performance could not begin to save this already sunken barge of a movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty Wretched	In comparison to the original work , this was so sadly lacking that it doesn't even really rate a review . The characters were redeveloped and recreated in a haphazard way such as to suggest that those responsible for this work not only did not SEE the original , but did not CARE TO SEE the original in any form . That's how far from the original this remake went . I'm apprehensive about the Alicia Keyes remake , but here's hoping it's done a little more reverently and lovingly than this pile of detritus . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pure Garbage	This was a total waste of film , time , resources , and . . . well , never mind , there WAS no talent . I don't know what this was trying for , except perhaps a rap musical , but it didn't work ! This was a totally disgusting display of a serious lack of talent , direction , and vision . It was worse than boring . It was horrid ! There IS no dialog , no enjoyment , no point to this " work . " Absolutely wretched , and completely disgusting display of new money , no class , and a total lack of taste . I want my ninety minutes back ! wretches This bull snot doesn't rate a rating . the Fiend : .
Detestable Kubrick social commentary I hold in high disdain .	It seems to be very en-vogue to like this movie and have favorable things to say about it , but I care not for such status labels or the opinions of others concerning my tastes in movies . Therefore , I will speak my true thoughts on the subject of theater , since I have a solid background where movies are concerned . This was a work of art , true enough . It was bold and insightful , if muddled and incoherent at times . Kubrick's genius will live long after he did . That having been said , this movie glamorizes wanton drug use , rape , and senseless violence ; uses a language which the viewer has no hope of ever understanding ; and epitomizes what's WRONG with our society . Some would say that's what makes it great . I say , it's 137 minutes wasted from my life that I will never get back , thanks to the 5-minute boyfriend of an ex nightmare-in-law , and his insistence that I watch this piece of garbage . Do yourself a favor . See it ; just so you can say , " Yes , I saw it . It was HORRIBLE and STUPID ! " Other than that , there is no reason to bother with this film . I give it a . the Fiend : .
Pretty Darned Bad	This was done towards the end of Jonathan Taylor Thomas's " cute " years , and was probably around the end of his childhood career . After this dreck , I can only hope he has spent the last 10 years concentrating on his education , and perhaps he can arrange a come back in his late twenties . Otherwise , this film still offers few redeeming qualities , and little to no entertainment value . Three brothers journey into the wilderness to help Marty initiate his nature film-making career . Sounds mildly interesting , doesn't it ? Let me be the one to warn you , it is not . The " fun " scenes herein are the most idiotic form of popular tripe , and the suspension of belief required here is wholly impossible . This is just terrible . Aside from a few good vistas , some nice camera angles , and a strong bit part by Danny Glover , there isn't really any reason to bother with this one . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
SPOILERS ! But what's to spoil ? You've seen it all before .	First off , who'd BUY this house ? I am speaking , of course , of the house of the movie legends , not the house in reality because we all already know it was a lie . You know , in these movies , I don't understand why the family doesn't just get the Rocky Raccoon outta there ? Come on ! Would you stay if you KNEW it was messed up like that ? In Poltergeist , okay , that was believable . By the time they realized something was bad weird ( in comparison to kewl weird ) , CarolAnne was already missing and " somewhere in the house . " But I don't get any of these idiots who write that the family STAYS . I mean . . . I'd move , and that's a fact . At any rate . . . After being sold out with the first installment of this run , the public still lightly embraced this sequel to the original lie . Unfortunately , it is the same dreck as was the original . The quality is near identical , and the story is a textbook regurgitation of it . The innovations added to this installment include an incestuous brother / sister act , water turned to blood , fly infested feces-laden sewerage beneath the house , and a psychotic son , and that's all in the first act ! So it's the equivalent of recooked vomit . That should be enough for anyone . In the second act , you're treated to some really crappy CGI ( ? ) handwriting on the wall , more of Burt Young walking around with a shotgun , and that's when the abuse from their previous existence resumes . dum-dum-duuuummmmb ! Eventually , you are tossed a rather careless rendition of the DeFeo murders in unloving detail . With dreck mixed into the drama . The priest , when he's explaining what's up with the older kid to the Police shrink , sounds like he's doing a horrendous William Shatner impression . . . " There's some . . . . THING ! . . . inside him ! Some . . . UN . . . NATURAL . . . . FORCE ! " The drive of this work is based completely on contrived moments carefully spaced throughout the film . They are plentiful and obvious , so I'm sure I don't need to point them out . The score will drive a crazy person sane ( Gothic Carpenters on Crack ) . Every note was an ear splitting cacophony . Sort of like the dialog . Trite , Trite , Trite , and the screenplay . . . clich , clich , clich . I found this an unenjoyable mind-numbing 104 minutes , so make a game of it ! Keep track of the scores of other movies this one rips off ! Whoever comes up with the most movies ( and can recall the movie AND the scene it pla . . . satirizes ) wins ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Disturbing but amusing horror / comedy .	I had to stop and ask : Am I laughing because it's stupid ? or am I laughing because it's funny . That seems to be the dilemma . It took several viewings for me to determine the outcome of that quandary . While there are some excellent elements here , both in the genre of horror and comedy , the blend is terribly uneven . This movie tries to be unpredictable and raw , but instead , what it delivers is anything but the sophisticated humor it promises . It is not quite the giggle-fest some seem to think it is ; for the most part , there was more eye-rolling than genuine laughs . Kim Cattrall adds to this production what sophistication there is , while Casper Van Dien lends the eye candy element for those of you who are interested in that sort of thing . The principal wretched element in this movie was Dr . Van Helsing ( Rod Steiger ) and his hapless sidekick , Time Bomb ( Gabriel Casseus of " Fallen " ) . As in they are a joke , rather than being funny , they are just ridiculous as vampire hunters . The way their first victim just lies there and waits for Time Bomb to sort out his probational priorities with Van Helsing's heart attack before he is killed , was just infantile . His " Black Pack " pushing the van chasing after the bad guys was just stupid . I honestly have no idea what to make of the ratings this movie has received . I fully appreciate and love dark humor , but this just is not it . This is some cheap teen-aged-level rip off of dark humor . It's not even good enough to be considered true camp . The general consensus here at the Fiend's house is that it's funny because it is stupid , rather than being cleverly witty . Does that make it good camp ? or just another inanity ? I have two votes for inanity , and it is a conclusion with which I tend to agree . That not withstanding , this movie does have a few enjoyability factors . I did learn one thing from this movie : if you're on fire , you can't put yourself out with a garden hose . It is absolutely putrid ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm still in shock they had the nerve to do this . . .	Okay , as far as movies go , I was entertained . I was not amused , nor was I frightened , because we all know it's just a bullsht lie , but I was entertained . As my love reminds me , this IS a movie review and not a review of the situation , so I will say that the effects were great , the story was nicely-paced , and the roles were adequately portrayed . Surprisingly , the character development was even decent . That having been said ; however . . . Even after the original was proved to be nothing but a conspiracy between the writer and the Lutz family , they STILL had the nerve to bill this as a " true story ! ! " WTF ? ! I mean , not even a " based on , " but a TRUE STORY ! There should be something illegal about that , if there isn't . There seems to be little doubt that one of the most famous American hauntings to ever be documented occurred in the quiet town of Amityville , New York , a peaceful enclave on Long Island's south shore . There stands no other case from the latter part of the 20th Century that so captured the imagination of the general public . . . and no other case that filled us with such fear . I was barely a teenager when the sensational book by Jay Anson , " The Amityville Horror " , was released . I will never forget snatching up a copy from a local bookstore , only to read it and then re-read it again . Could such things really happen ? Could ghosts destroy a family the way that evil spirits did George and Kathy Lutz ? Could a ghost force someone to kill , as demonic entities caused Ronald DeFeo to murder his entire family ? And most terrifying of all . . . . could the American public be so easily deceived into believing the events chronicled in the book were actually real ? The answer to that question is a resounding " yes " as is proved by the fact that many people still believe in the veracity of " The Amityville Horror " , one of the greatest paranormal hoaxes of all time ! But how did it all begin ? How could we all be fooled so easily ? And what events led up to the release of the book ? To answer those inquiries , we have to go back to November 1974 and understand the true events that occurred in the house on Ocean Avenue . The horrific carnage that prefaced the story of the " Amityville Horror " began one dark fall night in 1974 . The DeFeos , Ronald Sr . and Louise , their two young sons , Mark and John , and two daughters , Dawn and Allison , were sleeping peacefully in their comfortable , three-story , Dutch Colonial home in Amityville . The silence of the house was shattered when Ronald DeFeo murdered his parents and his siblings with a high-powered rifle . One by one , he killed each of them as they slept , although strangely , the sound of the gunshots never awakened the other family members . DeFeo blamed the massacre on the malevolent force of an evil spirit that was present in the house . He stated that the creature began speaking to him and controlled him while he committed the murders . Not surprisingly , he pleaded insanity at his trial . The prosecutor countered the plea by stating that DeFeo was not crazy at all , but merely trying to cash in on his parent's substantial life insurance polices . Again though , we are left with an unanswered question . . how could DeFeo have thought that he would get away with the murders and in turn , collect on the insurance policies ? Regardless , the jury ignored DeFeo's claims and found him guilty of six counts of first-degree murder . State Supreme Court Justice Thomas M . Stark sentenced him to 150 years in prison . This , along with the publication of " The Amityville Horror Conspiracy " by Stephen Kaplan , should have put an end to the case , but it did not . In fact , more than two decades later , people still often question the facts behind the case and the real events that may , or may not , have occurred in Amityville . Today , most researchers concede that the story was mostly , if not entirely , fabricated . To the general public though , the truth remains much more of a shadowy thing . While this movie gives you the " updated " version of the " story , " it's still just one big lie . Don't waste your time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
All in all , this sucked pretty hard .	This was so well made , to be so horrible . I'm conflicted over this M4TV fare . About as conflicted as the movie was with itself . It was the content with which I had the problem . This is one convoluted one-sided mess of a biopic . I cannot agree with this version of the " truth , " nor did I find it entertaining . In this telling , John was a brutal antagonist , Paul was a drunkard who was weak without his woman , and George and Ringo were meaningless to the group . Yoko and Paul jointly take the blame for John's decision to leave the Beatles , and Linda was a faithless Goddess . This is about the most disgusting display I've seen in a long time , and was in no way entertaining , endearing , or amusing . All in all , this sucked pretty hard . It rates a on the M4TV scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Occasionally gritty but boring throughout	This is one of over-compensating attempts which tries so very hard , and goes over the top . It so wanted to be a blockbuster ticket-seller , but in its attempt , it really just left the audience feeling deflated , as if all the life had been sucked out of you just for having watched this long , boring mess . Now don't get me wrong , there is adequate grit and gore , but those moments are all too fleeting , as Banderas drones on . . . and on in an almost hypnotizing way , which succeeds not where intended but in settling the audience into a nice , peaceful slumber . You notice right away that something does not set right . Banderas ' narrative commences , and while you realize he is speaking in a normal pace , you also realize there is something missing , as you're suddenly in the thick of things , and are not sure how you got there . The story is therefore weak and forgettable . Let's face it , if a story has no rhythm , it grows boring . The second half of this work ( the Norse half , we'll call it ) was actually interesting . I wouldn't mind seeing a - real - movie surrounding this subject matter . But this just wasn't it . I must honestly say that this is John McTiernan's most useless attempt . It doesn't really even rate a rating , but since I must , I'll give it a from . . . the Fiend : .
Exploitation In Disguise	Classed along with Craven's Last House On The Left , this honestly should have been entitled Last Applachian On The Left , in its attempts at exploitation of the " standard " American male . However , its elevation of a classic stereotype-that of the hillbilly ( or , if you prefer , Appalachian American ) it cheapens itself even further . I don't know which I dislike more about this film ; the veneration of a bad stereotype , or the graphic way in which this movie tries , but fails , to shock its audience . The tactics are cheap , the set up is obvious , and the ending is completely predictable . Frankly , I have never understood the draw this movie has , except for the homo-repressed nature of most white bread over christianized American males . They WANT to see this movie , and like to watch this type of antics . Oh , there are stunning visuals , some beautiful scenery , and it was directed quite well , but it's crap , and always has been . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
OMGs ! wretches	This and the third installment of this series , were directed by Chris Angel , a guy who has done absolutely nothing else in his life but 3 other unheard-of , horrid movies . ' Nuff said ? Yeah . I thought so . This reeked just as bad as the third one . Okay , honestly , it was a TEENY bit better , but this really was a horrible , tedious , boring @ ss movie . Again , the stone is loose and some bubble-headed blonde has it . ' Nuff said ? Yeah . I thought so again . I hadn't thought it possible , but the acting actually got WORSE ! After Wishmaster 3 , I thought I'd seen it all , but there's more ! Rent it just to throw stuff at your TV for having to watch it . Really . The sets are a bit better , but that's the only difference between this one and the third one . It starts out on a promising note , and then the promise is broken , almost immediately , and never once attempts to redeem itself . Don't waste your time . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
I think I made a wrong turn at the video store .	Okay . We get it . The inhabitants of the Appalachian Mountains of the eastern United States are inbred , ugly , deformed little monkeys who also happen to be cannibalistic back-woodsmen capable of immortality and legendary feats of strength . How wonderfully ignorant . If only because everyone says how good it is , watch , enjoy , roll your eyes and move on . Beyond the subject matter , the performances of the four lead characters was beyond reproach . They were believable , earnest , and purely professional . I just wish it had been enough to save the effort , but alas ! It was not . There are those who praise this movie as homage to Texas Chainsaw Massacre , the Hills Have Eyes , Deliverance , and so forth . From my perspective , it was nothing more than a rip off of these landmark movies , and a slap in the face to those who are the real people of the Appalachian Mountains . I rate it a , ONLY for the wonderful performances delivered by the four lead actors . the Fiend : .
THIS overrated flick is crap and will always BE crap .	I realize that Agatha Christie does not legally own the Orient Express , but I have to say that if THIS crap-fest is any indication , cinematically , she owns it outright . But even without factoring this against Christie's Murder On The Orient Express , this film is pure detritus . This is about a terrorist and the celebrities he traps aboard a bomb-laden Orient Express . Or , so the synopsis says . What it was in actuality , was a flick wherein the heroines trip over their own feet , drop the gun and as it goes off it kills the bad guys , and any other contrived and clichd piece of fecal matter it could find to insert . This is probably one of the worst movies along this vein I've ever had the displeasure of having been forced to watch . There is not one single redeeming factor about this work , including Mark Roper the director . The truth be known , if you want a " B " action flick done cheaply without a single concern for lack of budget or talent ? Hire Mark Roper . He's your man . All in all ? Don't waste your time . Watch Murder on the Orient Express instead . It may be dated , but it's still a beautiful piece of film . THIS is overrated crap and will always BE overrated crap . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is Just Terrible . The Video Game Movie Even Casual Fans Hated !	This is probably one of the worst ( of many bad ) films spun by Jean-Claude Van Damme over the years of his feigning stardom . This screenplay was written obviously by someone with no knowledge of the game , no sense of timing , no feeling for continuity , no love of martial arts , and no understanding of the basics for a good thriller . Why would I say that ? Because this " work " exhibits none of those qualities , while at the same time , it attempts to BE the game . In a word ? EWWW ! The performances are classic " C " movie fare , the dialog delivery will make you cringe or laugh , depending on whether you paid to see this or not , and the execution of the finished product comes off uneven , conflicted , and lost . This just plain sucks . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
So much potential ; so little value . . .	This is a prime example of what not to do with CGI . I found the movie itself to be very good ; entertaining , well written , inspiringly directed , professionally portrayed , and creatively conceived . But the CGI Hulk monster killed the entire production , for me . This brings us back to the already old issue of CGI and its place in the industry . When dealing with multitudes , such as the goblin / Orc armies in LoTR , or the Army of Anubis in The Mummy Returns , CGI is wonderful . It enhances a good story and generates millions of members of a group , creates magical places , gives excellent lighting effects , etc . When dealing with a single character such as the Scorpion King in The Mummy Returns , or the Hulk . . . CGI alone is not an adequate execution . . . obviously . LOOK at the finished product . Do either of these characters look . . . real ? No , they do not . Makeup effects will be a lost art by the end of this century , and is so under-used now with the " perfection " of CGI , that the industry is almost solely relying on this medium . That , in my humble opinion , is a horrendous mistake . Look at Karloff's Frankenstein's monster , and then look at the computer generated Scorpion King . What you see is the difference between a quality make up artist and a really bad rendition of a would-be god . The Hulk , to me , appeared to be only one step above the claymation creations of the early eighties . That is NOT a good thing , if you ask me . The story ? What story ? It was lost in the shadow of the horrid computer effects and ill-conceived generation of what was once an icon in the field of comic book heroes . All in all , this movie was horrible . What it could have been fades in the light of what it is . . . terrible computer generated monster , which overshadows anything else this movie contained . It is far less than the sum of its parts , and a complete waste of time and film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Unenlightened horror fluff .	Fairuza Balk's performance in this movie was wonderful . The movie , as far as horror movies go , was quite enjoyable and entertaining while maintaining a level of tension which was not relieved by the few spots of well-placed humor . As a movie called , " The Craft ; " however , this movie was a low blow to all Pagans , be they Wiccan , Eclectic or non-magick users . I use the word puerile often when addressing movies I find childish and immature , and it certainly applies here . It portrays Magick Users with three basic stereo-types : 1 . Evil 2 . Pathetic sheep to be led 3 . Classic fence-straddlers . In truth , most Magick Users would have never followed anyone like Nancy Downs ( Balk ) . Her character was obviously unstable in the beginning , and insane towards the end . She was the epitome of the stereo-type of the tragic American " goth gurl . " As such , she played her role well . This " work " struck a hard blow against the Pagans . NOT in my top 1 , 000 , 000 favorite movies . For entertainment value alone , I'll give it a grudging from . . . the Fiend : .
Horrible , Even For A Horror Sequel	One thing about horror movies , is that the sequels are either so bad they make you want to hurl , or they blow the original out of the water . I've got to say that they usually do NOT best their originals . Why they would make a M4TV sequel to this , I have NO idea , but it was a BAD IDEA ! Where the original wasn't a masterpiece , it WAS entertaining , atmospheric , and downright creepy . THIS was boring , unintelligent , predictable crap . This was a waste of film , time , and effort . I was more amused by throwing pennies at my roommate , than by watching this drivel . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty Lame	The characters herein are stretched so thin as to fail to engender any level of caring whatsoever . Further , the premise is so overdone as to negate any and all success they may have had with it . I'm not a basketball fan , but it's a Sunday afternoon , and for lack of any other new flicks to watch , we decided to give this a shot . Unfortunately , but the time this was over , I wished we had chosen an old favorite instead . NOTHING in this film ; no element , no independent factor , rates your time , no matter HOW big a basketball fan you happen to be . This was just another terrible low-rent failure at humor of any kind . It wasn't even sophomoric enough to be amusing : It wasn't that smart . All in all ? This is terrible , and you could find something more substantial to do with your time , like rearrange your sock drawer . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Interesting but conflicted anti-comedy	Buddy Rydell is Adam Sandler's anger management counselor . Adam Sandler is a happy go lucky guy who is the victim of circumstances , uptight snobbish little preppy larvae , and a ludicrous court system . Buddy completely destroys Sandler's life , completely humiliates him , and then acts like he can't be bothered . By the time Buddy Rydell's through with Sandler , you really HATE Buddy Rydell , Sandler's girlfriend , and pretty much everyone else in this movie . You know . . . it seems to me that a comedy would work in that it makes the audience laugh , relate , and have a joyful feeling . Now maybe I don't " get " this whole comedy thing , but it just seems to me that an effort deriving its financial payback from the audience ( who's come expecting comedy ) should not aim at ticking the audience OFF . While it's supposed to be a " black comedy " ( and I don't like that term , so we'll call it " dark comedy ? " though that's not much better ) , it really isn't funny . I have a " dark , " morbid , twisted sense of humor , and I did not find this dark comedy even remotely amusing . It's entertaining only in the basest way such as . . . watching a train wreck only because you can't make yourself remove your eyes from the bloody disaster you know is coming . Well , this does have an ending twist , but by the time it comes , it's too little too late and you're totally enraged by the whole experience . My take on this movie , is . . . if you don't want to need Anger Management , avoid this movie ! There was nothing funny about it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Greed is no reason to make a mockery of a cherished icon !	For some reason , people seem to have a problem differentiating this movie from Trail of the Pink Panther . At any rate , this work does nothing but serve to remind us how sad the world is without Peter Sellers in it . They brought back the same old favorites from Trail ( Dreyfus , Cato , Litton , etc . ) , but they introduced a misdirected Pratt-fall humorist into a role which was designed to substitute for the missing Clouseau . Dreyfus devises a way to produce the perfect copy of Clouseau via a hard frame computer system which factors the variables and tosses out the name of the most inept idiot in the global law enforcement family . What we got was a poor guy who was obviously overwhelmed by the grand scale of what Blake Edwards proposed he should do , and boy does it show . Ted Wass was amiable as Sergeant Clifton Sleigh , but let's face it . . . he wasn't Clouseau in any way . I realize that Blake Edwards was losing his greatest cash cow , but to disrespect Sellers ' memory like this was just sacrilege . Frankly , I'm glad they have remade the original . I hope it runs a long line of successful ventures for Steve Martin . This dreck rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dreck	I cannot believe this movie has earned a 4 . 4 here at IMDb . At that rate , it's entirely overrated . The musical score and sound effects are so cheesy , they will drive a crazy person sane ! The animation is cheap and unskilled , and the story itself is regurgitated garbage from a million other works . The voice overs are terrible , the effects are so bad as to make you wonder if anyone cared ? but half way through this flick , you realize that NO ONE cared about how this turned out . There were no continuity editors ; no quality control police overseeing the animation , voice overs , execution , or overall project , whatsoever , and if there were , they should be burned at the stake ! This is one of the worst animated projects I've ever had the displeasure to watch . It rates a for having the cajones to even release this dreck and call it a film , from . . . the Fiend : .
Deplorable attempt	Yet Another Prime Example Of What NOT To Do To A Stephen King NovelThis was not the best Stephen King novel to begin with , but I enjoyed the depth of character and the intricate detailing of small town life in Maine . The character development was exemplary and the writing of this novel was very well done . The premise behind the whole story was that we , Human Beings , are the aliens . Wonderful , thought-provoking and disturbing . What they DID to this story with this , another Made For TV Adaptation of the book , was rob the story of the depth of the character development and eradicate the small town feeling of community and family that you got from the book . Which left . . . absolutely NOTHING . The effects are of the pre-Star Wars days , the cast is the most miss-matched combination of miss-cast actors you've ever seen and the performance of the key characters ( Bobbi and " Gard " ) is sadly mis-directed , plasticly hollow and miserably lacking . Not the actors ' faults , either . They both have done better both before and after this . One of THE worst adaptations of Stephen King's work I've seen . This movie gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty Awful	This is definitely a nominee for the Razzies , and the worst 100 list here at IMDb . The premise is pretty lame to begin with , but the uneven mix makes it all the more unbearable . It's the mob versus the ghetto in this particularly horrid action / comedy featuring a story which makes the Ernest movies look like art-house exhibits . This isn't silly / funny . This isn't stupid / funny . This isn't even accidentally funny . Little Man is just bad . There is no entertainment to be found beyond the performances of the children and their respective mothers . Shawn Wayans , Marlon Wayans . A very small fugitive from the law poses as a toddler to gain access to the stolen gem he stashed in a woman's purse . Sorry , but this is barely watchable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The Blood Of These Whores Is . . . . KILLING ME ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !	There are few movies in the Cinemaverse , which can top the detritus of Andy Warhol , and I mean that , in the reverse . His films were the worst kind of popular tripe , the dialog so bad that it equates unintentional camp , the sets so cheesy that most of his works were filmed in someone's garage . And then there's Andy Warhol's Dracula . This one tops the rest as far as how BAD a movie can be . Some have called it original , creative , even a " loose " adaptation of Bram Stoker's masterpiece . I'm here to tell you that these descriptions are NOT the case . This work is pure garbage ! There is NOTHING , not ONE redeeming quality about this " movie . " Don't waste your time . You'd have more enjoyment from a root canal . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Boring , Unintelligent Drivel	Denzell Washington and Witney Houston , and THIS was the best they could do ? An unintelligent and unintentional remake of the Bishop's Wife ? ! This was a boring , dull , plodding , and unenlightened mess . I have to write 10 lines of text , but that's about all there is to say about this train wreck . The movie was completely uninspired , featuring nothing in the way of entertainment , nothing in the way of spirituality , and nothing in the way of hope that the movie will just END . This was a complete waste of time . Because Denzell was still completely awesome , it rates a rating at all at a from . . . the Fiend : .
Obvious , blatant info-mercial for Indiana Jones 4 ! ! !	Okay . So Harrison Ford , who is now in his early 60's as of this writing , is planning on doing another Indiana Jones sequel . Indiana Jones 4 , which is replete with problems , postponements , and a problematic script . But is he still capable of pulling off the lead in an action / adventure ? If " Hollywood Homicide " is any indication , I would have to vote a resounding , " NO ! " Ford portrays a cop / real estate agent who is partnered with Josh Hartnett who is a cop / actor . Now , with a supporting cast like that , what could go wrong ? Well , I'm not a fan of Hartnett's work . H20 was awesome , but frankly , that's the only thing he has ever done which even remotely caught my attention , although he has enjoyed a smattering of successes ( The Faculty , Black Hawk Down , The Virgin Suicides , etc ) . The movies were decent , but I've never liked him IN them . But I digress . This was supposed to sell the target movie audience on Ford's ability to still believably portray an action hero . Well , it did just the opposite , in my opinion . In this movie , Ford falls down ( ! ) SIX times , is slower than usual ( face it , he's never been a fast mover ) , and actually manages to behave like he is older than his early sixties . His lines are poorly delivered , and he appears distracted from the already distracted character he attempts to portray , as if he is trying to read cue cards while wearing bad glasses . I had hopes for the newest installment of Indiana Jones , but this has dashed them into oblivion . This movie , in itself , is simply detestable . I liked the plot and the dialog , but the acting here was far below par . The " action " was more like watching geriatrics play kick-ball out on the back lawn of the nursing home . This was a real disappointment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Positively Dismal !	This movie was a great disappointment . It is absolutely atrocious ! As an adaption , it was the worst thing done since the Made For TV version of " The Shining ! " Dudditz's character was weak , the supporting cast was a huge lump of no-talent brainless freaks and the " alien / monster " at the end defied all reason . After all the hype , there was no substance to this movie , whatsoEVER ! ! NOTHING like the book . ( For those of you who do not read , My love has not read this novel , and was still disappointed by it , by the way . ) Okay , okay , on a 4th or 5th-grade-level , it was somehow . . . entertaining , but that's the most the Fiend can give it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
There is very little to like herein .	This Sci-Fi original is littered with the worst stereotypes , really really BAD acting , and Ian Reed Kesler's moobs . ( man-chest ) Oy the moobs ! His chest is actually more ample than either of the gals ' . And this poor unfortunate actually appears on screen without a shirt ! I hope they paid him well for this public humiliation ! I knew soon after that it was time to turn the channel . I enjoy Brendan Gleeson in the original so much I HAD to watch this , as I almost bought it sight-unseen . I am SO glad I didn't . The problem is that every principal from the original film has been replaced by something lesser . Instead of Hector Cyr who is an intelligent character addition to the LP team , we have Struthers the Big Game Hunter and his big black hunter / attendant . I think they actually did research to include as many racial and sexual stereotypes as possible . Compared to this film , the original is Oscar-worthy . And then there is the bad acting . I mean these performances are awful ! No one in here acts like they had a moment of training , experience , or talent . Unfortunately , John Schneider is piled in with these inept wannabes . I mean . . . I wanted to like this , but in spite of John Schneider's and Cloris Leachman's involvement , there is VERY little to like herein . Horrible performances , terrible direction , inadequate film quality ( M4TV ) , the worst Scottish accent in the history of film , and the most inept CGI since Ang Lee's The Hulk ( 2003 ) the render this production completely unwatchable . It DOES , however , make me enjoy the original all the more . I'm SO glad I didn't just buy this on DVD . Ack ! BUT . . . there are some good kills and if it's splatter you're after , you might actually like this . As nasty as this is , it just might find a niche with Creature Feature aficionados who also happen to be splatter fans . Giallo fans may also like this . So , there you are . It rates a 4 . 6 on the Made For Television Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not delightful , just kind of sad .	As an unintentional ( hopefully ) remake of Marty Feldman's 1980 film , " In God We Trust , " I couldn't help but feel that I'd seen it all before . This work features a cloistered innocent , let loose in the contemporary world , and the misadventures which ensue . This has been touted as " delightful , " but I found the horrible events which occur , pretty sad . I can laugh at another's misfortune but this just wasn't funny . It ran more like a drama with occasional chuckles , but no real laughs . I think you should find something else to do . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Good . Not Because Sellers Isn't Clouseau , But Just Because It's Not Good !	Many reviewers claim this production stinks because Sellers isn't in it . Okay , those are the Sellers fans . But fans of the Pink Panther series ( rather than die-hard Sellers fans ) may not have minded so much that it wasn't Sellers in the driver's seat so much , had the movie not been a completely disgusting spectacle . This work holds NOTHING of the wit , the humor , or the heart of the others . I'm sorry to say that this attempt was a failure , and this chapter may comfortably be left out of your Pink Panther collection , as the finished product holds nothing in the way of charm or character . Sadly , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Laughable .	This film has been touted as " under-rated , " and a " lost gem " in many reviews over the years , but I have to say that this one belongs in the sole domain of the MST3K guys . There is very little plot / story line . The monsters only receive the most cursory treatment as the humans in the movie upstage the Big G . Premise : Planet X is being buggered by Ghidrah / Giddorah so they come to earth to " borrow " Godzilla and Rhodan / Rodan to help rid them of the menace . Sub-Plot : The monster battle is a red herring in a world domination scheme . The real heroes are the astronauts . The monsters receive very little camera time . Our favorite monsters only have what appears to be a few " cameos " here and there . The miniature work was a bit better , but not so much as to vindicate leaving the monsters OUT of the monster movie . Godzilla is a bit more personable in this one , the predecessor to the wiggling , hiney-shaking Godzilla of the future . The effects are a bit worse than in previous Big G movies , but that could just be the downright hokey / campy concept that a spinning top is a flying saucer and wearing stupid-looking hats made Japanese actors look like " aliens . " lol This is still fun to watch because it just makes you laugh . So if you like your Big G with extra cheese , then order this one with fries and a Coke ! It rates a on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Such a Sad Statement of Muppet Affairs . . . The Weakest Of The Muppet Line	Jim , Jim , wherefore art thou , Jim ! I have to say this was the first time I was genuinely disappointed by any Muppet movie . This was nothing more than a tribute to the next little pop star , Ashanti , and it made it feel like a selling out of all things Muppet . This work was pretty weak , the adaptation itself was horrendous , and the acting was . . . ( I hate to say it ) sad . I hope with all My little Muppet Heart , that Brian does something innovative and GOOD to give us something back from this horrendous disappointment . Yes , it really WAS that bad . sighs It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Red Dragon was way way better .	As the much-touted initial installment of the " Hannbal Lecter " series , this movie really did not impress me . Again , I stand against the flow of the mighty river that is public opinion , but I felt the portrayal by Cox as " Leckter " was shallow , superficial , and otherwise lacked the intensity generated by Anthony Hopkins . The part of Graham was also better portrayed in the Red Dragon remake . While it was well played here , it was much better done in Red Dragon , as it created an electrifying feeling , and generated that wonderful suspense I had come to expect from these movies , and did not get . . . with this one . Also , there is present , one of the most horribly distracting musical scores in the history of theater , aside from 2001 : A Spade Odyssey . The worst case for music and its affects on an audience , play out well here . This was horrid , and succeeded in killing whatever mood the scene had managed to achieve . For this movie to be so highly praised by horror fans , I was sorely disappointed . While the scenes and dialog play out pretty much exactly as they did in Red Dragon , this production was by far , inferior to the remake . The sets were poorly and cheaply designed , the performances were sub-par to what I experienced with the remake , and the story ( while compelling ) moved along far too slowly for my taste . There are times when a slow-moving story can generate that wonderful level of suspense , create an air of mystery and tension which is so needed in these movies of the psychological sub-genre . This attempt failed to create much of anything with its slow build-up for me , besides boredom with the whole first half of the movie , and frankly , by the time I muddled through the first uneventful portion , I really did not care wither or not they caught the " Tooth Fairy , " killed Graham and his family , or succeeded . If you are a horror fan , see this movie . It is , after all , the movie which spawned Silence of the Lambs , Hannibal , and the prequel remake Red Dragon . But that is , honestly , the only reason to see it . It is dated , slow and rather a " B " production all around . This rates a on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Nothing above mediocre .	This is a sad , multi-million-dollar extravaganza of Ridley Scott and his poorest exhibition of standard Hollywood fare . With a budget of $87 million , you would think . . . or rather , hope . . . that more could be done to further the masterpiece of the original , " Silence of the Lambs . " Unfortunately , the subject of Starling's focus this time is first , a grossly disfigured surviving victim of Lecter's savagery , with only a secondary , almost off-handed half-glance of attention at Lecter himself . I found the climaxial scene featuring Ray Liota's . . . thoughts . . . to be among the most disgusting piece of cinema I've ever witnessed . What was the point of that ? With " Silence of the Lambs , " we were handed a creative , crafty , intellectual masterpiece of psychological theater . With " Hannibal , " we are force-fed pure and absolute Hollywood Eye Candy without even the merest drop of water with which to wash it down . The psychological aspect is still present , but Julianne Moore's reprisal of Jodie Foster's original role as Clarice Starling did absolutely nothing for this production . I found her portrayal to be shallow and plastic as a Barbie doll which is not anatomically correct . The cinematography in this movie ; the sets , the scenery itself , was far superior , but the plot was just gods-awful . Had Mr . Scott spared us the mind-expanding scene with Ray Liota , it may have been a much better finished product , but with the inclusion of that scene I found it about two steps above " Killer Clowns from Outer Space . " It took away from the suspense and beauty of Lecter's sickness so much that it rendered the entire film as unenjoyable , to me . Without those three elements : Moore , the Liota scene , and the horrid little troll of a client ; this would have been a top notch production . But the disgusting visuals , to me , robbed this work of its potential for beauty and elegance . If you loved the original for its psychological edge and eloquence of plot , then this movie will be a horrible disappointment . If you did not like it for the absence of gore , then this movie will make you a happy audience member . As a sequel , it is a mere shell of the original masterpiece . As a stand alone movie , it falls flat on its face . In comparison to the original , it is a sorry , slip-shod production which does not even rate the label of " sequel . " I suggest " Red Dragon , " and " Silence of the Lambs , " even " Manhunter " ( not one of my favorites ) , but do yourself a favor and skip this one . All in all , this movie rates somewhere around a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beats you over the head with dogmatic religious ramblings .	Carrey vs . Stewart . Is this an attempt at a modernized remake of " It's A Wonderful Life ? " Bruce is a schmuck reporter who has blown every chance he's ever had , until he finally cracks and starts yelling at his deity of choice to do a better job . Since he feels he's got a good bead on what " god " should do to make things better , he is given the chance to do it for himself . I found this movie to be entertaining . . . if you are of mainstreamchristianity . If you are not , then it will be a colossal waste of your time as most of the movie shows what NOT to do with supposed God-like powers , and the remainder shows what you should . . . again , from a mainstreamchristian standpoint . There IS however , a very strong " New Age-y " message in the theme of this movie , in spite of the obvious proselytization ; to look to yourself for your own miracles . Other than that , if you are not mainstreamchristian , I suggest you absquatulate to the action section of your video rental store and pick up Laura Croft : Tomb Raider 2 ; the Cradle of Life . It is far superior to the first installment , and a fun adventure . Or . . . X-MEN United ( X2 ) . Again , better than the original , which was not a bad endeavor to begin with . The sequel gives you much more character development and a much better adventure than the first . There are a few new additions to the Mutant fold , as well . So have fun , and avoid this almost-reverent look at neochristianity at all costs . However . . . if you are of that persuasion , then you'll either love it or hate it . It promotes prayer , piety , and attempts to generate pity for an overworked , under-appreciated deity . It didn't work for me , but it may work for you . I would have rather rearranged my garage , frankly . If you are a die-hard Carrey fan , it rates a for Carrey's great performance . If you are nonchristian , it rates a only because Carrey IS good in this movie , but the content is 100 % christianoriented and is an impudent promotion of those religious theologies . If you are a comedy fan , it rates a for a couple of good laughs ( don't miss Carrey's parting of the " Red Sea . " ) If you are of the ranks of neochristianity , it rates a for shameless monotheistic proselytization . As a whole , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Just Awful	I don't like this show . Her show comes before Nancy Grace , and she either cannibalizes Nancy's topics before she can come on the air , or she chooses something wholly uninteresting ; something I'm so disconnected from that I'm wondering WHO is producing this thing ? ! This show is out of touch and out of step , and fails in every way to interest or entice me to care . Further , her teeth are SO white and SO plentiful that she appears almost unnatural , and it seems that she is in danger of eating the talking heads outright . Watching her is like watching a big cat inside its lair . And in a wholly off-putting way . Don't get me wrong , I have white teeth , other people HAVE white teeth , but her teeth are SO white they appear an icy BLUE . YICK ! All in all ? If you're looking for an INTERESTING and INFORMATIVE news show , see Nancy Grace . Otherwise , HLN is NOT where it's at . THIS show rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Return to Horror H3LL	This conflicted little movie's plot surrounds a frustrated DoP and Screenwriter who goes up against a would-be director who turns their art-house psychological thriller script into the worst form of splatter / exploitation drivel . The only star of mention was George Clooney , and he dies soon into the movie ! Now , while I hate the movie itself , there are some redeeming factors : Aside from the typical splatter fodder , the remainder of the characters were surprisingly developed . The storyline itself was rather well done . It was the execution ( which should have happened to the director of this crap , by the way ) which was so sadly lacking . The sets were decent , and they actually show you some of the " tricks of the trade " of the older horror effects . Aside from that though , the performances were the worst form of stiff , plasticity which is prevalent throughout the 80's horror scene . Unfortunately , this was pure dreck . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Uninspired drivel	Too bad Morgan didn't have a flame thrower . I'm a bit conflicted about this movie . The use of Zombie-pires just . . . Well , let's suffice it to say these are neither vampires of legend , nor zombies . They are some mixed up criss-cross of the two . At least , you can see where " 28 Days " originated . This is supposed to be a thought-provoking remake of the 1924 film of the same title . While Vincent Price's performance is nothing less than his usual brilliance , this movie just didn't make the cut . Night of the Living Dead , an obvious rip off of this movie , while much better done , had the obvious advantage of having this work from which to spring board itself . If it did nothing more than spawn the Romero run of Zombie flicks , it did its part in the field of horror . But it also had loads of heavy atmosphere and some really decent ( if a bit contrived ) devices . Morgan , a research scientist loses his wife and child to a deadly virus which is spreading across the planet like a hideous tsunami . Soon , he seems to be the only survivor of this plague . He fills his days with needful tasks , and his nights in a terror-drenched melancholy . If he'd had a flame thrower , he may have had a better time of it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Unintentional comedy	This was one of those epic dramas that goes so far over the top , it ends up folding in on itself . We were supposed to be engrossed with his trials and tribulations , feeling empathy for his plight , but all we could do was laugh . Every thing which went awry just made it all the more amusing . And at the climax , when he's on the raft , and Wilson goes floating away and he cries out with all his heart , " WIIIIIIILLLL-SOOOOOONN ! " we nearly got kicked out of the theater . ( A first , I assure you . ) It utterly failed to generate any sympathy for this poor guy whatsoever . The ratings here at IMDb are above average , and the box office take was generous , but I , for one , was entertained and amused , however not in the way they intended . I've seen this afterwards , and while it was not AS funny , it was still funny . It surely was not dramatic or epic , or much of anything else . It's just a mediocre little movie that took itself WAY too seroiusly . It rates a for unintentional comedic effect , from . . . the Fiend : .
Below Average Rapper Crap	Some say you can't judge a movie by its box office take . And for the most part , that is true . I've seen many worthy films , which never made back their budgets , let alone advertising dollars . However , in this case , the box office equates the performance and the worth of this work . Budget : $87M ( estimated ) Gross : $66 . 1M ( Worldwide ) This is a low-rent , under-classed gangsta rapper's dream , and I'm sure the weekend action fans will love this and no doubt rave on and on , but in truth this work was superfluous to the original work , thereby negating its own creation . In two words ? It stinks . Frankly , I was not impressed with any element of this film , and that's not usual for me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Kryste on a Krutch , but this is a dismal sequel !	This stinks . First of all , the family that we've come to love , is no more . Carol Anne is living with an aunt and uncle ( Tom Skerritt ? ! and Nancy Allen ! ? - Carrie , 1976-Chris Hargensen ) . Carol Anne's cousin , Donna played by Lara Flynn Boyle ( a terribly sorry replacement for Dana's character ) , was about as stiff and plastic as a piece of disposable silverware and Nancy Allen ! should have stopped her acting career after her pitifully horrid performance in Carrie ! Her acting talents - ? ? - are highly questionable , as is her ability to deliver a single well-spoken line . Her smile is as fake as her $20 nail job . Ginger of Gilligan's Island was a better actress ! While Tom Skerritt is a popular television actor , his talents are best left there . His on-screen " presence " falls far short . . . more , flat on its face . He isn't a bad actor . I actually LIKED him in Picket Fences . And his character is likable , as the only adult in the movie who listens to and believes Carol Anne , you really want to enjoy the performance , but alas ! he just isn't fitted for the big screen . Child psychologists tend to BE smarmy and full of themselves . So while he was a detestable character , I believe the guy played him as he was intended ; an arrogant , syrupy sweet , egocentric putz . . . however , we could have done much better without his character , period . The dialog is trite and stiffly delivered by most ; as if the screenplay was written by a freshman in high school who was holding a gun on the performers . And speaking of high school , again the teenagers are portrayed by twenty-something year olds , headed to 30 . WHY do they do that ? And Kane . What HAPPENED ? ? ! ! This guy is NOT scary . He's not Kane . He's some creepy guy , yes . But he's NOT Kane . He's a character actor of dubious talents named Nathan Davis , who has a short list of minor parts to his credit as a performer . The voice they used in an attempt to duplicate Julian Beck's voice wasn't even close . It was rather sad , how miserably they failed in the presentation of Kane . Of course , they couldn't use Beck , since he died in 1985 of cancer , but in my opinion , they could have found a much more suitable substitute than Nathan Davis . And poor Heather O'Roarke ! Had she lived for the entire filming of this work , she may could have " saved " this movie , but you can tell in this concluding chapter of the Poltergeist trilogy that she is sick and her sweet little face is puffy . In my opinion , she should have been in some sort of treatment program rather than working in her condition at her age . Just my opinion though . We would have been happier , as individuals I think , if they had been more concerned with her health and never made this movie , in the first place . The relationship between Skerritt and Allen's characters is flimsy , as though they were cut out of cardboard and then animated . Their characters are as well developed as the ingredients of an omelet ( just think about it for a moment and you'll get it . . . aborted chicken fetuses and cheeeeeese ! ) . While the special effects of the movie were acceptable , they were not what we got in the first or the second film . The mirror effects were nice , but they weren't all that , as the direction of this movie was simply atrocious . But you expected more from director , Gary Sherman ? Why would you ? The list of directing jobs credited to his name is short and not too sweet . He's done a small smattering of movies , none of which were memorable or even enjoyable , and the TV series " Poltergeist : The Legacy . " Go figure . Aaaand the movie just goes downhill from there . In comparison to the first two movies , this one is lame , lame , lame . The idea of the ghosts taking over the bodies of the family with which Carol Anne now lives is a fine idea , but the effects of the whole thing , the direction and the portrayal of it was classic " B " movie material . It reeked next to the first two and took on a campy , sad , used and abused quality that you NEVER had in the first two . Kipley Wentz , who has had 3 bit parts other than his role in this movie absolutely stinks in his portrayal as Scott , Donna's love interest . His acting is not anything I would consider " talent . " It's more . . . unbelievable . You have to experience it for yourself to appreciate how bad it really is . We were about half-way through watching this movie when my cousin turns and asks , " They PAID these people ? ! " That should give you SoMe indication of the acting quality of this movie . The scene where Donna meets Scott at the elevator , after the metamorphosis . . . where he tears her flesh from her face ? is absolutely ludicrous . They would want and need the deception to be completely intact , so why would they do that ? They wouldn't . That scene was about as good an example of wretched writing as I've ever seen . Positively puerile . I have read creative writing projects produced by eighth-graders which were better thought out and more well expressed than this screenplay . The one and ONLY redeeming quality of this movie , in this Fiend's opinion , is the cameo appearance done by Zelda Rubenstein as Tangina Barrons . Love her ! Without her presence this flick wouldn't even rate the sorry rating it gets . And not for her performance in this installment , either . It was brief and xyloid . Unfortunately , they failed miserably in recapturing the quality and feeling of the first movie ; the second being not quite as good ; and this , the third , being horrid in comparison . The only reason I own this movie is because it came FREE with the purchase of Poltergeist 2 on DVD . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , So Now You're Trying To Say That Others Are Making Your Decisions For You ?	Why take a minute to bother with a screenplay ? Or clever innovations , or even going back to the basics with that Beverly Hills Cop sequel that's been stuck in production Hades for ( how long ? ) ever ? Really , why bother , when there are scripts like THIS masterputz floating around Hollywood ? The two " stolen " ideas are the small alien operating the made-to-scale human from Men In Black and Martin Short / Dennis Quaid / Meg Ryan's Inner Space from 1987 . I found this to be quite dismal . The " laughs " are mere occasional chuckles , without one true belly laugh in the whole mire . And " mire " is an apt description of this muddled mess . Brian Robbins seems unsure of the desired genre of this work , jumping back and forth from satire to fifth-grade bathroom humorn . Frankly , nothing about this film works . Aside from the confused direction , Murphy see-saws between trying too hard to be funny and seemingly not trying at all , rendering the whole mess a comedic fiasco . The funny moments actually appear to be quite unintentional , and the contrived comedic elements are . . . not funny . This is one big uneven nasty mess . Between the UNfunny jokes , the uneven comedic timing , and a poor contribution by Murphy , this just plain sux . It's as if Murphy is trying to tell the world that others are making these awful decisions pertaining to his work and his role choices . Sorry Eddie , but if this is all you have left to give us , you should stick to just voicing the Donkey . This quagmire rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
She Deserved Better	Did these people even KNOW Dorothy Dandridge ? She was absolutely beautiful , and highly talented . . . but the " tributes " paid to her in this documentary were flaccid , uncaring . . . delivered in a near monotone address so as to say the narrator was completely unimpressed with her accomplishments , her talents , and her life . She deserves better , and this work should be remade into a live biography of her life , career , loves , and her tragic self-induced death . When she died of by suicide via drug overdose , she had $2 . 14 in her bank account . This Oscar-nominated , fabulous , glamorous , beautiful , talented woman was 42 . But this ? This detritus rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mediocre , But What Else Would You Expect From A King Adaptation ?	While this is horribly dated , I MUST insist . . . PLEASE , NO REMAKE ! Frankly , it just won't help , as there's nothing which could be added or changed , contemporarily , to make this cinematically better . The novel upon which this is based , was atmospheric , well written , truly spooky work , but on film , it just doesn't translate . Most of King's written masterpieces fail to translate to film . I'm not sure why this is , but when you view this work , if you view it , you are likely to see just what I mean . The book ? It's wonderful . It's not a masterpiece , but it's more than just entertaining . The movie ? Do something else . You can thank me later . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , I Have But One Question : WTF Was THAT ?	Pardon me , but I'm still in a mild state of shock . Based on Dickens ' work this . . . film details a young homeless South African in his search for a family . Okay , I get it . This is quite odd in its execution , but as a modernized remake , it's not all that bad , but it certainly is not the art-house film it was intended to be . Some of the performances are quite good , while others leave a bad taste in your mouth . This is entertaining , though a muddled mess of an adaptation . The elements here are both English and South African , but there seems to be some other subtexts hidden within . It would intrigue me if it were better done than it is , but as it is , I will not waste the time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Apt Adaptation , But Disturbing Story .	If I'm conflicted in my review , it's simply because the story itself is conflicted , along with its characters , their choices , and their decisions . This was one heck of a family mess , and while I won't detail every nuance , this work seems to endorse adultery as a means of martyrdom , while forcing the adulteress to sacrifice her own life for her " sin , " by the ghost of her mother and the force of her own conscience . Lost yet ? You will be , if you try to muddle through this mess . It's not that the story is so intelligent that it " lost " me along the way , it's more like the characters choices are so idiotic as to make you wonder what in the WORLD these people are thinking . I know nothing of the Mexican life or culture , but if this is what it is like , I'm glad I live in the US of A . ( That's not a racist dis , either . ) It rates a from . . . the Fiend : . Ick .
Horrendous	I'm sorry to say that this installment of the Big Momma franchise was even worse than the initiator , and as such , I fervently hope this doesn't turn into a " run . " I didn't think Big Momma's House could be bested for worse Martin Lawrence movie , until I was dragged out to see this . Oy Vey , what a mess ! Uneven comedy , suspect performances , lazy direction , and incoherent storyline mark this . . . mark it my foot ! It's branded . . . AS TRASH ! Seriously folks , you could do something better with your afternoon / evening . Anything , in fact , would be better . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
90 minute long over christianized sermon .	I'll never understand , what with the literal thousands of other types of beings / creatures of shadow / darkness , film producers and screenwriters always lean on the old crutch of Christianity when conjuring their creations into being . This movie was a ninety-minute ( or there abouts ) sermon ; nothing more . Sorry guys , but if I wanted to be repeatedly hit over the head by dogmatic Christianity , I would let the fundys in when they knock on my door . If you're into that kind of masochism though , then this is definitely your movie . Almost killed as a child , Nicky's mother promises her daughter's soul to the Devil to keep her from dying , thereby sealing her fate . Or did she ? I don't know . This movie can't seem to decide . This is a movie of the Christian heresy of Satanism and is therefore , not my cup of tea , but it seems as if it can not make up its mind . I think perhaps the director suffers from ADHD , or some such malady , as he wants to do a Satanic movie , but then again , Satan does not have the power to do anything . . . ? . . . I don't know . This is basically just a convoluted mess centered around dogmatic Christian belief and peppered throughout with Catholic doctrines , used here and there whenever convenient , but otherwise ignored . A complete waste of film , if you ask me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly overrated .	Yet another overrated but this time decent little serial killer flick surrounding girls in a sorority . Margot Kidder is great and this production features " Audra " from Stephen King's made For TV movie , " IT . " While this is somewhat entertaining , the direction was horrible , and it is easily one of the most clichd horrors I've seen . It was not scary , and while it tries to build suspense , the liquor-filled sorority house mother relieved any suspense built , by her antics . There are some really creepy ( and humorous ) elements in this one , making it better than some , but frankly , I don't see why this film is considered to be a benchmark of the horror genre . It really is not anything special . It is just a mediocre thriller , nothing more . I honestly thought Scream was better . LOL from . . . the Fiend : .
To Peter : The One and Only Clouseau . . . ?	Well , Peter sellers has died , yet this movie posthumously " stars " Peter Sellers . There are deleted scenes from the older works of this franchise , and they have brought back Sir . Charles Litton ( David Niven ) from the original , and the actual Pink Panther makes a return . It's really too bad they didn't do this in the Revenge . Maybe that would not have equated the proverbial , " Too Little , Too Late , " adage . I've always been puzzled as to why they would do this . I mean . . . okay , he's dead , so what can you do ? You can end the franchise on a low note , you can hold a world-wide search for the next Clouseau , you can quietly seek someone to take his place , or you can make a regurgitated piece of crap from the old footage lying on the cutting room floors , slap a new title on it , bring back a few favorites , and call it a day . Obviously , they chose the last one . Bad choice , in my opinion . Actually , even if you're a collector , you can completely dispense with this installment , forget about the deleted scenes , and feel confident that you aren't missing a THING . Although Harvey Korman's performance was hilarious and inspired , it is painfully obvious that NO ONE else cared about this film , including Blake Edwards . It is also painfully obvious this was a clear milking of the franchise fans . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Surpasses 4 , but hovers beneath 2	This was a bit darker . A little more atmospheric . A tad bit more intelligent . But not by much . Leprechaun in the Hood was a running joke when it came out . It continues the tradition of Leprechaun movies which really bite the big one . As good as these could have been , with all the lore and information available about Leprechauns , and this is the best they could do . At least this time there were some decent kills , but if that is the only thing good I have to say about it ( and it is ) , then that does not count for very much . It stereotyped young AfricanAmericans as unscrupulous , confused potential thieves who would rip off their own mothers to get ahead . Venued in the ghetto setting , cast very carelessly , and scripted by someone who apparently had classic ADHD and was on crack , simultaneously , this attempt should be the death of the franchise . Fitting and deserving end . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
. . . and unless a miracle happens , so is the franchise .	Let's hope this is the final nightmare . This is the epitome of a good thing gone bad . Okay , there is still some enjoyment to be had , but only in the most mundane sense . Rachel Talalay had been there for the duration of this franchise , had been on the production staff and produced even . I don't know what she was thinking , but this debacle comes complete with the human video game boy and a guest appearance byTom and Roseanne Arnold ! I wish I had a clue what she was thinking when she wrote / directed this disappointing piece of garbage . She even tried to distract her audience from the fact that this movie was nothing more than an over-glorified popcorn movie instead of bearing any resemblance to horror , with the contrived use of a 3D ending . Aren't those glasses nifty ? And you get to KEEP them ! It's the equivalent of , you just spent $9 . 00 making me rich . Here's 10 cents . Now , don't you feel special ! ? Sorry , but for me , it just did not make me feel special . And Freddy's had yet another face-lift . This one was for the worst , I think . All the beautiful artistry that went into his " look " in the earlier films has been replaced by an obviously cheaper , less detailed set of prosthetics . He looks . . . less like the burn victim he is supposed to be , and more like he has a skin disorder . Changing the lead's makeup like that so far into a series is about on the same level as changing the lead actor . But wait ! They've done that , and done that . So I guess it doesn't matter . But it mattered to me . Freddy is no longer SCARY . He's just . . . another low-rent monster like the Leprechaun . It's more . . . a dark comedy than the horror classic this series promises ; riddled with what you can only hope the writers thought were witty one-liners and clever repartee ( sadly , it fell short on both accounts ) . So there's nothing more to say than grab the popcorn and get ready to laugh , because there was not one scary or suspenseful moment in this entire film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is A Character Study , NOT A Comedy . Boy , Did SOMEONE Mess Up !	I found the marketing completely off the mark for this work . This was billed as a comedy , but this is NOT a comedy . It is more a character study than anything else , and as such , I cannot say it was even well made , despite my understanding of the marketing problems , which occurred . Murray is way off his game here . They say he tried something new and did well at it . I say , regardless of his trying something new , he stunk UP the place , and should have been pulled from this project . I LIKE Murray , but his dialed-in performance did nothing to further endear , and did a lot in the way of putting me off him . There ARE a few elements which make this worth watching . Owen Wilson is great , and comes off more like the Bill Murray that Murray fans grew to love and have become disgruntled with in the past decade or so . Scarlett Johanssen was another element which made this viewable . She is a delight as a neglected newlywed who forms a weird bond with an egocentric aging actor ( well , at least the typecasting worked for Murray ) . Anna Farris is also present , but you only see her for a few moments . All in all ? I can not for the LIFE of me understand how this won an Oscar ! I was bored , bored , bored . The performances were stilted , the dialog delivery was halting and unconnected , and the overall feeling of the film itself was like something out of the late 1970's , but perhaps that last item was the catalyst int hat Baby Boomers bought into it . I am not sure what happened to boost the overall appreciation for this crap , but I cannot say I enjoyed anything about it beyond Scarlett Johanssen and Owen Wilson , and then only marginally , as neither the script , nor the execution , was anything to crow about . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dismally Unfunny .	I don't know what ANYONE was thinking , in doing this movie . Sylvester Stallone ( Sly ) had a pretty good career going in the action genre , when he let loose with this stinker . A tough detective's mother comes to visit him , and promptly starts trying to " fix " his life , much to his embarrassment . For his birthday she buys him a machine gun out of the back of a van , and begins to further interfere with his job and love life , eventually " helping " him with a current case . Estelle Getty is adorable as the irascible curmudgeonly mom , and Stallone is average as a detective on the edge , but this whole thing came off like a terrible idea , hence the horrid ratings it has received here at IMDb . Believe me , it's earned it . This is just terrible and SO not funny . It's just kind of sad that Estelle Getty was wasted on this crap . It rates a from . . . . the Fiend : .
Two Words : Um EW !	Well , was this lame , or what ? " Prom Night , " held the potential to be GOOD in the venue of slasher flicks . Frankly ( and I do try to be frank ) , there is nothing new here . In the venues of remakes , sometimes that is a good thing as it lends familiarity to an old story , and basically gives your ardent fans an updated version of their comfortable old slippers . In this case , however , instead of atmosphere and skill , the audience is cheated by cheap thrills ( loud noises that make you jump instead of earning the scare via masterful suspense ) ; cardboard cut out characters with so little depth that there is NO WAY to develop any emotion at ALL towards them , be it sympathy or worry or even animosity ; and no dialog , no effort whatsoever in the area of a screenplay and / or story . It's a shame , really . This could have been a GREAT slasher flick , but alas ! It is pretty mediocre in every way . From the performances to the screenplay , this movie is flat , plastic . . . flaccid . All in all ? If you're a horror fan , don't bother with this . Wait for On Demand . Actually , if you're NOT a horror fan , there is no reason at ALL to see this . Actually , there's no reason at all to see this at any rate . Yes . That's it . All in all ? Don't see this . Wait for it free on cable to decide if you want that DVD , or better yet , rent or buy the ORIGINAL Jamie Lee Curtis flick and watch a GOOD horror / slasher flick ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Lawrence's best endeavor	As a new fan of Martin Lawrence , I was looking forward to seeing this film . But I left feeling a bit deprived of a good experience . This is definitely not his best work . While I own the movie ( video of the month club , you know ) , I would never have bought this one on purpose . It's a poor rendition of the Gene Wilder / Richard Pryor team and an even worse attempt to capture the charisma between Mel Gibson and Danny Glover . I am simply stunned that they paid Martin Lawrence an astounding $20 M to do this film , considering the hollow script and plastic acting he put into this production . I was ; however , a bit surprised in the quality of performance delivered by Steve Zahn . I was never very impressed with anything he's done , and his work in this film was completely professional . For the best of Martin's work , see " What's the Worst that Can Happen . " Martin has a professional supporting cast which carries him throughout that movie , and enables him to deliver a near brilliant performance . As a stand-alone , or part of a simple duo , Lawrence really just does not have what it takes to make the cut . This movie has a few funny moments , but that is about all I can give it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mediocre attempt with some nice elements	Quite honestly , I detest snakes , so this movie was a huge fear-generator for me . So I won't talk about the suspense , the horror , or the terror - I - felt when watching this , just to be fair . Owen Wilson delivered the only natural performance in this production . Jennifer Lopez frankly reeked , as did Ice Cube . John Voight was good , but not up to par , in my opinion . There are some excellent action sequences , and some decent and funny dialog , and the story flows with an adequate pace . The effects , especially those of the snake itself , are really quite good , and show an inspired use of that $35M budget . My favorite scene ? There is a shot from the ground , of a guy jumping from an extreme height . Just as you think , " Yeah ! He's gotten away ! " the anaconda comes out of nowhere and snatches him right out of mid-air . That was impressively shot and executed , and was ( in my opinion ) the highlight of the whole movie . It is considered a " B " movie , yet carried a $35M budget ? ! How , by any consideration , does that qualify this movie as a " B " flick ? That's an " A " budget , and so it will be rated as such . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable . . . Until The End .	This was a major disappointment for this movie goer . The film quality was horrid , the editing was choppy , the dissolves didn't exactly . . . dissolve , and the acting left a LOT to be desired . Sorry , but these performances were pretty standard cardboard cut outs . The characters received no development , and what development they did received seemed out of place and awkward . The story was compelling , until you get to the ending , which pretty much killed the movie , for me . It was contrived tripe , and I felt I'd been robbed of my time and the cost of tickets . Face it , there are much better things you can do with your life than let some movie beat you over the head with the Bible for a whole movie , only to burn said Bible at the end . This was garbage . Sorry Swank , but you need a new agent . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Actually , As Much As People Hate This , It Still Runs Like Conan 3 .	It is sad that Schwarzenegger was the best thing about this production , especially considering the fact that he had not yet come into his own , and was still as stiff as cardboard in his dialog delivery . Actually , this isn't as bad as some critics say , but it isn't good , either . It IS amusing , and DOES play like a poor country cousin of the Conan line , making it a conflicted , uneven , poor work . And speaking of poor , the quality is terrible , due to the era in which this was filmed , but that is not the only reason . The story herein is inferior , even to the Conan line , but moreover , it loses itself in the " Red Sonja must be dominated by big strong Schwarzenegger " ploy , and entirely forgets its purpose , if it ever had one . It's entertaining , but in a low-budget , guilty-pleasure " B " kind of way . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is not funny . . . This was downright painful to watch !	Everyone said that the original was " sooo much better than the Steve Martin remake . " They lied . Jack Lemmon is a total jerk , and Sandy Dennis is so absolutely dense that one cannot watch this movie without finding the need to cringe from their ineptitude and sad sad luck . I've read where others stated that they laughed at this film , yet I could find nothing whatsoever amusing herein . I don't understand what makes people think that watching a man behave like a jerk is in any way humorous . This is another fine example of that phenomenon , like Las Vegas Vacation wherein Clark exhibits the same behavior . Jack Lemmon isn't funny , he is just plain mean and stupid . And the kid in the bushes bit ? That was SO NOT FUNNY . I did NOT like this film . I didn't find this even remotely entertaining . I typically enjoy Lemmon's performances , but this was pretty disgusting . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mediocre sequel .	They put neither the thought , nor the financing , behind this installment as they did the first , but it is still a moderately entertaining endeavor . They cut back on both the creativity and on the execution of what creativity they did exhibit . In this installment of the series , the Djinn effects are not nearly as good as they were . They went for a new look , and for me , it just did not work . The story was not as well written and not as well enacted as the first . I found it marginally enjoyable , regardless of the apparent lack in quality effects , and also find it to be a decent sequel . But only that . At least they did bring back Michael Divoff as the Djinn . Honestly , this was a bit of a disappointment . The first installment was not Oscar worthy material , but it did entertain . I found myself having to work at being amused with this chapter of the Wishmaster story . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Simply dismal .	George Clooney should have never been cast in the role of Batman . He blew it from the instant his character appeared on the screen . His acting here is horrid , and introducing him in full regalia and in the throes of battle did nothing whatsoever to hide the fact that he was agonizingly deplorable . The addition of ice skates in the boots of the super heroes was as lame as anything I grew up with in the 60's and 70's TV show . All in all this was a horribly disappointing movie , complete with standard Hollywood fare : trying effects ; cheesy dialog and absolutely no build up to the story line whatsoever . The characters were underdeveloped , and over dramatized . The scenes were shot as if a ten year old snuck away to the mall with daddy's video camera and shot them ; the effects were the worst sort , and the dialog was reminiscent of a kindergarten stage production . Joel Schumacher should be forbidden to have anything at ALL to do with everything even remotely Batman related from this point on . Seriously , he has just about destroyed any chance of redeeming this wonderful series of movies . The heroes fly about on snowboards propelled by . . . . what ? Their gadgets , now totally hi-tech and possibly the lamest of all four movies thus far had me rolling my eyes before the first ten minutes of the movie were completed . In comparison to the 60's cars used throughout , it was highly out of place . A seriously lame anachronism . Mr . Freeze's dialog was obviously geared for the target audience of 9 year olds ( not to insult any 9 year olds out there ) , and his character was so underdeveloped , I remember the audience asking throughout the theater , " Who's that ? " Furthermore , his character never achieves the appropriate dominance required to be a convincing " bad guy " of this caliber . His character was a weak , flaccid excuse for a villain . No fault of Schwarzenegger's , I'm sure . Again , I blame the direction . His thug-some gang of hockey / skater punks just made me laugh . Lame , lame , lame . Mr . Freeze left me feeling a bit . . . cold . Sorry , it's the movie's influence . Uma Thurman's performance was excellent as Poison Ivy , although her character was even less developed than was Mr . Freeze's . By the time they got around to trying to give you any history at all concerning the two villains , it was far too little and way too late . By that time , the audience just didn't CARE about their history . They had already lost the viewers ' interest by failing miserably to properly introduce the characters . And by attempting to foist George Clooney upon us by shoving him into an action scene at the movie's open was a shoddy directional device not even worthy of a first year film student . " Bane " was played as infantile and was another factor which led to my loathing of this movie . Bane was a force to be reckoned with in the comic books . Whether you're a fan of that medium or not , this has to matter at least to some degree . His character was either written , directed , or portrayed ( I really don't care which ) to be about as bright and interesting as a rock . No , I take that back . I've seen some rocks which interested me greatly . His character was reminiscent to me , with his inane growling and total lack of intelligence , of the villains portrayed in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3 . That's NOT a good thing , people . The Eye Candy turned out to be more like Eye . . . Sores . The circus-like atmosphere throughout the movie was inappropriate as a " Dark Knight " setting . I could not believe how horrible was the direction of this flick . As a fan of the comic heroes and the first two installments of this series , this movie was a complete let down . The dialog throughout is trite and campy ; they tried too hard to be witty and clever and failed horribly . Instead of hard and edgy , fresh and foreboding , George Clooney's Batman was soft , weak and ignorant . I hated him as Batman . Put him in Jurassic Park 4 . Cast him as living bait for ANYTHING carnivorous . That would be the perfect role for him . Alicia Silverston as Batgirl was a horrible casting choice . Meg Ryan would have made a more convincing Batgirl . Seriously though , almost anyone would have been better cast in this role . Her assuming the role as Batgirl degrades the character to mere fluff , instead of the gritty , edgy presence that issues from Batgirl's character in the comic books . Meanwhile , back at Mr . Freeze's lair : The ridiculous show tunes he forces his henchmen to sing for his amusement have even the henchmen casting confused looks at one another as if to say , " This is not the movie we auditioned for . . . is it ? " I really don't have anything good to say about this movie . I wanted to when I sat down to write this , but as I watch it , I simply cannot find it in myself to do it . If Mr . Schumacher's goal was to recreate the campy drivel of the original TV series from the 60's & 70's , then he succeeded completely . Much to my dismay . With the announcement of Batman Begins due to be released in 2005 , I refuse to even begin to get my hopes up until I see who will direct it . The late Michael Gough obviously won't be Alfred , either . He was about the only good thing this movie offered . As a true Schwarzenegger fan , I just don't have the heart to say anything more . Uma Thurman and Michael Gough were the only bright lights in this otherwise horrid installment of modern day Batman movies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
So-So RomCom . Very Little Heart , Very Few Laughs	A school teacher deserts her fianc and runs away to Italy in search of a man who bears the name of her " soul mate . " This film actually serves no purpose . It fails to entertain , teach , or provide anything to its audience . The premise is ridiculous . The performances are quite superficial . The direction suffers from thinking far too much of itself . Norman Jewison is a hit and miss director , who either flies or fails . The degree to which this work failed depends entirely upon what exactly you think this work was aims to do . In my opinion , it fails utterly in all areas by which I judge a film . There is no meat to the story , no intelligence or cleverness , no attention to detail , and only the most superfluous of performances . All in all ? This is a sappy , contrived , impossible tale , which defies the very existence of " suspension of belief . " You could find a LOT of more entertaining things to do with your time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Laughable	As a kid , this movie scared me green . As an adult , I couldn't stop laughing . I have not had the pleasure of watching this movie via MST3K . I caught it , instead , on a late Saturday afternoon , when there was absolutely nothing in the theaters , and there was nothing left to do outside but rake some autumn leaves . I figured , this HAD to be better . I was wrong . The movie has some very good elements ; a water-divining mystic , a beatnik painter , couple of idiot ranch hands , an elderly history buff , and an " evil wind . " Um . . . I mean . . . evil head . An evil head which will , as soon as the systematic hypnotism of each and every one present is complete , be looking for its evil body . The whole story takes place on an evil " ranch " which apparently neither grows crops , nor raises evil livestock . As everything is declared by their resident mystic to be " evil , " you either roll your eyes horribly , or laugh til your sides split , depending on your mood . Me ? I laughed until I had tears streaming down my face . I remembered this movie fondly as one of those which really SCARED me as a kid . But some kids are afraid of Santa Claus , too . . no ? Anyway . . . if you're into 50's horror camp , then this is definitely a movie you shouldn't miss . If you're looking for a good story line , this movie has that . It's the over the top dramatics and downright innocence of the time that makes it so horrid . The acting was just BAD , but it still had some good elements . Perhaps it rates a remake . . . ? It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty Bad , But Partially Redeemed by John Malkovich's Performance	Making Mr . Right . The premise behind this film is simple and the sub plots are uncomplicated and sometimes trite , but the movie is consistently contrived , from beginning to end . John Malkovich is a scientist who creates a look-alike android to precede him into space . Ann Magnuson is the assistant who is in love with her boss and ends up spending time with the android . Complications ensue . Well , duh ! The suspension of belief required is pretty hard to achieve . In fact , it was impossible to achieve such an extreme level of dim awareness . The only redeeming element associated with this work is John Malkovich's performance , which is startling and Michael Jacksonesque ( though not so much so as Depp's Chocolate Factory persona ) . All in all ? Unless you're a die hard John Malkovich fan , this really isn't worth your time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Laudable performances mired by low-level production	Just ONCE , I would like to see Koontz's work given to a decent screenwriter , director , and producer ! JUST ONCE ! This is a good attempt by Jean LeClerc and Chris Sarandon , and an even better attempt by Victoria Tennant , but everything else is pure unadulterated garbage . The screenwriter should be shot for bastardizing Koontz's work this way and the director . . . please . The story is a well-written story , but the screenplay is quite dull , unbelievable and horribly executed . The only elements which work are the performances by LeClerc , Sarandon , and Tennant . On a personal note , I really wanted this to work . I adore Koontz's novels , but they have never given them the attention , backing , and talent they deserve . If they put the same money into Koontz's work that they shovel by the barrels-full into King's , Koontz would quickly rise above . But alas ! Without powerful people who believe in his work , I fear he will never get the chance . As an adaptation to the novel , this movie was a total suck-fest . As a stand alone movie , it wasn't that bad , though extremely weak in many places with huge plot holes and terrible , stiff , unprofessional dialog which never should have made it to the final cut . This movie failed miserably to live up to its potential . Had they followed the original work by Koontz , a bit more closely , and invested a decent amount of production money , this could have been a far better endeavor . However , all I can manage to see in this , is how good it could have been , and wasn't . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet , Sentimental ( but not overly so ) Depiction of Becoming A Man in the Jewish Culture	This was a quaint , sweet movie depicting a boy struggling with his impending manhood . There isn't much more you can say about the plot , than that . The performances here are better than adequate , and the direction seems competent enough , but the truth be told , this movie doesn't seem to know whether it wants to be a comedy , a drama , or some uneven measure of both . It is not as bad as that statement may make it seem , however , as it is entertaining , if only mildly so . All in all ? This is sweet and sentimental , but not overly so , and that's about all you can say about it . No matter how deeply you dig into this plot and its characters , there seems to be little substance beneath the surface . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Average	This documentary is a decent but lackluster attempt to explain the story line , the effects , and the difficulties in dealing with time travel . This was above average as far as its inclusions , but it still left a bit to be desired in way of presentation , style , set designs for the interviews , etc . You might say WTF ? ! This is - about - a movie , not the movie itself ! Well , if you're going to review a documentary about a movie , you need to review it as you would the movie itself . Style , set designs , backgrounds , props , the look and overall feel of the work is just as important . While this work was professional it was not stylish . It felt a bit deflated and tired . Good thing the movies maintained the feeling of " liveliness " this attempt never quite achieved . A bit of a disappointment , really . It rates a Documentary Scale of from . . . the Fiend : .
Too Much Drama , Not Enough Laughs	One never knows what will be a hit , until it hits . The reason for this Disney Computer Animation's demise is simple : they strayed from the Disney formula . There were enigmatic characters , a compelling story , and great animation . There were awesome visuals , a great story , and some innovative ideas . But . . . it was not fun . Actually , it was neither fun , nor funny . Most Disney fans are prepared to learn a moral lesson whenever they sit down with the popcorn and the kiddies to view the latest Disney venture , but they are also prepared to laugh , to have fun , and to enjoy the family time . Unfortunately , Valiant fails to deliver in those three key areas . Honestly , this WWII film didn't even manage to rally patriotism ! The visuals are striking and the story is great , but there isn't enough wit in any form to make this a " good " Disney movie . As it is ? It's just a Disney movie , and it's nothing special . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Drooling Is More Interesting To Watch	A play on the old school primary readers , this " comedic " vehicle entertains , but remember to leave both your thinking cap and your intelligence at the door . As pure comedic entertainment , this film is mildly amusing amid its racial inferences and sociological strolls into such a severe state of instability as to cause one to question the mental and emotional health of the writers ! With an uplifting ending obviously designed to counter the prevalent insanity , this film comes off as having a wildly uneven pitch . Although somewhat endearing here and there , this was only mildly amusing , but certainly not one of Carrey's best . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
NOT the Masterpiece I'm Sure Disney Envisioned	This is done well enough to satisfy the most indiscriminate , but even those children in my acquaintance who were above the age of nine were dissatisfied with this animation , citing rough edges , and a complete disregard for detail where backgrounds and set props were concerned . The story is the familiar story of most movie-goers ' childhood , hidden deep , but it is in there , about a chicken who , when hit by something from the sky ( pine straw , perhaps ? ) proclaims the sky is falling , much to the amusement of the other barnyard residents of the chicken's fair village . This has , of course , been Disneyized , made into a father / son thing , and child characters were invented for the further Disneyization to be complete . This is not great , and offers little for the family , OR adult audiences . This was aimed mostly at the kiddies , and only the younger ones will ( at least in my experience ) typically enjoy this . Probably because the " dad " in this is a self-centered , faithless mook who cares about no one but himself . Even after he shows support of his son , it's all about " look at me , look how supportive I'm being ! " instead of Chicken Little and HIS accomplishments . He sucks as a father , and who wants to see that ? There are too many in real life , who suck , for this to be enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Horrid and Obvious Indiana Jones Impersonation .	Spielberg should have sued , IMO . That's how close this crap tries to buy into Indiana Jones ' style and execution . Not only is it NOT Alan Quartermain , it tries ( oh so very hard ) to make you forget it isn't Indiana Jones . The effects , editing , and performances are not even remotely as good as the worst Indiana Jones moment , so don't get me wrong . It's not that successful . It sort of just lies there , looking cheap and gaudy , and malnourished while you attempt vainly again and again to find a reason why you're trying so hard to find anything worthy of your time . I have never seen the 1930's original . Nor have I seen the 1950's remake , so I have no basis for comparison , but I must say that this thieved and inferior version of Alan Quartermain is nothing like the Quartermain from the many books I've read . I would have to say that Connery's estimation of this character in " League of Extraordinary Gentlemen " probably comes closest to this generations ' version of the " real " Quartermain . Just save Chamberlain the embarrassment , and save yourself the wasted time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Barely Watchable	I hope this doesn't indicate where Robin Williams is headed in his career . This work was a pretty sorry unintentional remake of Vacation , and inferior to it , at that . Williams was completely unbelievable in his portrayal of a " regular guy , " and the kids were so plastic , I kept waiting for them to start spitting single dollar bills out their mouths . I was extremely disappointed with this , and have no desire to include it in my growing DVD collection . It was a huge disappointment . I hope Williams gets his act together , because another one like this , and he could be the next Eddie Murphy . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Weak follow up	This watered down version of Jerusalem's Lot is a far cry from the tense atmospheric town we grew to hate in Salem's Lot . They made the mistake of bringing in a non-Salem's Lot child , to endear this attempt to the younger audiences . Larry Cohen , who also wrote It's Alive , It Lives Again , and Maniac Cop 1 & 2 , penned this screen play . Cohen's style of writing is mediocre at best , frankly . He's had a couple of surprise hits , but they were surprises because the directors and actors involved made the necessary changes and added a quality to the work which lacked in Cohen's writing . Phone Booth is one such surprise . Unfortunately , he was also the director on this project , which explains the inability of the director to add a different perspective on the written work , and a rating here at IMDb would seem to support the fact that something did , indeed , go wrong . I has heart , but lacks substance and therefore rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
John Rhys-Davies Makes this a Decent Low-Budget Thriller	Without John Rhys-Davies , I have to admit that this would never even register on my movie-meter . But in spite of that single fact , this is not a bad little thriller , considering the low budget , the low quality effects , the stiff acting and the Sci Fi Channel aspects . The blood effects are very convincing , and the Chupacabra actually looks realistic . . . regardless of what you think a Chupacabra looks like this is one good-looking Chupacabra . Aside from the positives , this runs kind of like Kolchak : The Night Stalker ( Darren McGavin , remember ? ) meets the Love Boat , but in spite of the ultimate cheese of this work , it still holds something resembling a plot , and actually attempts to gain your respect while making you laugh and roll your eyes . As conflicted as this work is , I still managed to find some enjoyment herein . Maybe you will , too . It rates a on the Made 4 TV Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as Bad as Some say .	This will never be Emmy-worthy , nor will this enjoy record-breaking DVD sales later when it is released , but this is superior for a Sci Fi Channel Original . Like Wyvern , the story and dialog is more involved , better detailed , and runs much more fluid than your typical Sci Fi Channel fare . The long shots and scenic vistas are new for Sci Fi Channel releases , and I have to say they add a great deal to the overall feel and effect of the work . But moreover , the CGI has been amped up a bit and looks like something in which you can suspend belief , for a change . That has been the greatest problem with Sci Fi Original movies , thus far . . . the horrible CG , trite dialog , and terrible acting ruin the possibility of enjoying a good suspension of belief , thereby negating its own work . Thus is not the case with Hydra . At least , not to the extent as is typically present . It's not as bad as some say . It rates a on the Made 4 TV scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , But NOT Great !	Charlie Sheen was NOT a genius in this work . This was pretty lame , actually , in both substance and execution , however , it does bear some fun elements , and delivers a moderate amount of entertainment . I can't say that I'm surprised that Sheen's work is horribly lacking ; it seems his fire went out right after Young Guns . This film is not much of anything , in the great scheme of cinematic wonders , however , it manages to deliver a bit of enjoyment , I think in SPITE of itself , rather than because of the work itself . Many think this was great fun , so as usual , I'm in the minority when I say that I found this film dated , puerile , and under-dramatized while it was also boring , uneventful , and anticlimactic drivel . It does manage a small amount of enjoyment / entertainment quality , if only mildly . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Moderately ( but unintelligently ) amusing .	Not bad , but it would have been better had they switched roles between Oliver Platt and Michael Douglas . I realize that Michael Douglas is the son of Kirk Douglas , and therefore is cast in the leading " Alpha " male roles . However , I think this production would have gone up at least 2 points with Oliver Platt in the lead , and Michael Douglas in the supporting role . The Premise of this movie is as follows : A young lady who has been institutionalized throughout her life , has a very powerful secret . Can her doctors break through her many psychosis in order to obtain the secrets locked within her mind ? They had better hope they can , or the lives of the doctors may be forfeit . Not a bad premise , and a very entertaining endeavor , with a few twists and turns , but nothing you don't really expect . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not visually stunning , but a nice idea .	Quite frankly , anyone BUT Bookeem Woodbine would have been fine in this role , but his portrayal as Steve Grant left me more than a bit cold . His character is a one-dimensional , whining , cardboard-cutout wannabe gangsta , and he honestly just does not cut it as Grant , which was a serious detriment to this film , as Grant's was a key role . ( And what was WITH those short , tiny ties ? ! Was he wearing a kid's tie ? ) Additionally , Adrian Paul as Aaron Gray here was reminiscent of a young , uptight Gomez Addams look-alike . There was nothing wrong with his performance , but his costumer should definitely have gone in another direction with his wardrobe . The pencil-drawn-looking mustache did not help , and neither did the liberal abuse of hair goo . All these elements contributed a certain air of detachment between the audience and his character , which seriously brought down the film . His character was one of those principle characters which needed to enjoy a connection with the audience in order for this film to work . However , Ling Bai's performance was very compelling , provocative and professional here . You may remember her as Miss East from Wild , Wild West . Other than that , this was a rather entertaining venture into the future of the vampyric race , in spite of the vastly missed potential . There are certain rules one must follow when in production of a vampire film . Some argue that these rules were created by Universal Studios when they filmed the old 30's , 40's and 50's black and white horrors . Others say these rules come from the legends themselves . Whichever the case , this movie does not seem to be aware of the " vampire rules . " The effects were less than they could have been , but were otherwise passable . The flash-backs , however , were just annoying , and the visuals lacked in creativity . The musical score was strong and contributed a nice suspense to the production , and moved between action and suspense quite well , even if it was overly techno at times . There are some good elements , but they seem totally unconnected and even accidental . There is little flow and less continuity . Yet the good elements are enough to keep you watching to the end , which is satisfying . Unfortunately , it's also satisfying that it IS the end . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Cheesy and Glib , But Still Fun If You Like Blockbustery Popcorners	Judge Dredd was a terrible attempt at a comic book movie . Superman fared well for the first couple of movies , and the Burton Batman line did okay for the first couple of installments , and Judge Dredd does hold potential for a successful franchise line . However , this was done well before the current technological CG age , and it shows something awful . The dialog is trite and glib , delivered with about as much reality as plastic , and comes off like they were trying SO hard to have fun that they couldn't actually have any , if you can understand that . Coupled with the fact that this work takes itself far too seriously , Stallone in particular considering he was the ONLY serious thing about the work , Stallone comes off as an over-dramatized ego maniacal schmuck . A . Asanti does portray a competent villain , and Stallone contributes a decent performance , all things considered . I think it was more . . . everything else , that went wrong with this production . . . Rob Schneider , for one . Whose idea WAS it to cast that moronic imbecile in a Judge Dredd movie ? Is it possible that some idiot considered him the comic relief ? ! Not possible when one realizes that Rob Schneider is about as funny as a bad case of syphilis . He drug it down , if that is possible . The set designs were another thing . The budget existed to have built good sets , but these looked worse than some of the original Star Trek episodes ' sets and props ! In places , it looked good , but for the most part , they were pretty cheesy . Blend that with Stallone's over-acting , and trite dialog , Rob Schneider's presence , and everyone else just milling about as if there was no point to the plot , and you've got a pretty bad movie . Fun , but still pretty bad . The sound track and the plot ( when it is discernible ) are the only enjoyable elements of this work . Unless you're a die hard Stallone fan , I'd suggest you pass on this one . If you're a fan of the comic book series , do yourself a favor and reread the books . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not the " arthouse " accomplishment it thinks it is	This endeavor was loaded with visual Eye Candy that just wouldn't let you stop watching . But I wanted to . Believe me ; I wanted to . You get the first story ; a contrived lie told with insincerity . When it is discovered to be a lie by the Emperor , the same story is retold from the Emperor's deduction and reasoning . After the truth is out about the facts surrounding this story , it is told yet AGAIN as the " true " story . I'm sorry , but even with the eye candy to keep the " eye candy whore " inside me entertained , the story was still so dry and boring that I honestly wished I had gone to see AvP again , instead . This work , frankly , tried too hard to be stylish and " artsy , " but as far as I'm concerned , it was neither . Perhaps it was my personal mood at the time , as everyone else here seems to have loved it . But , as usual , I find myself in the select few who disagree with the general consensus . While this movie was filmed in a beautiful style and bore some of the best costuming and performances of the year , having to sit through the same story three times was just too much for me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
They really didn't need Murphy . What they DID need was a good script writer !	I have to say that I did not hate this movie . I can understand the 3 . rating here at IMDb , but I cannot understand the poor reviews . Kyla Pratt is awesome in this work ! She is really coming into her own , AND she can sing like a bird . The script is where the fault lies . You have a bunch of kids who must save a ranch , which is going out of business . This vehicle is so overused it has become clich , and it sure did feel old , musty , and stale , in spite of Kyla Pratt and her stellar performance . Some have suggested that they needed Murphy back for this installment to make it work . I say Murphy isn't necessary in ANY of his later films . What they needed was a good screenwriter , and producers who knew better than to approve a bucket of schlock as this . It could have been great . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Generates some good atmosphere , but never delivers .	This work does generate some good atmosphere , but like AvP ( theatrical version ) , the PG-13 version leaves a lot to be desired , and never delivers the payoff for your ticket price . The characters are weak , and the story is so contrived , it files right into the annals of all those other " bunch - of - kids - who - are - going - to - die " flicks generated en masse over the years . This has the virtue of at least featuring a half-way entertaining vehicle , even though it seems to be an Alien rip-off in many ways . Believe me , that is where the comparison ends , as this is far from the classic that is Alien . All in all ? There were some good kills , and a few suspenseful moments , but unless you're an avid horror / monster flick fan , find something better to do with your afternoon / evening . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Conflicted and Uneven . AKA : SILVER HAWK	AKA : SILVER HAWKThe only highlight to this movie was the visuals . The story is nothing new , the acting is only adequate , and the direction seems to lack the ability to decide just what it wants to be . This seems to be an ill-fated remake of I , Robot one moment , and a martial arts movie the next . The effects are good , but the martial arts elements are heavily overdone , as are the performances . Were it not for the technology featured herein , this work could easily have been made in the 1970's . Honestly , the content quality isn't much better than that . I wasn't expecting much , and it's a good thing . If you expect anything more than mild enjoyment , you could be severely disappointed . And the visuals ? They are good , but not great . You could definitely profit from finding something more useful to do with your time . This can go completely unnoticed , and we wouldn't miss a thing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Unenjoyable obvious rip off .	I love Eddie Murphy . I've been a fan since his stints on Saturday Night Live . But his acting is suffering horribly , as of late . His role choices seem to be suffering as well . While we loved him in Dr . Doolittle and Dr . Doolittle 2 , his preoccupation with fatherhood seems to be muddying his professional choices . Perhaps he has his eye on filling Bill Cosby's shoes , one day . . . but , while I love Eddie Murphy , he's no Bill Cosby . And that's a good thing . He's Eddie Murphy ! I don't know if it was the acting , the direction , or WHAT , but this movie just didn't do it for me . While there were funny moments ( Siobhan Fallon Hogan as " Peggy " was hilarious ) , the funny moments do not fully redeem this work . I was rather disappointed to see the depths to which Steve Carr would stoop to make us laugh . Potty humor , flatulence and sugar-highs are devices used by uncreative , low-talented individuals who are trying to fit in with real artists . Honestly , there was nothing in this movie that Michael Keaton didn't already do in " Mr . Mom , " and Keaton did it much , MUCH better , in my opinion . All in all , while it was enjoyable , I found it to be a sad rip off of a much better film . . . a real disappointment that not even Anjelica Huston could salvage . Okay , okay , the movie was fun and it did make me laugh , it had some touching moments and was well enacted . But even with all that , the whole time , I couldn't help but think . . . " What a rip off . . . it's been done and done and now , it's being done again . " I can't give it more than a because of the obvious rip off job it's done to " Mr . Mom . " the Fiend : .
Good story ideas & art-house execution with small payoff .	This is another " biological " mythos story wherein the " diseased " characters are the contemporary versions of mythological monsters , in this case , vampyres / vampires . Following the lines of Resident Evil , Aeon Flux , Soul Survivor , 28 Days Later , etc . , I have to admit that , although this has made its way into my horror collection , any of the films named would be a better solution . Personally , I found Jovovich's performance slick and polished . The filming style was disturbing , flashing between video game-like quality to live action , to animation , and back again . It could have been well done , and tried , but not quite hard enough . It fell short by a bit , but that bit was enough to knock this one down out of the annals of " good " into those of " barely watchable . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
In a word ? Boring !	Jumanji was fun and zany . It wasn't a fantastic movie , but it entertained the kiddies . This installment is nothing more than a rehash of the same story , set in space , with a pair of brothers . It was supposed to be uplifting , and adventurous ; instructional in the ways of brothers . It failed , utterly . I can't say good things about this sequel . No Robin Williams , no zany antics , no fun . Just typical fare , and not even good enough to entertain . The kids might like it , but if you're over 10 , I doubt seriously this will be enjoyable for you . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Real Disappointment .	Rob Reiner did a fantastic job in the direction of this film . What didn't go right was the adaptation , as usual . The " toning down " of the scenes and events for this movie was an atrocious way to rewrite this wonderful , if somewhat short for King , novel . Kathy Bates is exceptional in her role as Annie Wilkes , a fan of ( James Caan ) Paul Sheldon's novels . Finding him stranded and unconscious in a snowdrift , she takes him home and attends to his needs until he regains consciousness . That's when the weirdness begins ; in the movie's story , as well as the wide angle shots perpetrated upon the actors in their close ups . The deviations from the principal storyline really took away from this movie a great deal . That having been said , the feeling of discorporation you experience from the cinematography of the movie leaves you feeling disturbed and unsettled . Classic King . But again , the deviations just left me saying within the first 15 minutes . . . WTF ? ! It was commonly predictable , horribly off-kilter , and widely uneven . The performances were perfect , but the adaptation left too much to be desired for this to be even moderately enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Another One ! ! ! ! ! ! !	This is nothing more than just another Texas Chainsaw Massacre ripoff , but wait . . . Although this is really nothing more than what would seem to be an outright ripoff , there are some awesomely freaky implementations which elevate this beyond the label of ripoff . And , while I know it's common place as pie to take someone else's brain child and " improve " upon it until it resembles something original and creative , the improvements and innovations here ARE creative and original . Is it worth your time ? That depends on your level and personal tastes within the horror genre , and specifically the slasher / serial murderer sub-genres . You will have to judge that one for yourself . Frankly , I'm a fan of both sub-genres and still hated this , because it's still a ripoff , and as such , rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Slow and Boring	This was epically filmed , something which usually helps set the mood for me , but when the story drags at an unbelievably corpse-like pace , and even the stunning vistas fail to inspire , something's wrong at the core of a work . The performances are . . . okay , but was it really necessary to use 30 minutes ' of screen time to show the woman bouncing on the horse , trying to smile , in slow motion ( notice I said " trying to smile " ) ? ! Some may have been enchanted by this work , but frankly , I found it anything but . I was bored , and checking my watch less than halfway through this one , which is unusual for me . Redford was good , but not riveting . He's still a God , but this was the wrong vehicle , character , and director for him , which is sad , since he was the director . It was okay , but only mildly so . I can't say I was entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Nothing More Than A Star Wars Bandaid For The Hurt Luca$ Has Brought Us	Before we start , let me say that this film did serve to flesh out the story a bit . ONLY a bit , but a bit , nonetheless . Now that I've said that , let me get on with my review . . . We'll start with the animation . . . no , I don't have the strength . We'll temporarily skip over that aspect and move on the the creation of the characters . Oy . I don't think I have the heart . The direction . . . we'll talk about the direction . It was . . . sighs . . . nonexistent ? I'm a Star Wars fan , and have been since I first saw Luca$'s epic on the big screen back in " the day , " but this acorn has fallen FAR FAR from the tree . The animation . I expected something of quality . This is ILM . . . Luca$film . . . for crying out loud ! But what we were subjected to in theaters was nothing short of ghastly . The work was so far from the quality fans have come to expect ( and rightfully so ) from Luca$ that I had to check into whether or not he farmed this project out to another production company . Nope . It was Luca$film Animation . So it's in stone . . . There's no excuse for this . I wanted to love the story , but I couldn't . It is so riddled with the pockmarks of " gearing up for the Cartoon Network series , " that it bore no qualities above that of the cheapest , most shoddily done , children's Saturday Morning cartoon . The subsequent series to follow may serve to give Star Wars fans more story between Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith , but frankly , I'm not ready to say that the payoff is worth the price . It was painful to watch , considering some of the less desirable elements including ( but in no way limited to ) horrible animation , choppy ( at best ) direction , no flow of story whatsoever , a young female padewan we've never seen before ( other than in fan fic garbage ) , a storyline which strays radically from the formula , characters cut directly from cardboard with a cookie cutter , and . . . did I mention this is some really BAD animation ? All in all ? This was a muddled mess , and I feel dumber for having watched it . Do something else . This wasn't worth my time , and chances are , unless you have no discrimination whatsoever where Star Wars is concerned , it won't be worth yours , either . It rates a ( for trying to be something special ) from . . . the Fiend : .
A Big Disappointment For Comic Strip Fans , But The Kids Will Like It .	I read the comic strip my whole life , and I must say that when this was first announced , I was mildly interested . Bill Murray as Garfield ! Wow ! But I have to say now that Bill Murray was the principal bad element in a long list of reasons why this movie disappoints . He sounds AND feels like he couldn't WAIT to get out of that studio every day . As a result , the whole work bears the feeling of having been rushed into production , out of production , and onto the big screens . Even the DVD bears that feeling . The animation is only passable ; another element lending to the rushed feeling . It was as if the animators could not have cared less how Garfield looked , moved , or performed . It left me wondering why ANYone bothered to come to work on this production , outside a paycheck . The human stars are cardboard stiff , and the live animals selected were done so in a haphazard , seemingly blind-folded fashion . The humans prance about the sets with seemingly no purpose , and the animals do not fit their animated counterparts . The story itself is trite and contrived , and the moral lesson to stand by your friends no matter what , is not necessarily the right lesson . Fortunately , this work was not universally loved , so the message is somewhat diminished . The dialog is delivered in that same breathless , rushed way throughout , making you feel a bit claustrophobic as a result , and did I mention that the animation was horrible ? And finally , our spider-loathing lasagna-munching feline is no longer an intelligent and witty kitty , but a cynical , bitter , crotchety mean old feline who seems to have assumed too much of Bill Murray's personal self to be funny or lovable . All in all , this was a huge disappointment , though the kids will like it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Holds Some Enjoyment , But Definitely Not The Best Chan .	I LOVE a good " who-dun-it ! " I also love a well-stylized character . Give him quirks to personalize him , and make the audience sympathetic with his cause ( whatever they are , it almost doesn't matter ) , and let the audience identify with him , and you've got a hit on your hands . Especially if the detective persona can be respected for his intellect . I love Sherlock Holmes , but always considered him too arrogant to be likable . I loved Kojak , but always considered him to be too gritty . I loved Steve McGarrett , but always compared him to Captain Kirk for some reason . I loved Caanon , but oof ! that weight would have killed ANYone ! I loved Columbo , but considered him too aloof to be personable . Chan is stoically affectionate , and teaches by example the adage that if the mouth is moving , the ears can't hear . He's adopted his children , which demonstrates the desire to be a parent ; and he is a professional , which denotes stability and a higher learning . This particular chapter of the " Chanthology " is not among my favorites of ANY Chan movie , however , as he ( Chan ) is working for the governments against the Germans of WWII . Not my cup of tea . I'm a baby-boomer last generation hippie , not a depression-era beatnik . The clues which Chan picks up on are laid out so blatantly that a child could have guessed it . It was all too easy . This installment was nothing like some of the better Chan mysteries which require a degree of intelligence to decipher . Also , there is far too much wasted screen time . This was more like , " The Birmingham Show , " than a Chan movie . Birmingham and Chan's Number Three Son got far too much time on the screen for my satisfaction . All in all , this one is somewhat of a disappointment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Silly but funny peek into the film industry .	This was one of Martin's lesser films . While Martin invariably invested a lot of himself into this production , as always , I found it less interesting than most of his other endeavors . Co-starring Eddie Murphy , Jamie Kennedy , Heather Graham , and Christine Baranski , I felt most of their wonderful talents went unused , untapped , and uncalled-for . This script simply did nothing to challenge these marvelous actors . And yet , Martin still manages to shine from within the boundaries of this dreary , seemingly low budget production . With a budget of $55 M , direction by Frank Oz , and a screen play by Martin himself , I really expected a lot more from this film . Honestly , they spent $55 M to make a movie about the making of a " B " movie for $2 , 184 . 00 ? ! I would have to guess , since IMDb does not show his salary for this film , that at least 10-15 M of the total budget went towards the salary of Mr . Murphy , considering he was paid $20 M for The Klumps 2 PLUS 20 % of the movie's gross , according to IMDb . That is sad in itself , but the finished product is so much less than the sum of its parts that it leaves you wondering where IS the movie ? While it was fun to watch , this project just did not " work . " Good actors , great direction , a good budget , all basically gone up in smoke . While this is still an enjoyable film , I must admit I was far more than a tad disappointed in the finished product . The premise was good , but I honestly believe this movie was such a let down due to the actors ' inability to switch out of " B " mode when not in the Chubby Rain phase of this movie . It is like once they got started playing " B " quality characters , they forgot to go back to " A " movie characters when not behind the camera . . . behind the camera . Confused yet ? That is kind of the point . It is so muddled that I believe the actors got confused and Frank Oz forgot to help them keep it together . As a desperate movie producer , Bobby Bowfinger ( Martin ) must get a movie going , or go under . He takes a really bad script , and attempts to attract talent to the work . When that proves unsuccessful , he dupes his entire staff into believing Kitt Ramsey ( Eddie Murphy ) has agreed to do the movie , but has a radical " acting style , " where he films his scenes on the fly . So Bowfinger begins filming his movie , starring Kitt Ramsey , unbeknownst to Mr . Ramsey . It's a clever and funny idea , but somewhere in the mix , it just gets lost . And yet , I still like and OWN this movie . There is an appeal , but I could not tell you what that appeal is , anymore than I can tell you why it does not work . I have watched this movie again to write this review , and I still have the same mixed feelings about it . See it for yourself , and you be the judge . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dismally Disappointing	As Horror Maven , Wes Craven's name suggests worthy horror . Of late , however , I've found his work to be lacking . If this is a slump , I hope he pulls out of it SOON , and stops remaking his own works ! OY Vey ! After the Scream trilogy , wherein Craven insists that we fans of the slasher genre completely abandon the " slasher rules " and embrace his 3 part series , we find Craven asking us to embrace them , once again and accept Cursed , as is . Unfortunately , Cursed is itself Cursed . This work is utterly devoid of heart . There is nothing about the characters which emotionally invests the movie goer . I've found little or no character development , and very little in the way of an attempt to rectify that situation through development of story , execution , or anything else . It was dismally disappointing , after all the press this work received leading up to it . Even now , in 2007 , well after the initial release , even when viewing the Unrated Edition with more footage and a better score , I cannot fully enjoy this work . I can't give it more than a , and that's generous , from . . . the Fiend : .
Wasted Potential , Wasted All-Star Cast , No Redemption in Sight	Whenever I watch this movie , I find myself reconstructing the plot and reconfiguring the graphics in my mind . I watched it several times before I realized the movie was NOT what I enjoyed , but rather the foundation for what it should have been . My imagination is what made this movie enjoyable . While it has some innovations , an ingenious conceptual script , and a few pleasant surprises , for the most part , it is an awkward blend of uneven story , poor CGI , and completely plastic portrayals . I expected more from this cast and the characters they portrayed . I expected better quality CGI for the immense budget awarded this work . I expected better from those helming this project . And in all those expectations , all I really expected was a good movie , and the finished product did sorely disappoint . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Awful	With all the posturing herein , I'm surprised it got finished . This is pretty pathetic , and if it is indicative of what modern American families are coming to , it is also tragic . The story has been done many times , and there is not a single element about this work that is new , fresh , or creative . This was nothing more than a compilation of about ten other movies . The lead character exhibits every negative trait known to man , and even found a few new ones . I would suppose this is supposed to be endearingly amusing , but even in the end , it is just plain sad . Honestly , I found nothing whatsoever entertaining about this work . This is one of those rare films , which make me want my 2 hours back . It rates a due to some decent performances by the kids , from . . . the Fiend : .
Solid story ; poor execution	Well of COURSE it has a great story . It was written by the Master of the Macabre , himself ; Stephen King ! But the movie sadly fails to capture even one of the many wonderful traits of the book ; the mystique , the brilliance , the depth of character even for a short story , and the cleverly written descriptive creativity of King's original work . The Langoliers were obviously ( and horribly rendered ) CGI . Very disappointing . SO very disappointing , in fact , that it is one of the few Stephen King short-story-made-movies that I do not own , am not in search of , and not interested in owning . It isn't complete garbage ; there are some decent moments , and somehow it still manages to build a very small amount of suspense through the horrible . . . everything else . But it stops far short of redeeming this work . I was happy to see Bronson Pinchot working again , but not at the expense of the viewing audience . It gets a on the " TV " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
This Felt More Like An Exploitation Film Than Anything	The actors were competent and all contributed realistic performances . That's all I can say about this that is good . Rob Zombie isn't a film maker I can respect . Sorry , but I've detested everything he's done , so far , and don't really care to see anymore of his drivel . The feeling of this work was like it was actual footage of people being victimized . The only thing that would have sealed that feeling would have been to film with a hand held camera . I don't get into exploitation films . Last House on the Left ? King of Ants ? Bah ! I can't stand that type of work . It's the kind of work that will not allow you to view it in any kind of a detached way , and if I can't distance myself from the victim , I can't enjoy the work . Sorry , but it was not an enjoyable experience for me , and I don't wish to go back there again . Later , Rob . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sentimental Contrived Schlock Fails On All Levels , Though It Has Heart	Most movie goers who have bothered to rate this , express their chronic dislike of this work due to Howie Mandell's presence herein ; however , I must say that he is no more a harbinger of death to this film than anyone else . The performances found within this film are all adequate , with some better than others , but none were lacking such as to lessen the worth of this production . The dialog delivery was also adequate , but the dialog itself was trite , contrived , and slapstick in its execution . Mandell suffers more from poor direction than a lack of talent . Yes , he was an annoying element of his hey day , but he never outright bombed until this work . Christopher Lloyd is better than adequate , but his usual curmudgeonly charm is lost here . Cloris Leachman's performance is the only contributing factor which elevates this work , but she could not save it , alone . The story had a good basis which could have netted a great film , but the National Lampoonesque take on the whole premise is the leading contributing factor to this film's demise . The story was watered down and sentimentalized to the point of generating schlock instead of entertainment . There isn't one aspect herein which isn't contrived to suit the story line , including the domestication of the lead character and the time line wherein said domestication takes place . A young boy is abandoned by his bratling brother and left alone in the wilderness to be raised by wolves . After his rescue , his brother ( still a brat ) decides Bobo must learn to read and write . . . immediately ! Intrigue ensues . Had this been treated with more care and a bit more seriously in the right places , this could have been a great comedy , but as is , this one fails on all levels : It does not teach , it does not ponder , and it does not entertain . As it stands , this work does show some serious moments , but they are in the wrong places ; the timing is all wrong , and even those with no sense of cinematic timing can feel that the pace is out of step . All in all ? This is nothing but sentimental , contrived schlock , which fails on all levels . . . though it DOES have heart . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Better than standard Disney sequel	Because Disney more often than not , ignores the animation quality and a need for a good plot in their sequels , this was actually a nice surprise . I don't know why Disney does not pay more attention to their sequels . The graphics quality is always inferior ; no backgrounds worthy of the name Disney , inane plots , and worse dialog , with little or no attention given to the actual story , and the caricature drawings are almost always worse than Saturday morning cartoons in detail and quality . The animation quality is still poor when compared to Disney originals , and the dialog is quite trite , the story line and overall execution was really quite enjoyable . While it is not as captivating , it does not completely fail to capture the charm and / or mystery from the first . There is some hint of it , tucked away here and there . The children will like it , at any rate . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Nothing more than average	This attempt had all the necessary elements for a good movie . So where's the good movie ? ? This work does make the attempt to be suspenseful and entertaining . But it could have ( should have ) been so much more . One of the most popular of the " come-back kids , " John Travolta has exhibited extraordinary talents as a thespian , and has made some of the most unfortunate choices concerning what projects with which he associates himself . An actor ( among other staff members ) has to have complete faith in his / her director to produce a better than adequate finished product . It would seem as though Mr . Travolta has faith in just anyone . This director has a " spotty " reputation , at best . But in a field where the " hit and miss " ploy works more often than not , it appears that this just was not Mr . Travolta's turn . While his performance is stellar , he appears to be the only participant who has any idea what is going on . There is some element of suspense , but that element is broken too many times ; the spell is shattered , leaving the viewer disillusioned with no atmospheric redemption and this work as nothing more than average . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty Lame . Cute , but Lame	Seinfeld , let's face it , was the ONLY redeeming factor , herein and I found even his " performance " lacking . This work features a story with no heart whatsoever , gives it flaccid execution , and doesn't do a thing to further its own end , leaving the audience feeling a loss when it's all said and done . It poses a dilemma and then does little in the way of offering creative or innovative solutions and instead resorts to the worst kind of popular tripe to esoterically drivel itself into a lackluster and ineffectual ending . The dilemma itself is a " could-be " but the solution provided is a " no way " solution , leaving us scratching our heads as to what in THE world we just watched . I like Seinfeld , and so had hopes for this work , but I think Seinfeld's Larry King interview wasn't the only indication that Seinfeld's glory days are over , and he's just left with fonder memories . Adios , Jerry . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Uneven , Incomplete Regurgitation	The visuals are breath-taking and the action is competently entertaining , but most of the story in this work is left undone , as if the writers grew bored with their own work and forgot to remove incomplete threads or worry about continuity in any way . The story is also uneven , lending a feeling of having been rushed and unloved as a project on the whole . Above that condition , this work was nothing more than an unintentional regurgitation of Kubrick's 2001 : A Space Odyssey . Josh Lucas . Three naval pilots must stop a fighter jet controlled by artificial intelligence that has run amok . That is the storyline in a nut shell , and it fails utterly , in delivery of anything beyond the dumbed down synopsis above . This could have been entertaining , but as it is , it feels like nothing more than a bastardized update of HAL , with a bit of Top Gun suspense tossed about here and there . Okay , if you like actioners and have absolutely nothing else to do , you may garner some level of enjoyment from this , but otherwise , you should find something else to do . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm sorry to say I saw this in the theater .	This was a disappointment in comparison to the first Deuce production . Not that the original was a masterpiece , because it was FAR from that . But this second installment wasn't even that good . I watched it , and I was mildly entertained by it , but I must say that the laughs were half-hearted , as were the performances . Rob Schneider dialed in this performance , and as bad as this guy is , that's really saying something . In comparison , this movie made me reevaluate Hot Chicks a bit . At least in that one , he tried . Honestly though I can't say which I liked less-when he tries , and when he doesn't . Frankly , there really isn't that much difference . I enjoyed the first Deuce movie , but I'm honestly hoping this one will be the last . It was a great disappointment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
What a monumental waste of real talent !	This has a great cast , and a great premise , but unfortunately , Chris Kattan already did this , and did it BETTER ! Unperceived family ties drag a young man into the gangster life . Unfortunately , this is pretty lame , in spite of the fantastic cast . What a monumental waste of real talent ! Every possible stereotypical Sicilian mob element possible has been brought into this production , but instead of making the individual components work , it flooded the story line with unnecessary " Italianizations ; " most of them ineffectual and out of place , clashing with one another , and rendering scene after scene nearly unwatchable . Sorry , but I didn't derive much pleasure from this , at all . If you want a good mobster / comedy , please do yourself a favor and check out Corky Romano . While it's no masterpiece , it's light years ahead of this . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I liked it , but if felt SO familiar . . .	It is growing difficult to invent an utterly unique horror film . Let's face it ; you cannot do anything without reminding your audience of six others . This movie suffers that fate , reminding its audience of the house in Amityville , showing us the choppy here again-gone again filming style used for the Jackyl in the Th13teen Ghosts remake , some of the same creepy black haired buggery given to us via Juon ( or the Grudge ) , and just like in every other horror movie , no one believes the kids that something is amiss . That would indicate that I did not enjoy this work , but that is not so . It was reminiscent of many other movies , but even those movies are reminiscent of something else , as there is nothing new left to be devised . The last time I said that , however , Clive Barker crawled out of the cemetery long enough to surprise us all with the Hellraiser line . ( chuckles ) So yes , this felt almost clich , although it is quite atmospheric , tense , and fun . I should not , therefore , pick on this movie as having felt " familiar . " If it were not for the fact that it hit on so many common points of a large handful of better works , I probably would not have surrendered to the urge to so do , but since it did , I have to go with it . It is a decent ( near ) two hours ' viewing if you like horror flicks , which I do . It is even decent as a Friday / Saturday night's viewing , but a total rip off from beginning to end . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Typical asinine Rob Schneider fluff	I found this movie funny , but not witty . Entertaining , but not insightful . Watchable , but not memorable . While it is light years ahead of " Animal , " it lacks even the minimal charm of " Deuce Bigalow . " Honestly , Adam Sandler's characters in this flick were much more enjoyable than the main plot of the movie . But , it is not so bad that I could not sit back and laugh at the fourth-grader jokes , childish idiotic dialog , and mid-teen stupidity of these 20 - closing - in - on - thirty - something year olds playing teens . There is a plot , however obscure , but I won't bother with detailing it since it gets lost somewhere between Anna Faris's character , April , falling in . . . love ? ? ? . . with the " Hot Chick " - turned-into-Rob Schneider who is NOT attractive on any level in the first place , and the mind boggling racial slurs later on in the movie . It is amusing , to see Rob Schneider prissing around like a teen aged girl . But only for the first 7 minutes or so . After that , it just gets tedious and boring . This movie is so conflicted . It's just lip-curling , stupid , mindless , teen-aged fluff . If you can find that entertaining , then by all means , indulge . Because it does make me laugh in spite of myself , it gets a from . . . from the Fiend : .
What WAS A Good Comedy Is Only Moderate Entertainment , Today	I won't spend a hour writing an in-depth analysis of this movie , though I could . I will suffice it to review it from today's standards , and only on the surface . I'm not a fan of Woody Allen , though I do not despise his work , either . This screen play is a bit muddled , even by the standards of the time at which it was written , but today , it seems to have lost all edge , appeal , and charm . It is worth watching to see Sir Peter O'Toole as a devilishly young man who seems to suffer from a sexual dysfunction . Oh , not the kind you hear about today , but rather quite the opposite : he has too many encounters , and cannot seem to find a way to stop them from occurring . After the discovery of penicillin and before the AIDS epidemic began , sexual promiscuity was a moral issue , and not one of physical health . Today , this behavior is not only socially frowned upon , but can be life-threatening . Peter Sellers plays O'Toole's therapist , who is so enamored with O'Toole's problem , that he covets it for himself ! Under the circumstances of when this was made , this line was funny and amusing . Today's views , however , render this whole premise completely unenjoyable . This film , today , bears the same amusement level as one would experience upon discovering a beloved friend is voluntarily having sexual relations with someone diagnosed with AIDS . In other words , it's NOT . As I said , it is worth watching in order to experience O'Toole at a very young age . Otherwise , don't go in with too many expectations as the gags are dated , unintelligent tripe . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Uninspired Price	Hawthorne made me insane in high school . I hated his dreck and slept through that portion of English Lit . I hoped that Sebastian Cabbot and Vincent Price could make his tales more interesting , but ah well . Such is life . While their performances are brilliant , they could only do what the script allowed , and unfortunately , that wasn't much . In the first tale Dr . Heidegger's Experiment , two old coots believe they have discovered the fountain of youth , or at the very least , a magickal cure-all which guards against aging . Not bad , but certainly not what you expect from Vincent Price . The second story was perhaps the inspiration for the character of Poison Ivy of Batman fame . Rappaccini's Daughter is being slowly administered poison , to keep her from ever leaving her garden of poisonous plant life . Another twisted Hawthorne tale , this time a bit better enacted than the first . Also , Price was allowed his best type of role ; that of the mad scientist type . " Why don't you thank me , Giovanni ? Or are you speechless with happiness ? " LMAO Fun stuff . The last takes place in The House of Seven Gable , My favorite of these three . Disaster strikes amidst surviving children squabbling over the family fortune . Serves ' em right , money grubbing little buggers . LOL This one had a nice , slow built suspense achieved even in a short . The Changeling should have been given the same treatment . I would have been far more intrigued with it , if it had . Not bad , all in all . But not Price's best work by a long shot . That's an overall on the " B " scale . That's about a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
There IS a story , but the story is eradicated by visceral scenes , blood ( LOTS of blood ) , guts ( LOTS of guts ) , and gore ( LOTS of gore ) .	People keep saying that Romero's rediscovered his groove , that he's found his pace , that he's " back , " but this is only the fourth installment . I could understand talk like that if this were the seventh or even the sixth , but with only three previous films , how does one lose his pace , his groove , or himself ? Drama queens / kings , the lot of them . Furthermore , this is NOT as good as the first two . It is not anything new , it is more or less like Escape from LA , with Zombies . It is really not innovative , or creative . It is fun to watch , as it is a complete splatter-fest , with little story to distract , and little else to watch . In re-reading that , I see the potential for misunderstanding , so let me clarify . There IS a story , but the story is eradicated by visceral scenes , blood ( LOTS of blood ) , guts ( LOTS of guts ) , and gore ( LOTS of gore ) . I can't say this is my favorite . In fact , it's my least favorite , so far . It rates a on the Movie Scale . It rates a on the Romero Scale . It rates a on the Splatter Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Average sci-fi / actioner with above average plot	I wanted to dog this movie , but somehow I can't find it in myself to do that . Exhibiting a duality of fighting styles , it's Li vs . Li in a somewhat decent battle for supremacy . This is one of those movies where the story carries the performances . Li's acting is extremely amateurish , hesitant , and stiff for most of this movie . . . right up to the very end . At first I tricked myself into believing he was just doing that for one of his two characters . You know , to show a difference in personalities . But it appeared to be inexperience or a lack of talent . It did get a bit better , more relaxed , toward the end . But that wasn't enough to save his performance . Jet Li's acting does improve as his career moves forward . I don't hate his acting . I just hated him in this . I also have to say that the effects were very " B " class effects . What effects there are . The story itself had great potential . It was uniquely creative , daring , and fresh . Unfortunately , either the budget was not ample enough to accommodate better lighting , effects , film quality , and some acting lessons , or the director just did not care enough to bother with these little details . He also did not bother with the SCIENCE in the science-fiction . A fact which was a great detractor to this film . The fight sequences were a bit one sided , as he seemed to give more to one character and little to the other . But all in all the story line made for a very enjoyable attempt . As enjoyable as this was , I couldn't help but think , all the way through , that this was just one of those movies that you can't help but watch it for what it SHOULD'VE been , rather than what it is . It rates a on the " B " scale . That's a ( on the " A " scale ) for having a good plot , from . . . the Fiend : .
It's okay if you're nine , but if you're ten , it may be too lame for you to stomach .	Where does one begin ? Aside from the child lead Zach , and what appears to be the same dog from Dr . Doolittle ( probably isn't ) , Michael Winslow , and an appearance by Angie ( Brazilian wannabe Britney Spears ) , this movie is pretty ambiguous . Craig Ferguson is great in a cheeky , idiotic , and totally inane kind of way . His performance is nothing you don't see on his stage act on the Late , Late Show every week night . I love Craig's performance herein , although he IS somewhat of an acquired taste , and this movie does stink up the place . Sammy Kahn ( Zach ) hasn't been credited with anything since 2006 . I can only hope he went on to find a good life . He would be 17 at the time of this writing . His performance is rather good , considering the dialog is written as tritely as the worst of the worst soap opera . I didn't mind this as much as I thought I would , but it's really quite bad , overall . It's okay if you're nine , but if you're ten , it may be too lame for you to stomach . LOVE Zach's t-shirts though ! ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Uneven Craven / Murphy collaboration still manages to entertain	I'm assuming this is supposed to be a " dark comedy . " No pun intended . But . . . as a comedy , there aren't any . . . comedic elements ; as a horror movie it's too . . . well h3ll's bells , the whole movie is nothing but pure camp , and it's not intended to be camp which disqualifies it as " good " camp ; as a love story , it seems to me that the only person Eddie Murphy is in love with is possibly Eddie Murphy ; and as a drama . . . it just isn't . Other than that , I found the characters to be horribly stereotyped , the dialog to be lacking in imagination and reality ( where reality could have been an element without hurting the wannabe " vampire " element ) , the acting to be of the lowest class , and the zombie element to be nothing but pure ignorance . And yet , somehow , it still manages to entertain . Don't ask me why because I can't begin to explain it , but it strikes a chord . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Much Of Anything , And Too Arrogant In What It Is .	Woody Harrelson and Randy Quaid are tragically funny in this vehicle wherein a washed up , one-handed participant of the national bowling circuit recruits an Amish farm-boy nobody to help him pull various scams to get to a bowling tournament in Reno with a million dollar payoff , all unbeknownst to the Amish nobody . Harrelson is the star , with Bill Murray taking the part of his competitional nemesis . Harrelson actually surprised me with his performance herein . I do not know what I expected really , but his performance surpassed those unknown expectations . Randy Quaid is so not Amish that it was amusing watching him as a man who is not Amish , trying to pretend to be Amish , convincingly , and not . But he did not mean to be convincing . It's merely the tenor of his performance which makes you half buy into his Amishness ( if you can dig it ) . The weakest element here was Bill Murray . I hate to say that , as I have been a fan for thirty years , or so , but he is not nearly as great as his ego makes him believe , and his arrogance in this vehicle lost its humor when the character's megalomania too closely approached his own , thereby rendering the character a non-character in my book , and negating his performance as a performance . All in all , this is amusing , but not highly so , and is seriously overrated by the users here at IMDb . " The greatest comedy of the 90's " it isn't ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable in spite of itself .	First off , I'm not here to dog this movie . I find it totally enjoyable in spite of the poor production quality . The acting herein is about as abominable as the monster stalking them , although the monster itself is quite well done . . . impressively well done , at that . He actually looks kind of other-worldly , like an alien family on vacation landed in the Himalayas and while dad was out taking a . . . attending to nature's call , Spot got loose and they just didn't have time to hunt him down . That , or he's the Caucasian brother of the Wishmaster . I haven't decided which . Actually , this seems to have been filmed somewhere in snow country , yes , but more likely Canada somewhere than China anywhere . The trees and vistas say Canada to me , and it's okay that the set area never takes on the look or feel of uber-coldness one might expect to find in the Himalayas of China . It's a Sci-Fi Channel movie , so we can forgive the lack of location . Further , apparently ( as we have just established ) Sci-Fi directors do not travel often , as they are not aware that commercial planes fly above weather like what is featured herein and the subsequent crash actually would not have happened . But as I said , it's a Sci-Fi Channel movie so we must forgive a few things . The movie is pretty graphic at times , and rotates between " Alive " about the Donner Party , " Predator " about the alien in the woods , and any bad wushu movie where they fly about on wires . The Yeti apparently can leap about like Spiderman . . . or Super Mario . . . remember ? " Run faster ! Jump higher ! Live longer ! " Also , the Yeti has missed his teddy bear . He's searched high and low for it , but cannot seem to make a cadaver work . Poor Yeti ! You can't help but feel sorry for it . It has survived and evolved thousands of years only to succumb to severe teddy bear loss . He's missed his bear . Or maybe it wants to mate , but that thought is BANISHED ! Do ya hear me ? Well , it does seem to be an unmated male . REBANISHED ! And it's superhuman . Well , it's not human . . . it's super-Yeti ! But then again , what's normal-Yeti ? I don't know , but he has a definite Michael Meyers quality that is completely unsettling . And he's got this fabulous way of cleaning his fur . FABulous Dahlink ! It's spotlessly white at times when it SO shouldn't be . He's fastidiously superhu - . . . super-Yeti . All in all ? This was a lot of fun to watch , has some great kills and a few honest plot elements . In spite of the horribly gravel-like production style , this is actually quite entertaining . I can't help wondering if they're planning on another one ? It rates a on the M4TV Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Screenplay Was Garbage , But The Performances Were Fantastic !	It is a shame when brilliant performances are wasted on a piece of crap screen play , as is the case with The Great Kahuna . Kevin Spacey and Danny DiVitto are wonderful actors , and nothing here says any different . They both contribute the kinds of quality performances we have come to admire and expect from them . The screenplay , however , deserved none of their labors . It is preachy , and proselytizing tripe , which has no business on any theater screen , much less MY television set . The " story " centers around a deluded rose-colored-glasses kid who still has his head in the clouds and doesn't realize that religion and business do NOT mix . Instead of doing his job , he openly proselytizes with the clients , and then rebels against the disparaging opinions of his betters , when they discover what he has been up to . I was neither amused , nor entertained , though DiVitto and Spacey turned in beautiful performances . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Oddly Enough , I Didn't Hate It	While this isn't Oscar-worthy , and it will never be nominated for Video of the Year , Kyla Pratt doesn't fail to entertain , in spite of a lax plot so full of holes , it's nearly nonexistent . The dialog is the worst kind of cheese , and the whole execution is completely idiotic . However , the premise is rather cute and amusing , and Kyla Pratt is cute and amusing DOING it . Although suspension of belief is nearly impossible when faced with the horrible dialog and implausible plot elements , contrived story devices , and horrible production quality . . . and in the face of all that , somehow I don't hate it . That's mainly because of the " cuteness " factor and Kyla Pratt's growing abilities as an actress in spite of the horrible parts she has been shoe-horned into . I liked it . . . oddly enough . It rates a on the Str82Video Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
There was one major thing missing here . Ginger .	This should have been entitled , " Ghost-Snaps . " Where was Ginger . Yeah , sure , okay she died in the first movie , but c'mon ! Rename the movie or something . Jeez ! They could have , at least , allowed her more screen time in the capacity in which she - was - utilized . This was dark and edgy ; as much so as the first . Emily Perkins carries her role as Brigitte quite well and with some beautiful style . Most of the major plot elements still intact , this attempt runs seamlessly . Once you discover what Ghost really IS and what she has been up to with her Aunt , you begin to see the movie in a totally different light . On the second viewing , you see the treachery and the beguiling in those cunning little eyes , but on the first viewing , we knew there was something up with Ghost and her aunt . This was not quite as clever nor was it as fresh as the first , but then again , it was as good as it could have been without Katharine Isabelle . That is in no way saying that Emily Perkins isn't delightful . She is bright , beautiful and capable . I look forward to her future endeavors with great anticipation . This just should have been entitled something with " Ghost " in it , as she was the main character in this attempt , rather than Ginger OR her sister Brigitte . As a stand alone movie , it was really quite entertaining . There were some nice plot twists and strong characterization . However , as a sequel to Ginger Snaps , I found it was somewhat lacking . It rates a on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Basic , But Amusing Comedy	Martin Lawrence isn't bad in this film , the script isn't bad , the dialog isn't bad , the story is contrived and clich , but it isn't bad . The movie on the whole isn't bad . But it also isn't good . There are some amusing moments , some moments of superior acting , and some comedic incidents , but everything in between comes off pretty lame . I'm a casual Lawrence fan , but he needs a good supporting cast in order to carry it off . Unfortunately for fans and casual movie-goers alike , this time , that one saving element was lacking . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Tense , With Great Performances And A Good Solid Idea That Goes . . . Nowhere .	I waited a long time to see this . I had a feeling I shouldn't see it in the theater , and this time , I was right . I would have been mad to have paid to see it . Encore ran it last week and , while I did find it both enjoyable and entertaining , it didn't seem to know what it wanted to do or where it wanted to go . The atmosphere was awesome , and the premise was a solid idea , but the story kind of ran out there at the end , with seemingly no point to the work . Some would argue that I just didn't understand the ending , but that simply isn't the case . I " got " it , it just didn't work for me and , if the IMDb score for this movie is any indication , it didn't work for most other movie-goers , either . I am a fan of horror , mystery , and suspense thrillers . This does fit into that category , as an atmospheric thriller , but the story kind of wanders , while the sub-plot fails to generate sympathy for the lead character , though it was intended to do so . All in all , I did find it compelling , if somewhat rambling , and did derive some enjoyment from Connolly's performance , which was outstanding . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Responsible Martial Arts Flick Receives Bad Marks	Van Damme wrote this story to demonstrate that it takes a long long time to achieve the level of expertise that one needs in order to compete in a contest such as featured herein . The lion's share of film time is devoted to the rigorous training Kurt ( Van Damme ) receives in preparation of the upcoming bout with Tong Po . The story begins in the beginning , takes a hiatus to demonstrate the instruction necessary to get to the climax , and then runs straight into the climax . The problem is that most casual martial arts fans don't CARE about the training or character development . They just want action action action and then in the ending finale , they want action , with maybe a little story thrown in . If that is what you're after , this isn't that kind of film . This also isn't an intelligent film or anything Oscar-worthy , but if you want your teenager to see what is required to hone those tai kwan do classes into something real and formidable , plug this one in and explain the level of dedication one must invest to achieve that goal . If for no other reason , watch it for that . I don't know . I can't really say this is the most enjoyable of Van Damme's work . Frankly , I liked Cyborg and Bloodsport much more . This rates a on the movie scale . This rates a on the martial arts scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Depraved Deformity	If you can't tell by the number of stars I've given , I'm in the middle on this one . On the one hand , you have a great creative , if non-PC , idea coupled with a capable director , pitted against a horrendously low budget , and the director's insistence that you subscribe to the premise that deformity equates monstrosity . While to some , this may be true , to others the act of denigrating the deformed as a form of amusement , would descend mankind back to the primal and sometimes homicidal mobs who would crowd into the carnival tents to view the " freaks . " I don't know about anyone else , but this one didn't amuse me . It WAS , on the other hand , quite well done for what it was even behind the poor acting , low budget effects , horrible film quality , and suspect premise . I'm still a bit on the fence with this one . It rates a on the B Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Endearing , But Inferior	This is NOT Adam Sandler's best work . Frankly , he has grown exponentially as an actor , as his later performances are far superior to this work . However , some of these older works also have a draw as entertainment , if not quality . This is based on Sandler's " Cajun Man " SNL skit , but the character is developed enough to allow you to decide for yourself if you will allow this work to endear itself to you , or not . At least Rob Schneider has a bit part in this one . The story is not unique , but it is cute . Actually , " cute " is about the best word to describe this film . It's not anything more than that . If you're a Sandler fan , you don't want to miss this , but if you're not , you may want to give it a pass . Try Sandler's remake of The Longest Yard , instead . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric But Not Really Scary	This isn't the greatest slasher flick of the 80's , but it is light years beyond the millennium remake ! Regardless of how much or how little you like this movie , avoid the remake at all costs . While this is quite predictable , slow moving at times , and fails to adequately use the elements the title would suggest , it is still quite atmospheric . Unfortunately , the atmosphere generated fails flat as roadkill when it comes time for delivery . The atmosphere builds and then delivers little in the way of a payoff for your trouble . And yes , the remake is STILL worse than this ! This was a movie which could have benefited from a remake , but both fail , in my opinion . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Intelligent Loser	This film is called brilliant by some , but I can't agree . I understand the premise , that for each Superhero , there is a Villain , and for each Villain , there is a Superhero . Okay , we get that . This , however , was not entertaining , nor was it as clever as it thought it was . It takes itself far too seriously to allow suspension of disbelief required to enjoy this kind of work . It indicated that to be the villain , requires mental deficiencies , while at the same time , contradicting that concept by showing the humanity of the villain and attempting to endear him to the audience . This work clearly fails to achieve the desired effect . I couldn't really enjoy it , as it attempts to sell something I wasn't interested in buying . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Everyone raves over it , but I think this is where he started going down .	This is one of those times when I must differ with other reviewers . I didn't like this one . I support Carrey's attempt to jump into another genre , and the work itself is awesome . Carrey's performance clearly rocks . But the whole premise was affronting . I , frankly , hated this movie . Carrey's performance makes it worth the hype , but the story itself was a cold , calculating , cashing-in of the talent , and I can not find anything enjoyable about that . This work was clearly intended to make you think . It endears you to the main character ( Carrey ) , introduces its premise ( which was refreshingly new ) , and then lowers the boom . It was the boom I couldn't swallow . I found this work horribly disturbing , and just plain sad . Frankly , in spite of the glowing reviews and excellent numbers this work received , I believe this is the pinpoint of the decline of Carrey's career . I hope he pulls out of it , or soon he'll just be another washed-up comedian . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Did anyone besides Michael Keaton even try ?	Where do I begin ? This movie was intended to be sharp , edgy , fresh , and innovative . The idea was good . The cast had potential . The CGI was actually passable . The screenplay was imaginative . But the execution was poor . I won't bother attempting to lay blame except to say that it did not appear to us ( my crew and myself ) as if anyone even attempted to contribute a " job well done " here , except Michael Keaton . He is a formidable presence on the big screen , and his performance here was nothing less than pure professionalism . But unfortunately , that wasn't enough to pull this mess out of the mire . The creative flow was stymied somewhere along the road . The CGI effects were done well , but what they DID seemed superficial to the story . I understood the idea of the three " shades ; " the Beings which were neither spirit , nor Shadow who were evil personified . I " get " things like that . But the way this was told , and the way it was played out , left a lot to be desired in way of a real story line . Most of the audience was confused . " Who are they ? " " What do they have to do with it ? " were common questions being whispered around . I don't think they made any kind of a valid attempt to make this story anything to which the viewer could relate . Pity . It could have been much better than it was . As it is , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Okay , True You Have To Not Only Suspend Belief , But You Have To KILL It , But This Doesn't Deserve A Rating !	It doesn't rate MUCH higher than that , but Norman D . Golden II is so preciously precocious as to wax reminiscent of Shirley Temple's early performances . Burt is great here , though his character is quite irascible and curmudgeonly , but he plays those parts very well . This film features some decent action , a story and plot line which is quite clich , and some good elemental twists , which balance out the many clichs throughout . It was muddled in that you had to suspend belief to an extreme level in order to embrace the work , but once done , there is a lot of heart and entertainment to be had . I'm not saying this is " great " or even " compelling , " but I did derive some level of enjoyment from Norman D . Golden II's performance . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Ford Was Competent , But This Rom / Com Can't Float .	Anne Heche had just " come out " into the public eye with her relationship with Ellen DeGeneres , so it was a hard sell to convince movie goers of her on-screen relationship with Ford's character . I think that element and the heavy-handed direction of this film are the principal reasons for its failure to wow audiences at the box offices . Beyond that , Ford was more believable herein than in Hollywood Homicide , and delivered a class action performance . Audiences believed him as the hero . What they couldn't believe was Heche in a heterosexual role , at that time , regardless of her later choice of a male mate . She was much more believable in Volcano . This was mildly entertaining , but just didn't float . It earns a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Great , Not Horrible . Frankly , it's a take it or leave it kinda thing .	I have no idea why this work has the following it does . It definitely does not deserve such loyalty among the masses . It's not horrible by any means , but it also is not intelligent , witty , or entertaining . It is , at best , amusing . As a Gene Wilder fan , I realized this was one film he had a good sized part in , which I did not own . I purchased it for the Wilder collection . Unfortunately , aside from the amusement derived from his sketch , there is very little else worth preserving in this work , and even this one sketch is questionable . I do have to say that the nature of the topics touched upon here are done so with a tasteful ( if sometimes low-class ) sense of humor rather than lowering itself to outright raunchiness . All in all , it's OK . It's certainly not horrible , but do remember that this is a series of sketches rather than one solid work . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Qutie Fun , and Done with Heart	I was surprised by this work . Although told poorly , this video venture features an intriguing , well-developed story . Quite frankly , the film quality was poor ; the CGI was choppy and ineffectual ; the dialog ranged from campy to crappy ; the performances were cute but inexperienced ; and what was supposed to be witty repartee between the two CIA agents came off as glib and overdone . So why watch this ? Purely for the story . It draws you in and wraps you up in its membranous gargoyle wings . It entertains . It amuses . It tries , without trying too hard , or ever taking itself too seriously , which enables you to find the humor in it without feeling the need to laugh at it , and allows you to enjoy it without feeling the compunction to add it to your " guilty pleasures " category . All in all , we had fun with it , though it is NOT a Friday / Saturday night movie . Watch it when it rains and all is dark . It rates an on the B scale , which is somewhere around a on the A scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Amusing , But Nothing Special	Compared often to It's A Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World , ( without the comedic heavy-weights and extreme wit ) this work actually reminds me more of Cannonball Run , though without the cool cars , stars , and dialog . That having been said , it's really not much of anything at all , and either film previously mentioned would be a much better way to spend an evening . Oh , there are a few fun scenes , but they are far from redeeming . The few fun moments just cannot drag this work into the realm of " enjoyable . " Amusing , idiotic , well-cast , but inane . All in all ? This goes with the others of its ilk : Dude , Where's My Car ? , Saving Silverman , and Road Trip . It's not terrible , but definitely not worth the time it takes to view it , unless you are an Immortal . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Racially and socially offensive	I'm not a prude by any definition of the word , but this movie was very abrasive . I'm Native American and was just waiting for the racial slur that would hit me hardest . I was spared , but Latin / Americans , African / Americans and basically anyone who is not white bread upper-middle to middle-upper class was targeted . OK , where's my sense of humor ? It went out the window when Betty White made the comment " Ok , but if I see them in this neighborhood without a leaf blower in their hands . . . " referring to the " bunch of Latins who were skulking around " the neighbor's property which was for sale . It was racially offensive , socially abrasive and not in a funny way . I wanted to like this movie . I love and adore Steve Martin . I have and own every movie he's ever made . I've watched him since he began in stand up BEFORE Saturday Night Live . I also respect Queen Latifah for all she's done for herself and her life . Her acting abilities are WAY WAY up there , as she proves in this movie , but why she didn't take out the director and the screenwriters I don't think I'll ever know . The movie was funny when it wasn't making me cringe or just stare at the screen in horror of what was being said . But it was the least intelligent of Martin's latter endeavors . On a happier note , Kimberly J . Brown was a shining ( co - ) star in this movie . Her stellar performance as Annie Wheaton , in Craig R . Baxley's " Rose Red " ( Stephen King , Lion's Gate Home Entertainment , 2002 ) is only realized when we see her cast in the role of Steve Martin's daughter . She is amazingly talented and not afraid to just cut loose and be herself on camera . She was right there with Steve Martin and Queen Latifah in being the bright spots in this otherwise troubling flick . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Bad , Not Great	As one in a May / September romance of sorts , I expected to like this one . And I did . . . but only marginally . Linney's character was not strong enough to pull this one off . Also , I found that this movie thought it was being clever , when in actuality , it was out-thinking itself . It also takes itself quite seriously in its post traumatic stress disorder , shining a search light on nothing , leading the audience to nowhere , and finding its way straight into ambiguity . In five years , this work will not be remembered , and that is not a loss to the cinematic world , believe me . This work was muddled , uneven , and trite . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkly atmospheric , but not scary .	Is it because American audiences are so jaded , or was this work truly inferior to the original ? I don't know if I know the answer to that question , but the end result is the same , regardless : I was not scared . The " Behind the Scenes " story to the making of this movie is torrid and tumultuous . Director firing , screenplay rewrites , more rewrites , and more problems ; this production was replete with troubles from the beginning . " Writer-director Paul Schrader ( Raging Bull , Taxi Driver , Auto Focus ) has been fired from Exorcist IV : The Beginning after turning in a completed film , when producers concluded that the film did not contain enough violence . " 25 August 2003 ( StudioBriefing ) " Exorcist : The Beginning , the bedeviled prequel to the 1973 horror hit The Exorcist , has run into new problems , with Morgan Creek Prods . and director Paul Schrader jointly announcing Monday that Schrader , who completed principal photography in February , is no longer working on the film . Schrader took over the project in preproduction when the late director John Frankenheimer became ill , but he and producers James G . Robinson and Guy McElwaine ran up against creative issues in post production . " 16 September 2003 ( The Hollywood Reporter ) " Alexi Hawley has been tapped to do a rewrite on Exorcist : The Beginning for Morgan Creek . Hawley steps into the project to do a production polish for director Renny Harlin , who signed on to direct six weeks of reshoots after helmer Paul Schrader exited the prequel over creative differences . American Gigolo film-maker Schrader - who also scripted Taxi Driver and Raging Bull - had completed shooting his version of Exorcist : The Beginning when studio Morgan Creek insisted it needed more gore . Schrader , who saw the story as a " character-driven period drama " , was sacked and replaced by Nightmare On Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master director Renny Harlin to give it a more bloody look . Harlin then started shooting the $54 million prequel from scratch . " 19 November 2003 ( The Hollywood Reporter ) " Veteran director Paul Schrader is furious his axed prequel to 1973 horror classic The Exorcist will be released on DVD at the same time as its replacement - because he wants it to receive a theatrical release . " 16 April 2004 ( WENN ) So now , there are effectively two totally different takes of this movie . Two totally different movies ; not just versions , or adaptational changes done to a second copy , but two completely independent movies which are supposed to be released at the same time on 15 March , 2005 . That is just one week before the blanket release of Star Wars : Episodes I & II , two months before the theatrical debut of the much anticipated Star Wars : Episode III . While I call myself keeping up with the biz at least more than any casual fan , I must say that I've heard no publicity on this " lost " edition . We'll just have to wait and see . As far as the movie itself is concerned , the Renny Harlin version I saw in the theaters was dark and atmospheric . It was well written and decently enacted . It bore an appropriate musical score and it did effectively tell the story . But it was lacking . It was a bit limp and slow in places and just could not seem to muster the appropriate energy to achieve the buzz level it needed to do more than mildly entertain . I was waiting for the DVD release in hopes of a second viewing , but unfortunately , it made no difference . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : . Normally , I don't do this but . . . I'd check this one out . . . Dominion : Exorcist Prequel
A horror of a movie	The idea behind the Leprechaun series was that this was going to be a serious horror line . The first installment of the run , however , comes off more a horror / comedy than actual horror . The low budget and cheap effects , dialog and performances , character stereotypes and screenplay all combine to give you the complete " B " movie experience . It is one of those " B " movies that tries so hard , it can't help but fail . I really wanted this line to do better than this . I did not want - this - to be how I remembered Warwick Davis . As beautiful was Willow , is as wretched is Leprechaun . Unfortunately for the line , the studios kept churning these out . As the stories became more creative , the one-liners and stupid asinine wise cracks got worse . . . and worse . But somehow , you can find laughter and a wee bit o'suspense . You have to really look for it , but if you can let yourself go and enjoy it , it is a guilty pleasure for some . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not As Bad As I Remember	I remembered horrible performances , cheap sets , and a contrived storyline . It's amazing I bothered with this one again , but I'm glad I did . While this is no masterpiece , it is actually much better than I remembered . Continuing forward from the original installment , " The Land That Time Forgot , " picks up the Bowen Tyler ( Doug McClure ) character after having been left behind by the crew of his original mission , and discovers what has happened in his life since his isolation began . While this IS horribly dated , Patrick Wayne is actually quite good . You may remember Patrick Wayne from Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger . He is also John Wayne's son , who was offered the role as Superman in the original movie , but turned it down due to his father's accelerating cancer . The sets were not as bad as I thought I remembered , either , but the dialog delivery is still pretty false and unnatural . All in all ? As a " B " flick , this isn't bad for a rainy day diversion . It's still not a masterpiece and is RIPE for a remake , but there is some entertainment to be derived from this work . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The film you love , but hate to watch	It seems to be trendy to have lovely things to say about Stanley Kubrick's Space Odessy . Like A Clockwork Orange , this is one of his films that I just cannot tolerate to watch . The story is beautiful , and the directing style is inspired and true genius at work . There , I said it . But the musical score seems to be the star , and frankly , it's nerve-wracking , unintelligent classical droning just totally put me off this film . It's a migraine generating cacophony which sincerely has your hand twitching involuntarily towards the remote . It does have a beautiful story , if you can wade through the noise to discover it . It does have wonderful performances , if you can hang in there that long . It does have some innovative ideas in the genre of science fiction , if you aren't brain dead by the time you get to them . Personally , I don't want to have to work that hard to enjoy a movie , no matter how good , it ultimately is . Based on content , it rates a . Based on musical score , it rates a . Based on performances , it receives a . Based on the watchability factor , it rates a . That's a combined average of from . . . the Fiend : .
Not very intelligent , but entertaining .	SPOILERSHistorically , this production begins in the days of the Malleus Maleficarum ( also known as the Witches ' Hammer ) , a most dire manuscript written by Jakob Sprenger and Heinrich Kramer ( two Dominican priests ) who completely fabricated the entirety of its contents , and forged the approval of the theological faculty at the University of Cologne , in 1486 . Their deception and lies were discovered and corrected , but not until 1898 ; it was far too late by then . Of course , the true witches were never discovered , being cunning and crafty people as they are , but millions of innocents were burned , hung , or left in crow's cages to die . ( ' Complete Book of Witchcraft , ' Raymond Buckland , Llewellyn Publications ) The Witch in this movie , is one of christian invention . Luciferians were the original " satanists , " and they had no need for the blood of innocents , the fat of unbaptized male children , or guidance from satan . They merely saw a different name on the deed to the universe . ( ' Wiccan Mysteries , ' Raven Grimassi , Llewellyn Publications ) Without christianity , movies of this sort would have no basis for the characterization of ' evil . ' It wasn't until the fictitious inventions of those two insane Dominican monks that Satanism was born . Before that , satanists and devil worship simply did not exist . Nor did it exist for some long time afterward , as satanism was their heretical invention . . . the horned god of the old world religions cast down into the form of the devil of the new religion . Before the Malleus Maleficarum , satan did not have horns , nor did he have a tail . Suddenly , after the introduction of their deceit and heresy , satan / the devil started to resemble Ceronus of the ancient European religions . This movie glorifies Witch-hunters , who were nothing more ( in my opinion ) than the ale-stoked primeval equivalent of the modern day rednecks with the gun racks in the back windows of their dog-carrying Ford trucks , the John Deere hats which never sat behind a plow or tractor , and the inborn ( or is that " inbred ? " ) ability to " air blow " snot onto the ground without the use of a handkerchief . From the view of history , most Witch-hunters were goodly men , doing what they were told was the " good and Godly thing . " They were poorly-raised haplessly misled sheep being herded by wolves in priest's cassocks . . . much like today's zealous bigots proselytizing from door to door . To the movie's credit , I must say that the Witch-hunter's recognition of the Mennonite hex-mark was an inspired idea , as many of the old religions are still very active today . All ancient religions of the old worlds ( ancient christians included ) used and believed in magick . . . including magickal symbols , sigils and signs . Indeed , even today , signs , sigils and symbols are used by virtually all companies , organizations and groups . Simple spells were also used to make determinations , such as the " witch-compass " used by Redfern the Witch-hunter . All that having been said , the movie itself , as far as movies of this kind go , is quite entertaining . There are several major eye-rolling moments and a couple of places where you just HAVE to laugh , but all in all , it's not nearly as bad as some movies I've seen . Julian Sands is . . . well , he's Julian Sands . If you're into Full Moon Productions , B flix of any kind or just good , off-brand movies , you probably know who Julian Sands is . His acting is quite dramatic and even almost believable . The idea of the flying potion is as ancient as the use of Magick itself ; however , the recipe requiring the fat of an unbaptized male child is a recipe which has been bastardized over the years by the dogmatic lies of catholicism . The recipe clearly asks for the fat of an unborn kid of male gender . A baby GOAT , not a human child , and this recipe was used by those who were still doing blood sacrifices ; ie : Aztecs , Incas , Druids and Egyptians , among others . Early christians also did blood sacrifices to Jehovah . Read the bible and see for yourself . I have . The concept of the Grand Grimoire is not satanist , but actually more Stregherian ( Italian / Etruscan Heritage Tradition ) in nature . Strega consists today of the family traditions passed down from Mother to Daughter in most Italian bloodlines . With the introduction of the Malleus Maleficarum , most sects went underground , inside their own families , or disbanded all together . Each small sect , group or coven if you will , had a Book of Shadows , named such in order to indicate that the book was written after the commencement of the Burning Times . . . in the Shadows of the catholic church and their executioners . These books , and I have read 9 such books , contained nothing more than the group's initiation rite , rites to the Moon Goddess / Goddess of Nature . . . and bounty / harvest rites to the God of the Hunt . These books also contain tables of moon charts and secret herbal names such as " eye of newt , " and " tongue of bat , " referring to herbs found commonly in the European mountainsides of Italy and its surrounding terrain . These books are nothing more than what I have described here . Most have neither knowledge , nor desire to possess such knowledge , as Necromancy , or any of the other Dark Arts . Every genuine " Grimoire " I've ever read ( the oldest dating back to 1286 ) was based around love and light , protection spells , healing and prosperity for self and family . While there are " Dark " books out there , to be sure , for the most part , Witches did not write them . Christian heretics wrote them . As that is what Satanism IS . . . a christian heresy . I found the " Warlock's use of Latin quite interesting , as many of the ancient texts are written in this language . It was the language of scholars of the time , and is still used in catholic rites today . Go figure . But most male witches do NOT embrace the label " warlock , " as it means " oath breaker , " literally translated , and is a highly derogatory term . I also found the qualification Redfern makes to Kassandra with a K concerning the end of " all worlds , " and not just this one , to be very intelligent and enlightened . Quite open-minded to be coming from a handmaiden of the church of zealots . Another point is the Warlock's use of high magick . High magick is no longer possible on this plane , by any individual . The closest thing we have to high magick anymore are the psychic gifts of a select few ; ie : telekinesis , telepathy , psychometry , and the like . The creation of magickal forces which are visible to the physical eye just doesn't happen . Magick as such , was portrayed much better in the battle scene between Gandalf and Sauromon in the " Lord of the Rings : Fellowship of the Ring , " where the magick itself was unseen , only the results of each spell cast - each blow from the magickal staves - could be seen . The ending of this movie , from the time they get to Boston and thereafter , is quite entertaining , interesting and satisfying . I find the " Warlock " movies to be quite enjoyable , but only as " B " flick entertainment goes . The streams of fire the " Warlock " sends after Kassandra are very Terry Goodkind-esque , reminiscent of his Wizard's Fire . Not particularly convincing as an effect , but I've seen worse . lol ( Ever see " Killer Clowns From Outer Space ? " lol ) When Redfern finally decides to kiss else having been said and done , his soul is ready to rest ; he has moved beyond the loss of his beloved Marion , and can finally rest in peace . Nice ending to an entertaining , if not wholly intelligent movie . It gets a 5 . 5 for entertainment value from the Fiend : .
Better Graphics , But They Left Out Half The Plot !	In all honesty , I have to say that between this work , and the Remy Harlin Exorcist prequel , the story is told , and told well . Unfortunately , you NEED to watch both versions in order to GET the whole story and see effects worth seeing . I don't know which is worse , to make two versions of the same movie , and have them both fall short , or to have waited 30 plus years to get the story in the first place . Either way , if you're an Exorcist fan , I highly recommend viewing both versions to get the whole picture . It's neither worse , nor better than the Remy Harlin Version , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not great ; not as bad as some say .	This is a British rip job version of Godzilla which was filmed off the coasts of Ireland , in London and in the MGM studios in Hertfordshire , England with British , Irish , and American actors . Yet , even with the rip-off factor firmly in my mind , this was still an enjoyable venture into the realm of really big monsters and their movies . SPOILERSThe story line involves a sea monster , Gorgo , who is caught and brought to London for exhibit . But hot on the trail , is the mother of Gorgo ( who is also much , MUCH larger ) , and she is anything but happy . The film is shot decently except for the underwater scenes which appear to have been shot through a blue lens which made some scenes nearly indiscernible . The acting quality is on par for that era and actually , a bit above par all things considered . And the effects and miniature work is somewhat decent , except for Gorgo / Gorgo's mum , who looked a bit like a hand puppet in some shots and like a plastic child's toy , in others . In some ways , this film is superior to those produced by Toho , and in others , it is vastly inferior . The acting quality is light years better , but the monster itself was not nearly as well done as the Big G . The gratuitous British Royal Air Force cameos were priceless and as ineffective as one might suspect , as she makes her way towards the infant . The trappings on the island are a well assembled hodge ? podge of " Viking " relics which were not entirely accurate in their labeling , but we'll forgive them considering the budget and the production dates . All in all , once the decidedly Pekingese-pug-looking Mama Gorgo arrives on the scene , this is a pretty good action / monster flick . Just remember , it's NOT a Toho production , and there is no Godzilla in this film . It rates a on the " B " scale . That's about a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Although The Title Is A Misnomer , The Elements Are Greater Than Apparent On First Viewing	This work is horribly outdated , and that seems to be a prevalent feeling throughout the duration of the film , however , when one views this production , one realizes that many modern ( or at least newer ) horrors have borrowed heavily from this attempt . I have to include spoilers to demonstrate my point . Sorry . The isolation of the house and the rambling size , and the fact that the family arrives in a station wagon with a young son named Danny in tow , were all used again in 1980 by Kubrick in his adaptation of Stephen King's The Shining . The element of the father driven insane by the spirit of / in the house is seen again in Kugbrick's The Shining and The Amityville Horror . The Celtic TriQuetra trim around the doorway , the atrium full of dead plants which come back to life when new people come to live , and the fact that the house repairs / builds itself were heavily borrowed by King's later work , Rose Red . and . . . This work quotes other horror movies much like Craven's 1996 Scream trilogy . This also feels somewhat like Hitchcock's Psycho , in the end , although there is little to NO suspense generated , and the principal character is NOT a serial killer , possessed or not . The title is a misnomer in that the story is not that which the title would indicate . Oh , it is , but only symbolically . The family members are the " burnt offerings " made to the house , in order for the house to maintain and renew itself periodically , although they aren't burned , they ARE offered as sacrifice to the house . For so many elements to have been cannibalized over the years , one may be tricked into thinking there must be something here not visible upon first viewing . However poignant these independent elements are , however , when combined in THIS work , they simply are not as effective as they should have been . Some of the later attempts named herein were more effective , and more fun . This was one of the less dramatic portrayals in Bette Davis's repertoire , however there was one scene in which she grows confused concerning the heater in Danny's room , which demonstrated a glimmer of the Bette Davis we all love so well . All in all ? If you're interested in seeing where many of the more modern movies came from , this is definitely one you'll want to see . If not , then it offers little in the way of genuine entertainment , unless you'd like to see Oliver Reed in one of the most overblown ( over the top ) performances of his career . His portrayal belies his lack of classical training , as he comes off as a disgruntled Shakespearean actor . This wasn't that great , but contributed to some greatness along the way . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Clichd to heck and back , but actually enjoyable .	First off , check out Meg Ryan as the lesbian lover of the lead character's daughter . This flick is from 1983 . That was back when she was still the darling of Another World ( as Betsy Stewart Montgomery Andropoulos ) . Actually not part of the " series " ( lies ) , and an actual work of fiction rather than a distorted claim of " true story , " this installment is better than both originals AND the remake . At the time of this writing , the IMDb average is compared to for 2 , and for the original stink-fest . But that's because , by 1983 , we all knew it was not true , and no one cared anymore . Apparently , no one cares even now . It feels like a 1980's Made for TV Movie in its direction style , film quality , and musical score and plays like a half-interesting who-dun-it . All in all , not nearly as bad as the previous two , but still not great . on the B scale from . . . the Fiend : .
How Disappointing .	While informative , this documentary is more a reenactment of historical volcano eruptions with a prolific use of computer graphics , condescending narrative , and over-simplification of easy-to-grasp concepts with an almost alarmist flavor . For whatever reason , I have always enjoyed a great fascination with the world's volcanoes . I have studied Strombolli , Pompeii , Vesuvius , Herculanium , Hawaii , Yellowstone , and Mt . St . Helens prolifically over the years , reading and viewing all that I could . This documentary somehow managed to make a life-time interest seem boring ! I found myself wishing to change the channel half way through the broadcast . I managed to control that urge ; however , hoping it would improve as the show wore on , but unfortunately , I must report that it did not . While it was informative , this was about as dry as chewing a piece of cardboard . How disappointing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sub-standard King adaptation	While this - is - a good movie , it qualifies as one of the many truly bad King adaptations . Mainly , there is no mention whatsoever of Lebay , focusing rather , on Christine . While , in my opinion Carpenter did about the best he could have with that book , I guess . . . it is definitely worth a mini-series remake . The book was so much more in-depth , so much richer , fuller , and had so much more substance than this movie , even though this is still a very enjoyable and creepy film . But with another director's name in the title ( or even in the subtitle ) , such as " Kubrick's The Shining , " and so on , it's ripe for being remade . Mr . King doesn't seem to particularly appreciate sharing the by-line , even if he has to ruin a superior film , as in the same production I just referenced , to correct that condition . The premise of this story is good : a nerdy , unlovable , moronic dweeb buys a car which is a rolling piece of junk , invests far too much time and money into it for lack of a life , and feeds so much of his energies into the car , that he causes the dark spirit of the car to become reanimated , even as the entity contained within the car , possesses him . This is a pretty good plot line which , unfortunately , was far superior on paper than this endeavor on film . However , without comparing the movie to the book , the movie is quite enjoyable . I've recently watched this one again , keeping in mind not to do the comparing thing , and the movie does stand alone quite well . My suggestion is , as always with King , watch the movie first . That way , you'll still enjoy the movie AND the book , which always seems to be better . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the most over-rated " B " horrors .	Riddled with clichs , over-acting , and a heavy borrowing from practically every ghost story you've ever heard , read , or watched , this production is vastly overrated . That having been said , it is still possible to surrender yourself to this story and enjoy it , if you can stretch the " suspension of reality " ploy to its breaking point , and don't find yourself sleeping through half the movie . Starring George C . Scott and a compelling ( if not original ) tale , just grab a bowl of popcorn and enjoy this long , dark , atmospheric ( if somewhat boring ) flick . This production is far from what you would expect with a star of the caliber as George C . Scott . While his performance is nothing less than brilliant , the production itself simply does not deserve his presence . The story is decent , but solid and shaky at times . The dialog of the screen play was trite , stiff and at times even lame . However , Scott's performance can do a lot in the way of redemption , and as the story ( finally ) moves along the tension builds and you do get a few jumps from the effects at times . The effects themselves were adequate , but at the time in which this film was done , they could have been a lot more . I won't detail the plot , as I seldom feel the need to completely spoil a movie , except to say that this is a good ghost story with a better performance from Scott than the director ( or the screenplay ) deserved . . . And while the ending was quite dramatic , climactic , and well done , it ( and Scott ) were powerless to redeem this movie . Sadly , the ending promises a sequel . . . thankfully , it has never come . I'm being generous here with a from . . . the Fiend : .
Pretty cute , zany adventure .	Let me start this by saying that Robin Was the main draw to this work , although the story is pretty innovative , only having been done a time or two previously . Zany . That's the principal description of this work , between Williams's near-manic performance and the fast-paced action , the busy screenplay , and the frantic sound effects . It was fun and entertaining , if nothing else . Features some monsters and over-sized creatures , so may not be suitable for all ages . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Great , Not Horrible . Superior to the Original in every way .	This movie does not deserve a rating , it is better than that . But nor is it a , it is NOT all that . It is still a " B " movie , and I find it somewhere in the middle . In homage to the gaming universe from which this spawned , the opening sequences are filmed in an obvious video game style , it sets up the story and gets you set for something better than the first D & D experience . It is obvious from the beginning that this is vastly superior to the original . That does not mean much , I realize , but superior , this is . The story is so well written and much better delivered . Our heroes have all advanced in their ratings and are thoroughly enjoying the game . They are all grown up and all hold positions of some power within their individual ranks . I found that typical but still fitting . The effects are rather well done except for the Dragon . He was not done with any respect . The general idea and style of the dragon was well done , but the execution left much to be desired . The vast improvement here was in the characters , the story line , and the performances . While this will win no awards and is still a " B " movie , it is light years better than the original . Unfortunately , it is a continuation of the original story line , so if you want to enjoy this , you probably should view the first Dungeons and Dragons . . . just to understand how much better this one is and to be able to follow the back-story . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The Story Stinks , But Sissy Spacek and Donald Sutherland Are Marvelous !	The performances were fine , the story was compelling and tense , the budget was inadequate , and the " based on " factor used EXTREME liberties with the actual mythos surrounding the Bell Witch . So far , none of the 4 movies surrounding the Eastern Tennessee legend of the Bell Witch have got the story right . While this is very well enacted , and the appropriate era of Eastern Tennessee / Appalachian life is equally as well depicted , the story brought to us via this vehicle is the same drivel espoused by the uninitiated , and fails utterly to delve into the true cause of the Bell Witch haunting . As an ambiguous ghost movie , it's great . As a movie on the Bell Witch , it's drivel . It rates a and that's only because Spacek and Sutherland were as good as they could be with this script , from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun In Spite Of Itself	The animation here is HORRID , and the story is lacking , but the performances are what drives this Sci-Fi Channel original . The dialog is hokey , but the delivery is about as good as it gets . These guys at least make you believe they and their situation is meaningful . . . at least to them . Most of these movies are done with an almost tongue-in-cheek delivery as if the film not only does not take itself too seriously , but the actors are making FUN of it while , at the same time , drawing a check for doing it . This dreck-fest at least showed some heart . There are a couple of places where the performances made you forget ( if only momentarily ) that this was a typical " B " flick . All in all ? It was enjoyable , in spite of itself , and showed some real heart . Tom Penny was an asset this time . While it is NOT fit for Friday / Saturday night viewing , it is still more fun that first imagined . It rates a on the " B " scale , which is around a on the " A " Scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Mediocre sequel	This sequel was not as bad as I remembered , but it was not as good as I had hoped . The plot was replete with holes , and the sequences were slow , slow , slow . The acting quality was a bit better here , as was the production quality and story line , but the finished product left me wondering why they bothered ? This played like a series of random scenes with the same actors , spliced together with no obvious intent , while at other times , it promised you a good story , but lost its way after a few lines . All in all , it was quite disappointing . What was so disappointing is that it had the potential to be a great movie and a superior sequel . SPOILERS HERE ! ! The premise of a cult of Lycan Magick Users is an awesome idea , which was utilized here , but the execution was slow , and just died somewhere after the first opening scenes . And there were immense blocks of dead film ; scene after scene where there was no action , no character development , no continuity of story . . . nothing . There was too much T & A here , and it in no way enhanced this endeavor , nor did it help hide the fact that the director had little to no idea what he wanted to do with this script . That was a shame , and it shows with the complete lack of continuity between the scenes . Either that , or the editor needs to be shot . Either way , this movie failed miserably to live up to its potential . A shame . A real shame . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Movie Tries Too Hard To Reach Something It Can't Possibly Attain .	Now , this work doesn't reek , it's enjoyable , and energetic , in spite of its inability to be great . But it tries too hard to reach for that greatness , while still holding on to the life raft . Charlie Sheen never had it in him to be great . He was good , in many performances , in many different roles , but he is not capable of greatness on screen . The same can be said for Donald Sutherland . His son Keifer is far more talented , far more believable in roles as something great . Even when that something embodies a terrible darkness . This work , like its actors , tries to be great in its story , action , and political posturing , but like most who posture , it can lead nowhere , as posturing is not being , it's pretending to be . And that's all this movie could ever hope to achieve . The action is good , the story is good , the performances are good , and the characters are well written , but well written and good is all this has to give . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Rare . . . Treat ?	Okay , this isn't as bad as a Troma production ( just pick one ) , but it IS pretty odd . This is Romero's Night of the Living Dead with the sound track wiped and dubbed over with a ludicrous assemblage of jokes , idiotic sound effects , and zingers . Sometimes they are effective , sometimes they miss by a mile , but it's still cool to have seen it , and even cooler to own it . I own it . ( heh ) I will say that in all honesty , this gets boring and trite after a while , but just when you think it's time to take it out and turn it off , you find your chuckle box has been reignited and you give it just a few more minutes . It can go like that throughout the entire work , because you've already seen the film footage . It's the sound track you're listening for , and the visual brain grows bored from trying to entertain itself . All in all ? This is more for the college dorm than the family TV room . Some of the dialog is not appropriate . And just remember : Guns don't shoot people in the face . . . Dick Cheney shoots people in the face . This rates a on the parody scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Wow . What a WEREWOLF !	First off , this is not the best werewolf movie out there . The script ( when there is one ) was weak and virtually nonexistent . The performances were a little shaky at times , and the finished product left much to be desired . There was no element of suspense ; we know from the beginning who the werewolf is , and why . The transformation CGI was horrid and amateurish , and really lamed-up the rest of the production , as did Mariel Hemingway's performance . It was stiff , reluctant , and made her seem as if she had just awakened from a drug-induced sleep . Also , instead of California as commonly believed , this movie was wholly filmed in Anmore , Vancouver , BC , Canada . BUT . . . It included a cameo clip from " Werewolf of London , " Universal Studios , has decent performances by Michael Par as the wolf man , and Mason Gamble as Brett , but the best performance in this production is that of Primo Villanueva III as Thor the faithful guardian . This movie also features an awesome white werewolf . As a finished product , this animatronic werewolf is quite stunning , though obviously a contrived creation . It was a true fright to behold . They should have used mist / fog or something to kind of camouflage the apparent plasticity of the teeth , etc . , but all in all the werewolf itself was extremely well made , designed , and executed . The nicest thing about this production is that Brett , Hemingway's son , was as loyal to Thor , as Thor was to the family . Nice touch , even if it was a bit convenient in timing and all . There were no sets with which we could be impressed ; the whole movie was basically shot inside what was made to be Hemingway's home , an airstream in which Par lived and a parking lot where they threw up a make-shift animal shelter enclosure . They obviously spent the largest portion of their meager budget on the werewolf . SPOILERS ! ! Also . It has been said that there is NO WAY a dog , even a 105 # dog , could defeat a werewolf . I would say , watch the movie again . Thor does not defeat the monster . He merely shoves him out the window . What he defeats , is the man . . . or rather , what's left of the man after his fight with Thor and Hemingway's character , from the night before . The main problem I had with this story is that the werewolf , having been shot by Hemingway's character with normal bullets , would have healed itself rather quickly , both from the gunshot wounds and the mauling received from Thor . That's one of the " Werewolf Rules , " laid down by countless other generations : werewolves regenerate . They cannot die unless silver is involved , and unless they are buried with wolfsbane , they can be resurrected . But I digress . . . Within sub-genres of horror movies , there are certain basic rules which must be observed in order to hold the fan base of that sub-genre . Mainstream audiences aren't so much the worry , it's the true fan of that genre that you have to watch out for . This movie violates the " Monster Laws , " and therefore does not stand up as a quality werewolf film . It IS , however , an entertaining effort , and definitely worth a look , if only to see that wonderful werewolf ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly over-rated , but still enjoyable .	This movie has received extremely good ratings . While it is a good movie , it is definitely not all that it is made out to be . It is quirky , startling and even tense at times , but frankly , there are many other movies which are along this same premise that are much better movies , in my opinion . " The Sixth Sense , " " What Lies Beneath , " " Poltergeist 1 & 2 , " " Amityville Horror , " and " Thir13en Ghosts " immediately spring to mind . Kevin Bacon is quite believable as the insanity-driven victim of amateur hypnotism who must fit together the pieces of the puzzle which is presented to him . Co-starring as Bacon's wife is Kathryn Erbe , whom I first noticed in the comedic smash , " What About Bob ? " Both are completely genuine in their portrayals . Zachary David Cope stars as their son , Jake . Jake can see ghosts . Sounds OH , so familiar , does it not ? Released the same year as " The Sixth Sense , " this movie , regardless of its quality , is a cheap and obvious rip-off of a much better movie . I wanted to like this production , and honestly I DO like it . It is watchable , enjoyable and has some nice tense moments . It has good direction , great performances , believable effects , and even a well-written story , but the obvious parallels between this production and " The Sixth Sense , " lessen my opinion of this work . Every dog has its fleas , and obviously , this is one of the fleas . My advice ? Definitely see this movie , but only after you see " The Sixth Sense . " Judge for yourself . I can't bring myself to give it more than a from . . . The Fiend : .
Confused and Contradictory , But Mildly Entertaining	This story can't decide whether it wants to be a comedy , a thriller , or a drama . Frankly , it meets none of the criteria of any of those assignments , and delivers something which , upon viewing , the audience has to ask , " What did I just see ? " There is a story , however contrived and unbelievable it is . There are decent performances , however out of place they may seem . There is a great cast of characters , however undeveloped they may be . There is some enjoyment to be derived from this work , however small and fleeting it is . All in all ? If you're bored and have nothing else to do , then it may bring some level of enjoyment . It's definitely not anything you need to make time for . Otherwise , raking your yard is more fun . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Only Decent , Not Great .	One thing you can say about Yul Brynner : Either he is awesome , or he sucks , there's little middle ground for Brynner . Unfortunately , this isn't one of his best " Cajun " gunslinger performances . George Segal's performance out-paces and outshines Brynner , but the real star of this work is Janice Rule . A town boss hires a gunslinger to kill an outcast , then hires the outcast to kill the gunslinger . Well , it's more complicated than that , but to go into it would spoil the comedic and dramatic twists . It's not terrible , but it's not great , either . All in all , it's only decent , and typical for its time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Weak and fluffy sequel	As far as sequels go , this one is about average . It lacks the style and substance of the first and substitutes any attempt to go with legend and / or myth , with fluff and " cuteness , " giving it a much softer ( non-existent ) edge . The performances were also lacking , dangling there somewhere below the original , but not so low as to be considered within the land of the putrid . Draco is dead . LONG LIVE DRACO ! but there is a new Dragon to take his place . He's a baby Dragon . ( Awe ! Ain't he cute ? ! NO ! ) He has to learn everything , and there is a Chinese soothsayer who is there specifically to teach him . But he's also there to kill him . Confused ? That's OK . It's a very easy plot to follow , so it will spin itself well in a nice , even , straight line for you . No twists , no surprises , just . . . exactly what you expect . The effects are a bit better , but the stars are gone , and so this project was left with little talent , and less hope . I own it , just because I got this thing about collecting all the parts of something . There are few I don't have all the parts to ( like Exorcist . don't ' have 2 , don't want it , etc . ) All in all , I can't give this more than a , and realistically , I'm being generous . the Fiend : .
Amusingly Witty , Though Overall Stupid .	This work does amuse , though it IS overall , rather stupid . Two friends decide to " save " their friend Silverman from his fianc Judith , a gonads-busting psychologist who plays him like a flute . Saving Silverman is less about the aforementioned premise , and more about two idiots who can't seem to let their friend grow up , go his own way , and survive without their disturbing influence and interference in their friend's life . This is meant to be a feel-good movie , hence the really weird ending ; however , it manages more to point out the importance of making wise choices where the selection of one's friends are concerned . I think I would have to commit murder , were these two scabbed onto the swollen , herpes-infested backside of my life . I wasn't really entertained , but I was dryly amused . Unfortunately , it is more like watching a train wreck caused by idiots , wherein only those idiots are killed . . . darkly amusing , yet unpleasant at the same time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Preachy classic	This movie is a classic in the horror genre . But it is also a two hour sermon touting the mainstream bible and the dogma found therein . The catholic church has amended its interpretation of the biblical book of Revelations to say that it is no longer considered a prophecy but , like much of the bible , a parable . That declaration rendered this franchise rather moot , but if you are not watching this line for the ethical and biblical implications , it is still an entertaining two hours . It is rather dated and slightly contrived , but those contrivances are easily forgiven against a backdrop canvas of excellent camera work and a musical score that will really get your heart pumping . Also present are some great performances , particularly that of little Harvey Stephens , who really hasn't done much else in the way of acting since . Greggory Peck offers up his usual professionalism as the little bugger's father and Lee Remick delivers what is probably one of her best performances . Gather all that together and you've got one well done horror flick . Completely wrapped around the monotheistic mainstream religion , this is merely a movie for the sake of entertainment . There is nothing here which is thought-provoking or enlightening . I can't help but wonder what the populace of the rest of the world ( which is NOT as wholly anti-open-mindedness as is the USA ) thinks of American movie makers ' obsession with the neochristian devil . America seems to think it is the sole owner of that religion . How ignorant . On a brighter note , this movie spawned a good line of self-serving horror . Each installment growing more and more entrenched with the dogmatic ramblings of the bastardized Hebrew religion ; each chapter decidedly more . . . catholic . . . than those before it . It may not sound like it , but I honestly enjoyed this line of movies . I just took them with a grain of salt . This particular springboard into horror rates a on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not As Bad As Critics Say , But Completely Unnecessary .	The first installment of this trilogy had a beginning , a middle , and a satisfying ending , making this sequel as unnecessary as many other critics have claimed . THIS sequel , however , does mandate the NEXT sequel , in that it left a bit to be explained . This is really a convoluted , contrived , uneven mess ; bearing none of the original talent , thereby losing all of the Magick of the original . These actors are capable , but failed to illicit the same feeling of wonder , creativity , and awe . All in all , this is an exercise in utter futility , and was completely unnecessary . But if you watch this one , you need to see the last , in order to clear up the many holes left by this installment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Shows That Remakes ARE Sometimes Necessary And CAN Be Successful !	Remakes are sometimes necessary . At least Audie Murphy was the perfect casting choice for a continuation of the Destry line . At least this new Destry line is modernized in that he engages the other cast members with a little knowledge of forensics , which came as a ( nice ) surprise . Lyle Bettger is every bit as devilish as the bad guy of the original work ( Brian Donlevy ) , and will do anything to make a buck and maintain his hold over a small western town . The town drunk is made sheriff after the former sheriff is murdered when he attempts to stop the bad guy from a land-grabbing deal via a bad hand of poker . The new sheriff ( again , the town drunk ) pulls a surprise on the bad guys by sending for Tom Destry's son as his deputy . When Audie Murphy joins his boss ( as little Destry ) , he comes without benefit of a firearm , and bearing a bird cage and a parasol ! However , his mild demeanor does achieve some surprising results , and when he is pushed , the firearms come to bear . Mari Blanchard can't hold a candle to Marlene Dietrich ( of the original ) , but who could ? And while Audie Murphy isn't Jimmy Stewart , the final gun battle is a good bit more tense and somber than the original , which I highly enjoyed . This is one of the best of the B western line put out by Audie Murphy , and in my opinion proves that remakes CAN be done well , with the proper casting and direction . I HOPE modern film makers can find that groove . This is one of my favorite old westerns , and rates an on the B Scale . That's about a on the A Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
The Godzilla franchise is redeemed !	I don't know about anyone else , as I generally don't read other reviews , but after Godzilla 2000 and Roland Emerick's " Jurassiczilla , " I thought the line was succumbing to " sequel sickness . " I mean , to be fully honest , I had pretty much accepted that my Godzilla-watching days were over . But that does not seem to be the case , thanks to the redemption of the series by this effort . Herein lies a nice story line , decent effects , good general casting , and a great performance by the young boy who portrayed " Jun . " Oddly enough , he doesn't seem to be listed in the credits , but then again , I don't speak Japanese , either so he could be right there and I just don't realize it . LOLThis is not THE best , by any means . The performances are campy and a bit silly , as became the norm in the earlier editions of this franchise , but the principle characters actually had some depth ! I found it to be wholly redeeming after the disappointment which was Godzilla 2000 . However , it was quite enjoyable and far better done than most . You will also find a nice homage to Rhodan / Rodan , as well . Nice inclusion . It rates an aspiring on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Mildly Adorable	This isn't as bad as some people have said . At the same time , it isn't Oscar-worthy material , either . The play on words , everyday objects , products , and proper names ( Univershell ) is quite cute , and the performances are about what you would expect . This film is cutely quaint , though full of cheese , just like the animated series . I particularly enjoyed the many modes of transportation and machinery , along with Elizabeth Taylor , Rosie O'Donnell and John Goodman . The animated series always mildly reminded me of the Honeymooners , and this reminiscence is exacerbated by the live action version , in Goodman's on again , off again New York accent , and Barney's total loyalty to Fred . The story itself is typical of a Flintstone's animation with little surprise and nothing new , but seeing it in live action form makes it worth viewing if you are a fan of the series . It is adorable , if only mildly so . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Rude and a bit crude , but enjoyable .	This movie is replete with stereotypical clichs one after the other , but it was still fun to watch . . . when you're not uncomfortable , or feeling sorry for Charlie ( Jim Carrey ) , that is . The problem with this one is that Charlie is so pathetic , that you really find it difficult to view him as a hero in this situation . He's a victim , of that , there is no doubt . But a hero ? No , I just couldn't get there . It has some laughs , though they are tepid , and the slapstick is classic Carrey , but the material is too sad to let the laughs permeate and you're left feeling conflicted about what enjoyment you DID manage . I liked it and I like Carrey , but this will not make it to my collection . It's a tepid from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable But Overrated Burton Animation	While this story was creative , it was not original-there have been similar inter-dimensional / realm travel plots throughout cinematic history . The animation is not the masterpiece it is played up to be , the dark Disneyesque songs , and the Gothic Tim Burton theme combine to make this something we've never quite seen before , while it is still reminiscent of scores of other works . . . Beetle Juice for one , which is another well-received Tim Burton Gothic rom / com with the darkling edge . In my opinion , this is one of the more over-rated animations ever . James and the Giant Peach came out about the same time , and it was much better done , but without the Gothic story and setting . Enjoyable , but overrated . And the animation isn't all it's made out to be . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
42 , and thanks for all the fish .	This work is more witty than intelligent , therefore , is not that for which I had hoped . With Disney stamped on it , it is exactly what I expected . Don't get me wrong . I love Disney . . . usually . But for HG2tG , I expected more thought-provoking symbolism than the pop-culture icon Disney produced . Unfortunately , the social period with which this supposed modernization identified this work was the late 1970's , early 1980's . Bad , Disney ! Bad ! This work came across as already dated some 20-25 years and will be ripe for a remake in just five or so . While it IS better than the Made4TV presentation a decade or so back , it is not better by much . I did like the opening fish sequences , though . But that was about the best part of the movie . Sorry , Disney , but this was a major disappointment . It was NOT intelligent , hokey , and chintzy and not to my liking at all . I hoped for so much more . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Bad For What It Is	As a spin off of a sequel , this isn't bad . Not really . The premise may be ludicrous , but once one considers the source material this spins from , this story line seems quite logical , actually . We do tend to enslave anything we consider of lesser intelligence with stronger backs , so the idea of domesticating the zombies to perform manual labor tasks , etc . is not quite so strange . Considering the budget , this is not so bad , but I can say I am entirely thankful they did not continue with this line , and reverted back to the original " Dead " series . All in all ? This is a franchise fan's movie . I won't say that casual viewers cannot enjoy it , but I generally would not expect it . It's bloody and visceral like the rest of the series , and not for younger viewers or the squeamish . It rates a on the Movie Scale . It rates a on the Romero Scale ( It's NOT a Romero Film ) . It rates a on the Splatter Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Keeping Up With The Joneses	Let me start by saying I do not hate this film . I found it rather enjoyable , but I do see the problems . This film was Columbia's answer to Buena Vista's mildly popular Sky High starring Kurt Russell , featuring two super heroes who married and their son who attended a high school for budding young super heroes and the subsequent ensuing events . While this takes place in a government installation rather than a high school and is more effects and story driven than Sky High , the entertainment value suffers for lack of something Sky High exhibited full out : Heart . I was happy to see Chevy Chase on the big screen again , and I enjoyed the effects driven crescendo ; however , there was little life to this work and even less to draw adult viewers , though the children will ( no doubt ) find it fun . The child performers give great performances , and even Tim Allen seems involved in his role this time ; however , even as far as comic book movies are concerned , this storyline was permeated with clich and insulting female leads ( Courtney Cox who couldn't keep from literally tripping over herself in the presence of Tim Allen ) and typical male macho idiots ( Tim Allen's character was so utterly clich as to render his performance nigh unwatchable ) . All in all ? It is enjoyable to a point and has some great eye candy towards the end , but the film itself is lacking in relationship to its audience . It's mildly entertaining in spite of the great independent elements it contains . You would think the sum total would be more enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Nice , but not new	This production highlights a very adept actor in Depp ; a tightly written script ; and some marvelous execution . This is a very slick production , based on a short by Stephen King . Or was it ? In viewing this attempt , I could not help noticing that this was more based on the Dark Half than anything else . It was merely a retelling ; evidence of King's obvious displeasure at having been under the rigorous restrictions and requirements of contract . Where the Dark Half concerns a Dark Half having been created by the author's dissociation with the pseudonym he'd invented , the Secret Window tells the story of a psychological Dark Half created by the author's dissociation from the guilt he felt over having committed the deeds he committed . It is a different angle , but plays out like the same , tired story . Too bad , too , as this was a superior production in all ways but story . What a waste . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Premise With Promise . . . But . . .	We attended the first show , opening day in our small home town theater ( Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN ) , to a nearly sold out show . This adventure is not as fun this time around . The clues are less entrenched in symbology , lending less story , and more room for comical relief . That was a mistake , in my opinion ; one which may prove to hurt it in the long run . Considering , however , how dismally the Golden Compass has fared , xmas movie goers are hungry for a good fantasy / actioner to sink their collective teeth into . Hopefully , some of those disappointed fans who brave the rains and windy wet cold to see NT2 will also give the Golden Compass a try , while they're at it . NT2 contains the same base formula as NT1 , but this time it is far m ore watered down , with much less clues and less real action , but more development of the interpersonal relationships between Ben Gates ( Nic Cage ) and his parents ( Helen Mirren and Jon Voight ) and his lady . We also get a deeper look into the personal life ( or lack thereof ) of Riley Poole ( Justin Bartha ) , Gates ' Partner . Undoubtedly , due to a lessening of action and effects accompanying the deepening of character development and an almost total lack of substance , many will not think highly of this work . I , however , found it entertaining . Not as entertaining as the first , but it was still an enjoyable venture . Cage seems more comfortable in this incarnation of the character , without contributing a dialed-in performance . His comfort conveys an on-screen presence ; a great charisma above and beyond the usual , and that's saying something . The premise has promise , but is not explored to its potential enough to flesh out the screenplay to actually give it a story . Unfortunately , this attempt fell far short in comparison to the rich story detail of the first . It left us wondering if there will be a third , for we are hoping for a return to a real adventure with a well-developed story as the first installment led us to expect . All in all ? It's fun , but lacks the quality of the previous chapter . Here's hoping the 47th Page leads us back to a GOOD adventure . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
As Bad As Saving Silverman	Released in the same year as the vastly unintelligent Saving Silverman and the " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " remake entitled Rat Race , this is another example of what NOT to do with celluloid . It would be better used , had it been wrapped tightly around anyone who wanted to view this work , in order to disable their viewing capacity . Honestly , this is only mildly amusing at best . It would not be so repugnant , had even one modicum of intelligence , wit , or creativity been employed herein , but unfortunately , such is not the case . There exists herein ONE funny scene and that one scene was so widely shown prior to the release of this film , as to completely preclude the actual viewing of this film . All in all ? Skip it . You'll love yourself more for it , in the long run . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Sci-Fi Horror which isn't either .	Now , my intention here is NOT to dog this movie but rather give an honest review of the premise . I won't talk about Cameron Bright's " deer caught in the headlights " performance or the fact that you can literally SEE his eyes moving along the cue cards ( whether they were on set or in his head I guess we'll never know ) , or the fact that Robert DeNiro could be doing something else ( ANYthing else . . . PLEASE ! ) . I will do my best to refrain from these topics during this review . POSSIBLE SPOILERS ! ! ! In my opinion , a science fiction should ( in theory ) contain some good science . While this attempt does feature a scientific theory , its science is horribly askew . This movie , instead of hitting on the SCIENTIFIC issues of cloning , takes the Mad Scientist route . Now I'm an avid horror fan , so I've no problem with the Mad Scientist premise , however . . . this movie could have been more socially responsible in bridging the cloning issue . I realize every movie is not aimed at the social issues , but merely seeking to entertain , however a movie of this magnitude , with this cast and this level of hype really should have had mankind in mind when the screen play was still in its creative stages . Had they made this movie more socially reactive to the implications of cloning ITSELF , rather than the mad scientist route , it would have been FAR more successful . Had it had GOOD SCIENCE , rather than a decent story , it would have blown OUT the box offices . Another way they could've gone which would have settled better in my mind than their way , is to have approached the religio-spirituality based issues at hand . If a soul is assigned to us at birth ( or in utero , whichever ) , where does a soul come from for clones ? Do they have souls ? Or are their souls merely the shadow of the donor's soul ? Does this stretch the donor's soul thin and cause problems of a supernatural / paranormal kind ? DEFINITE SPOILERSInstead of throwing in DeNiro's tampering with the cell , they could have featured the possibility of Adam's insanity having more to do with replication degeneration or even an incomplete stem cell or any number of things which could ( and have ) gone wrong in the cloning process itself . Would Adam still have gone insane ? Or was this a product of the cloning process ? Or could his insanity have been because he now carried TWO souls attached to him ; the soul of the Adam who once was - and - the soul which was assigned to him , as a person , at birth ? Or possibly no soul at all , leaving the human host body wide open for any type of spirit to possess and operate it . Either way would have made for a much better endeavor , IMHO . This just felt . . . flat . They had a bit of distracting CG-Eye Candy and some nicely shot sequences , but neither was enough to distract my mind from the wasted opportunity that is Godsend . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Good story . No delivery .	As a fan , I fully understand Seagal's Zin lifestyle and his need to share with the world how unfair life is under the NWO rule . However , there is practically none of his rousing trademark aikido style , and by the time the movie does deliver , it's too little too late . This was , on the other hand , a compelling story with focused directing and talented acting . It just held virtually none of the bone-crunching , neck-snapping action you expect from a Seagal film . Seagal's voice was on again , off again throughout the entire film . It is a rumor that Seagal has enlisted a vow of silence and therefore cannot speak during certain hours of the day . If this is true , he needs to bow out of further film makiing efforts . I was not amused . All in all , it was a good story . It was simply the fact that this is not what I expect when I sit down to a Steven Seagal movie . Because of the above facts , I have to rate it thusly . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
You have this movie to thank for Mel's , " History of the World : Part One ! "	This was a cute movie . That's about all I really can say for the movie itself . It was witty without being clever . It was amusing without being downright funny . It was neither cutting edge nor creatively inspired ( George Burns starred in Oh , God ! in 1977 ) . But after nearly thirty years of being preached at ( The Ten Commandments by Cecil B . DeMille in 1956 , and on and on ) , it was nice to be able to sit back and laugh about something most people get totally uptight over . From this release in 1980 , we received Mel Brooks's , " History of the World , Part One . " Now I'm not saying that Brooks copied this , or ripped it off . It is obvious that he did not do either of those . These are two totally different movies about different issues . Wholly Moses is about Moses's " brother , " Hershel ( an invention ) and is set during Biblical times . History of the World Pt1 is just that : a very witty take on the ancient history of the world . While sometimes they do cross paths , they never run completely parallel . While I absolutely LOVE HotW1 , I still enjoy watching Hershel dork his way through life . If you enjoyed History of the World , you may enjoy this one . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mediocre Maven .	Red Eye has been touted as the achiever over Flightplan . I don't happen to agree . I think they are neck in neck . This film is no more suspenseful , it is no more intelligent , and it is no more better done . Sorry , but Jodie Foster's ( of Flightplan ) performance was far superior to anything associated with Red Eye . This work fails to successfully generate suspense , it fails to be believable on any level . It fails to do more than tentatively grab your attention and refuses to even attempt to hold it . This was completely contrived and felt in every way like a " B " movie with decent film quality . Wes Craven appears ( what with Freddie vs . the Ghostbusters , Cursed , and now this attempt ) to have lost his edge in the genre . Now , he's producing a remake of his , " The Hills Have Eyes . " Maybe that's a good idea for Craven . Perhaps he should start remaking his older works to make people more appreciative of them . We already know , what with his current batch of films , that remaking the older ( and better ) movies will do nothing whatsoever to improve them . Has Craven lost his spark ? I guess we'll see with how massively he decimates his own work . Here's hoping . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not a bad attempt .	This movie had a message : Do not allow the past to destroy your future . It delivers that message under no uncertain terms . But the point is , that it entertains while so doing . The story is rather graphic and the execution was , sadly , mediocre . Was I scared ? Was my adrenaline piqued ? No . But I was entertained . The story is dark , but fun , and moves along with a decent pace . There are some serious slow spots , and the version I viewed at least , had an editing problem . Some people should not be allowed near a roll of shot film , with sharp objects , you know ? This movie felt edited . Heavily edited . And in all the wrong spots . Perhaps your copy will not have suffered the same fate as mine . I would recommend its viewing on a rainy Sunday afternoon , as it is a good story , and renders a decent telling of said story , but as it is not riveting , it does not belong on the Friday / Saturday night line-up . It is a nice suspense / psychological thriller with a good twist or two . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mildly Entertaining , At Best , But Not Horrid .	Surprisingly . . . weird . As a kid , I grew up watching Italian Westerns , what they called a " spaghetti western , " many which boasted a star or two and featured weird , twisty , nonsensical endings . This ran like that , with some big names , off color characters , and clich after clich . The characters are hard to know in the beginning , and harder to like , but as the story progresses , the characters are ingratiated to the audience , and the story makes more sense the further in you get . I'm not saying that made the movie good because that would be a lie . This movie isn't good . It is mildly entertaining , at best , with little to no moral center , but for a movie about a gambler and a conman , it wasn't horrid . Although , if you've watched the Trinity movies ( which serve as prequels to this ) , you will enjoy it all the more . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Worthy Ernest sequel	This is the third best in the Ernest line , second to Ernest Scared Stupid . It was odd that they went this route with an Ernest film . It almost seemed like they were trying to take Worrell too seriously , and in some places , this film comes off as rough and crude , rather than funny . In spite of that , the story is interesting . . . intriguing even , but the supporting character , the professor , is a detriment to this work . His interpretation of the character , or maybe even the character itself , is too brash and harsh to fall into the usual Ernest formula , thereby derailing what should have been the best Ernest movie of the line . I always hoped Varney's Ernest would attempt something more substantive like this again , but alas ! it is not to be . RIP Jim Varney . You are sorely missed by those of us who loved you . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Ages-old tale , wonderfully told .	Occasionally , you run across a true gem in the horror field . A story with factual bits of information , or a truly unique perspective . The story of the Djinn is thousands of years old . Richly written and well told , is this adaptation of that centuries-old legend . For what would you wish if you had three wishes ? The humor is rich , and the dialog is clever and witty , dark and despairing ; the perfect blend of Light and Shadow . The plot is intelligent , and Wes Craven's direction demonstrates his insightful cleverness and creativity . While this feature does contain a wee bit of campy humor , it is all in fun and a rich enjoyment of the wonderful plot this movie exhibits . With an intriguing cast of characters , a creative and rich plot , cohesive story line , and wonderful direction , this movie is quite entertaining . There are a few edge-of-the-seat moments , but for the most part , this movie is richly entertaining , rather than " scary . " I thoroughly enjoy this movie . It gets a 6 . 4 from . . . the Fiend : .
A decent but neglectful attempt	In the line of theatrical and Made for TV attempts drawn from Stephen King's literary works , this is really quite good . It is a darkly twisted work which hints to the Machiavellian theories and demonstrates a remarkable execution . Unfortunately , it is almost anti-climactic in its delivery , in spite of the stellar performances which support this work . I was a trifle disappointed with this attempt , but that is only because I am a King fan . If you're not concerned with the comparison to the short story upon which this is based , the movie alone is really quite enjoyable . It is a well developed psychological thriller with some highly entertaining moments . If you are concerned with the comparison to King's literary writings however , you will be greatly disappointed , as Todd's descent into madness is completely skipped in the theatrical version . Let me explicate further . Todd is first intrigued by the death and violence of the Nazi concentration camps and the horrendous tortures and " medical experiments " conducted there . He becomes seduced by the blood , the pain , and the adrenaline rush he receives from viewing these things in his mind's eye and in the books he ferrets from the library . He then discovers his neighbor is a Nazi and blackmails him into detailing the things done at these camps ; first hand accounting generates a better rush for Todd , and so he becomes enamored totally ; surrendering utterly to these stimuli until finally , madness is achieved . All this is omitted and what elements are present , are never explained . It is much like the Made 4 TV version of " It " in that it never explains what " They all float down here " means to the plot , yet they use it over and over . They use Todd's madness over and over in " Apt Pupil , " yet they never demonstrate that madness to its fullest potential ( or even its most shallow potential ) on film . If you are a King fan , it'll hurt your feelings and therefore , rates a . If you aren't a King fan and do not have a story to which you will compare this work , it rates a . If you are a fan of psychological thrillers , it rates a for giving you some suspense , but never exploring the psychology behind Todd's actions . That's a from . . . the Fiend : .
Can't Hold Up To The Original , But Still Worth Watching / Owning	First off , for the haters , Haim was IN this movie , you just have to LOOK for him . AND he was in character as Sam ! And , as much as Schumacher should never have another word to say about Batman , he should have everything to say about the Lost Boys . That not withstanding , this film is not as bad as some critics say , but it is nowhere near as enjoyable as the original . BOTH the Frog brothers should have been employed here , but all things being as they are , I was happy with the choice they made as to which one would . The story is weak , and the execution is shaky , but overall you almost don't notice as you sit back and let the movie take you where it will . Unfortunately , it doesn't take you far , and never really tries . It eludes to better places , darker realms , a distant past , and an intriguing future , but never really takes a step towards any of those destinations . Here's hoping the next installment is more adventurous . This straight to video endeavor rates a on the Str82Vid scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Zany Fun	This work obviously wasn't aiming at any awards , and that's okay . At the same time , it demonstrated some great stylized humor and classic Carrey style . I found the story to be amusing . Not compelling , but entertaining . The execution was witty , if not intelligent , and the cast of characters was actually quite intriguing . If you're looking for a few good laughs , it's worth an hour and 30 or so minutes of your time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
It Appears the Panther has Piqued .	It tried to be big , it tried to do too much . This work was the victim of the times . It is horribly dated with the label " MADE IN THE LATE 70'S " firmly attached . It feels like a late ' 70's , early ' 80's Made For TV event . Watch , " Rehearsal For Murder , " and then watch this one , and you'll see just what I mean . This incorporates Sam Spade wannabes in with Hercule Poirot , and a dirty CEO , creating a horrible montage of uneven character blends and a plot that watches like a darkened labyrinth . Sellers is too comfortable in his fame and success and it shows , as it has severely clouded his talent . From this work , that statement is obvious . It is NOT one of my favorites of this series , but even with all that , it is still somewhat amusing and without doubt belongs in the seriesIt rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Bears Some Great Elements But Fails To Deliver In Spite Of Itself .	I wanted to love this , and I worked hard to do so , but I just never could get there . With Frankenheimer as the director , Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer as your stars , and Stan Winston on the creature effects , for what more could you ask ? Well , the film is a mess ; an enjoyable mess , but still a mess . Brando gave an unstable arrogance to Moreau I wasn't comfortable with , Kilmer was less than the hero Michael York was , and Frankenheimer dropped the ball on camera angles , and atmosphere . The one awesome element was Stan Winston's creature effects , but even his excellence cannot carry a film , alone . All in all , I was more than disappointed . This could have been astounding . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Original , But Sweet , Sentimental , and Entertaining .	Many reviewers have compared this work to Tom Hanks's Big , wherein a young boy wishes he were " big , " and the wish is granted . However , this work is the anti-thesis of that work , as an adult portrays a young child , physically , which thrusts Jack into the same venue as Martin Short's " Clifford , " which was done some two years prior to this work . That not withstanding , Clifford was a holy terror , while Jack is a mother's dream . While both works require a total suspension of belief in order to enjoy them , Jack is endearing , sweet , sentimental , and entertaining . There is nothing endearing , sweet , or sentimental about Clifford . Jack is born with a genetic disorder which causes him to age 4 years for every 10 , thereby causing him to appear as a 40 year old man at the age of 10 . Many have bludgeoned Coppola's involvement in such a scheme , citing his prior " masterpiece " works while bemoaning this one . The fans seem to forget that artistic people who do not spread their wings , and plant their feet on strange ground , never grow as individuals and artists . Some found this work " insulting " due to the premise . It is called unintelligent . But not all films are based on intellect , and not all movie-goers care to have to think in order to enjoy a movie . And there is the added benefit of the heartwarming sentiment carried by this work . It did well in the box office , nearly doubling its budget , worldwide , and is generally under-rated here at IMDb ( if only mildly so ) , which says that word of mouth ( that this film wasn't as bad as the critics said ) carried this film further than the negative reviews would have liked . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Interesting But Lacking Something .	Informative , with some decent enactments , telling mostly the history we already know , with a LOT of speculation . If you can get past phrases like " could have been , " and " thought to have , " you will no doubt find this entertaining . I could not , but still could derive a small measure of new information from it . I was looking for fact or even factoids , rather than speculation and conjecture , so this was not as interesting to me , but it will for someone who has not investigated or researched Vlad Tepes on their own , earlier . Replete with beautiful location shots and actual film footage of Vlad's supposed tomb , castle , and church featured in The Historian , this is interesting , regardless of the depth ( or lack thereof ) of knowledge you may have concerning Vlad and the history , rather than the legend . I don't know what could have been done to make this better and it is interesting , nonetheless , but does seem to be lacking something . It rates a on the Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable	This is quite enjoyable , even if it isn't one of the best of the Rathbone series . I have favorites in this line , and while this isn't one of them , it is still quite enjoyable as a pre-Bond type Nazi war spy intrigue . Holmes this time smuggles a bomb sight inventor out of Munich only to lose the guy to his nemesis , the insidious Moriarty . Not bad , with a small amount of propaganda towards the end , but otherwise enjoyable if you're into the old black and whites of the era . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as charming as the first .	I have to say this installment was just plain disappointing . It lost nearly all the charm of the original . There are still a few desirable elements , but I won't spoil the few good things about this film by listing them here . This second installment picks up where the first left off , which is one of the nice things I said I wouldn't alliterate . Another is that , including a nice " ObiWan / Luke Skywalker " scene , this movie does reach for something better , and while I wish I could report more uplifting news , this movie ALMOST completely fails to deliver . It rates a sad from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable , But It Was Lacking	This was a cute movie . But intentional or not , it felt like a remake of the Orson Welles conclusion " F is for Fake . " Unfortunately , The Hoax lacks all sense of slick style , clever wit , and graceful elegance found in " F . " That having been said , it's not without merit of its own . When not compared , to " F , " The Hoax runs like a nightmare gone awry . The audience sees from the moment of conception that this insipid plot is doomed to failure , compounded at every turn by Suskind's ( Molina ) insidious duplicities , which clue you in right away that Irving ( Gere ) is in more trouble than he can guess . There are a few high spots , but for the most part , it's just like watching a train wreck . You see it's coming , you know it's coming , but you can't force your eyes away until somewhere halfway through the collision , and then , of course , it's too late . This is mildly entertaining , but only in the most base sadistic way . I wouldn't recommend it for Friday / Saturday night viewing , but if you have nothing more to do on a quiet Sunday afternoon and it's raining out of doors , it's worth a casual viewing . The Hoax rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sad and Disturbing	People go on and on about this adaptation of the Broadway musical , but I can't say that I found it enjoyable in the least . It was both sad and disturbing . It also ran like a musical on film , much as badly as did Tommy . This is definitely one of those movies you'll want to see because everyone seemingly went crazy over it , but don't buy it until you've seen it . In my opinion , it's not worth a second viewing . I am the minority on this , I'm sure , as everyone I know gushes over it , but I can't recommend it beyond a first viewing , just because of the popularity of the work . It wasn't all that , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet , But Unrealistic Mob Comedy .	I was delighted with the casting choices here , but in all honesty , they just don't work . Dreyfus and Reynolds are bumping heads , dramatically speaking . The gags don't work . You have four greats ( Dan Hedaya , Seymour Cassel , Richard Dreyfus , and Burt Reynolds ) , who are all funny and they are all straight / serious , but at all the wrong times , which throw the timing off so badly that you don't get a single good laugh out of it . It tries to feel like the camaraderie experienced in Cocoon , but it comes off more like an extended version of Johnny Skidmarks , and not in a good way ! Not that there could BE a good way , I hated that movie ! Honestly , it's okay for a light chuckle , but if you're looking for substance of ANY kind , you won't find it here . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as slick as they had hoped	While this movie was more popcorn and cheese than I would have liked , Hellboy still presents us with some endearing character portrayals , outstanding effects , solid story line and good direction . The premise is . . . that after having conjured a demonic imp-like being , the Nazis are disturbed and their small faction defeated by the US . The paranormal adviser who is aboard the US mission lures the lil guy to his side with Baby Ruth candy bars , and he therefore adopts him as his " son " of sorts . Once grown , the imp - who is now on the side of good having been raised sixty years by a good-hearted and wise human - fights evil in all its forms . The imp is enamored with a firestarter who is also in the group , out of the group , back in the group , and so on . Good thing that the big red guy's flame retardant , or he could be singing the Doors from the other side . " C'mon baby light my fire . " chuckles The meridian / merman was beautifully done , portrayed and executed . Great incarnation of a highly intelligent and sensitive race . The one-liners and zingers flying about were more likely to put an eye out than make anyone laugh . In that area , this movie tried too hard to be witty and just came off seeming a bit anorexic . Unfortunate , as this could have been much more enjoyable , had they pulled it off . However , all that taken into account , I was still amused and entertained by the premise and the actual story . Some critics have accused this attempt of having no story whatsoever , but that just is not the case . The story is of love , life , blind faith , imagination and intelligence , and ultimately loyalty both to family and friends . Even when delivered through a basely stereo-typical chauvinistic tough-guy personnae , these qualities do not fail to shine through . The action sequences were fun , with a strong accent on those one-liners . Nevertheless , they were still entertaining . Importantly , the effects were excellent and did manage to carry the movie through a couple of tough spots . A good thing , too , as I never even noticed the score . All in all , it still rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Salvaging the Burning Bridges . . .	Well , the producers of the original obviously had no interest in a sequel to their masterpiece , as they rid the world of the magickal scroll , and disintegrated the Mummy himself . How selfish . Now the producers had to start all over again , this time , using tana leaves to resurrect the ancient evil ( Tom Tyler ) , in place of the destroyed scroll . This is not a remake , but rather , a deserving sequel , even without Karloff's presence , though I missed him here immensely . Mr . Tyler's portrayal was . . . well , not Karloff's , and it really shows . However , this was a good strong story which generates an eerie , creepy atmosphere with solid portrayals , a well-paced story and well-placed dialog . The soundtrack contributes to the atmospheric qualities in a way that heightens the suspenseful feel of the whole production . Wallace Ford lends to this work the comedic relief as the perfect balance to the dark , horrific atmosphere generated by the Mummy and those awesome sets . For 1940 , these sets are highly detailed and truly awe-inspiring if one can but look beyond the black and white , and see the richness beneath . Very nicely done . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun Mediocrity	This is not a home run in the Pixar / Disney Hall of Fame , but it IS enjoyable . RATATOULLE lacks soul , heart , and frivolities , which normally draw children and adults alike by the droves . This film is a romantic sort , as are most Disney animated features , with the Comedy factor omitted from the formula this time , and the movie suffers for it . It was only moderately interesting and somehow managed to be quaint without endearing itself to its target audience . Some adults will particularly like this due to the adult themes and elements , but the age group who are out there attempting to make it on their own like the lead character in this work , will not be attracted to this venue . This sad fact is negated ; however , by the fact that this film did only marginally less at the box office , than the widely loved ( and vastly superior ) Cars . It is further negated by the fact that RATATOULLE receives a user rating here at IMDb . com , which surpasses Cars by laps . Deservedly so , in my opinion . RATATOULLE is a wonderful film , but it lacked the magic of the rest of its line . All in all ? I sincerely hope this does not turn out to be the beginning of a trend into decline . It is fun at times , and interesting at times , but not ever both at the same time . You take your chances with this one . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not As Bad As People Say , But Not As Good As The 1930's Original .	Michael York IS this movie , first off . The atmosphere is competently generated and the story runs at a good pace . The makeup effects were adequate for the age , and the screenplay is superior . So what went wrong ? Barbara Carrera's part was , for the most part , wasted . As Moreau's most successful work , she should have enjoyed more character development and less " doe caught in the headlights " moments . Michael York was , at the time , vastly underrated as a leading man , although he carries it off brilliantly here . And finally , the color was a mistake . Like Mel Brooks's Dracula : Dead and Loving It , it would have played far better in black and white . Frankly , if you turn your color down and the contrast up a notch or two and watch either of these works in black and white mode , the enjoyment factor is greatly elevated . What went right ? Lancaster played his Moreau more casually , calmly . Instead of attempting to copy Laughton's over-the-top mad scientist routine , he did well as the good man gone awry . He proceeds with his experiments seemingly out of a genuine caring for understanding , rather than the old " because I can " or " ruling the world " ploys . The first half of this work is strong , atmospheric , and well done . The last half is more mechanical and plodding , though the first half does a long way towards carrying it all through to the conclusion . Frankly , this isn't as well done , or enjoyable , as the 1930's original , but it's light years above the 1990's remake . Oy Vey . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric but misses the mark	While this is not the utter bomb that " Alone in the Dark " was , it still left a lot to be desired . This movie had the advantage of carrying elements of both the psychological AND supernatural thriller , giving the makers an even chance for pulling off at least one half of the equation . Should one half fail , the hopes were that the other half would still carry the weight of entertaining the audiences . They were half right . There is a good atmospheric build up of suspense here and there , and some actual " boo ! " moments . But they are cheap thrills as the atmosphere is broken with each cheap scare and it never allows it to really go anywhere . The psychological aspect is interesting , but only from the purest clinical perspectives . The common movie audience will find it boring and over-done . It's simply a case of trying too hard in one aspect , and giving up dismally in the other . The performances here were not terrible . They were a bit stiff ; almost hesitant . I couldn't understand that , as this happened mostly in the most poignant scenes , going a long way towards bringing this down from my previous expectations . During the " filler " scenes where character development is at least touched upon , they are natural with one another . I found myself wondering what had happened with the rapport they had JUST had ? The effects are okay . Nothing spectacular or awesomely inspired . Just . . . mediocre . I was a bit disappointed , in case you can't tell . It wasn't horrible . I - was - entertained . . . almost . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
It's Not The Original Series , But It's Not Horrible , Either .	This is another generally despised Disney acquisitional work , which attempt to throw a fresh spin on an old favorite . The original features some of your favorite Mayberry bunch , while the remake features Uncle Fester and the less interesting idiot from Dumb and Dumber . The original 1963-1966 TV show versus . . . well , this . I can't say this fared well in comparison . Without the comparison , however , this is still only a children's movie , with little whatsoever to entertain the adults , aside from possibly piquing the grandchildren's interests in watching the old series , perhaps . The star of this work wasn't even one of the main players ! The star was Zoot ( voiced by Wayne Knight ) , " Uncle " Martin's talking space suit ! Frankly , Brian Henson's Muppets From Space , which bears the same feel as this work but is much more competent , is a much better endeavor , and more worth your time . I enjoy watching it from time to time , but purely from a nostalgic perspective . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Rides the coattails of MI1	It's an odd phenomenon , that of the box office . I'm finding as I have reviewed literally hundreds of movies here at IMDb , that those which gross highest at the box office aren't necessarily the highest rated films . That in itself is peculiar , in my opinion . Take for example , Mission Impossible 2 . It had an increased budget ( $125M as compared to MI1 which had a budget of $75M ) and took in $545M ( as opposed to MI1's $452M worldwide estimate ) , yet MI2 rates a 5 . 7 while MI1 rated a 6 . 6 among users here at IMDb . Isn't that interesting ? It made more money , sold more tickets , yet was an inferior movie . " Sequels , by definition alone , are inferior films . " Randy , Scream 2I found this work playful , innovative , and fun . It was not , however , as edgy or fresh as the first . MI2 tried too hard to be " hip , " or cool , and it just came off as another ghetto flick in spite of the stellar performances , well choreographed and executed action sequences , and interesting plot turns . This sequel obviously rode the coattails of its original in the hopes that MI1 was strong enough to carry a weaker installment . Obviously that tactic worked . My question is , " Will MI1 also be expected to carry MI3 ? " I surely hope not , or the next installment could be the death of the franchise . This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not What I'd Hoped For	This movie wasn't total let down . I had to say that at the onset . It wasn't as bad as some say . But it wasn't as good as it should have been , either . Jessica Alba . Unlike her curves , her performance was flat . That's all I have to say on it ; it was lacking . The story was the classic story , with a few adulterations , but nothing uproariously radical . It unfolded well , and didn't begin to fall apart until towards the end , when the performances stood alone and most of the action was over . I won't talk about the direction , because there really isn't a lot to talk about here . I also won't talk about the performances , mainly because with a sole exception , there really weren't any performances worth commenting on . The one bright light ? Ben . He was perfect in every detail . And the development and construction of his character and " look " was the one I was most worried about ! What a hoot , hunh ? It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Brainless Fun	I didn't expect much from this one , but comically speaking , it did surprise me a bit . Just a bit , but ANY surprise from a movie like this is . . . well , a surprise . I can't stand Rob Schneider , but here , he wasn't horrible . That's a first , trust me . Jon Lovitz was quite enjoyable as the diabolical megalomaniac . Frankly , this isn't anything but a baseball-centric feel-good movie , which minimally delivers the warm fuzzies , but does kick in a few Luke warm moments , overall . The laughs , however , are genuine , and while this work does fail in the heart department , it still manages to deliver good solid entertainment for SNL fans . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Off track .	Of the entire series ( aside , of course , from H3 : SotW ) , this is the only installment which went off track . The stupid , comedic sound effects to the police officers in the beginning scenes were ludicrous . This installment was treated as Dominique Othenin-Girard's personal play toy to do with as he / she saw fit . This is the same type of crap we were fed with Omen IV and no wonder ! He / She directed that garbage , too ! Now , I won't say this is garbage , but it does lack respect for the genre and for the franchise . It comes across as a spoof of the Halloween line rather than an installment OF it . The musical score with its carnival-like melody did nothing whatsoever for the atmosphere . Only Donald Pleasence and Danielle Harris ( the voice of Sierra in Father of the Pride and Jamie Lloyd in THIS work ) seemed to know this was a horror movie , much less a chapter of the Halloween story . But their stunning performances went a long way in the salvation of this otherwise botched directional attempt . And at times , even Danielle Harris fell prey to this director's ineptitude . The camera angles were horrid and the lighting was amateurish , further taking away from what atmosphere Donald Pleasence could manage to get going . Then that circus music would start up in the background and you would hear some idiotic sound effect better suited in a Saturday Morning cartoon and BAMM ! the atmosphere was gone again only to begin building to another nothing . The " teen ager " characters ( portrayed by people at least in their mid-twenties ) were so ill conceived and poorly developed that it made me happy to know they would soon die . These characters transformed this chapter into one of those horrible teen-ager clich'd horror movies where the victims are too stupid to listen to anyone and when they die , you're nothing but glad they've finally shut UP . Eventually , the sound effects and disgusting circus music stops and the movie begins to get more serious and atmospheric . Thankfully , by around the second act , the idiocy seems to be over ( for the most part but not entirely ) and most everyone seems to remember there was supposed to be a point to this whole . . . acting thing . ( The cops NEVER seem to achieve any state of professionalism ; not professional police officers and not professional actors PORTRAYING professional police officers . ) After the unnecessary gratuitous sex scene in this " horror " movie , or rather during it , we begin to get down to business . Imagine it : Michael Myers with a plethora of farm implements ! And by the time our heroine finds out there really is a problem ( as IF everyone and their brother haven't been telling her there was a problem all along ! ) , of course , she and Jamie are right in the thick of it . And when the killing starts , the effects are crap . The splatter effects are practically nonexistent which is fine by me , but someone ought to tell Gerard that in lieu of these effects there should be some sort of substance ; a shadow of the killing rather than the actual killing itself , when the budget is too low to afford realism . Something ! All in all , I suppose it's not too bad . But this one is a far cry from the rest of the series even with Danielle's excellent performance . Of course , this installment also creates a rift in later continuity , as Jamie tells Michael , " You look just like me , " but in both earlier and later chapters , he looks nothing like her . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Giallo with Depth . . . Not bad , But Not Great . . . At All .	Hi there . I'd like to start this by saying that there were a grand total of four ( that's 4 ) people in the theater where this was showing . Too true , that it was the 4 : 30 PM showing on a Monday , but all things considered , there were 2 couples , one of which I was half , and that was IT . Honestly , depending on the mood , that can take away from a movie as much as it can add to one . Overall , " The Ruins " runs like a beefed-up alternate version of King's previous skit , " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill , " in which Stephen King himself takes on the part of Mr . Verrill . It is a segment in the original " Creepshow " of the 1980's . You may remember it . . . a meteor crashes onto a nice bit of farm land and suddenly everything ( and every ONE ) is covered in a green Chia Pet-like substance , until finally it takes over all life . That's basically what you have here , only without Stephen King or a meteor . Well , that COULD be true , except we are not given a beginning ; nor are we given an ending . We are never told how the killer topiary ( of which King seems to have a fondness bordering on obsession - see The Shining , Lisey's Story , Creepshow , etc . ) comes to be on this planet . Moreover , we are never clued in to the choice of location , and we are never given a proper conclusion to the excerpt they branded as , " The Ruins . " In between the non-existent beginning and the non-ending , the excerpt we ARE given is entertaining , but in a total " The Mist " kind of way . I say that because of the level of despair generated by the work itself . While the endings are vastly different , the meat of these works is similarly defeatist , yet at the same time , they offer hope for those with the desire to find it . This work seems convoluted and abridged . . . like a short story , which wasn't quite finished before its commitment to film . It leaves the viewer wondering how one third of a movie made it onto film in the first place ? All in all ? This is great entertainment for thriller fans , the horror element , and what seems like a good conceptual idea , although it is not developed adequately to allow us to really know . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Well Done , But NOT Great !	I do not understand why this original is rated higher than the remake . The remake , in my opinion , is much more enjoyable than this original . The pacing in this film is terrible ! It is so slow and has long blocks of uneventful meanderings , such as to put One to SLEEP ! This is a horribly dated spy vehicle centered around the old cold war between France and Great Britain , which seems intriguing on the surface , but it delivers SO LITTLE intrigue as to render the entire production boring and ultimately kills any quality of enjoyability it might otherwise engender . I hated it , though it does appear to be the favorite in the original vs . remake war . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Too blustery and overblown to be entertaining	This remake of the 1938 Cruze film of the same title , seems rather over-wrought , pondered too deeply , and executed with an epic stylization which this work frankly did not deserve . While it is entertaining for a while , about half way through , you realize that the story , while poignant , is grossly overdone . So much so , in fact , that it virtually falls apart right before your eyes . " Those five points is a finger . When I close my hand , it becomes a fist . " Well duh ! With " winning " dialog like that , what ever made me think it was trite ? ! DiCaprio is more than adequate in his portrayal , but this film honestly did not rate his efforts . Anyone could have played the part of Amsterdam Vallon just as well . While I am not a fan of DiCaprio's , I find that I am a fan of his work . His style is honest and forthright , giving both fans and casual viewers a frank and easy avenue through which to appreciate his work . But as I said , this work did not rate his performance , as it was too blustery and overblown to be entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inspired , But Lacking	Darkness Falls is an inspired modernization of an old fairy tale , with great monster effects by Stan Winston . Most fairy tales come from a darker source , so the idea of taking an older fairy tale back to its origins and adding in a new twist , is NOT new ( Ever After , Snow White : A Tale of Terror , the Brothers Grimm ) . But it IS every bit as good as those aforementioned works , though widely less appreciated . It is my opinion that the cause for this movie's plight springs from the actual base source material , rather than a result rendered by a lack of talent , story , action , or quality . This work concerns an innate fear of the dark . . . and the tooth fairy ; albeit a rather nasty incarnation of the beloved childhood icon . . . But the term " beloved " does not actually work where the tooth fairy is concerned , as it does for say . . . Santa , the Easter Bunny , or Mother Nature . I believe this is the sole reason for this movie's failure to please . Oddly enough , I have to say " to please , " as this work did NOT fail at the box office . Unfortunately for Skye McCole Bartusiak , this phenomenon also scarred " Boogeyman , " which followed 2 years later ; Alone in the Dark ( also 2 years later ) ; and that wonderful Robert DeNiro / Dakota Fanning collaboration , Hide and Seek , also of 2005 . While the subject matter of these films is different from that of Darkness Falls , the attitudes generated by Darkness Falls negatively impacted those other works , causing a general sharing of those attitudes by casual movie-goers , who almost unerringly expressed feelings of " more of the same , " where these movies were concerned . But . . . at the end of the day , what really matters is how relative the viewer feels in relation to the movie's story line and character development . As a child , I had a closet-dweller - - - an under-the-bed - " gotcha , " so Boogeyman was ( for me ) , at least a familiar fear with which I could identify . Most young children afraid of the dark will tell you that it is not so much the dark itself they fear , but rather what is IN the dark . This work adequately depicts one possible antagonist , which could be IN the dark , and while unlikely , it IS creative in its concept and adequately executed . All in all ? If you had ( have ) a fear of the dark , or of what is in it , this may strike a familiar chord , rendering this work more personally frightening that it will be for a viewer without that fear . All that having been said ; however , I personally know no one who is afraid of the tooth fairy , before or after having seen Darkness Falls . I was , on the other hand , entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Endearing Feel-Good Horror Comedy	Gremlins is one of my favorite horror comedies in that it boasts some endearing characters , innovative ideas , and excellent execution of story . While this is definitely not for fans of all ages , the exception being younger children , most everyone else will enjoy this fast-paced , twisted romp into the netherworld of magickal , mystical beasties and their lore . Set in what was then contemporary America , and peopled with the popular young actors of the day , this work exhibits some of the same teenage appeal as did most 80's movies , but with the added draw of lovingly created monsters and characters . It is great fun , if somewhat darkling in consideration , although to watch it today , it is rather dated . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric , But Predictable .	David Callaway's ( De Niro's ) wife has committed suicide , and his daughter ( Fanning ) is not handling the aftermath very well , so he moves them to the country in upstate New York in an attempt to gain a new start from recent events . Emily ( Fanning ) begins an association with an " Imaginary friend " whom she calls Charlie . But is Charlie imaginary ? You'd have to ask Emily , who is the only one who can see Charlie , as things begin to start happening around the house . As they progress from bad to worse , and then grow completely out of hand , a final climactic deadly game of Hide and Seek begins . The script here is adventurous and daring , unfortunately , it appears to suffer weak direction . J . Polson does not have the experience to draw upon in order to break this work out of the mire of normalcy , and ( while not glaringly obvious ) it shows . He is adept at tension building , but the subplots and outlying elements seemed to throw him for a loop . He shies from taking the necessary chances , or doing anything which will call attention to this film , be it good , or bad . While you can enjoy this work , it could have been so much more . De Niro was good , but his performance was the one factor with which I had real problems . I know that De Niro is better than this . I know that he can DO better and BE better . I've seen him in countless brilliant performances . But this was just not one of them . I don't blame De Niro . I blame the direction elements ( or rather , lack thereof ) which I mentioned earlier having to do with shying away from taking the necessary chances . It seemed as if De Niro was restrained in his undertaking of this role . I know he could have been much more dramatic and exhibited much more caring towards the daughter . He was withdrawn , lackluster , almost hesitant in letting out his " inner animal . " Knowing De Niro's performances as I do , I have to blame this on direction . Otherwise , the father would have been tender , and the dark side would have been diabolical . As it is , the father was stolid and clinical and the dark side walked up to the bell , but was afraid to pick up the hammer and ring it . Although satisfying , the ending was shaky . It didn't seem to know if it wanted to be a horror or a drama . It felt rather anti-climactic but the twist was completely astonishing , as this was more a re-telling of Identity with a weird mix of The Sixth Sense thrown in for good measure . The camera usage was stylish ; the angles and lighting weren't anything inspired , but were instrumental in helping to set the mood . The score was committed to the background , and was better left there , as it contributed nothing memorable to this work . I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed Dakota Fanning's work . I thought she was quite the professional in that her portrayal felt naturally realistic . This work has some extremely dark and suspenseful moments and in spite of its shortcomings was still entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
What Can I Say ?	I grew up on Nancy Drew , Hardy Boys , and the Three Investigators book series . I was experiencing trepidation about this film anyway , but the character has undergone a whole and complete transformation and now she's a dogless Penny of Inspector Gadget fame . Nancy Drew was an investigator of mysterious circumstances , not a gadget laden , pint sized super hero . Okay , I liked this movie , but like Roland Emmerich's Godzilla , it shouldn't have been a namesake movie . As a great kid's movie empowering young ladies with the desire to become more intelligent and capable , this is a fantastic step . BUT . . . as a Nancy Drew movie , I can't endorse this endeavor . Nancy Drew was NOT Ned's Super Ex-Girlfriend , she was a kid ; an intelligent beyond belief kid , yes . . . but a kid not Wonder Woman in a training bra . It's great , but not as a Nancy Drew movie . Oddly though . . . I hope they do make another one . I enjoyed it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Seems to have missed its mark .	Curmudgeonly Jack Nicholson softens to his world in this lovely piece of dramatic drivel . I'm not into dramas so I can't say I enjoyed this as much as most who would bother to review it . Aside from that , however , I find this well written , affectionate , and in possession of heart and soul . Helen Hunt is sweet and natural in her portrayal , but then again , I usually DO like her . This work is entirely story driven , and , as a result , spends a lot of time on character development , story enriching sub-plots , and an elevated overall execution of the dramatic element . Nicholson is as good in the dramatic roles as he ever was . His adroit dramatic talents are what make his horror / action attempts so good . This movie is supposed to teach you that love and matters of the heart should rule the day . For me , though , it seems to have missed its mark . It seems to me that without money , the " miracles " of this film could not have taken place . So rather than teaching that heart is the answer , it teaches that money is the answer , for without money , nothing Nicholson's character wanted to do for ANYone would have been possible . Otherwise , it was moderately entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Has Heart , But Not Much Else , Yet Retains Its Enjoyability In Spite Of Itself .	This was one of those funny-DUMB movies that many of us secret away as a guilty pleasure . I found a lot of warmth of character . . . downright heart , if you will . . . in this film . I'm not a big fan of the Wayans ' work . I haven't been since the close of " In Living Color , " but I catch myself admiring a performance here and there , such as Keenan Ivory Wayans ' performance in Glimmer Man . This film , superficially , appears to be pointless except to provide mindless entertainment to the masses . But beneath that , there is sufficient meat into which viewers may sink their teeth , and which will serve as inspiration to those who have been downtrodden , regardless of the degree . The performances herein are adequate , and the comedy is well timed , if mindlessly juvenile enough to make you inwardly cringe . While this was billed as a spoof of the latest rash of superhero movies , Blankman delivers a geeky hero who saves the day , gets the girl , and warms your heart . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautifully tragic performances bolster this otherwise sad and irredeemable screenplay .	Beautifully tragic performances bolster this otherwise sad and irredeemable screenplay . This is probably one of the best ( and most disturbing ) performances to come out of Cage before , or since . I generally enjoy his movies , but this individual performance tops them all , in my opinion . The screenplay is disturbing , in that it aptly and tragically , depicts the life of an alcoholic , and the woman who enables him . Frankly , it was done so well , I had little interest in a first viewing , and no interest in subsequent viewings . The irredeemability factor enters when one realizes that this work does not attempt to uplift , entertain , or teach , but rather focuses on the addictive behaviors of a full-blown alcoholic . Life's just too short . If you've never lived with an alcoholic in the house , then this would be educational . If you're living in a fantasy world , where your life has never been touched by a chronic alcoholic , then you may derive some measure of entertainment from this film . Me ? I was just saddened by the work , itself . All in all , this is worth viewing if only to enjoy Cage's " breakthrough " performance . Otherwise , you may want to pass this one up . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Gritty Enough For Mike Hammer , But Fine For TV .	The only problem with this movie series was the Made4TV factor . Mike Hammer was a rough-n-ready detective , much like the old Cannon series cross-bred with Sherlock Holmes , with a little New Yorker thrown in for good measure . The M4TV movies just couldn't do all that and still get the general audience clearing they needed for their time slot . They are therefore , lacking in edgy toughness needed to perpetrate a full on assault of the senses one would expect from this franchise . Stacy Keach , however , is the epitome of perfect casting . He was the absolute best actor for this role . I always enjoy these movies , regardless of their downfalls . This one rates a on the M4TV scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Vastly Dated , But Great Fun . . . In Spite of Bava's Involvement	I found this work to be highly enjoyable . In spite of the age of this work and the total lack of anything even remotely Eye-Candy qualifiable , I was able to enjoy this production . Hercules looked like Hercules . The screenplay itself was based on ( however loosely ) two MUCH older plays written by Sophocles ( circa 495 BCE ) and Aeschylus ( c . 525-456 BCE ) , and attempts to regale us with a Herculean tale of myth and magic . I found it fun in spite of its age , and the story ( while virtually unrecognizable from the original sources ) was coherent and adventurous as it takes you from beginning to end . There wasn't anything plodding about this . It was quite entertaining . Not " rousing , " but entertaining . The story itself is fun and frothy bolstered with energetic performances , costumes so obviously new as to make you chuckle , and sets done in the same way . You'll even recognize a few stock sets used in about a hundred movies from the same era . I've NEVER been a fan of Mario Bava's film style . His dizzying angles and in-and-out focus is nauseating . Thankfully , he left those ( the most annoying of his pitiful repertoire ) out of this film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not As Bad As Some Say	This is another unfortunate jaunt into the world of Comic Book Land . I wasn't in a hurry to see this movie . I've seen the Matrix . This was not the Matrix ; however . It is dark , stars Keanu Reeves , and even has some of the same " feel " as the Matrix , but this story is completely different . Although I was disturbed by the not-so-latent homosexuality of Satan , I found it quite enjoyable . KR plays his part well and Rachael Weiss is excellent as the supporting female lead . I have no qualms about this adaptation , or this production as a whole . The art of adapting comic books is quite difficult and requires a real understanding of the universe from which you are creating a new work . This attempt left me feeling like well , at least they tried . While it lacks the dynamics of the X-Men franchise , it is far more bold than other substandard comic book / video game lines ( Daredevil , Hulk , Doom , Streetfighter ) and pulls itself up well with no support from anywhere except the DC comics upon which this is based ; specifically , " Dangerous Habits , " the edition in which John Constantine contracts lung cancer and then negotiates his way out of it . Check out the nod to Alien 3 with the " dog-alien " face lick and what appears to be a little bit of the musical score from that same movie . I really enjoyed Constantine and can't wait to own it on DVD . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun and suspenseful actioner	Excellent action , intense suspense , and a great action / comedy story line . This is an excellent fast-paced action / comedy . I truly enjoyed all aspects of this production , from the screenplay to the set design . Russell and Stallone turn in top notch , professional work in this enjoyable endeavor . While the action was good , fluid , and well executed , the movie never once loses its main focus : that wonderful plot . The plot is extremely well written . While there are two major flaws to the credibility of the story line , I found this attempt to be at least as good as Lethal Weapon 2 . I found this production to be innovative , fun , and highly entertaining . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element , and , even though at times , director Andrei Konchalovsky does turn to juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us , the comedy was mostly about as intelligent as you can expect from Sly and Russell , and expertly-delivered . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Overdone 90's Fare .	This is a 1993 straight-to-video stereotypical female - cop - has - to - show - her - stuff - to make-it-to-the-top movie . The action is written into the script AND it is executed . . . kind of . Traci Lords isn't my idea of an action star . Yes , she has done plenty of action parts , and even does a decent job as Anna in Len Wiseman's Underworld and also contributes a fair performance as Chameleon in Black Mask 2 , but I never could wholly buy her as an action star . She doesn't fit the bill , and for me , her presence lessened what enjoyment there COULD be had in this endeavor . Not her performance ; that is as good as she gets , but her presence . But this is typical of the 90's . It is overdone , the performances are over the top dramatically , the dialog is trite and contrived , and the action is choreographed so that no one actually touches ANYone in the hand-to-hand scenes . The mafia , gang , and cop stereotypical elements are too prolific to enumerate and really drag down the story , such as the story was . There IS some enjoyment to be had , if you're into late 80's , early 90's M4TV or Str82Video Movies . Directed by Chameleon , whose last " real " movie was . . . wait . Oops . I can't say he has made anything worth mention . But if you like this , he also directed A Time To Die ( 1991 ) , also starring Traci Lords , and not any better than this one . This one rates a on the TV / Video Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable Idiotic Indiana Jones / Swept Away Wannabe	Well , after the hoopla of the Madonna / Penn train wreck , I've watched this again . Don't ask , I was bored ! But in all honesty , this film isn't as bad as critics said at the time . This is actually quite cute . Richard Griffiths ( Harry Potter's Uncle Vernon ) makes an appearance , and helps even out Madonna's lesser performance , if only a bit . Penn , on the other hand , is great , if ill at ease with the dialog and Madonna's presence . It seems unfortunate that he chose to costar alongside his wife to be , as instead of uplifting her talents , it merely drags his down . This is fun , but Indiana Jones , it ain't . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Reminds One of a Plethora of Other Creative Children's Movies , But Still Enjoyable .	I wanted to score this one higher . I waited to write this review in the hopes that my mind would find something delightful to write about it in the interim . Unfortunately , Alex Rover's character is just too reminiscent of Kathleen Turner's Joan Wilder from " Romancing the Stone , " to feel creative . These characters are too close , actually , right down to the imaginary hero , not wanting to travel , and turning out to be up to the adventure , after all . They are both novelists , both live alone ( aside from their imaginary heroes ) , both go to save someone , and both end up being saved themselves , which leads us to the plot . . . A young girl , Nim , is left alone by her father , on a remote tropical island in Monsoon season ( ? ! ) . The left " Home Alone " thing has been overdone to the point of clich , and if this man were raising his daughter anywhere in the US , he would have already lost custody . Her misadventures are minor and uninteresting , though the actress herself ( young Abigail Breslin ) is a delight . I expect great things from her in the future . Jodie Foster ( Alexandra Rover ) is as good as ever , too bad she gave so much of herself to this part . . . the screenplay really was not worthy of her performance and the character , even with her more-than-worthy contribution , was rehashed . There are some good elements , and if you haven't seen Home Alone 1 , 2 , and 3 or Romancing the Stone , you may enjoy it and find it entertaining enough to own . However , if you're like most of us , this is going to remind you of one too many other movies , and you'll walk out yawning from boredom . What should have been magical , was mediocre . . . a real pity . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Creepy and Atmospheric but not scary	This is touted as one of Carpenter's best ; the epitome of his genius . I disagree . In my opinion this is a lesser work for which he may only take of the credit . ( Very loosely ) Based on Lovecraft's Mountains of Madness , this work was written by DeLuca who is only marginally talented . In my opinion , the atmosphere was wrong for anything more than a horror / comedy . This work has some creepy moments , but nothing out of the nightmare that is Lovecraft . The effects are passable , but did little to generate the feeling of outright dread necessary to subscribe to the Lovecraftian style . Nor did the effects come of as anything special when dealing with the " demons " from the other side of the dark veil within the black tower . I mean . . . let's face it : they were not as well developed as the " dark overlords " from Howard the Duck ! If you want good Carpenter I suggest Halloween 1 & 2 , the Fog , or Assault on Precinct 13 . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inept screen writing drags Reign into the mud	Frankly , For $95M , I Expected More . . . Like Perhaps Some Resemblance of a Script ? ? I really do not know what these people were thinking . I looked and I read a $95 M budget for this movie ? ! Obviously , this immense budget was directed towards the effects , because the acting lessons and screen play were terribly neglected . The premise has mankind involved an " Independence Day " type conflict . It's them or us . This time , " They " are the denizens of Dragon Kind . The dragons featured in this movie are fire-breathers who feed on humans for sport . They are also " western " dragons , for those of you who know the difference , and extremely well done . I was so impressed with the DRAGONS ! Mankind vs Dragons in an all-out war for the world . The possibilities were endless and I was very excited about seeing this on the big screen . The dragons featured are Black Dragons . Fire-breathers , as I mentioned before ; meat-eaters . Black Dragons were the perfect choice for this scenario , as this is how they are portrayed through legend to have behaved . Good thing for us there never were more than a few in existence at a time , or this could very well have been a history lesson . sighs So much for the studio hype . Unfortunately , the wonderful black dragons featured here are all there is to be impressed - with - in this attempt . The story is riddled with huge plot holes and the worst kind of contrivances . That , and the utterly infantile dialog were enough to send me home even though I had read the critic reviews concerning the serious lack of action . Because of those reviews , I was really looking forward to an ? intelligent ? thought-provoking film . I thought that finally there has been a great movie done with realistic Dragons and no comic book feeling to it ( by that comment , I refer to Dungeons and Dragons ) , when in reality this was a total waste of $95 M and nearly 2 hours of my life . Another minor problem I had with this movie was in the musical score . It sounded to me like it was written for an original episode of Cannon or Barnaby Jones . Then there was the gratuitous socio-phallic American-bashing . I'm sick of hearing that crap . The contradictions and plot holes are blatantly obvious to anyone who's seen the movie , so I won't bore you with them . To say that the plot was weak would be a gross understatement . The direction was seemingly adequate , when they remembered there were supposed to be Dragons in this movie , that is . There were some almost-creative anachronisms and a few innovations , but nothing worth bothering to mention . If you're looking for a couple hours ' mindless fun , this is it . But for goodness sake , don't go into it expecting anything more than good Black Dragons and just ignore the rest of the trash filling in the time around their scenes . The best story element ; that of the Dragons coming into power , was completely ignored for a non-existent plot line . It rates a , and that's only because the Dragons are great . the Fiend : .
Another Over-rated 80's Feel Good Flick	I can't say I hate this work , but I definitely think it's just another over-rated feel-good flick from a lost era . It has its cute elements , some good moments , and an overall entertaining story , but if you weren't in high school in the 1980's , or aren't in high school now with a longing for the 1980's , you'll find this one boring , dated , clich as all heck , and a bit contrived , trite , and long-winded . It rambles in its sugar-coated sweetness , headed seemingly nowhere , going nowhere , and landing you nowhere for your trouble . It does have its entertaining moments , some sweet moments , and some good elements , but they deliver little pay off for your trouble . I can't say I love it , but I don't totally hate it , either . I WAS a kid in high school in the 1980's . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Cute RomCom , Nice But Overdone Premise	This is not an original premise , nor is it an original movie , but it IS sweet , funny , and entertaining . I enjoyed this flick , though it is only a flick , and it does have some cute elements . While this IS just another RomCom , it aptly entertains anyone whose mindset is to enjoy and / or seek out this type of movie . If you're already in the mood for a PG-13 romantic comedy about a shy biochemist and a shy biologist who dabble in love through alchemy via a Gypsy's love potion , then this is definitely the movie for you . On the whole , it rates a . As a RomCom , it rates a . That's an average of 5 . 8 from . . . the Fiend : .
Darker , but more hollow .	Did anyone else notice that Chucky has taken on a somewhat Jack Nicholson-esquire-ality about him these days , and perhaps because of that element , we learn right off that we must not fck with the Chuck ! This time , in a military prep school , Andy is the hero , instead of the victim . What I like most about these movies is that they do not attempt to recreate one another . They play like one , long movie , when played back to back . This installment is no exception , and a deserving sequel . However , I somehow did not care for this movie as much as the first two . It is modernized , and they tried a bit bigger budget here , which spoiled the camp of the first two . They tried to add more of the suspenseful aspects of the originals to this one , and in My opinion , they fell a bit short in doing so . It does , however , have a darker feel and there is more gore ( one of the sequel rules ) , but somehow it just falls a little beneath the others . I think perhaps that it is due to the vulgar language used by Chucky . It makes him come of as an obnoxious bad little child , rather than the serial killer / voodoo bocur he was in the first two . It degrades his character's worth and makes it appear superficial , rather than the deeply disturbed psychopath who is trapped in the body of a doll , and is slowly going insane from the frustration given to him by Andy in the first two installments . I mean . . . what guy wouldn't go insane from the total lack of their wedding tackle ? The added darker elements should have made this one a better endeavor , but for Me , there's something missing . But it's still enjoyable , suspenseful , and even tense at times , with a darker atmosphere . from . . . the Fiend : .
This was like dinner in a good restaurant , but with a bad server .	This is a story well told . It does run overly long and is painfully dull at times , but the story itself is pretty interesting . Nixon is president and the Klan rules the times . George Wallace is governor of Alabama and the Soviet Russians have had enough of the American propaganda showing that every American has a car , every family has a house , and most people really have nice clothes . In the struggle for world nuclear supremacy , the ( then ) Soviet Union rushes to beat the US in the nuclear arms race . I won't detail the story as so many already have , but this is pretty compelling even in the slowest times , although there are an unfortunate number of those slow times . The principals herein carry off the accents well enough , although the overall feeling this story should have conveyed does not manifest itself until near the final act . All in all ? This film is not for Friday or Saturday night viewing . This would serve better as an educational demonstration of Cold War attitudes , practices , and principles . For us , it felt more like a history lesson than entertainment . This wasn't fun and the drama doesn't work its way into suspense until just before the end , regardless of the sheer volume of the score . The movie runs slowly and dully until right at the end , and then it tries to win you over after all that abuse . It's like dinner in a good restaurant but with a bad server who comes along at the end of a good meal but having given horrid service , and then asks you if there was anything else they could do for you in an attempt to get an unearned tip . And just like I don't tip those servers , I can't say I enjoyed this film . I must also interject that I like to think that were this an American crew , they would have received the recognition they so deserved . This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Surprisingly atmospheric indy .	For a " B " movie , this attempt really RAWKED . If you're into the Werewolf legends , and a fair share of gore , this is gonna be a must-see for you . The suspense is wonderful , and the musical score is far better than anything you'd expect from a production such as this . The story and dialog are extraordinarily realistic lending an almost desperate believability to this attempt . The performances were realistically done by all . I was most impressed with the quality of energy these guys gave to this work . Quite honestly , I figured , " Yeah , yeah ; another crappy little nothing movie everybody loves and I'll detest . " I'm glad to report that I was wrong . This movie was a delightful surprise , filled with suspense , atmosphere , action and wolves . Lotso ' werewolves . Just excellent work all around . Even the werewolves look good , along with the blood effects . I was honestly impressed . Some critics have labeled this work as " ridiculous . " That almost put me off giving this one a chance . I am glad I did not listen . To those who have lost the ability to believe , then it may be ridiculous . But for those of us who still have an imagination , movies like this can be entertaining ventures into the myth that once was legend . You never notice the lack of budget . At least , I didn't . Not once . On My " B " scale , this rates an . On My " A " scale , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Bad . . . If They Hadn't Named It , " The Fog . " Otherwise , a 7 . 8	As a remake of Carpenter's , " The Fog , " this is probably one of the worst remake / sequels I've seen . There are too many key elements from Carpenter's original work , which have been left out , written around , and / or ignored . As a stand alone movie ( a movie all to itself without any comparison to any previous work ) , I find it well done and highly intriguing and would rate it near a . But . . . it IS a remake and not a stand alone movie , and that is what this review intends to reflect . The first thing you notice is that Elizabeth and Nick now know one another . In the morgue scene when Elizabeth is accosted by the corpse , in this version Nick doesn't witness the near-mugging and therefore has to be convinced that Elizabeth is not only sane , but truthful ! Poor little Elizabeth is crying out for the attention she never received from her mother , blah blah psychobabbly blah . Nick now has a sidekick who is a PC nightmare . And on top of the other inconsistencies , the two parts formerly played by mother and daughter ( Janet Leigh and Jamie Lee Curtis ) are now portrayed by two lesser actresses whose CHARACTERS are mother and daughter . If this was meant to be an homage , it was a wasted attempt , in my book . Also among the myriad of rewritten material , Elizabeth is the one who discovered the truth about the town's forebears , instead of the priest . I guess they had to satisfy contractual screen time obligations . Elizabeth is now written into an unextraordinary love story subplot , not with Nick ( well , sorta , but it's such a mess ! ) , but with the spirit / ghost of Captain Blake ! And Steevie Waye no longer remains at her post during the besieging of the town by The Fog , but instead shows herself to be a gutsy single mom who would die for her kid . The fact that Elizabeth and Nick are now not strangers , but old flames , apparently eliminated the need for character development . Speaking of these characters , they are standardized , generic , cookie-cutter , cardboard cutouts of some of the worst stereotyping I've seen since Zorro , the Gay Blade ! The casting choice of Selma Blair as Steevie Wayne was less than brilliant . While I enjoy her performances ( and this one is no exception ) , her voice could not begin to rival that of Adrienne Barbeau ! Her going after her son instead of Nick and Elizabeth being the sole people looking for him was just another stereo-typically based contrivance to satisfy Selma's screen time obligations by getting her character OUT of that light house and into the town where she could get more camera time . Maggie Grace is NO Jamie Lee Curtis , and Cole Heppell turned in a performance inferior to that of Courtland Mead's in King's lesser remake of , " The Shining ! " Cole has , in fact , even worked on prior Steven King installments of the Dead Zone . Go figure . DeRay Davis plays " Spooner , " an ebonicized slacker with a street name stolen from , " I , Robot , " and tacked onto a ghetto personality for " color " and comedic effect . Some social program MAY have procured the role for him , but if that is the case it didn't do him any favors . His character was completely superfluous to this work . His was not even a decently written peripheral character . I have to say that I LOVED the effects ! I have really looked and I cannot find one instance of badly edited footage or unrealistic CGI ! It's just too bad they were done for this . And after all that , the worst thing is that this remake fails to follow the novel any more closely than Carpenter's version did . While it may be enjoyable , it's NOT The Fog . The worst quote of the movie ? DeRay Davis's Spooner shouting , " Well leave my family out of this ! We're from Chicago ! " This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Qute As Open-Minded As The Bigfoot Documentary , But Still Fun To Watch	This episodic documentary begins by showing you all the locals who have reportedly seen the Chupacabra . Then they go systematically through the evidence , disputing the evidence , and arguing a case against the Chupacabra . I thought this was a biased report , which left little room for interpretation of the evidence . The locals who were interviewed at the beginning of this piece , were irate and near riotous by the end of the report , with the doctor's release of their test results , which claimed that the Chupacabra was nothing more than a dog . The locals claim the scientists changed the remains of the captured Chupacabra and that the skeleton never looked like the one they gave back to them . It was compelling , but a little condescending towards the witnesses . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Low-brow comedy at its best	I can honestly say , this is the funniest of Rob Schneider's career . It's unintelligent , idiotic , stupid fun . Deuce Bigalow is the epitome of white trash . He's a professional fish tank cleaner who finds himself lion fish-sitting for a professional gigolo . When things to awry and Deuce needs some cash , he decides the only way to acquire what he needs is to follow suit and sell his " services " as a man-whore . The script is unintelligent , yet amusing . The portrayals are common stereo-typical banalities , the direction is uninspired , and the finished product is some weird kind of chemistry which completely belies the sum of its worthless parts . It's rude , crude , and socially unacceptable , but in some conflictingly enjoyable kind of way that I don't wholly understand . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Worth Watching - The Second Best in the Line , IMO	This was done pretty well , although I couldn't believe it was worldwide , as it failed miserably in generating the true " it's the end " feeling , but it has some nice splatter , an adequate amount of gore , and some good character development . The start shows all the easiest ways something like this could spread , and while it's completely messed up , I could almost see it all happening . Almost . But not on a global level . Personally , I consider this the second best in the line , with Dawn in the lead , but Night is classic and none of those following come close to the atmosphere of the original . All in all ? This is worth watching if you're a genre fan . If not , none of these will do much for you , really . But you'll never know , if you don't check them out for yourself . This is well written and well enacted , but you won't understand what's happening or why without first viewing the classic horror , George A . Romero's Night of the Living Dead . It rates a on the movie scale . It rates an on the Romero scale . It rates an on the splatter scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Remmington Steele Rip Off . . . Kind Of .	While I would like to say that I'm sure the producers of this work had no intention of ripping off that iconic television show , I'm sure any fans of the show will agree with me when I say that it did just that . Without the rip off factor , this work is quite cute . It's empowering to women , and demonstrates how the premise of Remmington Steele's whole premise could actually happen . And you thought it was silly ! Bah ! Whooopie is awesome in this feature , and really commands the presence of an executive , but just beneath that corporate demeanor , lies the bad-a$$ who beat the snot out of " Ray " in Burglar . In spite of that , I loved it . Though it'll never win even a nomination , it was fun . Whoopie ? Work more in FRONT of the camera ! I miss you ! This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Intriguing But Unfulfilling	It bore an interesting story , great hype , and good trailers , but the execution left more questions than it did answers . I was not satisfied with the way this movie asked the right questions , but delivered little to no true answers to those questions . I and those with me , had to ask why the film makers hadn't obtained the entire story before allowing the script to be written . While the subject matter appeared to be familiar ground ( Exorcist , et al ) , this was more a court room drama than a horror movie , although there were horror elements . It's simply another church vs . science vehicle , which delivers some good moments , but on the whole , it was lacking . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
What Was Done , Was Done Well , But HP5 Does Not Even BEGIN To Live Up To Its Potential ! !	I wanted to love it . I have anticipated this movie for several years , now , but I have to say I was terribly disappointed by this installment of the blockbuster Harry Potter franchise . This was one rich novel , and one horribly chopped-up film ! It's almost as if the director was handed a few sequences and told , " Make a movie , " and the remaining of the book were left unattended . If you have no emotional investment in the franchise , and are simply a fan of the movies and not the novels , then this movie will be adequate in propelling the story into the next installment . If you ARE a fan of the books ; however , you will discover that of the work is left to the book ! This work is nothing more than a shadow of its literary self . While the children are growing into fine young adults , and their performances are growing with them , the peripheral characters in this chapter are nothing better than lackluster , at best . As far as the kids go , I do have to interject that Dan Radcliffe has grown exponentially as an actor . He will have a brilliant career ahead of him , should he decide to follow this course . I can't wait to see where life leads him once the HP series is done and done . Emma's performances have grown over the years , as well . She seems more comfortable within her own skin , as Hermione , and Rup is growing up nicely . Dan , the world is your plum . . . just reach out and pluck it . Bonnie Wright just can't seem to get a handle on Ginny Weasley . Her weak portrayal seems to make Ginny's character more and more superfluous , installment by installment . If it weren't for the known storyline and her momentary importance therein , I would say the movies would be better without her . Her performances when she was younger , were more convincing and felt more real . Matthew Lewis is adequate as Neville . Frankly , I can't imagine anyone else who could portray the vacant look , wordless emoting , and complete lack of charisma any better than Matthew Lewis . If he didn't have at least SOME bearing on the outcome of Book 7 , we don't seem to need his character , either . His character's presence and on screen time seem to be dwindling , rather than building ; contrary to the books . Hopefully , if / when the time comes , he will be able to draw upon his experience as a child actor and enunciate around those prosthetic teeth ! You can barely make out what he says ! I'm also hoping he gets a grip on those bug eyes , and finds the ability to rise to the occasion , because in my opinion , he was much better an actor , when he was a younger boy . The " actor " he is now seems to be utterly out of place on the screen . Regrettably , Tom Felton had VERY little screen time , and I can't say I remember a single line , if he even had one . Evanna Lynch , on the other hand , had plenty of lines , lots of charm , and nailed Luna Lovegood's character quite well . Here's hoping she can keep up the pretense , long enough to finish out the necessity of her character . The Phelps twins got their shining moment , though not AS shining as one might expect due to the plethora of huge plot elements , etc . which were omitted , but it was adequate in its portrayal of the general feeling in Hogwarts at the time , though it did lack something , merely due to the writing , and in no way due to the twins themselves . They were awesome , as usual . I hope the next screenplay includes their presence , as the book did . Maggie Smith's screen time ( as compared to her character's word time in the novel ) was significantly less than what I felt it should have been . The best scene of the SERIES involving Minerva McGonagal was LEFT OUT / CUT ! But okay . They " had " to do that due to screen time obligations and contractual stipulations . I know . I know . All in all , it was the hatchet job done on this work that brings it down in my opinion . Performance - wise , you'll get about what we've come to expect from most everyone but the trio who are improved , installment by installment . Otherwise , the enjoyment factor was lessened by a lack of continuity , and the adaptational quality was zilch . Inconceivably , this installment enjoys a box office gross second only to the initial installment ! Just goes to show you how few people read , and how there's no accounting for taste . Read the book . You'll enjoy that immensely more than this film editor's wet dream . ALTHOUGH , what it DID show , it showed well . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Good Idea , But The On Screen Chemistry Wasn't There	This was a valiant effort by Tucker , in developing the formula he would later use with Jackie Chan . This character's behavior is identical to his later character of the Rush Hour line ( trilogy ? ) with one exception . . . he was still a bit in Ruby Rod mode from the Fifth Element . That fact alone lends at least some amusement to this almost " workshop " attempt between Charlie Sheen and Chris Tucker . Thankfully , Tucker hit in with Chan whose personality kicks it with Tucker's over the top , sometimes flamboyant , mostly big mouth style . Sheen played it too close to the vest . His character here is rather silent , but that's better than the few scenes in which he actually speaks , as Sheen's dialog delivery here will make most audiences cringe . It seems as though he's attempting the quiet brooding bad guy persona of Mel Gibson in the Lethal Weapon franchise , but Sheen just doesn't seem to pull it off . Nor does he pull off the " hip " bad boy persona he attempts on again and off again , throughout this work . Sheen must have been off his game here , as we all know that the bad boy is something he CAN do well . . or could , at least , when he was younger . This was filmed in , so I have to assume he was just off his game , as that was the heyday of his nefarious bad boy personal life . This work is still a bit entertaining , if you can manage to ignore Sheen , and just enjoy the fun story line , the awesome performance by Paul Sorvino and funny man Chris Tucker , and the somewhat decent action / comedy blend . All in all , if you're bored , this is a fun choice , but if you have to make time for it , it may be somewhat of a disappointment . It rates from . . . the Fiend : .
I , frankly , do not understand the confusion	Ellen Rimbauer's Diary clearly explains that there were Native American workers , an accident , a subsequent curse , and so the ground is soured as in the Mic Mac burial grounds in Stephen King's Pet Sematary . It also pointedly states that because of John Rimbauer's " sins , " atonement had to be made . " Build me to the heavens " was the house's price for that atonement . That the deaths started before the house was ever completed further substantiates the sour ground theory . The subsequent disappearances were a direct result of Ellen's bargain with the house ( and the ground upon which it lay ) , as these victims were taken and used as builders from " the other side . " The house had two distinct sides ; one that was here and one which was on the other side of the veil . Those victims built from that side , as Ellen's contractors built on this side , thereby giving the house the ability to morph itself by changing hallways , floor levels , etc . by manipulating the lay of the Veil . That idea was further explained in the actual movie , " Rose Red " when you see Emory's mother coming at him through the mirror . Mirrors are oftentimes used as portals ; gateways through the Veil . I did , however , have issues with this supplemental in that the movie goes out of its way to plainly document the passing of Rimbauer's partner , Posey . He passed Adam the Tom Nix hat and threw a rose to April who caught it before he hangs himself . In this work , however , those poignant details are forgotten , as if the actual body of work which this supplements was negatable . I realize that for some critics , that is true , but for a work which supports another , that is unforgivable . Of all the discrepancies and continuity errors to be found between the two works , those two details stand out the most , and pretty much kill the atmosphere built by the work . Otherwise , I found this quite informative , beautifully done , and praise-worthy considering what it attempts to do . Unfortunately , it didn't quite live up to its own expectations and thereby disappointed the fans who needed this necessary back-story to feel a kinship with the house and the story that is " Rose Red . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Quite Good !	Back in " the day , " Rutger Hauer had potential ; he could have been a contender . With the proper handling , he may have had a career as successful as Sly Stallone , for example , or Harrison Ford . Alas , but that opportunity is now gone . He has done far too many " B " stinkers ( though they arguably did not stink because of HIM ) for that opportunity to survive . After a while , two names became synonymous with the " bad B action flick , " Rutger Hauer and Eric Roberts . If you see those names , the channel is usually turned , and quickly . But , as I said in the beginning of this review , Nighthawks was done " in the day , " when everyone waited expectantly for Hauer to " be somebody . " His performance in this is exemplary , and this is ( in my opinion ) Sly's best performance as a cop , and he's played plenty of cops . To round out the trio , we have Billy Dee Williams in a pivotal role as Sly's partner , ergo the second good guy in the scenario , which involves a global terrorist ( Hauer ) and the New York detectives who are after him ( Williams & Stallone ) . All in all ? This features some great action , a few truly tense moments , a solid story , and believable dialog delivery ( something lacking in most cop flicks of this time ) . It was fun , interesting , and kept me watching . But in a word , this is dated , dated , dated ! but don't remake it , please ! Frankly , there were worse ( and better ) movies , which rate a remake . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Entertaining .	Martin gives a good Martin here . His performance is always special , especially with Goldie Hawn in the mix . This is a great film , lots of fun , and loads better than the original . Goldie put forth her best effort and you can definitely tell . Her classic beauty and style was more than evident . This is perhaps one of her better portrayals . Not her best , but towards the top . It was John Cleese who stole the show . This is a totally outrageously fun role to find him in . I loved his performance in this movie . He was hilarious , funny , witty , and endearing . This is not a fantastic movie . No one will nominate this production for much of anything . But it is a fun movie . I enjoyed it immensely , and it's far better than the 1970 original . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is more like it !	Finally , there is a good Leprechaun movie out there . Back 2 tha Hood is much superior to the entire rest of the line , combined . The kills are convincing , the Leprechaun makeup is much better , the camp is all but gone , and it almost . . . almost . . . acts like a real horror attempt . I don't know about anyone else , but I watch these movies for Warwick Davis . He's the man ! And while this was a much better finished product , there just was not enough of the man in this movie . Perhaps he was busy with Harry Potter 2 . But at any rate , he didn't get enough screen time to suit me . At least it seems like someone is trying a little harder with these movies . Since this was straight to video , I have no idea what the budget was ; whether it increased or decreased , but it appears to have improved . At least , the execution has . I'm tentatively anticipating a 7th installment . I rate it higher than most critics simply because this time , they tried . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Remarkable Acting , Compelling Story , Uneven Execution	Kevin Bacon is a " crystals and angels " spiritualist who leads a pack of teenage boys into the mountains , and then pulls some really weird stuff in an attempt to teach them to be men . Sean Astin is quite young here , and demonstrates his incredible acting talents , even then . In fact , all the performances are exemplary , and the story is interesting . The photography is absolutely beautiful , and even the score is wonderful . The rock songs don't seem to quite belong , but in the 1980's , that didn't seem to matter much to anyone . This used to serve as a motivational movie for me , but lately , I find I get more motivation from Monster Squad . For one , you do have to suspend your belief for prolonged periods , knowing all along that things would not have worked out as they did . All in all , it's a good Sunday afternoon movie , but not much more than that unless you're a film student . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Makes Me Question History	Danny DiVitto , Jack Nicholson and a slick production design are the main positive contributors to this work . The story itself does make one ponder history , in that it attempts to make one rethink the world , as remembered by survivors of that era . While some still stand tall and proud and proclaim Hoffa as having been the greatest champion of working Americans ever to walk the land , others still believe he stole millions from the pension and welfare funds of those American workers he represented . Was he the victim of conniving teamsters , gangsters , and government agents ? or was he his own worst enemy ? I guess we'll never really know , but one thing is sure : The saying , " Gone as Hoffa , " still applies today and probably will for at least two decades more . All in all ? It's not suitable for Friday / Saturday / Family viewing and should be watched only if you're a dedicated Nicholson fan , DiVitto fan , or an American History buff . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a decent movie . It just isn't a THING like the book . . .	As adaptations go , this movie is standard bastardized adaptation fare . Having been adapted from one of the very best novels Dean Koontz has ever written , this movie is the epitome of putrid sludge . I found the movie to be enjoyable . It isn't a bad movie really . I just can't figure out where , in this screen play , is Koontz's original literary work . Now , forgetting the teen-ager-oriented movies like Licensed to Drive , I typically like Corey Haim's movies . " the Lost Boys " and " Silver Bullet " were excellent movies , and so is this one . It wasn't his fault that the director , screen writer , and original author did not see eye to eye , and his performance in this movie was just as good as it was in the aforementioned movies I did like . However , the story told in this movie is so far from Koontz's original work that I am amazed he let it ride with his name still attached . The book is a masterpiece , and while I did enjoy this movie immensely , it was nothing like the book . The dog was genetically engineered to be the intelligence , and the monster was the genetic equivalent engineered to be the brawn . The monster will follow the dog relentlessly , wherever the dog goes , as it is not only trained to do so , but engineered to this task in order to allow the dog to lead it to its prey . The dog is the hunter , and the monster is the killer . They are a genetic assassination team , complete with an engineered psychic link , created by covert American underground government ; one of those three-letter associations which " officially " do not exist . The dog is freed and befriends Corey Haim's character . But since the government can't have the intelligence half of their prized assassination team loose like that , they loose the monster to find him , thereby endangering the boy , as well . But the dog , by this time , has developed a kinship with the boy , and must keep him safe , which means running from the monster each time he draws near . This , of course , is the " Reader's Digest Condensed Version " of the movie , and just a drop in the sea to the deep richness and quality of the original literary novel by Koontz . If you rent this movie and enjoy it , I highly suggest reading the book , " The Watchers , " by Dean R . Koontz . It rates an on the " B " scale . That's about a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Anarchist Comedy At Its Best	Many have compared this to the Kentucky Fried Movie , and while that IS an apt comparison , this runs more like the Grindhouse version of comedy . Also , there are so many versions of this particular work out there , I'm finding it difficult to rate the work . There is a sexier ( and subsequently naughtier ) version , which appears to be more a theatrical release , while the cleaner version includes skits left out of the racier version , which are not as funny as the " adult " skits they replace . Whichever version you watch , however , there is a ton of entertainment to be found . Whether you're in the market for a condom or trying to watch the nonexistent movie through numerous breaks , this is entertaining . I like it , though once you've seen it , you've seen it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Nostalgic Life Lessons On The Little Screen	Half-Pint . L This was probably one of the most popular series on television during its time . With endearing characters , heart-felt sentiments , and clever stories which were executed with laid back passion ( if you can dig it ) , this was one of those family shows for which many families would gather ' round the TV after dinner , to watch together . The series ran for only 9 years , but they were my formative years , so it kind of stuck with me . The lessons were every day social niceties , and sometimes the larger societal issues of the day would be raised and " Tigger'ed " to the floor , usually by way of either " Half-Pint , " or Michael Landon's character jumping into the fray with whatever nemesis there was to tackle . This was a wholesome show , which taught moral lessons through entertainment . We need more of these , today , I think . This was a period run , set in the settler and post-settler days of these here United States L , so I don't know if it is even possible for this series to become dated . Like the Waltons , anytime I catch an episode , it looks and feels just like it always did . This series rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
High Energy Endearing Christmas Fluff .	Fourth best of the Ernest Line . This is just plain silly fun . This isn't the smartest Ernest movie , but then again , none of them are exactly brilliant . They ARE fun , entertaining , and enjoyable , however , and this one is no exception . Something I do find interesting about this work , is the fact that Ernest's Jack Russell Terrier , and many other aspects of this film , seem to return in a wildly successful Carrey vehicle known as The Mask . Ineresting , that . Aside from that , this is a sweet , high energy , endearing bit of Christmas fluff . It isn't my favorite of this category of films , but it is among them . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mildly Silly Fun	While this is not an " awesome " movie , it IS entertaining and clean enough for the whole family . Eddie Murphy's declining career not withstanding , this is actually fun to watch . Although this work falls far from the Beverly Hills Cop tree , and does not quite match the quality of any of his pre-1995 films , it still holds some entertainment value , however mild it may be . It is a modernized version , of course , of Rex Harrison's 1967 classic , but without the charm , the sophistication , or the talent . Unfortunately , while this remake is fun , it is only mildly so , and really quite silly in a wholly unimaginative kind of way . Frankly , the best bit was Norm MacDonald's " Lucky " voice part . Eddie Murphy's best post-1995 roles have been voice parts , in my opinion ( Donkey & Mushu ) . The young actresses who play Murphy's daughters are great in their own rights ; Raven-Symone and Kyla Pratt , the latter of which continues on with this franchise long after the rest have bailed , creating a nice outlet for her own growing talents . Check them out . All in all , this is fun , if only mildly so , and totally silly . The kids will love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This One Is A Little Messy In Story , But Has Some Great Action Sequences !	If you are an archeology buff , a fan of historical fiction , action movies , spy movies , or Indiana Jones movies , you will probably like this production . Let's forget that the government of Greece would have the " Raiders ' " heads and the rest of them would be in prison until their corpses turned to dust for diving for any sort of treasure within a hundred miles of the Grecian coast . And forget that there is little to no archaeological worth whatsoever to be found within the reels of this attempt . Also , let's forget that a 135-lb woman with a 6 " wrist can not possibly HOPE to stop a shark swimming at a 45 mph velocity , with a punch to the nose ; that the game element is completely absent from this installment of this " game " series ; and that the " Bond " element , while still present , has been greatly reduced herein ( not an altogether bad thing ) . If you completely forget these features , facts , and elements , leave your logical mind at the door , and allow yourself to be led into this adventure , you may yet be able to enjoy this attempt . The sets are nice ; not as well done as the first , but the story line IS a coherent story with a decent plot and some great execution . Additionally , there was even a small smattering of character development dealing with Croft's aloof personality . Yes , ladies and gentlemen , this time Angelina Jolie actually got to ACT , which almost made this as fun an endeavor as the original . However , the sets were lacking , as were the effects , and do not miss the incredible disappearing parachute scene when they land on the barge . Now you see ' em , now you don't . It was incredible to me that they would leave the final cut this way , but I'm afraid the whole industry has gone more for the eye candy , and less for quality , recently . But the pre-landing portion of that scene was simply breath-taking . That was awesome , and I would love to try that myself , sometime . All in all , this failed to live up to the full potential of the possibilities . But I'll keep hoping for better in the third installment , " Laura Croft , Tomb Raider , The Quest for More Money . " I must interject here , however , that Ms . Jolie's hairstylist for this movie , should have been burned at the stake . Just a thought . There are several key elements for which I look in a movie . Did I learn anything , being the first . The answer is no . Was my imagination piqued , is the second . Yes , I have to admit that it was . Was I entertained ? Again , yes , I was entertained . The movie , while it held a few slow spots , did hold my attention , for the most part . And fourth , do I wish to see it again ? Yes . I found this movie to be entertaining , endearing , and more importantly . . . fun . This one rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Competent Remake Generates Good Tense Atmosphere .	Let's face it : The original of this movie was not the masterpiece of horror / suspense some critics now say . At the time , it was not considered anything special , but purists will rear their heads and bray every time an old horror " classic " film is remade . This update does not bear the same artistic feeling of the original , but in my opinion , that is a desirable condition . Personally , I prefer suspense in my thriller , over artistic camera angles and an over analyzed use of lighting . The update is primarily intended to modernize the setting and update the elements to a more contemporary tone , while generating suspense superior to the original . In all three aims , I believe this film succeeded , though it is still no masterpiece . It IS enjoyable , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Candy's best , but still a lot of fun .	John Candy has done some great comedies ; Only the Lonely , Uncle Buck , The Great Outdoors , to name but a few . And while this is far from his best , it is still great fun to watch . The premise begins with Candy as the screenwriter for a cheesy day-time soap opera . After receiving a bump on the head , he awakens to find himself caught in the script he has been writing . He is now one of his own characters and has to endeavor to find his way back to this alternate reality , or so it would seem . This premise is done well here , but was done far better ( and darker ) in " In the Mouth of Madness , " the horror production featuring Sam Neill . While I found this movie to be fun , as I said , it is not the best of Candy's films . I highly suggest " The Great Outdoors , " & " Uncle Buck . " " Summer Rental " wasn't bad , either . One of Candy's least known , yet better , films , in my opinion . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I thoroughly enjoy this installment , but because of the bears and their dialog , and not at all because of Murphy .	This is at least AS good as the original , but I have to say I like it more . The bear ( Bart ) is a delight , and upstages Murphy to a totally unintentional and therefore hilarious latitude . Actually , this installment is a tad smarter than the original flick , in that it gives the girls a little more screen time , and that's a good thing , but they spend the majority of that screen time on the WRONG sister , in my opinion , since Kyla Pratt is the sister who will carry on the series . I enjoyed this story far better and could therefore more easily ignore Murphy by virtue of the children actors and the trained animals . I thoroughly enjoy this installment , but mainly because of the bears and their dialog , and not at all because of Murphy . It rates a on the Family Movie Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Inferior , but enjoyable	The " Making of " documentary begins with these words by David Fincher . . . " I think that they knew that I had given my blood and my every milliliter of my sweat trying to make it work , but I guess that I just wasn't clever enough to come up with something that would really blow everybody away and be something completely different . " " It was just set up wrong to begin with . It was a very sort of bad period for us , in this film , because we were fighting a losing battle all the time . " That , in a nutshell , sums up the general consensus surrounding this movie . Alcatraz in space , just did not work . It still offers some good moments , but this was clearly NOT the sequel James Cameron had intended . With Aliens ( Alien 2 ) , he clearly set it up for Ripley , Newt , and Hicks to return to Earth as a family . It should have been Ripley and Hicks from then on out . Instead , Ripley is alone among a penal space colony , Newt died in transit ( a victim of a chestburster during the trip ) , and Hicks's life support had mysteriously given out . This script was quite bad . Jon Landau , Executive Producer of this project is quoted as having said , " I always felt that Alien 3 was a movie that initially , as a studio , we set out to make a Release Date and not a movie . I think along the way that changed , but that really set us back . " They were more concerned with the release date than the story , and unfortunately , that is a glaring reality when viewing this installment behind the first two . All that having been said , however , Sigourney Weaver is no less realistically believable ; no less professionally perfect in her performance than she was in both Alien and Aliens . In fact , the performances were lovely all around . It was the plot which was lacking . The story was not beneficial to the line , in any way . Especially in that they killed off Ripley , and thereby terminated their own franchise . This was sad , indeed , as the one to follow also lacked in depth and vision , but was a definite rise above this third attempt . It's the movie I wanted to love , but just couldn't . As such , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Clever Deception	Ally Sheedy is an absolute dream in this dark comedy surrounding an ex-wife who destroys her ex-husband's would-be career on the brink of its explosion . What results instead is a messy , complicated , near-bloody implosion , which generates a nice movie experience . Nice is as good as it gets , but there are worse ways for you to spend your time , as this is a delightful movie . It's not a gut-buster , nor is it a popcorner , but it IS intelligent and entertaining , with minor plot twists and turns you don't expect . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as good as some of the others , but still fun	The theme song is done by Tom Jones this time and the intro is underplayed next to Goldfinger , but is still done with panache . Connery seems too comfortable as Bond , and the other characters act as though he can do nothing wrong . Connery is surrounded by beautiful women , less gadgets and toys , and more action in the action scenes , this time around , and it just feels rehashed and overdone like a holiday ham . OH wait . That was Connery . This is the fourth installment of the Bond run , and Connery apparently identifies with the persona , I am sorry to say . His arrogance and over-posturing really does detract from the movie . SPECTRE is still at the forefront , and Bond gets to show off some new toys brought into the field by Q ( Desmond Llewellyn ) . Connery seems to like the toys and the power they represent , but alas ! this time , they are few in number , and seem uninspired in creation . But do note the jet pack at the opening of this movie . Also take note of Claudine Auger , who was Miss France , 1958 . Wow ! All in all ? This is fun , but not as fun as most of the other Bond movies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A very deserving sequel !	This is the movie which spawned Mini-Me . As sequels go , this movie is top row . It is an excellent sequel , with a professional cast , and hilarious dialog . I adore these movies . Scott Evil ( Seth Green ) makes these movies , in my opinion . His performances are endearing and funny , and make me laugh every time I watch them . ( And that's often . ) These movies are a most excellent diversion to the day to day challenges we all face . Mike Meyers is quite entertaining as a character actor , and I loved him in this almost one-man-show . This middle installment of the Austin Powers trilogy is one of the best of this run . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , and Jim's Last Ernest Film	Some say they hate this installment of the Ernest line , but let's face it . . . they only say that because Varney's now gone , and it's the least painful way to say , " Goodbye , " to Ernest . This isn't the best , but it's far from the worst of the line . Varney gives it his all , as he always did , and turns out a quality Ernest film for all the fans to cherish . As unlikely as Ernest P . Worrell would be in the Army , is how funny this film really is . This is quite entertaining , and makes for an excellent addition to any Ernest collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , unintelligent parody of the 007 line .	Having grown up during the cold war , I love the James Bond movies . I always have . Although I liked Timothy Dalton the least , there wasn't a James Bond I didn't love . And , while Pierce Brosnan is by far my favorite , I grew up during the Roger Moore era . That having been said , the ability to laugh at the things we love ( including ourselves ) is a gift . That's exactly what Mike Meyers gives us with these movies ; a gift . The disrespectful homage to a very successful run of movies is well done , and well received . I always laugh when I watch this one . It is an excellent parody and rates up there with " Spaceballs , " in my book . This movie is far from " witty , " but it is highly enjoyable . Top row , Mike Meyers ! This rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as wonderful as the first two , but still enjoyable .	This installment of an otherwise successful run of movies was the most contrived piece of garbage I've ever seen . They tried to explain the scar on Indiana's chin , his fear of snakes , his style of dress , and his love of all things arcane , in the first ten or fifteen minutes of the movie , and frankly , it just didn't work for me . As much as I loved the first two of these installments , this one just left me cold . After that ten minutes , however , things did get better . . for a while . I found Sean Connery's character's need to debase our hero , to be trite and just wrong . I hated it , in fact . I cared not for his ramblings , considering his son had all this field experience , and he obviously was more at home in a museum . Heck , at his age , he could almost be an exhibit . I really detested the way they used Connery to lower our estimation of Ford's character . I would have liked it better had they worked together , rather than having been written to constantly go at one another . It devalued the whole franchise for me . The whole movie was not awful , but this was the first installment with which I had any issues whatsoever . The next thing I found wrong with this attempt was that they went back to the Germans again , rather than moving on to something new . The relic for which Indiana Jones is searching is new , but the story was more of an attempt to redeem themselves after the gore of The Temple of Doom . I frankly did not mind the gore ; that story and execution of that story was excellently done . So , okay , it is the Germans again . Nothing we can do about that . And , again , the artifact is a Christian artifact . What with all the wonderful legendary relics of our richly documented mythological ancestries , why go back to something that has already been touched upon ? This is more like a remaking of the Raiders of the Lost Ark , than a new installment . What about the lost library of Alexandria ? What about Atlantis ? What about the Bermuda Triangle ? Stonehenge ? The Isle of White ? Easter Island ? The literal thousands of mysteries in Carnac , Cairo , or Thebes , such as the Great Sphinx and the secret room which is supposed to be hidden there ? The headpiece of Isis which was supposed to show the gateway to the heavens , and so on ? Why go back to the same original formula of the first , only to end the franchise there ? If they were setting up for a new run , then I could see going back to the beginning , but this was not the beginning of a new run . This was the end of the run . So I fail to conceive of why they would copy the first movie so closely in both specifics AND generalities . I can understand why they would feel the need , perhaps , for deeper character development with Jones and his father , hence their bringing in Connery to debase Indiana and make us view him in a lesser light . But again , that is in the case of the beginning of a new run , but as I said , this was the end of the run , so why DO that ? We loved the character just fine , without the in-depth character development , and certainly without being made to feel sorry for his character by being subjected to an unappreciative father's constant haranguing . I simply do not see the reasoning behind it . It lowered my entire estimation of this movie , something fierce . Where this final chapter could have been great , it was simply . . . okay , and rather a disappointment . I was glad this was to be the last of the Indiana Jones movies , if that was what they were reduced to . There are some good elements here , please do not get me wrong . The movie was still moderately enjoyable . The mysteries and intrigues were craftily written , the dialog was witty and clever , and the effects were excellent Lucas / Spielberg fare . I just found Connery's noisome presence to be totally undesirable and unnecessary . But now , as of this writing , at any rate ( / 04 ) , there are plans to do another installment , with Ford , at the ripe old age of 62 . I must really say , " I have doubts . " If his latest film , " Hollywood Homicide " is any indication , I will have to say that they will be much better off leaving him in the university , this time . It was truly sad to witness his performance in that movie . He - fell down - more than he pulled his gun ! I was very disheartened to see him like that . With " What Lies Beneath , " at least they had a new genre for him , something which would allow him to gracefully age into ultra-maturity . But no , they could not leave it at that . It will take over a year for them to film Indiana Jones 4 , what with having to stop every few minutes , to let Ford catch his breath and freshen up . But with the problematic script and postponement after postponement , they may end up scrapping this movie all together . I DO hope so . But if I'm wrong , I hope they leave Connery out of this next one . Regardless of its short-comings , it still earns an 7 . 4 from . . . the Fiend : .
La Peau Blanche aka White Skin	This was somewhat of a surprise . I read the synopsis , so I had an idea , but I didn't expect any quality whatsoever . That was a huge element of the surprise ; the performance and story quality . The execution was a bit choppy , and the racial theme was a bit off putting , but all in all , this was very well done . A grad student discovers his distant , overly-white girlfriend has a few secrets . Secrets her mother will do anything to destroy . This features some decent performances , a relatively unique story line , and a half-decent score . The dubbing is horrid , but I suppose it's difficult to sync French with English . This is a drama rather than an actioner , and is more suspense with horror elements than outright horror , so remember that if you decide to give this one a viewing . All in all ? This was very well done , considering lack of budget , and carries an innovative story I found entertaining . Perhaps you will , too . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sci-fi / actioner cult classic	As technology itself advances , movies based on technology become outdated . This movie is not SO outdated as to warrant a bad review at this late date , but it is beginning to show signs of wear about the edges , and fails to give you the science of the sci-fi genre . This endeavor attempts to show the prejudices of our society , and features a just-coming-out-of-retirement Blade Runner played by post Star Wars but pre-Indiana Jones's Harrison Ford ; a hunter of humanoid AI , with Daryl Hannah and Rutger Hauer as the principle " bad guys , " and Sean Young ( Lois Einhorn of Ace Ventura : Pet Detective fame ) as the hapless love interest . Not a bad mix for a film on " social responsibility . " The score has a definite " Fifth Element " feel to it , meaning Luc Beson's endeavor looked to Blade Runner for some of its inspiration . It sounded techno with a middle eastern influence and greatly helped move the story along when it hits a weak or slow spot . Some of the bar scenes held the flavor of Star Wars's Cantina on Moss Eisley , and some of the dialog was reminiscent of Fletch Lives . Now , this may sound like an uneven mess , but somehow , it works . This work has become a landmark " cult classic " in the genre of sci-fi / action , and is a must have for any sci-fi fan or collector . This production earns a from . . . the Fiend : .
Good , but the Underdog Wins !	I have to say this is a big blockbustery KABOOM popcorny effects extravaganza , with a solid story , and good performances . This ( released in April of 1997 ) was 20th Century / Fox's answer to Universal's Dante's Peak ( released in February of 1997 ) , a superior movie in all ways except one . . . It doesn't have Tommy Lee Jones . I have to say that Jones makes Volcano . Without him , this work would be nothing than an overblown , over-written piece of popcorn trash . As it is , this is a delightful " Mother Nature Gone Awry " flick , with totally kick butt effects . I found it riveting , but liked Dante's Peak more . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Weak fourth chapter	Exit Patricia Arquette , Enter Tuesday Knight . Don't you just HATE it when they change players in the middle of a series ? Well , I hate it and this movie is no exception to that . Additionally , Craven's completely absent from this thing . . . again . But there is still hope on the horizon . While this is , on the whole , not as atmospheric as the first and third , the story is far better than the lamoid trash we were served in the second . The camera work isn't bad here either . Some of the ideas were actually a bit enlightened , and the one-liners were well placed , few and far between . The performances in this one are really quite decent , as well . MINOR SPOILERS ! However . I don't know about you , but by the third death , I'd be looking into that Freddy thing . You've got two different girls telling the same story , two kids die , the first girl dies and the second girl starts telling the first girl's story . By the third death , and definitely by the fourth , I'd be reading up on old Fred Kruger . It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out these things . You go to the local library , the news paper morgue , you find everything you can on the guy and you sit down and put the pieces together . Voilas ! Also , did anyone else notice a mild leaning in the " better living through drugs " mentality ? Take a pill to stay awake . Take a pill to go to sleep . Pills , Pills , Pills . And when some kid watches this and then OD's on mom's Valium prescription , they'll cry , " Horror movies made him do it ! " END MINOR SPOILERS ! " Teen slasher flicks " does not have to equate " stupid teen " slasher flicks . Some teens do have their heads on their shoulders . Not every female trips and falls at the critical moment . And not all teens have the minds of children . Some are emotionally mature enough to handle a crisis . Craven never gave us " stupid " kids . He showed us enlightened , misunderstood fighters ; survivors . Not Mensa candidates , but not victims , either . Films such as these , which lack direction and strength are bordering on the lines of exploitation films , IMO . But that is for another time . This is not the weakest link in this chain , but it is not the quality of work in the first and the third . Perhaps this series suffers an " even curse " as the Star Trek films suffered the " odd curse . " We shall have to wait and see , but quite honestly , had they ended the franchise here , it would have been a decent ending . But to be honest here , this was done during the time of the big Writer's Strike of the late 80's , and for this movie to have been as good as it was , was a miracle , frankly . They reportedly had people from every field but that of screenwriter , sending them script pages from day to day . They put everything together and then tried to make it blend . Amazing that it was as good as it was . A Nightmare on Elm Street IV : Dream Master rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inspiration becomes preachy mediocrity	The obvious religiochristian references and connotations which you could overlook in the book , repeatedly slap you in the head in this TV mini-series . This movie is nothing more than a 6 hour church sermon . The religious ( heavily closed-minded ) associations in the book which were hard to avoid , but could be pushed away and you could still enjoy the book , rise up and slap you upside the head time and time again in this Made For TV psycho-sexual , socio-religious docu-drama . It wasn't just good against evil , Light against Darkness . . . there were constant references to " god , " which completely alienated me from this movie . Had it been more eclectic , such as . . perhaps Terry Goodkind's " Sword of Truth " novels , in its constant references to deity , it would have been a stellar production ; FAR varied from the book , especially at the end where " ABC asked Coates to tone down the iron-fisted christio-religious imagery in the story's execution scene , he put wheels of fortune behind the heads of the prisoners to serve as halos or crowns of thorns instead of placing the prisoners on crosses . " ( taken from the publication which is released with the DVD Special Edition version of this movie . Is this to say that halos of crowns of thorns are NOT icons of the church , and the cross is ? The cross predates its current associations of its use by thousands of years ! Anyway , if you can get past the constant bombastically dogmatic proselytizing , then this movie will be a very thought-provoking experience . It's a marvelous comment on the state of Mankind , as a species . We think we're so clever , when in reality , we're ignorant , brainless apes , just barely out of the primordial pool of ooze from which we sprang . Other than the obvious religious drumming you get from the movie , I actually enjoyed it . The book is better . They almost always are . This movie gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior to the Chuck Norris / Dog Attempt , And One Of Belushi's Finest .	This is NOT the best cop / dog movie , but it IS superior to the Chuck Norris / pooch flick . Personally , I found Turner and Hooch to be superior to this work , but it is still enjoyable , and comes in second to my favorite . HOwever , this is witty , and funny enough to be endearing , without resorting to Jim Belushi's usual tactics , although he does employ the beginning of those posturing and chest-beating tactics here . But they are not so dominant that the movie suffers . In fact , they play well in this situation , though it IS sad to watch a grown man who is romantically jealous of a dog . This fails any Oscar possibilities , but I do not honestly believe that would surprise those involved with this work . The bottom line : This is a fun movie . It fails to warm the heart as well as Turner and Hooch , but does not make you feel sorry for the dog like some other movies have , along this venue . It is entertaining and fun , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Loud and graphic but enjoyable recycling	First off , the " original " other film critics keep referring to is actually a remake , itself . John Carpenter's " Assault on Precinct 13 " is really a remake of an older western entitled simply , " Rio Bravo . " So while everyone keeps whining about remakes , let it be known that they have always remade older works . Always . At any rate , as far as remakes go , this one is a tad better than decent . Not surprisingly , it surpasses neither of the originals in atmosphere , content , and execution . However , it is still quite well put together and very enjoyable . Having been built around Carpenter's solid plot , there are some new innovations used as " industrial siding " all around the outer edges . While some elements were shaky , it had the solidity of Carpenter's previous work to stabilize it . I won't detail the plot as that has been done repeatedly here at IMDb , but suffice it to say that it remains fairly faithful to the source materials , without giving us a blow by blow carbon copy of either previous versions . Action fans will find this a delight , and those who are fans of police dramas will also find it interestingly entertaining . Those among the audience in my hometown theater were enthralled . We aren't a town of demonstrative people ; there aren't many walk outs , and the occasions where there is applause are few and far between . There were instances of neither for this event . Carpenter fans , however , may be a bit affronted by this work . All in all , this was a fun cinematic experience with superb direction , amazing vision , and some great execution . Featured are some surprise " kills , " peppered with predictable turns . It was unfortunate , in my opinion , that they chose to make create their " street gang " out of corrupt police officers . It did make me appreciate Carpenter's version all the more . I missed the now infamous " Ice Cream Scene . " But it was still quite enjoyable . " Without pause , without regard . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Lethal Weapon on a Wire	This feature was a bold attempt to capture the magic of the first two Lethal Weapons , only this time with Goldie Hawn rather than Danny Glover . While it does fail to attain the same chemistry , it carries a different chemistry all its own . Mel Gibson portrays Rick Jarmin , whose character plays about 8 different " personalities , " which effectively demonstrate his incredible depth and range as an actor . Goldie Hawn is her usual , adorable , professional self . Goldie is a rare breed , indeed , as she is quite the professional while maintaining that girlish quality that the masses do hold dear . The plot is simple , but the sub-plots are more than enough to entertain . Rick Jarmin has turned state's evidence against ex-DEA agents-turned-drug-dealers . Since , he's been in the federal witness protection program . But when he is spied and cornered by an ex-girlfriend ( Goldie Hawn ) , he realizes he must relocate once more . Upon discovering his agent has retired , and the new one is a treacherous worm , he must go on the run , find his address book , and locate his old agent for help , all the while he's being chased and hunted by current DEA and FBI agents and the two men against whom he's testified . It was a lot of fun watching Gibson's personalities change as his character went from one life to the next looking for help , and making his way towards his address book . The action sequences were quite good , the comedic presence was well timed and expertly delivered , and the movie runs to a satisfying conclusion . While it is far from Oscar-worthy , it is really quite entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This IS NOT As Bad As Reviewers Say	This cast contributed everything they had to this work , the story line is awesome , and the execution is purely entertaining . So what went wrong ? As slick as this stylish detective / thriller is , it lacks an ending which denotes the wit and keen intellect throughout . In other words , the ending was weak enough to throw off this whole work . Jamie Lee Curtis , nor any of her cast mates represents the problem . The problem was in the writing , however , this is still quite compelling , and dramatizes an interesting story , which has the ability to pull you in and build some awesome suspense . All in all , although it fails to deliver satisfactorily in the end , the process getting you there is quite entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Disturbing Piece of Film	Nicolas Cage sincerely shows his talents in this disturbing actioner surrounding the insidious world of snuff flicks . While the subject matter is quite disturbing , the atmosphere is adequately generated here by virtue of a good score and a brilliant Cage performance . Though the subject matter is sleazy , the story itself is quite compelling , delivering action , intrigue , and a congruent stream of ideas . I found this one darkly entertaining , if also darkly disturbing in places I didn't wish to be disturbed . Not many can do that . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Well , at least now we know what happened to Eddie Murphy's Career !	Apparently , many movie-goers were unhappy with this production featuring Al Pacino as a father , step-father , and foster-father to 5 children , only two of which he sired . Most actors stretch their wings and experiment with different roles throughout their career . Johnny Depp has been a religious experimental actor , seeking his niche , trying on new ( and widely versatile ) characters until he earned his stardom with the Pirates of the Caribbean series . Here , Pacino has spread his wings and , some have said , fell flat on his face . I must disagree . He plays comedy / drama quite well . This work features some dynamic elements , which helped support his role , namely the beautiful performances by the ( then ) child actors . This is , by all accounts , a feel-good family movie , complete with fairy tale ending , but the path to that magical ending is strewn with pit-falls , stumbling blocks , and other problems . It is far from realistic , but does not break the contract wherein we , the audience , agree to suspend belief and attempt to subscribe to the premise . Although I can't say this is one of my favorites , I do enjoy this work , and have found that Pacino is quite aptly cast herein . This work does , however , explain by what template Eddie Murphy seemingly molded his failing career . As one can tell by the reviews , action star / comedian cum family man doesn't play well with the fan boys . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not What We've Come To Expect , But Not As Bad As You've Heard .	While this work is inferior to the first two installments , this is still enjoyable . The story line is a bit recycled , and the " son of " factor does detract a bit , but the entertainment quality is still present , and the atmosphere generated herein is above par . The effects were great , but the performances were of a " B " Movie-quality . That was the main detractor from this work , and was most contributory in the low numbers this work receives . In comparison to the first two installments , this is lacking , but it is still quite entertaining . If you're a Jaws fan , it is worth the time to view it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Quirky Sci-Fi Generates Good Atmosphere , But Falls Short .	This work is compelling , I won't lie to you . It has some very tense moments , some well-generated characters , and delivers good performances all around . I didn't have a problem with any of these elements . The main problem with this work was the creature effects . As a creature feature , this one falls flat . As a sci-fi , it rates as a " B " movie because of the hokey , ill-designed aliens . The story was quite compelling , but the effects left a LOT to be desired . It's still an entertaining work , but it could have been much , MUCH better . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
It seems to me that it is far less graphic than the old original 1950's version . Odd , that .	We learned with The Omen remake and Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone that to stick too closely to the original source material can be the death knell of a celluloid work . We also learned through a million other remade works that to stray too far from the expected story line can have the same result . This work contributes to that rule . The story found herein is vastly different from that which we have come to expect from five previous versions of the work . This fact is only exacerbated by the hiring of Oliver Hirschbiegel , with no notable works to his name and it seems this work will not add his first blockbuster or even noticeable work to his resume . Nicole Kidman is marvelous and I rate her performance somewhere around a , and so is her co-star . Daniel Craig ? No , he's not the co-star . I don't care what the billboards said ! Jackson Bond is her co-star . That is one enigmatic kid and his performance is right up there at a with Ms . Kidman's ! And Daniel Craig contributes the stellar performance we have come to expect from our newest Bond , but the sum of these three important and worthy elements did not a fantastic film , make . We then look for the reason . I think the reasons have already been touched upon . The story one finds herein is not the story one expects from an Invasion of the Body Snatchers remake , but runs rather like a possible sequel . They're back and they operate differently this time . That would have answered most complaints moviegoers have concerning this movie . The hiring of a competent director could possibly have made a difference . Otherwise , I believe that a screenplay which more closely embraces the original material would have been most fortuitous . All in all , I enjoy it nonetheless . It is edgy , suspenseful , and well enacted even if the finished product falls far short of the sum of its superior parts . It makes a great Friday / Saturday night's viewing although it seems to me that it is far less graphic than the old original 1950's version . Odd , that . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Neither as Good , Nor as Bad as Critics Claim , But Enjoyable Overall	We saw this at Movies on the Parkway , Sevierville , TN . This movie was poorly advertised from the beginning . The ads hyped a dragon on dragon war wherein mankind was at risk . And it was , but not as implied , and thereby disappointing some movie goers who expected good dragons versus bad dragons , utterly destroying a big city . I won't detail the story , but let me correct some poor reporting : There IS a story - a very rich story , at that ! But it was not the story indicated in the few ads that were run . This is a story - and effects-driven vehicle wherein the South Korean tale of the Imoogi is told via memories of our lead character . It could have been a well-balanced work , adding in the character-driven plot lines ; however , the acting herein was so poor , as to drive this film down into the annals of the " B " action / horror flick . The effects are awesome ! The treatment of the Eastern Dragon after transformation was nothing short of a pure work of art ! This is not just another monster movie . The story line and overall finished product far outweigh any Godzilla movie of which TOHO ever dreamed . However . The film quality is poor . A better quality would have lent a great deal to this work , but even the best quality would not have overridden the stiff performances and fake smiles . Though it did not detract from the overall effectiveness of the work , it did lessen the enjoyment somewhat . Frankly , the Lord of the Rings / Star Wars-worthy CGI combined with poor acting quality and brilliant style , left this production feeling more uneven and unprepared for filming , as if the actors themselves did not have their hearts in this work . All in all ? We were highly entertained by both the story and the visuals , but we cannot decide whether this should be rated as a fantastic " B " flick , or a decent " A " film . It rates a on the " B " Scale , which is about a on the " A " Scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Sleek Neuvo-Noir	Stephen Baldwin isn't my favorite of that family . His acting comes off as stiff and unnatural as a life-size stand-up cardboard cut-out . However , he is only half bad in this film , and the story itself is quite intriguing . This has to be designated as one of those obscure dark little pools of goodness . Oh , it's no masterpiece and , unless you are a fan of the sub-genre of suspense / mystery or noir , this may bore you to tears . But if you are a fan of either , it is definitely worth a viewing Herein lie twists , turns , and a gradually foreboding suspense , which adequately conveys the proper atmosphere necessary to enhance the viewer's enjoyment . Dead Awake is both clever AND witty , while sustaining at least moderate interest in the engrossing storyline . The main drawback to this work seems to be Stephen Baldwin , himself . HIs soft-spoken , laid back personality fails to deliver the proper intensity mandated by the nature of the character of Desmond Kane . Jeff Goldblum would have been a MUCH better casting choice in this instance . Not only is Goldblum a significantly better actor , but his personality would have uplifted this production from mundane to marvelous . I can't say I loved it , but it does deliver something tangible , although the cinematography of the waking dream sequences were enough to make me so dizzy , I nearly tossed my cookies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Plodding but wonderful	Don't you just HAAATE the Dursley's ? ! ! After the outrageous neglect exhibited by the Dursleys in the first " Harry Potter " movie , I thought it simply could not get any worse . But Dudley''s character , portrayed extremely well by Harry Melling , is more atrocious and hate-inspiring than ever . Dobby was a most endearing , if rather buggering , addition to the cast of characters this time around . We thoroughly enjoyed the " Dobby effects " perpetrated by the CGI technicians . His character , while wholly non-human , was quite sincere and entertaining . I don't have the problems with CGI in the movie industry with which many seem to suffer . . . I see that some parts cannot be portrayed by human actors ; therefore CGI enriches this final product in such a way that the lack of CGI actually would create a total loss of effect in the movie . This year is Ginny Weasley's first year and she has the crush of her young lifetime on Harry Potter . " She's been talking about you all summer . Rather annoying , really . " Ronald Weasley to Harry Potter . This time , Harry and Ron can't seem to get to the platform for Hogwarts Express , and time is quickly wasting . If they are late for the opening ceremony , it is entirely possible they will not be allowed to attend Howarts this year . What to do ? What to do ? Good thing for Harry that Mr . Weasley is a tinkerer , or Harry and Ron would be in a world of trouble . But wait . . . it seems their only way to school is the flying car created by Ron's dad . And when they get to the castle grounds , they discover they ARE in trouble . Big trouble . This movie is just as entertaining and well done as the first . Again directed by Chris Columbus ( who STILL neglected to do his homework and put that pumpkin patch and such where they needed to be ) , the screenplay done as a joint collaboration between Rowlings and Steven Kloves as in the first , and the same , lovable ( and hate-able ) actors in our favorite " Worst Witch " reincarnations . As sequels go , this production is quite wonderful ; though not quite as excellent a sequel as was the original literary work . While there were as many changes in dialog and such , it is quite well adapted and extremely well perpetrated , although it does lose a bit in the process . There are secret whispers ( unheard by all but Harry himself ) , mysterious magical books and a conjured beast of Dragonkind ! This is a wonderful story , not just the piece of commercial sequellistic fluff I expected . More secrets of Harry Potter's mysterious past are revealed and you get a good rumination of the back story . The addition of some of new teachers was a wonderful step and as in the first , Rowlings creations are applied to this production with an inspired intelligence and creativity that it seems as though she , herself , is of magic . Absolutely wonderful . The message that prejudice is horrid comes through loud and clear in Malfoy's treatment Hermione . It made me want to tie his ears together and hang him up by the other end . While hatred itself is wrong , if you must hate someone , hate them for WHO they are ( their personality and the choices they make ) , not for WHAT they are ( their lineage , bloodline , race , or religion ) . Only when the heir of Slytherin house has returned to Hogwarts can the Chamber of Secrets be reopened and the evil within set loose . I was happy to see the inclusion of Dumbledore's Phoenix , Fawkes . We did not get enough of him in the first movie . I enjoyed this movie just as much as the first . This is awesome as a sequel , but it can also stand alone . It does not rely upon the first installment , yet does not repeat the same information we learned in the first . While it was as faithful as it could be , it ( as did the first ) failed to capture the atmospheric darkness and overall feeling of the novel . It was almost as if the faithfulness was more important than the ambiance , which is a common mistake made in this industry . I must also add that the trio has shown some great improvement over their initial forays ( not that they needed it ) . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Melancholy but tense	Sad , Sweet , Thought Provoking Melancholy Movie of Life and Death and Life . Everyone from the movie critics to the fans critiques the sesquipedalianality of the movies based on Stephen King's work . They should realize ; however , that the novels these movies are based upon are long , descriptive , deep , thought-provoking works which move along chronologically from scene to scene with the grace of a soft , renewing volcanic flow through a huge primeval mountain valley . This book was no exception . The Made-For-TV movie , " The Golden Years , " was made originally as the springboard for the TV series of the same name . The series was canceled , and someone forgot to wrap it up , disappointing lots of fans out there . The Movie Review : . " The Golden Years " was bittersweet , melancholic beauty in its portrayal of the relationship between Harlan Williams ( Keith Szarabajka ) and Gina ( Frances Sternhagen ) , his wife during the whole ordeal . Their tenderness made us believe they were genuine in their love of one another and the honesty of their relationship was truly uplifting . Made the Fiend's heart go " pitty-patt . " Also delivering a strong performance were Felicity Huffman as Terry Spann , Ed Lauter as Gen . Louis Crewes , R . D . Call as Jude Andrews and Bill Raymond as Dr . Richard X . Toddhunter . Synopsis : A lab explosion , caused by an irresponsible , idiotic mad scientist introduces a chain of events which only time can stop . . . one way or the other . Harlan Williams has found the fountain of youth , but it's the gift that keeps on giving . He's becoming younger by the day , but if they can't stop it , what happens when he becomes a child again ? an infant ? a fetus ? and then ? Will these two " golden year " lovers be able to find the answers before it's too late for them both ? Well , that's the rest of the movie . I won't tell you how it ends . It's King , so you figure it out for yourself . What I will tell you is that it is a delightful movie made from an even better book ( book's ALWAYS better with King ) which transports you across the nation , on the wings of a beautiful love story thrown into the sci-fi / horror mix . It is a sweet and wonderful mixture . It's a lovely movie and one of my favorite King adaptations , even though it does stray from the book , a bit . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dramatic action or active drama ?	This was one of the best Seagal more dramatic endeavors , and an absolutely wonderful movie ! While is aikido events are much less . . . eventful , at least Seagal is working on his abilities as an actual " actor . " Strong performances and a strong warning not to destroy our own habitat punctuate this Seagall actioner . While some critics have bashed this work , I highly respect the endeavor and the message it gives ! Great writing supports the performances , giving the audience not only a good message , but a compelling story as well . The landscape shots strewn throughout were breathtaking and lent a great deal to the feeling of this work , and the excellent cinematography was wonderful . What more can I say ? It was very entertaining . I bought it . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
I have to ask , What Happened To Lindsay Lohan ? !	Lindsay was so good in these sweet Disney film remakes , but I have to ask , where has her talent gone ? Is she partying so hard that her work is suffering ? ! While I can't say this work is delightful , like I do say about the original , it is quite charming . Lindsay Lohan is no Haley Mills , that's for sure , but her younger performances are quite endearing . Unfortunately , she has not carried that desirable character trait forward in her career . Indeed , if she continues along her current vein , I wouldn't be surprised at all , if she ends up without a career . This is an enjoyable movie , if you're not a Lohan fan . Otherwise , it may serve too well as a reminder of the beautiful talent inside the self-destructive waif she is now . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Better than the original , but missing the necessary mayhem .	As a sequel , it surpasses its predecessor in quality , but loses the all-out mayhem feeling which was exhibited in the first . The comedic quality of the second installment of the " Vacation " series is actually more intelligent than the first ; hence the vast disliking for it . Fans of movies of this type , and especially the first one , will find that having to think about the punch lines and puns and clever wit in this movie detracts from the comedic effect , for them . For me , it was quite good , much more intelligent than the first , and more along Chevy Chase's " Fletch " and " Fletch Lives , " two of his movies I just love . Absent , is the original Audrey ; replaced by a more " popular " actor of the time , Dana Hill . This just ruins a series for me . Keep the same main characters or don't DO the sequel ! ! Although , it is possible that Dana Barron was in the process of filming " Heaven Help Us " at the time this movie was filming , as they were released the same year . Surprisingly the Grizwold's insane romp through Europe includes a plethora of star studded cameos , including a rare appearance by Robbie Coltrane ( Harry Potter's ' Hagrid ' ) , Paul McDowell , Eric Idle ( Mainly known from his many appearances on Monty Python's Flying Circus and Monty Python and the Holy Grail ) , and Moon Unit Zappa ( daughter of famed rocker Frank Zappa ) . Nice scenery and clever wit throughout this comedy lend to the watchability and enjoyment of it . I especially loved the scene at Stonehenge . Very nice , and better written than the first , though it loses something for me in the absence of Dana Barron , but don't let that ruin it for you . If you enjoyed the first , you should enjoy this one a little bit better . Tour the European hot spots with the Grizwolds . And don't forget to take in the sure to be blockbuster hit , " The Wet Hot Wife " included therein . It rates a little higher than the first at a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweetly enjoyable .	I'm sure I'm not the only Magick User to review this movie , but if you're interested in a pagan view , here it is . If not , have a nice day . " There is no devil in the Craft . " How wonderful to hear those words come out of Sandra Bullock's mouth ! I was simply delighted . I'm not going to sit here and waste your time with the plot . The movie's been out since 1998 and most of you already know it . If you haven't seen the movie , the rest of the reviews gives you the plot , ad nauseum . Nicole Kidman's character , Gillian Owens , is played wonderfully as a seductress . It was a bit stereotypical ( remember the flighty Wiccan in Blair Witch 2 ? ) , but well played by Kidman . I did not like the use of Belladonna , as it is used in the movie . It portrays a dark intent , which is something anyone in the Craft will tell you is strictly against the rules . However , it is a tendency in Gillian's ( Kidman's ) character to be drawn towards the dark path , and was therefore fitting . And who can't identify with Sandra Bullock's Sally Owens wanting nothing more than to be " normal ? " Who IS normal ? WHAT is normal ? Love is normal . And that's all she wants is to love unequivocally and receive that love in return . And then there's " The Owens Family Curse . " We all have ours . Some bald early , some have the unbelievably spacious nose inherited from " Uncle Elmer . " My family curse is the lack of child-bearing women in My family , hence I am the last of My mother's family . She had only Me and I have bore no live children . At least she didn't put the usual curse on Me . ( The " I hope you have a kid JUST LIKE YOU ! " curse . ) . The idea of Sally ( Bullock ) owning / operating a botanical shop , " I manufacture bath oils , " is spot on . Many Magick Users long to do something along those lines . Sally and Gillian's bringing back Gillian's lover ( Goran Visnjic ) from the dead ( ? ! ) " We don't do that . " ( Dianne Wiest as " Auntie " Bridget Owens ) That spell book would have had to have been passed down from at least 5 generations , if not more to even HAVE a spell like that within its bindings . That having been said , those " in the Craft " don't do that . Most CAN'T do that , and those who can . . . well . . . shouldn't . Necromancy is of the Dark Arts , and is no part of the Craft . And finally , the ending . The ending was quite fantastic and over the top . Insanity , if you ask Me , but . . . no one did . Jumping off the roof of their house , in full witch regalia complete with pointy hats , bucked shoes and red and white-striped stockings , and floating down to the ground safely and slowly , FLOATING ! down like that . . . put a fantasy-styled ending to what otherwise would have been a big boost for Pagans in the mundane world . It's a very entertaining story , and contains great portrayals by . . . . Sandra Bullock . . . . Sally Owens Nicole Kidman . . . . Gillian Owens Stockard Channing . . . . Frances Owens Dianne Wiest . . . . Bridget Owens Evan Rachel Wood . . . . Kylie Owens Alexandra Artrip . . . . Antonia Owens . . . right up until the ending . But the ending doesn't negate the entire movie . It just degraded its value far more than Pagans would have liked . It still gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Isn't Chuck At His Best , But It's Far From His Worst .	Chuck Norris and David Carradine make this one heck of an action movie by virtue of their performances , alone . It's dated , and in serious need of a remake , but above average for its time . While seriously dated , this film has become an institution among action fans , so if you are a fan of the genre and haven't seen this , you should really give it a viewing . The performances and execution of this work are typical of the age , and the dialog is pretty stiff , especially when " at the station , " but otherwise , it's a decent Chuck Norris film . Some say it's his best . Unfortunately , I cannot agree with that assessment . He got better , as he grew more mature , in my opinion , but this is the first of the best , at any rate . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Who Dunnit ? Who Didn't !	Depicting the inner-inner circle of Hollywood and their sycophants , this installment of Agatha Christie's film adaptations finds our favorite Poirot afoot a posh island resort run by the inimitable Maggie Smith , but as usual instead of determining who dunnit , it's more a matter of who didn't . Filmed in Majorca , Spain , directed by Guy Hamilton ( Goldfinger and Christie's The Mirror Crack'd ) and replete with Cole Porter songs , you can't fail with this all star cast and Peter Ustinov . All in all ? This whole line is suitable for any / all ages , although it sports a PG rating . That rating ( I'm quite sure ) was given at a much more innocent time . I love it , and find it quite interesting . This belongs in any Ustinov / Christie collection , and is present in mine . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Very Enjoyable	This features a top row performance contributed by Tony Curtis , and was the second Poirot movie I found to feature the inner-inner circle of Hollywood big-wigs , and their sycophantic hangers-on . This time in Acapulco , we are given " movie stars , martinis , and murder . " I found this highly entertaining , though it was mildly difficult to solve . Breathtaking vistas , another all-star cast , and fine direction by Gary Nelson ( Get Smart , Get Smart Again , and Alan Quartermain and the Lost City of Gold , to name but a few ) , make worthy contributions to this wonderful adaptation of a great Agatha Christie mystery . All in all ? This was not rated , but made for television in 1986 , so I think I can safely say it is suitable for all audiences . Great Sunday afternoon / rainy day fare . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Family Values Made Fun . . . A Bus-Load Of Great Memories	I think this TV series ( if only 4 years in the running ) is quite underrated . This was the show that brought us the pop-culture phenomenon known as David Cassidy . I don't know if there are any accounts anywhere of how many millions of young girls who went to bed either clutching the David Cassidy doll or drifting off with the Sandman beneath their life-sized poster of David Cassidy taped firmly on the ceiling , but there WERE millions . But more than that , there is something wholesome beneath the surface , which goes unnoticed at first look ; something that crept into the fans , whether they noticed , or not . That " something wholesome " is family values . The father is not in the picture , as was the case for many ( as today ) , and " Reuben " assumes the position , sort of , as the manager of their group . But the family holds itself together , regardless . Somehow , this show rates . 4 less than the Brady Bunch ! I don't know HOW that happened , but this was a vastly superior show . It's horribly underrated , and deserves better . It rates a on the TV Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not dark . . . enough .	This was somewhat of a disappointment for this movie goer . I expected all the hype to at least be marginally accurate . " Darker , " " Scarier , " " more true to the book . . . " While it was more true to the original literary work , this director walked up to the bell , but did not have the wherewithal to ring it . His Michael Jackson imitation went a long way to give you a good feeling for the true nature of the character , but it fell short of accomplishing anything in the way of demonstrating the true darkness found within Wonka's heart . There were Oompa Loompas , yes . One . He was duplicated and layered over and over to a laughable effect . While all the other graphic effects were wonderful , their " cast " of Oompa Loompas was just disgusting . I was disappointed .
A deserving sequel to a fun horror / comedy .	I was hesitant to even see this one . No more Amanda Beasley as Alex . . . but most of all , no Evil Ed . . . a fact which severely restrained my willingness to see this . I had developed a liking for that character , and actually thought as highly of the first installment as I did , because of him . However , this is a good and well-executed premise ; a solid story ; and ultimately , a deserving sequel . The effects were excellent , even without considering the horribly low budget this movie was allowed . I thought the transformations were wonderfully done , as well as the beautiful makeup effects . Just really very good work , which we enjoyed immensely . Peter Vincent , Fearless Vampire Hunter , even has some innovative new tricks up his sleeve . This was a total surprise . A delightful and complete surprise . It rates an on the " B " scale . That's about a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Smooth Deception ? Hardly . But An Enjoyable Endeavor All The Same .	Richard Dreyfus . An anthropologist creates a fake New Guinea tribe to further his career . This sounded like it would be painful to watch , and in some places , it is just that . but overall , this bears an endearing tone , and a genuine humor , which consistently colors the work , throughout . Dreyfus's character , Krippendorf , is a frantic / manic anthropologist who tries to seem as though he is calm and collected , on the surface of the deception he has laid . Dreyfus is a phenomenal actor , who needs another Jaws / Close Encounters to revitalize his career . I wonder if Spielberg is listening ? His performances come off as direct projections from the heart , no matter how low the budget they allow him , or what horrendous costars they saddle him with . This work features a quirky story line with quirky subplots , and quirky characters , but none as enigmatic as Krippendorf himself . This is a great way to spend a couple of hours , but as a Disney movie ? Disney rewrites known history to suit its ends , and usually does so with great panache , but the return to ethnocentrism is potentially damaging to the field of anthropology . However , if you can suspend belief , which you must do to enjoy any Disney movie , then you may find the enjoyment from it that I did , but as usual , I'm in the minority . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet Wit Elevates An Otherwise Commonplace Rom-Com	AKA : The Very Thought Of YouThis has been done many times before . You take a basic fish-out-of-water story , and try to put your own spin to it , in an attempt to make it seem like a " fresh " idea , and hope no one notices . I'm happy to say that this time , it worked . Tom Hollander and Monica Potter are delightful as the would-be couple . Monica Potter is the fish out of water , as an ex-Minnesota resident cum Londoner . This is delightful , and quite smart in places , giving this production an overall slick execution , while not pushing the envelope so hard , as to detract from the work . This is quite enjoyable , in spite of the clich level of the base premise . The two key performances are quite endearing and sweet . This one grabbed me , and pulled me in , in spite of myself . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
So CLOSE to being the best version . . .	I'm torn . This is my favorite version of Zorro , but I can't in all honesty say that it's the best version of Zorro . It is a bit cheesy , but it's also adventuresome , witty , entertaining , and amusing . The performances were great . I can't say awesome , but they were quite good . It was the dialog that dragged this down into the realm of almost-camp , and considering the talent and money invested in this work , I think that's criminal . Bordering on the 1960's-1970's Adam West camp in the way of dialog , this work takes you by surprise . You expect fun . You expect wit . But you had no reason , with Anthony Hopkins in a pivotal role , to expect cheese . I'm sorry to say that this rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , but somewhat of an acquired taste .	This is one of the many movies of my childhood , for which I still bear a fondness . If you would like some measure in comparison that list also includes Transylvania 6-5000 , Monster Squad , The World's Greatest Lover , and the Ghost and Mr . Chicken . If you liked any of those even as a guilty pleasure , you may also secretly like this one . Jabberwocky is not intelligent comedy , it is more fractured thoughts which have been forced together into an incohesive montage which is still surprisingly fun to watch . However , this is one of those movies which may be of an acquired taste . This is but a prelibation to Gilliam's later works . Either way , I found it fun and it still has a place in my collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Under-rated Christian Thriller	I'm a fan of horror . I'm also a fan of Eddie Furlong . II'm not typically a fan of Christian horrors / thrillers , although some of the very best have been of that sub-genre . The Exorcist line stands as a shining example . This work comes across more like it wants to document than entertain . Normally , and under the right circumstances , that would be acceptable , but considering the subject matter this work presents , I found it both disturbing and reminiscent of the Blair Witch Project . However , the low budget is a contributor to this otherwise preachy Bible-thumper , which attempt to document , but can only amuse . At least . . . that is as the situation appears on the surface . Once the movie draws to a conclusion , you may find a better ( if not greater ) appreciation of this work . With a few good ideas , and the endurance of a two-hour sermon , I'm not sure the casual movie-goer can stomach it . This one takes a die hard fan of the sub-genre of Christian horror / thriller to find this really engrossing , but there IS a compelling story , some great performances , and artful cinematic brilliance by DoP Glynn Speeckaert . Honestly , Speekaert's contribution is the one shining light of this production . The story is simple . Miracles are being worked in the small town of Antioch . The question is , " By whom , how , and why ? " Well , whomever he turns out to be , he's wearing Eddie Furlong's face . This was fun , though not greatly so , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful introduction to Norm Macdonald's talents	Most casual movie-goers do not appreciate the dry , sarcastic wit of Norm Macdonald . Many do not understand that his blunt , sometimes bombastic delivery is his trademark comedic style . While I would never call his style , " genius , " he is certainly a master entertainer , in his own right . This style of his is an acquired taste . If you've managed to live your life without becoming the least bit jaded or cynical of anything , you may not understand Mr . Mcdonald's talent for humor . His coloring of even the most innocent scene with a dark innuendo or low-brow blurb is just so outrageous that we have no choice but to laugh . But those who do not understand , will find him abrasive or crass . It's true ; he IS abrasive and crass , and in the most unfortunate situations he lets loose his abrasively crass innuendos and utters the most outrageous statements as facts only to correct himself by posing it as a question after he's already blurted out the first silly , obnoxious thing which comes to his mind . All this is assembled together with his honest expressions , common-everyday-Joe appearance , and expert comedic timing . Packaged within unlikely settings and a professional production , Norm Macdonald's comedic style is in the perfect element . Dirty Work enlists the largest range of Norm Macdonald's skills of any one work I have seen . It is virtually a showcase for his talent . Unfortunately , it is commonly viewed as " mindless , low-brow , Hollywood fluff " and will therefore never receive the full appreciation of the audiences it deserves . The casual movie-goer will not be " in " on some of his one-liners , and the hard core comedic fans will be too busy critiquing his innovative comedic style to appreciate it . This work involves Chevy Chase as an unscrupulous in-debt gambler who is willing to help our star out of his latest pickle in exchange for a load of money . I was a tad disappointed with Chevy's role in this vehicle . It could have afforded Mr . Chase's legendary talents a bit more respect by way of screen time . I found his talents were sorely under used although the drivers were pistoned after his specific flair . I did not quite agree with this decision . All in all , this is a beautiful introduction to Norm Macdonald's talents and I highly suggest its viewing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A bit of the old Seagal we loved .	I love Seagal movies . I even liked On Deadly Ground , a movie which has been dogged so badly that it's on the bottom 100 list here at IMDb . Belly of the Beast gives us a glimmer of hope that he is making his way back to the top . I did ; however , detest the shape he's allowed himself to fall into . He was tough , edgy , and a general hard-ball player . Now , he's using baggy clothes to hide his obvious weight gain , partial facial shots to hide the pudgy cheeks , and body doubles wherever necessary . At least Jackie Chan toned himself back into form before he did " The Medallion . " ( Check that one out . That was a genuinely decent movie . ) Gone ( for good ? ) is the polished and smooth Seagal . Enters Seagal the scruffy , disheveled hero . Sad . I used to love his movies for the purist aikido arts he exhibited . But now , I just watch them out of a sense of loyalty to a has-been master . He's just not what he used to be . But this movie does give me hope for the future of his movies . He even did a variation on Bruce Lee's " one-inch punch . " Not bad at all . The story was an old one , and it's really becoming a tired one . Kid is kidnapped , and dad has to save the kid . Get over it , already , and beoriginal for Pete's sake ! But for an 18M budget , considering the whole thing was filmed in Thailand , I guess a good story is too much to ask for . At least there was some well-placed and professionally executed action , this time around . As I said , the action was well executed , and almost ( if not entirely ) non-stop , and the story did move along quite well . The two aspects I do like about Seagal's movies , even the ones which do not fare well at the box office , or go straight to video like this one did , are his connection with family and his boldness about his ( non-christian ) spirituality . I admire him for that . He may even make some people realize that their mainstream religion only makes up a very small part of the world's religious base . I doubt it , but perhaps . The one memorable line from this movie ? " I liked you better as a btch . " Jake Hopper ( Steven Seagal ) All in all , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Does not live up to its potential , but is still entertaining .	Awesome story , intriguing plot , and excellent portrayals mark this work as superior to its ratings . Actually it is quite fun , shows at least a margin of cleverness , and a high level of entertainment . The premise is adventurous and intelligent , and the overall work is highly enjoyable . Performances are on par with what is expected , and the overall execution is quirky and fun . This plays almost like an adult version The Goonies . It is eccentric and at times impossible , yet manages to retain some level of believability in spite of itself . Regardless of the violent aspects peppered throughout this work actually comes off sweetly as a black comedy with a rich story and beautiful execution . This was a pleasant surprise all the way around and I am immensely happy to have seen it . All in all ? This is a couples movie . It holds enough skin and action to mildly satisfy the man's man , yet carries enough of the romantic comedy to keep the gals happy . Probably not a good Friday / Saturday night movie . . . it's not blockbustery and does not hold enough appeal on either side to make it great as the potential suggests it could be . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Compelling .	Excellent Thriller ! ! Although there is some shaky , hesitant and stiff acting in this production , it still stands as one of the best adaptations of Stephen King's literary works . While it does stray a bit from the original work , it has earned its place in the genre of horror as a " Classic . " To the accompanying heavy metal of AC / DC blasting in the background , killer trucks and other machines take over a small town truck stop , terrorizing those within , and killing any / every one without . While some of the performances were amateurish , this movie SOARS above the " recent " remake of the same original work , entitled , " Trucks . " Written , rewritten and directed by King , this movie is a surprisingly wonderful adaptation of his work . To date , his adaptations have been rather puerile and mellow compared to his original literary publications . This will be a very pleasant surprise following the absolutely horrid Made For TV Version of " The Shining , " ( 1997 ) . While Emilio Estevez is not among my favorite top 500 actors , he carries this film rather well , but it's Yeardley Smith who makes the movie . Her wonderfully comedic little voice screaming out , " Curtis ! ! Are you DAY-YED ? ? ! ! " She is what makes Maximum Overdrive fun . AC / DC and killer trucks take a back seat to her performance . Loved it . Own it . It gets a solid on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Realistic Portrayal of the late 1970's mentality .	I hate to admit it , but this is probably the best portrayal of the end of the Disco-just-pre-Reagan era . This is pure Americana , depicting basically everything our culture was around that time , right down to the perfect period look of the clothes , hair styles , lingo , catch phrases , and attitudes . Even though this is quite realistic , for me , there was little that was nostalgic about it . The performances were adequate , but nothing inspired , and the dialog delivery was only close to natural . However , the soundtrack is a thing of beauty . It should be watched at least once , though it is NOT a part of my collection . this is one of those movies that . . . once you've seen it , you've seen it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
OH , the best laid plans of mice and men	This is another teenager movie demonstrating the depths to which boys will go in order to get what they want . At least on the surface , that's what this movie is about . What it is , beneath the surface , is a grand , bittersweet love story with some great execution and a fine story line . The performances were not typical of these types of movies , leading you into a superior teen love story experience . This was really quite sweet , beneath the intrigue and horseplay on the surface . I found it fun and touching , in spite of the teenager factor . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
As a sequel ( it's NOT a remake , people ! ) , it was fun . Unnecessary , but fun .	Many reviewers have droned on and on , detailing the plot and the synopsis . I don't know why every reviewer believes that giving the plot ad nauseum will lend some sort of credibility to their opinions . I won't do that , as you can read the plot in just about every other review . This movie was wholly unnecessary , as it really failed to accomplish anything in the annals of Disney except remind a younger generation that Herbie was once a well loved Disney vehicle . Frankly , if it weren't for Lohan's robust performance , this movie would have been absolute swill . The movie itself was completely superfluous , but Lohan's portrayal lent an air of extemporaneity which all but saved the entire production . And yet , somewhere in the middle , this work seems confused as to whether it wants to objectify women , or deify them . Will Maggie ( Lohan ) be true to herself , or will she cower to her father's ( Keaton's ) fears ? For a while there , it seems as if the director or screenwriters were waffling as to which position she would take . If it was meant to draw the viewer in , or lend ANY form of suspense as to whether or not it would happen , it was a feckless attempt , as we ( the audience ) already knew the answer ! It's a Disney movie ! While it did have problems and , as I said earlier in this review , was a totally unnecessary venture , it was still fun to watch . It rates a for Lohan's performance from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Fun , But Not Pixar's Best .	Considering how early into the CGI revolution this movie was made , it's amazing how good this movie really is . The animation is quite well dome for its time , and was revolutionary in the CGI animation processes . The story line is quite cute , simple enough for a child to follow , yet complex enough with subtext to entertain adults . The characters were developed well enough to allow them to endear themselves to the audience . I can't say this is a wonderful movie , but the kiddies will like it , and if you're into children's entertainment , you probably will , too . If you enjoy this work , you should watch James and the Giant Peach , a movie which was released 2 years prior , and is obviously the template for this one . It's also much better done . If you want a good ANT movie , check out Antz by DreamWorks . As usual , I'm in the minority . . . I liked it better . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Donnie Darko Effect .	This movie succeeds where the underdog Donnie Darko didn't hit at the box office like it should have . Although it does pretty much steal the base premise of DD , it seems to be much better received . Unfortunate , IMO . Donne Darko was a beautiful attempt with great style and an excellent dialog . The Butterfly Effect is a fully CGI-treated rendition of the same base story with pretty much the same outcome . I don't understand its success where DD is so vastly under-rated , but such is the way of things in Hollywood , I would imagine . The Butterfly Effect is an " A " production while Donnie Darko was a " B . " That just goes to show you that money and effects mean more than a really good movie . If you enjoy this on any level , do yourself a favor and check out the - real - movie which started this entire line including the " Left Behind " series . The performances are much more realistic in DD , and the photography and effects , while not as well done , meant more to me , for the obvious budget differences . DD had to try harder , for lack of funding , if that makes sense to you . While the Butterfly Effect was quite good ( very enjoyable ) , Donnie Darko was the first movie ( of late ) to do this . All the same , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Psycho 101 Remix	This starts out like Agnes of God , and ends up like a Wes Craven blood-fest . I have to say I like it . We revisit Marion Crane's fateful mistake , Mr . Toomey's errant assumption that Norman would be submissive , and the whole feeling of the original work may not be the base thread of this work , but it's definitely present in spirit . This runs like an afterthought ; like Psycho 2 was meant to be the last of the franchise , but that fact does not negate the work entirely . While Psycho 2 is the " going back to basics " installment in which we learn something about the past that we did not otherwise know , this third chapter really does break it all down and deliver us Norman's earlier childhood like none of the predecessors do . If you're really into the psychology of Norman and his relationship with Mama , you should see Psycho 4 . It rates a from . . . . . . the Fiend : .
Sad . Enriching , But Sad , And Very Well Done .	Matthew Broderick , Helen Hunt . An Air Force pilot rescues smart chimps from lab experiments at a strategic-weapons research center , but then has to figure out what to do with them . This film will break your heart , if you have a love for animals . You are introduced to the chimps ( they're given CHARACTER development , if you can dig it ) , then you are shown what happens TO the chimps in this research center , and then you are shown what happens because of this treatment . Once you are emotionally invested in the premise , the tension of the surrounding atmosphere begins to build until the climactic crescendo . This is actually not as bad as I remembered , but not as good as I hoped , watching from a more mature perspective . The performances are typical of the time , perhaps a tad better , but this work is horribly dated , as is practically everything from that era . I wouldn't say it rates a remaking , as it's fine as it is , but someone will in order to carry a " fresh " message that what goes on in these laboratories is wrong . Eventually , we'll see posters and ad blurbs for Project NeXt or something like that . All in all , it's good for a rainy Sunday , but don't set your hopes real high , and . . . in spite of the levity , heartwarming moments , and the kid-friendly ratings , this is NOT for younger ( or tender ) children , who could be traumatized for years by the treatment these chimps receive . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Suspenseful and chilling .	Dean Koontz chiller , starring Jeff Goldblum . Highly entertaining . . . suspenseful . . . even mesmerizing at times . Jeff Goldblum pulls the veritable rabbit out of the proverbial hat in this one . His acting is intensely deep and highly professional in this Brett Leonard ( director of the notoriously horrible adaptation of Stephen King's " Lawnmower Man , " so bad it was , King SUED and WON , to have his name removed from the title and marketing ! ) adaptation of Dean Koontz's literary effort . This adaptation is horrid , as well . Koontz , in my opinion , should also have sued . The " adaptation " isn't an adaptation , it's a complete rewriting of the story , dialog , setting and characters . The only thing that remains the same is Hatch ( Goldblum ) and the circumstances which surround his amazing new " gift . " Koontz's earlier works , as was the work upon which this movie was based , had little detail , although his characters are very well developed and his story lines / plots move along with little or no distraction at all . This leaves his earlier works easily adapted to film by any director with a capable imagination and even just a little talent . Unfortunately , Brett Leonard displays neither in this attempt . Someone should have told him the red sun . . . wasn't SCARY ! As a movie , it is highly entertaining , fun , scary and has you literally on the edge of your seat several times during its viewing . There are a couple of really well done " scare you ! " moments and many moments where you catch yourself holding your breath . However good the movie itself may be ( or may not , depending on your point of view ) , Jeff Goldblum's performance completely redeems the horrid rewrite and inept direction of this production . Totally . The scenery and props were very well done , and the scene in which Hatch visits the Tarot Reader is very authentic . The tarot cards she uses are quite unique and extremely well designed . I wouldn't mind having a deck like that myself . The Alpine-styled architectures and wooden and glass designs are truly lovely and well designed . Even the slightest attention to scene settings and props make for a much more enjoyable finished product . Christine Lahti is very convincing as Hatch's ( Goldblum's ) wife , Lindsey Harrison , and Alicia Silverstone is believable and fun to watch , in her portrayal of the Harrison's younger daughter . I'm not a fan of Ms . Silverstone's , but I must say her performance in this role is about the best I've ever seen from her . The twists and turns in this movie are a bit predictable , but there are a few surprises which leave you saying , " Wow . . . " . . . but what saved this production was Jeff Goldblum's marvelous talent . Jeremy Sisto was a nice bit of eye candy for those who are interested in that , but it was Goldblum's wonderful gift for acting that put this movie in my horror collection . It was a good book , and is a good movie ; it's just not enough like the book for me to feel comfortable with the adaptation , and the direction was completely lacking . However , the actors weren't walking around aimlessly , spouting drivel and worthless platitudes thanks to Walker's ( he did BRAINSCAN ! ! ! ! ) abilities , but his screen play / adaptation should really have been more faithful to Koontz's wonderful story . It would have made for a much more entertaining evening . . . and movie . The ending is very satisfying ; high tension , wonderful techno music playing not too loud , but loud enough in the background , and Hatch's wife saying over and over , " I'm so sorry , " for doubting Hatch's visions were real . His gift takes him straight to his daughter's side . . . and into the clutches of the " demon " with which he has been granted psychic contact . Who will win the ultimate battle ? Hatch ( the good guy ) , Vassago / Jeremy ( the " demon " ) or another , unrevealed participant ? While the final battle takes place on this plane , the ethereal battle which rages in the background is every bit as important . This climaxial scene is the epitome of metaphorical synergy . It was the only scene in the movie which was well-directed ; where the acting quality , the visual effects and the direction were in sync with one another . Before this scene , for the entire rest of the movie , the acting quality is the only thing which will keep you watching it . All in all , it earns a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the few classics to be topped by its remake .	As a Pagan , it's nice to see the christians portrayed as they sometimes are ; pontificating zealots who believe no one is right but themselves ; judgmental nose in the air types who have nothing for anyone outside their own closed-minded views ; even their own family . The abuse Carrie suffers at her pious mother's hands is known throughout the country as rather a common occurrence , and it forever horribly altered poor little Carrie's persona . As a gifted teen in an oppressively religious setting , she doesn't stand a chance . Her mother's failings placed directly on the child's head ; everything the mother went through ; every failure , every weakness , blamed on the child . " Satan will take you away just like he took your father ! " " Oh , Mama ! Everybody KNOWS he left with another woman ! " The scene where Carrie is dragged into the closet and locked inside by her mother is quite dramatic . It actually looks as though Carrie is being PULLED by her hair ! It is also typical of a household in that precarious situation ; living on donations made by those who'd rather pay money than listen to the zealot drone on . The effects were quite nice , but the religious connotations of the movie really just bash you in the head until you're in danger of a coma . Other than Sissy ( Carrie ) ' s performance , the acting was stiff , the teenagers were portrayed by people closer to 30 and the movie really wasn't all that . For a compelling and faithful version of this movie , see the Made4TV remake with Angela Bettis . It's a subtly better work ! This movie gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
What " Master of Disguise " failed to achieve	This was Candy's attempt in the Peter Sellers venue . Had this movie hit , there would , no doubt , have been a movie franchise involving the bumbling master of disguises . Unfortunately , in comparison to " Planes , Trains , and Automobiles " of 1984 , " Uncle Buck " of the same year as this one ( 1989 ) and " The Great Outdoors " ( 1988 ) , this movie was considered to be far below par . However , in retrospect ( which does not in any way help Mr . Candy at this time ) , his attempt was an honest one . I laugh every time I watch this movie . I can say that about very few films . Annie Potts is beautifully cast as the money-hungry , sex-crazed nymphomaniac ; Tim Thomerson of " Cherry 2000 " was great as the idiot you love to take advantage of ; and Jeffrey Jones of " Howard the Duck " was beautiful as the conniving , hard-hearted megalomaniac ; but it was Shawnee Smith who stole the show . She's done other films such as Stephen King's " The Shining , " ( TV version ) , " The Stand , " " Armageddon " and about 25 more , or so . She was excellently cast , and her performance was completely endearing . This movie is about 1 , 000 times better than the recently ill-fated " Master of Disguise , " but it just did not rise to Peter Sellers's caliber . Sorry John . But it didn't . Gods , I miss Candy's talent . I wish he could have lived to be 100 . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I Was Surprised	Let's face it . David Twohy has written some good screen plays , and he has also put out some real stinkers . I didn't know quite what to expect with this work , but what I didn't expect was this gritty , fresh science fiction work . I don't know that this will make " cult classic " status , but in my opinion , it should . The characters , while vile-mouthed , are enigmatic ; the story , which has been classified by some as a rip off to " Alien , " has been done before , and done well , but that didn't detract from my enjoyment of this work . The aliens themselves more closely resembled those of Starship Troopers than Alien , but I believe those other critics were indicating the plot , rather than the creature effects themselves . All in all ? It delivers . I found it highly enjoyable , and quite frankly , it caught me by surprise . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Good Story , Good Action !	This is a good movie . It features enjoyable performances , some great performances , and an easy , casual , basic story . It also has the virtue of featuring one of my favorite actors , Samuel Pack Elliott . The action herein is rousing , but the story is compelling , though perhaps a bit weak in places , however , the performances keep you involved and interested enough to gain some enjoyment from this work , which does have merits of its own . I found it thoroughly enjoyable , not great or fantastic , but enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Probably my favorite Connery installment	With Akiko Wakabayashi and Mie Hama borrowed from TOHO Studios ( yeah , the guys who made Godzilla so famous ) , away we go . Bond pretends to marry a beautiful Japanese gal and entrenches himself deeply inside the culture in another effort to thwart SPECTRE . This is a competent entry in the franchise , and takes itself far less seriously than previous installments , making for a much lighter , more fun event . However , with the lighter feelings , also comes a dialed-in performance by Connery . I can understand why he tried to retire the franchise , but he should have given it his all as long as he was cashing and spending Broccoli's paycheck . . . and THIS is my FAVORITE of Connery's Bond flicks . Frankly , I was happy he was not to be in the next Bond , and still believe today that Lazenby got a raw deal . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkly fun .	Not the best Vampyre movie ever made , still a fun , humorously dark ride ! I want to start by saying that there are many cameos here worth mentioning . Check the movie's details page for an impressive list of cameo appearances including Frank Oz , Dario Argento ( blah ) , and others . This was a nice combination of mob action and the supernatural . Frank Loggia played Salvatore , a primo mob boss . When he awoke from being bitten , it took a few changes but he quickly caught on to what was happening with him . He understood what his powers should do for him , which made him all the more dangerous . Marie ( played by Anne Parrilaud ) had innocently created him without intent of doing so but still realized that he would become a most powerful menace and that it was her place to put a stop to it . She never intended the romance with Joe ( the lead police officer here ) but once she surrendered to it , it was treated on camera as something almost precious . Very nice . Frank Loggia was excellent in spite of the moments of camp and stiff delivery . He managed to give a talented performance through entire scenes of mafia stereo-types and almost tongue-in-cheek camp . I found the entire production to be a highly entertaining endeavor . I own it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Teenagers ARE Shallow , but They Also ARE People .	This work is striking in its accurate depiction of teenage life at the time of its execution . Though this is a broad generalization , parents of that time were too self-absorbed to be real parents , and those who were home tended to be far too distracted from the real issues , where their children were concerned . This film teaches us how to let go , even when it is painful , and does so with a sweet , melancholy , but informed style whereby Foster talks philosophically about feeling the pain of life . I loved that scene . It was my favorite scene in the movie , actually . The transition from funeral to wedding was meant to show that life does go on , and so must we . Baio's skateboarding through a pack of goons and outrunning them was meant to show us that the troubled times will pass , and we are meant to get through them , to better times . The whole metaphor of " moving on , " and the procession of life , is present throughout the film , and serves to give us hope , in the end . I like this movie , though I do not watch it often , as it tends to make me melancholy . It shouldn't be viewed by young children , and probably only those raised in the 1970's-80's would want to . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent , fast-paced action / thriller !	This is one of those first few movies which represent Seagal's best . The story moves by quickly , the action never stops , and the quality is excellent . Seagal's bombastic aikido style is a sure show-stopper . The action is so captivating that it almost renders the story unnecessary . The story consists of Seagal searching out the murderer of a friend . There are other elements to the plot , but that is the gist . It would do no good to attempt to detail the plot however , as the story is lost in a flurry of fists and knees . If you are a fan of Seagal's bone-crunching , show-stopping , hard-hitting martial arts style , you will simply love this one . Although this is quite pretentious and philosophically preachy , this has to be one of my absolute favorites of his older movies . I love it ! It rates a 7 . 4 from . . . the Fiend : .
I like it very much , but there are good reasons why I can't love it	There were many plot changes to accommodate the adaptation of this literary work to film . But what bothered me more were the obvious comparisons to the 1986 TV movie " The Worst Witch , " in which many of the main characters of this work seem to have appeared . Professor Snape and Professor McGonagall are obviously different sides / aspects of Diana Rigg's Hardbroom . Professor Dumbledore , an obvious male version of Miss Cackle . Harry is Mildred , and Ronald Weasley is Maud . Furthermore , Draco Malfoy can be found in the Worst Witch , in the form of Ethel Hallow . Hardbroom gives Mildred nothing but a hard time in potions class , Miss Spellbinder ( Madam Hooch to the HP fans ) is trying to teach the first years how to fly , and they're all getting ready for a visit from Tim Curry's Grand Wizard ( the HP's Minister of Magic ) . And , while this group of young witches plays " terror tag " rather than Quittich , and it is an all girl school instead of going co-ed , the obvious comparisons are still staggering . But ah , well . No one has sued , so what are we to do ? Harry Potter is a young survivor of a dark crusade to silence those in opposition to an ancient evil . As a baby in his crib , he was spared by the Grace of his mother's love . Although of " Wizarding " blood , the attack on young Harry has left him with certain gifts and abilities he otherwise would not have had . As puberty strikes , so does Hogwarts in the guise of multiple invitations to attend Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry . Harry's subsequent shopping trip to Diagon Alley is very entertaining , and rich with detail to which you otherwise would not be privy , concerning the back-story and succeeds in accomplishing character depth and setting the mood for the rest of the story . The direction by Chris Columbus is creatively wonderful . The cinematography is outstanding as great attention has been paid to detail . Details , no matter how small or inconsequential , enrich any creative work , regardless of the medium . I just hate the fact that Columbus ( as Exec . Producer of this and subsequent HP films ) could not find the time to read ahead through the second book to determine that there was a pumpkin patch , rocky crags , and a second room on Hagrid's hut ! How much more beautiful would the PoA have been without having to stomach the sudden changes to accommodate the " TRUE " layout of Hogwarts grounds ? ! ) The train ride to Hogwarts introduces the main supporting characters ; Ronald Weasley ( Rupert Grint ) and Hermione Granger ( Emma Watson ) . As the " first years " ( new students ) arrive by boat to Hogwarts Castle , the look of wonder on all their faces is absolutely believable . When I first saw this production , I was a bit full of wonder myself . Hogwarts is beautifully done , every little component of architecture and design was perpetrated with an intense caring , and great eye for detail . The acting by these young thespians is honest and genuine ; truly professional performances by all involved . Let me also add here that the casting was top row . They got just the right people for just the right parts . In my opinion , there was not a single character that was mis-cast . ( I absolutely detest Tom Felton's character , Draco Malfoy . . . his acting is brilliant , to elicit such a gut reaction towards his character . ) Maggie Smith is a joy as the hard-lined Professor McGonagall . I've always loved watching her demonstrate her talents , and her performance in this production was no exception . Her character is like a roasted marshmallow . . . hard and tough on the outside , but with a heart that can be soft and sweet on the inside . Her treatment of young Harry demonstrates the love her character felt for his parents , now deceased ; murdered in the dark crusade waged by Voldemort , one of the darkest wizards ever produced by the House of Slytherin ( one of the four Houses at Hogwarts ) , and his many followers . Emma Watson positively shines as Hermione Granger . Her performance is quite believable and lends so MUCH to the movie . Her character was one of my favorites from the book , and her personification lives up to my every expectation . She plays the well - ( self - ) educated neophyte Witchling VERY well . I cannot wait to see where life leads her in the future . Robbie Coltrain's character ; however , was my favorite among the teachers . Rubius Hagrid , who says repeatedly , " I shouldn't have said that , " has a heart of pure gold , and the demeanor of a true gentle giant . No one could've portrayed Hagrid , like Robbie Coltrain . The scenery and mountain footage shot and shown in abundance is absolutely breath-taking , the direction giving this effort the professional quality for which I had hoped it would possess . The effects were stunningly clever and extremely well perpetrated , brilliantly demonstrating Rowling's extraordinary imagination and creativity , and perpetuating the magic of her original literary work . I was pleased with this movie ; though not as pleased as I was in reading the book . Jim Henson's Creature Shop did a marvelous job with the " monsters " in this movie . Better than I would have expected from Brian ( Jim's son ) when you compare his " Muppets From Space " to the earlier Muppet films done by his dad . Impressive work on Fluffy and Norbert , Brian . Jolly good show ! " There is no good and evil . There is only power , and those too weak to seek it . " Voldemort . The ending is both satisfying and heartwarming . I truly enjoyed this movie , its characters and its message : you can succeed , no matter your beginnings or misgivings about yourself . However , while it did not fail utterly in capturing the atmosphere and overall " feeling " of the spirit of the first book , it did fall short . This effort earns a large from . . . the Fiend : .
Lacks the Charm of the First , And Adds in the Area of Superficiality , But It Is Fun , Nonetheless .	" That's what I said , ' Derf ! ' " This installment has Johnny Five in the big city to help Ben get his electronics business off the ground , but since Ben's not around , Johnny Five is left to his own devices , which lead him into the hands of big city bad guys who want to turn Johnny into personal profits . While this work is charming , it lacks the charm of the original . While there seems to be more story , there's really only more dialog , less story , and more superficial fluff . In spite of that , however , this film is marginally entertaining , with some humorous ( if not outright funny ) moments , and serves as a decent distraction . This makes for a decent Sunday afternoon diversion for the kiddies , but the ' rents may wish to find something better to do with their time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
You'll Love It . . . . or . . . You'll Hate It .	Martin Short is somewhat of an acquired taste . His form of comedy contains traits described as exaggeratedly precocious , infinitely preposterous , and pseudo-intellectual . For most comedians , this combination would be so volatile as to render the comedy itself , moot . Short , however , pulls it off . He shines as the star , but only to those few who can appreciate his particular " flavor " of comedy . This movie , Jiminy Glick , on the surface seems superficial and fun , and if that's all you got out of it , then go on your blissful way and tell your friends about this wonderfully funny , FUN movie . But in many deeper ways , the niche audience seems rather ambiguous in that not everyone cares about the goings on in Hollywood , its stars , the key players , and the inner workings of the " industry . " Such is the subject of this film . Glick is one of those unfortunate men who missed out on their calling in life to be gay , married a schizophrenic , fathered carbon copies of himself , and remained in the relationship although it was doomed to be life in Hell . He catapults from Hollywood obscurity into the limelight by sleeping through a wretched movie and then glamorizing it in his review . It may be scary , but I can actually see that scenario working out this way , in life . I really enjoyed the movie , and Short's dual role . I bought this mainly for Steve Martin , but ended up loving it for Short's performance . If you liked Clifford , The Jerk , or Superstar , you should also give this one a shot . Don't miss the lovely outtakes which run as the credits begin to roll . Kurt Russell in tears of laughter was a thing to behold . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Funny , interesting and heartwarming !	As a " B " movie , this production is quite entertaining . It was a Johnn Laroquette , Bronson Pinchot movie from the late 80's based around a psychic ( Pinchot ) , the psychic's " handler , " and the lawyer who represents them ( Laroquette ) . They are a crime solving team who end up in some very funny situations . The effects were corny but entertaining , the story line / plot is very cohesive , and the sub-plot is intelligent and interesting ; something I didn't expect from a low budget production like this . If you liked " Vibes , " " Witch Hunt , " or " Ghostbusters 1 and 2 , " you will enjoy this movie very much . Rent it , settle down on a weekend night with a bowl of popcorn and amuse your sense of humor . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior Production	Say what you will about this Made for TV attempt , it received three awards nominations and references two other King works ; Cujo and The Body ( known by film fans as " Stand By Me " ) . The opening film noir style is reminiscent of an age of Innocence ; a detail I enjoy . The graphics sporting those opening credits are craftily done . While this is a more faithful adaptation , the element of horror is all but gone and is , instead , replaced with a slow-building suspense which lessens itself with occasional scene breaks and slight humor . Unfortunately the suspense never quite gains any true momentum and the result is a muted climax . That having been said , the performances in this attempt are light-years ahead of those in the 1979 extended Made for TV movie , much less the watered down , cut to bits theatrical release . While some of the characters we all know and love ( or love to hate ) from the 1979 versions are gone from this variant , the characters given are quite well developed and very well portrayed . I thoroughly enjoyed this version , however , for a better horror , I must recommend the 1979 Made for TV edition . It is much more atmospheric and is the full movie . The theatrical version was cut to bits . I really like this M4TV work , and I love the updated effects and extended story , but for a real horror movie , check out the original . It rates an on the M4TV Scale . It rates a on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Very good , but lacks the charm of their first movies .	I enjoyed this endeavor very much . As an avid fan of both Richard Pryor and Gene Wilder , I enjoy all their team ventures . And while I did find this movie very entertaining , it also lacked some of the magick of the first few . Wilder plays a deaf entrepreneur , and Pryor is an unemployed blind man who comes to Wilder for a job . From the very beginning , this movie is hilariously clever . I did enjoy it , though it was a very bittersweet experience , seeing Pryor so ill , and Wilder so much in pain . It showed through both their performances . Unfortunately , the unforgiving public did not understand , and assumed their talents were lacking , rather than there were other problems . I can only hope this will not be their last thespian collaboration . It is well worth a viewing or two . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is great for an afternoon , or rainy day movie .	This was another excuse to showcase the wonderful chemistry between Loy and Powell . Thankfully , I cannot say that there is no attention to detail , story , plot , or execution , because there is . It does somehow seem to be secondary , however , to the marvelous on screen relationship the principles enjoy . I like this in spite of the comparatively weak production style , plot , etc . and more for the quirky , sweet element and less for the tremendously compelling story or plot . It has a close feeling to Another Thin Man in that it was enjoyable , not as good as Shadow , or the first two installments , but enjoyable , nonetheless . All in all ? This is great for an afternoon , or rainy day movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Guilty Pleasure	Does this movie deserve a rating ? Yes . Smokey and the Bandit was a pop-culture icon in its day . The nation was a-buzz with talk of this movie when it hit the big screen , and with good reason . Jerry Reed , Burt Reynolds , and Sally Field , along with Jackie Gleason and scores of others made this a near all-star extravaganza , which could make you laugh and give you an extraordinary good time , regardless of your walk of life . Its outright irreverence for the law , the rules , and even its own morals made this one of the greatest " road " classics of its time . Smokey and the Bandit not only walked up to the bell , it RANG it ! This is one highly entertaining bit of nostalgia , which feels like a time capsule all by itself in that it holds many elements of the American culture at the time ; aptly demonstrates many of the citizen's attitudes towards the law and the rules of the day ; and for those of us who were alive and old enough to love this when it first came out , it is like a walk through a memory . It is a guilty pleasure of mine , and I love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Possibly THE Best of the Sellers Pink Panther Line .	A Shot in the Dark introduces the beloved Cato , Commissioner Charles Dreyfus by Herbert Lom , and ditches Clouseau's cheating wife ( and good riddance ) , thereby leaving more room for more movie humor rather than soliciting pity from its viewers . This installment stars Elke Sommers as Maria , a murder suspect whose guilt Clouseau just can't conceive . Filmed during the go-go / beach blanket era , the work reflects that pop-cultural music and dated animation sequences in the opening . This movie is a bit more intelligently witty without attempting to BE more intelligent on the whole , making for a much more fun adventure . This is the only installment of the series ( starring Peter Sellers as Jacques Clouseau , that is ) which does not bear the name " Pink Panther " in the title . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Another Hellraiser " thinker . "	Following the same formula as Hellraiser : Inferno , this movie delves deeply inside the lead character and poses some hard questions to which he must find the answers . In an age of sequels and prequels , remakes and remixes , the Hellraiser line has remained untarnished . They have gone in different directions , given you the story of Hell , the history of the magickal box and the lead Cenobite , Pinhead ; they have made you question the reality of Heaven and Hell . This time , they make you question your own sanity . Okay , that IS a bit dramatic perhaps , but these sojourns into the horror aspects of the psychological world were really very well done . Not well done considering they are all " B " horror flix , not well done considering a relatively low budget , not well done considering the straight-to-video factor , but well done all around . The characters are well developed , the story lines are fantastic , and the portrayals are above average for these types of movies and for the most part , on par with the " A " lines . This movie in particular did resort to the cheap plot device of triggering that old gag reflex and , for the first time in a movie of this particular franchise , there were a couple of contrivances . ( Tell me that if your loved one was trapped in a car at the bottom of a river you wouldn't find a rock to break that glass , and do it BEFORE screaming for help ? ) And I do not enjoy gratuitous sex in horror movies . I believe if you have to rely on the sex to sell the movie , the movie wasn't all that well done to begin with . However , that did not take away from my enjoyment of this installment , which is a strong psychological thriller and a most excellent addition to the Hellraiser saga . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The honest truth about one of the most beloved action / comedy series in the movie industry .	THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES ! ! 1 - was fresh , innovative , edgy and hard . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us . The comedy was educated , intelligent and expertly-delivered . The characters were lovable , and we got the feeling that we " knew " them , cared about them , wanted them to succeed . Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person , due to the high-level of development his character received . True , the " gun handling " left a lot to be desired , but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip . Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground ; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid . That aside , this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value . One of the best of its kind . 2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character , Leo Getz . Because of Getz , I honestly found this film to be rather endearing . Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series . Unfortunately , the edge and freshness is toned down way too much , and the action is really rather predictable . I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh , and was not in the least bored with that aspect . It is still a good movie , even though its edge is shelved for a more " marketable " product . 3 - is just as good as 2 . Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well . It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover / Gibson signing for 4 & 5 , so it seems the series has wound down , rather than up . The action is still quality , though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments . The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired . And while the performances are still professional , it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out . 4 - is the perfect ending to this series . Honestly . The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness ; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct , Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring , and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore . ( Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming " Indiana Jones 4 . " ) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old , and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line , " I'm getting too old for this sht . " It is far beyond that . And now , with Riggs's marriage to Lorna , Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters , the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending . . . enough is just enough . 5 - should never happen . I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two . The characters we all loved are already gone . Like in " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers , " they've been stolen from us . The edge from Riggs's character is gone . He's a bit hapless now , and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character . The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character , the baby AND Butters . Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2 , or don't bring him out of the moth balls . PLEASE . I loved these movies , but for the love of Mike ! NO MORE ! If you liked any of these movies , I highly recommend " Tango & Cash , " an excellent , much-overlooked , highly under-rated " Buddy-Cop " movie . 1 . . . . from . . . the Fiend : .
Modernized ( if juvenile ) version of Mary Shelley's vision .	This treatment of the Frankenstein saga has a robot as the creation who is " alive , " by way of a short circuited electrical attachment , hence the title , " Short Circuit . " Dr . Newton ( Steve Guttenberg ) takes the place of the modern day Frankenstein , while Ally Sheedy assumes the role of Elizabeth , Frankenstein's love . While this is geared more towards t'weens , it is fun for all ages . There are no kills , and casual language even though there are many " action " sequences and a good amount of twelve-year-old level tension . This work has some good vista shots of the south western US , decent ( but campy ) dialog from the 1980's ( of course ) , and a decent love story . It is entertaining , and a good family movie for the kiddies . I enjoy it from time to time , myself . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This work holds much charm , some great performances , and not a small amount of charisma .	This is another rom / com based on the Cyrano Hercule Savinien de Bergerac premise . Like Roxanne , this work holds much charm , some great performances , and not a small amount of charisma . I do find it amusing that many male reviewers of this work find it " disgusting , " and " deceitful , " where the women in the movie are the antagonists , yet men did not find Roxanne ( where the men were the antagonists ) anything but entertaining . Noelle is a model / would be news caster . Abby has her own radio show about pets and how to care for them . Abby chose radio because she is intelligent , yet by standards set in today's society , she finds herself unattractive . Noelle is her polar opposite . She is beautiful and thin , yet can barely hold her own against a fifth grader , conversationally and intellectually . " You know ? Between the two of us , we make the perfect woman ! " Uma Thurman as Noelle With the comparison to Cyrano de Bergerac in my opening statement , I'm sure you can deduce what happens when a handsome photographer is introduced into their lives . This is not exactly sweet , as are most rom / coms . But it is enigmatic and holds a strong draw to see how it finishes out . It was fun , even if it did create an ethical stretch mark on the rom / com sub genre . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A dated " hit " remake awaiting the dawning of the Jackson era	When this was first released , I loved this movie . At the time of its theatrical release , I remember that the line for tickets went around the building ! While this production is now heavily dated and yes , there are campy moments , and the unbearable clichs , this was a state-of-the-art production in its time . I saw this movie on the big screen when it first came out . The lines went out and around the entire theater building in the city where I grew up . Around the building and back to the front where another line formed . Many were turned away for another showing of this blockbuster hit . However good it was then , it has lost a bit of its luster over the years . The invention and subsequent refinement of CGI has vastly dated this move . Outdated it , in fact . I cannot WAIT to see Peter Jackson's newest project ; the remake of King Kong , due to be released in 2005 . I bide the time in great anticipation . Jeff Bridges was a real star in this production . His character was believable and honest and his portrayal was extremely professional . I loved the way his character always got the best of Charles Grodin . It made me laugh countless times . Although the hair styles are indicative of the 70's ( Bridges's makes him resemble a Wookie ) , as are the clothing styles , I still find this movie quite endearing , adventurous , and entertaining . The shots of the island are absolutely breathtaking . Much like the beginning shots of Jurassic Park when you first arrive . The characters were developed quite well , and the story itself is timeless . While this endeavor does start off a bit slow , the necessary character development has begun , and takes place along the way . Perhaps you can distract yourself with Lange's striking figure and half-exposed body during this time , while you get to know the characters , or let Bridges's Wookie-like appearance endear him to your heart . Dwan ( Dwan ? ! - Lange ) is a treasure ; a pink lady from another world , and the natives who found her have decided that she is the perfect offering to their god ; a colossal ape they have come to call " Kong . " In the opening scenes featuring the introduction to Kong , he is really quite well done . You can actually believe he is a 30 ' ape absconding with the pismire Dwan in his hands . Later ; however , the effects go wrong , with the use of animatronics . They lost the realism they had achieved , specifically during the fight scene with the giant snake . When his oil-finding expedition goes bad , Fred Wilson ( Grodin ) learns that the petroleum present on Kong's Island needs a little more time ; just a tick of the clock , geologically speaking . In just around ten thousand more years , it will be productive petroleum . For lack of a cash cow to justify this farciful journey , Wilson determines it would be best to bring back Kong , rather than return to his New York investors empty handed . The plans of mice and men ; however , are sure to twist , crumble , and fade . Be sure to make note of the scene where Charles Grodin finds himself in a hole which turns out to be Kong's footprint . It shows you where the writers / directors of " Godzilla , " 1998 ( the Roland Emmerich one which I like to call " Jurassiczilla " ) , got the idea for a nearly identical scene in that movie . The musical score is quite compelling and lends quite a bit to the feeling of mystery and wonder this movie captures , though it is classic 70's score . The sets and costumes were quite original and creatively done . I especially thought the native costuming was well designed and manufactured , with a true Polynesian feel to them . And , while some of the scenes between Lange and the ape are campy and filled with clich after clich , they were still endearing and heart-warming . With tongue-in-cheek , my mate has just quipped , " This movie just proves that anybody can fall in love with a rich white girl . " I included that because it was the sum of the underlying camp throughout . But it somehow does not detract from the richness of the production . This movie is far greater than the sum of its parts . " King Kong : the Legend Reborn , " does breathe new life into the ' 30's classic , as I hope Peter Jackson's remake does , and bring to it at least some of the magic he achieved in his " Lord of the Rings " trilogy . Once back in New York , Grodin's character is largely under foot as Kong escapes and begins to find his way back to Dwan . Of course , if you even momentarily try to imagine the mayhem that would be generated by such a massive beast loose in New York City , you have to stop and ask yourself if the residents there would even notice . In true Godzilla style , Kong grabs the subway train in which Lange and Bridges are escaping , and unceremoniously rips the top off of it just in time to see his beloved Dwan running away with that other man . . . again . Needless to say , he is not a happy camper . And , just like Godzilla , Kong quickly learns not to play with power lines . Regardless of your nationality , please pay special attention to the last scenes of this wonderful production . The NYC Twin Towers are prevalent and , though I never viewed it from this perspective before 9-11 , they are now the real stars in this movie . I had no choice but to view it with a certain melancholy sadness . All in all , although admittedly not as much as when it was first released , I still greatly enjoyed this work and highly recommend its viewing ; especially in light of the upcoming remake . They've changed the character's names , rearranged the story , and forgotten the dinosaurs . But in the genre of monster movies , it is a definite must-see . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Rickman and Wincott Steal The Show	I don't really like Keven Costner but I like him a far sight better than I do Russel Crowe , and while his movies do tend towards the " revisionist " style , there is something to be said for this version of Robin Hood . I will freely admit the Errol Flynn version is superior in story but this movie has style where it may lack substance . Apparently , Kevin Costner does not know how to pull off a character with such depth and range as Robin Hood . Whether he lacks the ability to interpret the character or just lacks as an actor I have never cared enough to determine but his failings are upheld widely by the team of Alan Rickman and Michael Wincott who absolutely steal the show . This is not to say that this version of the story is without merit . It is worth seeing if only for Morgan Freeman , Wincott , and Rickman . And I'll guarantee you that this version will absolutely SHINE in comparison to Crowe's Nottingham ( due out 2010 ) . Honestly , the only actor MORE wrong for Robin Hood than Kevin Costner is Russell Crowe . Oy . All in all ? This is dark and sweeping . It is fun and entertaining and I LIKE IT ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
When you awaken , you discover the nightmare is just beginning ! !	Excellent movie . Christopher Walken is excellently cast as Johnny Smith , coma survivor . But when he awakes , he finds he's no longer alone . Truly spooky , thought-provoking theological theories instill in us , the viewers , the possibilities of things unimagined , as well as things undesired . I won't drone on about the plot . I've already outlined the basics of the movie , and every other comment gives you so much that there's no longer a NEED to see the movie , so I won't do it , too . Rent it , Watch it , Buy it . This is one of the few theatrical ventures which lives up to the literary works of horror by the Master himself , Stephen King . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Tense , edgy little bit of dark drama . Not bad .	Okay , Edward Scissorhands threw me off Depp completely . Benny & Joon was NOT a good movie , in my opinion , and What's Eating Gilbert Grape was good , but at the same time , weirdly atrocious . But of late , I'll say in the past few years , Depp has risen above his little avant-garde style of role choices and thankfully , so has his performance quality . While he seems to loathe the mainstream , he fits into it quite well , in my opinion . The Ninth Gate was a HP Lovecraft-esquire story in which Depp's character is an antique book dealer sent out to compare three copies of a book most dire . His job is to authenticate the copy held by his employer . There are some slow spots where not even character development is being utilized , and Emmanuelle Seigner's acting talents are practically non-existent . Those are the down-sides of this production . Beyond that , the story was dark and riddled with intrigue , the direction was adequate , and Depp's performance was outstanding . Too bad this movie did not rate his attempts . The potential for greatness was wasted here . The best aspect of this movie was Depp and the almost good story line which was botched somewhere along the path to the cutting room . It had such a great potential , but this production fell far short of realizing that potential . It rates a from . . . the Fiend .
Appropriate for Today	With the 2008 Presidential election turning out the way it has , I think this movie has more in common with America's current mindset than any other . Here we have a public servant elected for his spiel and jargon-filled rhetoric whereby he associates himself with " the people , " who becomes disenchanted with politics quickly , and allows himself to become corrupted by power , influence , and financial freedoms he had otherwise never experienced . We now have a president who was elected under the same terms , associated in the same way , and who has never done anything even remotely similar to running our country . That not withstanding , I found the lovely performances to be riveting , especially that of John Ireland as Jack Burden and Mercedes McCambridge as Sadie Burke . This movie succeeds in demonstrating adequately how quickly and thoroughly even the most bright-eyed idealist can become disenfranchised with those high ideals , and sucked into the moral vacuum that is Washington's underground . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Totally Fun	Will Smith is perfectly endearing as the " Relationship Doctor , " here to heal all your relationship woes . I expected this to be a standard RomCom with little to amuse . I'm happy to report that I was wrong . Will Smith is delightful and unexpectedly " fresh " in this Andy Tennant vehicle . Surrounded by a great supporting cast , an interesting story , and fed with witty dialog , I was thoroughly engaged . We found this one cute , quirky , and inspirational without being preachy . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Much better !	As far as Dean Koontz films go , the adaptations to his works usually leave me feeling . . . robbed of a good experience . His novels are excellent , but the adaptations are horrid . With " Phantoms , " some actual money was spent , and Dean R . Koontz himself write the screenplay , and was one of the producers . This made for the best Koontz movie to date . This time , Mr . Koontz is a co-executive producer , and apparently retained a bit of control over this production by doing so , because this is even better than " Phantoms . " If this keeps up , his work may actually one day receive the attention and financial backing it deserves . That having been said , this is a fun movie . The youngest Baldwin not withstanding , the acting performances ( especially those of the two girls featured as Baldwin's daughters ) were extremely good , the direction this time was better than decent , and the story was not too badly ripped . I was actually quite surprised with the raised level of quality to this production . I was also surprised to find that I highly enjoyed this film ; it was fun , quirky , and well executed . I found this movie was actually quite well done . Yes , of course , it could have been better , but this could possibly be the turn around for Koontz and his work . At least , I hope so . On the " B " scale , this movie rates an . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Accumulative Comedy Formula Works	This work lacks in the line of direct laughs . They just don't come . The humor of this work comes from an accumulative factor , the fact that sexual innuendo and outright swank are heightened to replace their usual marijuana-based venue , and the fact that these guys do not belong in this setting . About a third of the way through , I found myself chuckling . Not from anything direct , mind you , but because the accumulative comedic elements effectively communicated the humor , and never let up . All in all , this is a fine film . Its caustic humor wears on you until you find that you are laughing , in spite of yourself . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
If you're Dune fan , watch it . If not , you might do better to read the book .	The thing about a TV Mini-Series in comparison to a theatrical event , is that the mini-series has adequate time to tell a story , but often lacks in financial backing to tell it WELL . While this attempt does not utterly fail in the area of effects and eye candy , it does manage to redeem itself when telling the actual story . The effects are far below the 1984 theatrical version , but the story told is superior , if still falling a bit from the tree . This may be superior in story , but lacks in organization and effects . I don't need an effects-driven movie to make me happy , but a science fiction story as rich as Herbert's Dune deserves far better treatment than it has received of either this or the original theatrical attempt . Oh , my kingdom for a good Dune interpretation ! All in all ? If you're Dune fan , watch it . If not , you might do better to read the book . It rates slightly higher than the theatrical attempt at a from . . . the Fiend : .
Modern remaking of a dark Russian faerie tale .	This production starts out with . . . " This story is based on events which occurred in Point Pleasant , West Virginia . " Does that mean this is a true story ? Hardly . It says it in plain English . " BASED ON . " That means it contains actual elements , but these elements have been adapted to fit the producers ' ideas of what sells . BASED ON . Not that this movie depicts true occurrences ; but that this screen play contains elements which actually happened . Remember " Amityville Horror ? " BASED ON , not that the entire story is fact . Like . . . the Lutz's , the house in Amityville , and Amityville itself actually exists , and nothing else was real . Get it ? Got it ? Good . moves on to the review . My opinion ? This would have been OH so much better with Harrison Ford in the lead . This is the kind of movie he needs to be doing now that he's just too " mature " for action . Gods help and forfend when he stars in Indiana Jones 4 . Richard Gere was good , even believable , as the " Times " reporter who ends up in West Virginia to do an investigative piece on mysterious happenings there , but Harrison Ford would've been brilliant in this one . Some horror fans are of the mistaken impression that the creature element in this movie is a " new monster . " In fact , this is a very old monster , which has received very little press , so to speak . While this is a very good story which is nicely done and contains some good suspense elements and a lovely plot , it is not a wholly true story , by all accounts , but I enjoyed it , and that's what good entertainment is all about . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a wonderful , fun , almost dark comedy .	My Blue Heaven is a wonderful example of Steve Martin's diversity as a comedic actor . I love his devil-may-care attitude in this one and his relationship with Rick Moranis's character's is absolutely hilarious . Martin plays Vincent ' Vinnie ' Antonelli , a low-level mob figure who is turning state's evidence against a bigger gangland figure . He is in the witness protection program , and assigned to Barney Coopersmith ( Rick Moranis ) , an FBI agent who is chomping at the bit to do some " real detective work . " I won't go into the plot , but it is quite enjoyable to watch . One of my favorite Steve Martin movies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Oh no ! They're . . . CUTE ! !	This isn't a bad movie at all . The CGI is pretty nice , although one never needs to stop and ask one's self , " Who trained those awesome chipmunks ? " it is still pretty good CG , all things considered . Unlike other children / family movies of late , this seems to have a plot , but no story . It progresses predictably and does not step one toe into the Land of the Unexpected , the Realm of Enchantment , or the World of Wonder . In fact , this work doesn't seem to know these places exist , but that doesn't seem to lessen the film in its own eyes . Although it does not take itself too seriously , it does take the chipmunks seriously and insists that we do , too . I'm still not sure that I am entirely comfortable with that , but I do know that I am enamored with those horrendous little no-necked fur-balls ! Oh no ! They're . . . CUTE ! ! ARG ! And I'm sure I'll also see the ( coughs ) Squeakuel . All in all ? I didn't want to like this . . . I just couldn't help myself . sighsIt rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Too Ignorant to Love , Too Funny to Hate . . .	I'll start this review off with a few words of commentary ; a Fiendatorial , if you will . Ben Jones commenced a great bruja-ja here in ( semi - ) local Knoxville when he was present for the unveiling of this cinematic work . It seems that Mr . Jones ( and while he spoke for some of the other " original " cast members , I never quite believed he was authorized to do that ) believes that he should have been offered a cameo in this work . Since he wasn't , he has set about extolling the horrors of this modernized update of the beloved ( ? ! ) family series . Okay , I'll accept that some people did LOVE this series . But the Dukes of Hazard always was a bit racy for some . Bo and Luke ran moonshine from their Uncle Jessie's still , Daisy was a little short on the wardrobe department , and Uncle Jessie was the leader of this motley hillbilly moonshine gang that any " Revenuer " worth his badge would have loved to have thrown in jail . The " boys " stayed in a constant state of trouble , and flaunted their illegal activities in the face of local law enforcement . These were NOT " good " boys ! No , there was no marijuana use in the television series . It was TELEVISION ! They couldn't do that and be on television as a series . Frankly , I never loved the series . I thought it was hokey , unintelligent , and downright stupid . It made Southerners look like we ARE inbred idiots . I detested it . As far as this modernization goes , I found it to be a 100 % improvement over the cheesy dialog and horrible acting perpetrated upon us by the series ! The performances were great , the plot was in keeping with the original series , the action . . . wow the action ! This movie was a stunt-driver's wet dream ! It was reminiscent ( if only a small bit ) of Smokey and the Bandit in that it was great fun to watch . And while I enjoyed Jessica Simpson's Daisy Duke far more than I thought was possible , she would have made a better Ellie Mae Clampett , in my opinion . It wasn't afraid to laugh at itself and never took itself too seriously . Unfortunately , Burt Reynolds was a very weak Boss Hogg . I have no idea what they were thinking . The casting choice wasn't necessarily a bad call , but the direction of his character was just flaccid , as was Burt's performance . He played him too unemotional without ever coming close to hitting the level of calculated treachery Sorrel Brooke's Boss Hogg exuded . I felt that Mr . Reynolds was just . . . horrible in this endeavor , but Willie Nelson more than made up for that in his portrayal as Uncle Jessie . So don't listen to the nay-sayers . This is a highly entertaining endeavor . Even those of us of the " alternative " categorization could ( and did ) experience a few honest belly-laughs at our own expense . Heck , we survived " Deliverance ! " I'm sure we'll survive this . The best line in the movie ? " You're hillbillies ! " " We prefer Appalachian-Americans ! " It rates a .
Surprising	I never would have believed that Anthony Michael Hall could act like this ! This endeavor is wholly impressive . This is the same guy who played Rusty Grizwold in the first Vacation movie . He also starred in Weird Science , Sixteen Candles , The Breakfast Club , and more recently he portrayed Bill Gates in the Pirates of Silicon Valley ! rolls my eyes Geez . And now , here he is , putting out the quality performance of an accomplished actor ! Simply amazing . It simply is not possible that Robert Lieberman pulled from him a great performance , as nothing Mr . Lieberman has ever done has been noteworthy , as yet . Is this a fluke ? We can only wait and see . In my opinion , Mr . Hall successfully surpassed Walken's performance with this remake ! He is completely believable in the impassioned portrayal of a coma victim who awakens to find himself imbued with powers he can neither explain nor understand . The cinematography of this straight-to-video endeavor is astounding . The pans and the cut-ins are pure professionalism ; truly inspired work . The flash backs experienced by Mr . Hall's characters are quite realistically portrayed , lending a feeling of reality to the tale that otherwise was not present in the original theatrical release . Some critics and movie fans have questioned my rating this version higher than the original , but I stand by my judgment of this work . The sense of reality is so high with this adaptation , where the Christopher Walken version is now badly dated and lacks the serious hard-core feeling of this production . " Atmospheric " doesn't cover it . All in all , this is much more poignant . The finished product really surprises you . The original is still a classic , and should not be negated . Rather , I suggest you watch the original , then watch this one , and determine for yourself . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
AKA : Terminal Countdown	Louis Gossett , Jr . , Jamiz Woolvett , Ed O'Ross . People must stop a computer from launching nuclear bombs . This is like an odd blend of War Games and Navy Seals , though it works ! The performances contributed here are all above par for a movie of this type . One does not typically expect realism from these American GI movies , as most often than not , the budget goes towards effects , high dollar action stars , and location shooting than script , props , or good performances . So imagine my surprise when I came across this little underdog . Awesome action , with a little humor peppered throughout , and some awesome acts , this actioner walks you through some very suspenseful moments , high action sequences , and beautiful settings . All in all ? It is an enjoyable surprise if you like the military-type actioners . Otherwise , there is no reason to go here , as it's all about military action . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Underrated	Susan Sarandon , Richard Dreyfus . This is a mess of a rom / com . The adolescent boy of a single mom makes friends with an adult male school security guard by virtue of being caught attending school in the wrong school district . Upon the discovery , the child offers his mother as a bribe to the officer to prevent the guard reporting the transgression . The premise is creative , to say the least , and the performances by Sarandon and Dreyfus are heartwarming and real . I liked this , but as usual , I'm in the minority . This film is vastly underrated , by virtue of the quality of performance and presentation involved . The dialog between those two is natural and believable . All in all , though it's dated , it's a quirky , cute , heartwarming rom / com . And , while it's not the stuff of Friday / Saturday night viewing , it IS worth making time for . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Realistic	This work presents the challenges of raising a gifted child . It is never a easy as it seems , raising a child who is more intellectual than you are - a fact wrenchingly portrayed herein . The emotional needs of these children often go unattended , as the parents usually struggle to satisfy the intellectual needs . Jodie Foster gives a fantastic performance as a mom under the aforementioned circumstances . Many may consider the ending weak , if they are unable to demonstrate the ability to see beyond the story itself . If you can , then this work is well done and offers hope in the end . I found it a bit better than mildly entertaining , but it's not something I will want to watch again . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Action . Great Movie .	The hype , the merchandising , the tagline , and even the box this movie came in , promised Angelina Jolie to be the " Ultimate Superhero . " Was Laura Croft ( as portrayed here ) the " ultimate superhero ? " I'd have to say , " Yes ! " The sets were all exquisite in design and architecture . The props were top of the line , state of the art Hollywood eye candy . The wardrobe , specifically that of Ms . Jolie , was quite well done , and while the character development did come late in the movie , I honestly found myself emotionally invested in her character . Frankly , I geuninely hope they make another " Croft " movie . I was so amused and entertained by the first one , I can't wait to see where she goes next . The elaborate sets and props were nearly awe-inspiring , delicately and cohesively tying the story together with the setting , and working to Jolie's advantage through demonstration of her talents and obvious hard work in preparation for this movie . If they DO make another , and I understand they already have at the time of this writing , I do hope they at least paid a good screen writer and kept the props manager from the last movie . As I have said so many times before , the little details add so much to a production ; not just with this one , but any production , and they can often bridge the gap between avid fan and casual movie-goer enjoyment . All that having been said , the action is quite stimulating , and extremely well choreographed and executed by Jolie , thanks no doubt to her personal trainer Eddie Chow . The soundtrack was very " now , " with great songs as the background by Nine Inch Nails , Chemical Brothers , Groove Armada , Oxide & Neutrino , Delerium , Basement Jaxx , and more . Great music with the action and extremely creative set designs lend for a very enjoyable movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not bad at all !	This is far superior to what I have come to expect from the Sci Fi Channel Originals . The Wyvern is fabulous , and the dialog is actually quite realistic . This is superb as far as the Sci Fi Channel movies go , and if this is what we can expect this next generation of SFOs to be like , this should be an enjoyable decade of M4TV Creature Features . Also , it was nice to see Elaine Miles ( Northern Exposure ) again . She always was one of my favorites . This film is a real surprise in the actual film quality , sure , but more so in the quality of performances , dialog , screenplay , and actual plot . . . but what surprises me most ( as if that weren't enough ) is the CGI of the Wyvern . WOW ! The CGI was good for anyone , but especially for the Sci Fi Channel . The Lord of the rings this isn't , but for a Sci Fi Original movie , this isn't bad at all . It rates a on the Made For TV Scale . It rates a 7 . 4 / . 10 on the Movie Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Mindless , wonderful fun to watch !	I LOVE this campy , hilarious production , centering around 2 American reporters sent to Transylvania to get the scoop on the re-emergence of Frankenstein's monster . Excellent spoof of all the old horror classics , and a very enjoyable endeavor . " Lupi . WHAT are you doing , now ? ! " wide , happy , dumb-blond grin . . . " I'm HELPING yoooou ! " " If you help me any more , I'll be DEAD ! " Jeff Goldblum is an absolute joy as Jack Harrison , and while I never cared much for Ed Begley Jr's style , I liked him more in this production than I did in " She-Devil . " But not by much . Ignore him , and enjoy John Byner , Carol Kane , Joseph Bologna , Geena Davis , Norman Fell , and an all-out star-studded cast of characters including everything from a female VAMPire to the Wolfman , and everything in between . Very fun to watch and giggle at Carol's character , Lupi . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Generally Despised , But If You're Not A Fan Of The Old 1960's Originals , This Can Be An Entertaining Two Hours .	The modern remake has two purposes , A . to modernize the setting , characters , film technologies , etc . , and B . to generate interest in the original work it remakes . The latter is used only when the former is weak and they have no idea how to really make the remake a better attempt than the original . This is one of those times . The main problem with this work is not the other the top apes , the shortened story line , the effects , the story itself , or the premise . The problem with this work is that Mark Walberg , though I do like him as an actor , is NOT a lead actor . Sorry Mark , but you're not . Mark Walberg is a great supporting actor , but he does not bear the presence on screen to bolster any movie , unless it is something small and weak enough to make him seem stronger . It's not his acting , it's his presence , or lack thereof . As far as this film goes , he IS the weakest element of what otherwise could have been a successful attempt , but Burton's works seem to deteriorate in the third act , with few exceptions , thereby calling for a strongly-written ending , something completely unexpected , or something totally over the top , in order to strengthen his inability to keep it together . Sleep Hollow is one example of a Burton work which does not fall into that generality , but only barely . A good example would probably be Ed Wood , which was bad enough on its own , and for other reasons . The reinvention of the Planet of the Apes was generally despised by Baby Boomers who loved the original campy , sometimes horrid Apes run , by virtue of fond childhood memories . The idea of combining several of these " beloved " works into one movie failed to generate the positive response the studio hoped for , and even served as a catalyst to bring down the work entirely , were it not for the name Tim Burton . As it is , this work went on to almost quadruple its initial budget , but the studios listened for once , and did not continue on with this line . At the base , this whole work was weak , from script to post production work , and in every way in between . So why the 6 . 8 rating ? Because it served well to make younger audiences seek out the originals , and in spite of it all , this work IS entertaining ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
ALMOST As Good As The Original . Not Quite , But Almost .	The first third runs slowly , with no exposition , successfully building the required atmosphere to pull off the twisted tale herein . Exposition does come , but well after the second third of this work kicks into high gear and begins to seemingly run on its own . The final third leaves a great deal to be desired , in that it offers a flaccid ending to what was otherwise a monumental cinematic undertaking . In spite of that weakness , if you are a fan of the original work , you may still enjoy this modern attempt , as it provides a creepy 2 hours ' viewing , delivers some good performances and good story , and does manage to entertain through the somewhat edge of your seat atmosphere . All in all , it isn't as bad as some say . On the other hand , it has also been overrated by some fans of the genre . I must say that I didn't love it , but I DID enjoy it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
If you can find the mindset , this is heartwarming and entertaining . Otherwise , it's a pointless waste of time	This is a niche film . If you can put yourself into the mindset of a 20-something slacker , who has no ambition whatsoever in life , this film may engender some sense of emotional investment in its characters and a sense of identifying with same . However , if this situation is impossible for you , then you will not only not see the humor herein , you will most likely bemoan the time wasted in its viewing . This is a Jay and Silent Bob flick wherein the two buds are dumped by their gals , subsequently seeking major wound-licking in the mall . It plays like the Revenge of the Nerds , though not as intelligently , nor with the same amount of heart , but with a more modern spin . If you've of a mind , this can be highly entertaining . If not , don't say you weren't warned . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Better than Most , Though More Obscure	I prefer my Poirot to be portrayed by Ustinov , and although this is more obscure than most , it IS better than some . No , it isn't lavish , and they did not spend a fortune on the production , but it is not the worst of the crop . Faye Dunaway co-stars , along with Lee Horseley , and a ( very ) young Bill Nighy , directed by Lou Antonio ( long-time television director ) and dominated by the lovely Ustinov . Made for TV , not rated , but highly enjoyable who dunnit , which posed an interesting conundrum as the principle quandary . All in all , I found it highly entertaining , and perfect as a Sunday afternoon diversion , though I'd watch Ustinov as Poirot anytime . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Funny , Heartwarming , and Genuinely Sweet .	As usual , I'm in the minority . I love this movie . Chevy is so funny as the step dad to Jonathan Taylor Thomas and would-be husband to Farrah Fawcet . I loved Chevy in this . He plays characters completely off the cuff , and I found his character endearing , but what I really liked about this movie was Farrah . She still shines after all those years , in a completely engaging performance . Jonathan Taylor Thomas is perfectly precocious in his role as Fawcett's son , a boy who lost his father , and refuses to accept Chevy as an adequate substitute . It's funny , heartwarming , and genuinely sweet . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Some Insecure Men May Be Made Uncomforable By It , But I Like It	This should be rated higher , frankly . Sandra Bullock delivers an honest performance . The story is quite gripping and Bullock's execution of her character is insightful and intelligent with a beautiful heart . The choices she faces are unique , but I think nearly all women can identify with her character on some level , which renders this film a near must-see for any woman in love . I won't spoil the movie as many have , so this review will not contain any details of the plot . I WILL say , however , that it has been compared to the Butterfly Effect , although I enjoyed this far more . The story is enigmatic and compelling throughout , which is more than previous reviewers led me to expect . All in all ? I like it . I own it , and have watched it several times to catch some of the finer details one inevitably misses on the first viewing . This film is a great Friday / Saturday night's viewing , although some insecure men may be made uncomfortable by it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Delightful Usury	Considering the base nature of this screenplay , I'm surprised that I could find it enjoyable on any level , however , there is a large amount of enjoyment to be had . An elderly showbiz aristocrat arrives for a visit , slips and falls , and ends up appropriating the home of his host couple and their children , the house staff , the telephone , and everything else right down to the entire first floor . Of course , he's not as injured as he has led everyone to believe , and upon ( finally ) discovery , he flees , only to slip and fall once again on the way out the door . Lovely performance by all involved , but especially by the beautiful and young Bette Davis . Simply timeless , is her beauty . I have yet to see a Bette Davis performance I did not love , but her performance herein is simply delightful , irascible , and feisty . I love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Smart But Bittersweet	Many reviewers have fond memories of this work , and I have to admit that I do find this quite fun , but there are moments herein which are quite tense and mean , and lead to an overall bittersweetness which permeates the work . I blame that completely on Mick Garris . This work could have been great if it weren't for his inclusion of the " bd guy " element . This work did not need such a device , and it severely took away from the beauty of the work . Mick Garris has been single-handedly responsible for the bastardization of most of the Stephen King film adaptations . Directed by Matthew Robbins ( Close Encounters writer ) and Exec'd by Steven Spielberg , you may appropriately expect a small amount of awe generated by the beautiful effects and the endearing characters . batteries not included does deliver . Also , these actors were a sure thing . I am sure you'll remember most of them from Ron Howard's Cocoon . If you enjoy Cocoon or High Spirits , I would suggest this . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Clich , Yes , But More Enjoyable Than The Ratings Would Indicate	This starts out interestingly . The set up is quite interesting , and the story is better than the reviews would lead you to believe . Okay , yes , the story does begin with a bunch of college-age kids , and you know from the beginning that most of them will not survive , I'm not spoiling anything with that disclosure . But the action is quite good , mixed with a nice little bit of Vodoun , some competent performances , and a solid story line , this was highly enjoyable . This film works hard to deliver some excellent suspense , and it succeeds , leaving you on the edge of your seat here and there . I must also add that the effects , and killing devices were very well done , and while the clichs were present , they did not detract or lessen the work . I liked it , and it WILL find its way into my DVD collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , adventurous , edgy sci-fi / thriller .	This film is highly under-rated . Emillio Estevez does not deliver an Oscar-worthy performance here , but all movie producers out there aren't concerned with such achievements . In my humble opinion , all movies are out there to do one of three things . They either want to touch you , entertain you , or make you think . Some aspire you to do a combination of these three goals , while others don't seem to have any goal whatsoever . This one does ; it entertains and it endeavors to make you think . While there is a bit of tongue-in-cheek delivery , it isstill a serious sci-fi / thriller , and should be viewed as such . The effects are stunning , and the direction is solid , as is the story line . The dialog is what makes this movie a bit " campy " at times , but if you can't have fun , then why play the game ? Honestly , I had hoped that Mick Jagger would make a stronger villain than he does here , but all in all to have had no experience , he was NOT as bad as some critics claim . Personally , I found the story to be quite compelling , and there are some good solid elements here . And while this is not the most intelligent movie I've ever seen , it is quite entertaining , with a good basic premise , and some decent action . There is more fiction here than science , with some decent dramatic elements . If you liked this movie , you may also enjoy Cherry 2000 , Johnny Mneumonic , Blade Runner , or Virtuosity . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Equal to A Shot in the Dark . . . Almost	Well now , all the major characters are nestled firmly into their pigeon holes , and we are comfortable in the ratty old slippers of their idiosyncrasies , so character development is unnecessary . What little WAS necessary was delivered during the introduction featuring Herbert Lom as ex-chief inspector Dreyfus and his psychiatrist . Clouseau is now the Chief Inspector , and Dreyfus is about to be released from the insane asylum . Lower character development is acceptable under the circumstances , and the movie starts off well with a rousing scene between Cato and Clouseau , abstractly involving Dreyfus . Clouseau's " mastery " of Disguise is introduced , and so a new Clouseau is born . The lean towards physical comedy vs intellectual wit is now complete . There are no more moments such as those well written exchanges found in the original . It's all in your face comedy from here on out . Lesley-Anne Down was quite refreshing as Olga Bariosova . Although Strikes Again is not rated ( by me ) as highly as A Shot in the Dark , this is still probably my personal favorite of the Sellers series ( though I honestly did like Martin's Clouseau better ) . A Dental Emergency is probably my favorite scene in the whole series . Clouseau is not only after a criminal , he is after a madman who would kill millions to achieve his goal , reflecting the cold war theme so prevalent during this time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Compelling Horror	While the cinematography in this one is somewhat lacking , the story is genuinely atmospheric , although it felt more like an exploitation film than what it was . The development of the characters and their relation to the plot is what is so memorable about this one . Our star is to be hated , reviled , that much is clear from the onset , but once that has been set in our minds , this work really delivers , in a Sigourney Weaver kind of way . I can't really say more than that without giving away the plot and the ending , so I won't . If you're into retro-horror , this is a definite must see . It's not the best horror , but it is probably one of the best ever done by the British . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Movie As Lovable As The Series Which Spawned It .	In the spirit of the original series , this beloved production possesses one attribute no other movie can claim : a believable , serious , and endearing dramatic performance delivered by Jim Varney . Having lived in the southern US for years , I learned rather quickly that there is a stark distinction between the hillbilly and the American redneck . Hillbillies are more family oriented , while rednecks seem to care more about the toys theyhave and keeping up with Bubba ( the southern American version of Keeping Up With the Joneses ) . Bubba has a rad gun collection ; a shiny new truck complete with roll bar , wench and lift kits , mud-flaps and tires large enough to get you out of the mud bog with a truck bed laden with deer carcasses . Frankly , I was amazed at the quality of performance contributed by Mr . Varney . I ( as was most of the world ) was under the mistaken impression that Ernest was the best this actor had to give . What a grievous error ! It is , indeed , unfortunate that Mr . Varney was not to be with us much longer after this attempt . I have missed the Ernest movies , to be honest , but I was also looking forward to another dramatic beneficence from him . This attempt was done with love , executed with a witty tongue-in-cheek delivery , and presented to those who held the series in regard with a more than capable star-studded cast . While the wit was at the expense of a group of people who should be respected for their deep country philosophical ideals and witticisms , so was the series . Frankly , if you didn't like the series , I see no reason to watch and then dog this movie . Cloris Leachman was a joy as Granny . She gave us the same sort of tenacity and spirit as did Irene Ryan . Her performance was delightful in spite of the somewhat small stature of her character . Diedrich Bader's Jethro was cleverly drawn from instinct and heart . Rather than one dumb crack after another , he relied greatly on facial expression as well as physical comedy to entertain his audience ; a very wise decision on Bader's behalf considering he is not moron . And as this is his first screen attempt , you will see a strong pattern of characters throughout his career to this point which demonstrates his commitment to perfecting this type of role . Erika Eleniak as Elly May ( Playboy model-cum-actress ) was the only thing which disappointed me with this production . I believe that she tried and gave her best , but she just wasn't Elly May . I expected to feel that way about Jed or Granny , but not Elly May . Her work here was a bit stiff , in my opinion . I remember that her performance as a Playboy bunny in Under Siege was a little stiff , too . I do not know if her talents as an actress have progressed since this attempt as I've never cared to watch anything else in which she's been featured . Lily Tomlin and Lea Thompson were both dead on their characters . Although Tomlin's character was preconceived and Thompson's was a one-time plot element , they both contributed above-par performances in this work . And , true to the series , there's always some shifty character trying to take the Clampett billion away from Drysdale ; enter Rob Schneider . Some critics have stated they did not understand his character's presence in this endeavor , but it fit right in with the theme of the television series . He was entertaining , delivered a good performance , and more importantly . . . he was funny . Dabney Coleman is Milburn Drysdale in every way , shape and form . He could have been the original participant in the series , as far as I'm concerned . He turned in an impeccable performance here . Although the story line was good , I felt it could have had a little more depth . However , the touching moments between Jed and Elly May appeared to be heart felt and honest , lending a very endearing quality to this production . The most important point I could make here is simply that Jim Varney was ( and is ) the best thing about this movie . Even if you aren't a fan of his Ernest franchise , you will still enjoy his performance in this movie . This was far superior to his previous performances in any other work . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Lacks But Entertains	While this installment fails to live up to the charm and potential of the first chapter , it still entertains . The story featured herein is a bit quirky , but still follows according to the initial storyline of the original . Santa must now find a Mrs . to satisfy the Mrs . Clause in the Santa contract , or become de-Santa-fied . Meanwhile , there are problems back in the land of the normal humans , and Santa must , while attempting to find a wife , deal with his son's rebellious behavior , puberty , and an inane husband-in-law . There is fun to be had , but the harder you have to work to find it , the less fun one tends to have due to the work . So don't work too hard , and just sit back and enjoy the sleigh ride by moonlit snow . All in all ? If you're a fan of the first one , you may enjoy the second . The kids will , even if you don't . Otherwise , there are much better choices for adult Yule-time entertainment : Mixed Nuts , National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation , to name two . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I Liked The Remake Better	As usual , I'm in the minority on this one . This was an atmospheric , creepy little movie with some well-placed humor scattered here and there . I enjoyed it , but it wasn't as good as the hype . The story here was inferior , in my opinion , to the remake . The remake held all the best elements from this original , except the " witch " references , that is . Those are humorous references to the Wizard of Oz . I won't say more , for those of you who haven't seen this original work . If you've nothing else to do , this is definitely worth your time , but if you haven't seen the remake , watch it after . It's bigger . It has a more involved story , generates some great atmosphere , and still delivers awesome graphic eye candy . I'd still rate this about a from . . . the Fiend : .
Far superior sequel .	Chucky's back . . . and it's about time ! This time , with the help of Jennifer Tilly and a little spell from Voodoo For Dummies . Well , at least with this installment , the camp is back . This was the more gruesome of this series , so far . It has some good twists and some good action scenes . This one was by far , the most fun of the series , and successfully , if unintentionally , bridges the gap between pure horror to horror / comedy . I am looking forward to Seed of Chucky . It'll be a hoot ! " Jesus , the music scene's gone to h3ll since I've been dead ! " ChuckyWe needed the levity , as the doll thing's getting old . The added comedic element , and the better action scenes brings this one back up to equal the quality of the first , when the idea was fresh and new-ish . from . . . the Fiend : .
Probably one of the most underrated comedies of its age .	This Feldman production is not the greatest comedy ever made , but Feldman co-wrote , directed , and starred in this Feldman-at-the-Helm vehicle . It truly showcases his talents as no other movie before it had . While it does attempt to do too much , the attempt is not a waste . Feldman merely aimed his sights at Blazing Saddles and made the attempt . It pokes fun at Christians and all organized religion , the pop-culture of the time , contemporary ideologies , the action-driven cop shows of the age , and itself . This is one of those wonderful movies which knows it's a movie and never takes itself too seriously . Feldman is Father Ambrose is the outcast of the monastery . When the archdiocese decides they must have more money from the outside world , or shut its doors , Father Ambrose is chosen to leave the familiar world of hard benches and stone floors , and venture out in search of their salvation . Ironic in that " salvation " is supposed to be their specialty . There are some wonderful cameos by Richard Pryor as God , Andy Kauffman , and Peter Boyle . Along the way , Ambrose discovers what he's been missing out on all those years cloistered in a hermetic order , and processes new information which enables him to rethink his choice from an informed perspective . He finds laughter ; he finds that while men are corrupt , MAN is decent at heart ; and he finds himself . All in all a very endearing , if dated , work . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Semtimental Sweetness .	The kids will love this . Some adults may remember this fondly . I am one of the aforementioned adults ; one who cannot wait for this to ( finally ) be released on DVD . This is a charming tale of a boy who finds a dragon and must figure out how to keep him . In spite of Courtland Mead , this was quite enjoyable , and belongs in any Dragon collection . The principal photography isn't anything to write home about , nor are the performances . I think , for me , it was the execution of the Dragon which made this so endearing to me . I was always quite fond of this movie for its heart . It rates a on the Kid's Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Good , but not great .	his is a fun movie . It boasts the return of Lon Chaney in his role as Larry Talbot , the lovable Wolf Man , but instead of Karloff in his pivotal role as Frankenstein's monster , for some unfathomable reason , they used Bela Lugosi , instead . While Bela was wonderful as " Dracula , " his portrayal of Frankenstein's monster is just horrid . He lends much too much of his own personality to the character . His theatrical flair shines through , and kills the personality of the monster . He's more like a mute game show host , rather than the misunderstood creation of Frankenstein . Bela was a necessary element in this work , however , as his character Igor had exchanged brains / personalities with the monster in the previous installment of this run . So Bela's taking this part was a natural evolutionary step . But I found his performance to be quite lacking in comparison to Boris Karloff's . That notwithstanding , Lon's portrayal as Larry Talbot was , of course , dead on and professional . After his resurrection , Talbot goes to great lengths to discover the secrets of life , to better understand the secrets of death , to better enable himself to embrace death once again , rather than suffer life eternal as a Werewolf . In his quest for Victor's secrets , he inadvertently discovers the monster's body , frozen beneath the windmill in a cavern of ice , and revives him in the hopes that he knows where Victor's journals were kept . This is a craftily made and humorous movie with a great story line and wonderful execution . I only wish they had utilized Karloff's talents in a return performance as the monster , and left Bela to other endeavors . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not What It Should Have Been	I knew what to expect . I read the reviews before buying this , but it's Cage , so it goes in the collection , regardless . I have to say that this was not what it should have been . While this is a fantastic dramatization of what happens with four rescuers , it fails to tell anything about the actual event itself . Many movie goers were looking for an Oliver Stone's JFK-stylized World Trade Center type drama , and instead we got a look through the microscope rather than a look at the larger picture , as told by the evidence . I think that's what disappointed most audience members with this work . But it's not bad for what it is . It's well written , tense , and triumphant . Cage is completely believable . . . I wouldn't expect any less from him . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is Under-rated !	While this film is far from a masterpiece , Evolution deserves better ratings than it currently enjoys here at IMDb . The cast and crew contribute superior work , and the storyline is quite inventive . The premise has been done a few times before , however , it has never been done quite as well as the treatment it receives here . Alien spores land here on Earth and begin to wreak havoc . I found this highly entertaining , cleverly witty , with a slick production quality which tends to draw in the audience , who finds its members laughing , sometimes in spite of themselves . You won't WANT to like this . There is a large amount of juvenile humor , which usually would detract from a work such as this , but this is a sci-fi comedy that WORKS . Again , it's no masterpiece , but it IS clever and fun , in spite of the sophomoric humor . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Solid and Sad Farewell	First off , without respect of this being Basil Rathbone's last jaunt as Sherlock Holmes , all these wonderful old Rathbone / Bruce Sherlock Holmes collaborations deserve to be digitized with love . A total restoration of these beautiful works is in order , as they now show the wear of decades of faithful viewing . Sherlock Holmes ' cleverness has finally caught up with him . Will he see what's up with those music boxes , or will he fall prey to the nefarious gang of . . . well , watch the movie and find out . As with all installments of this line , the formula is well in place , and after a mere five minutes , the base story is prominent and Holmes is on the case . This time , he is after three enigmatic music boxes . Watch this 70-minute feature to discover , why ? I like this one ! It rates a on the Black and White Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
What a Ride ! Darkly disturbing documentary-stylized work .	Okay , so normally , I hate exploitation films . I've been through some trauma , and I hate reliving it . King of the Ants . Superb exploitation film . It had me on the floor , curled into a fetal position , looking for my " happy place . " It was a wonderful movie which I hope to NEVER see again . Last House on the Left was this same kind of movie . It features abduction ; rape ; murder ; psychological abuse ; drug abuse ; physical abuse ; stabbing ; dismemberment by chainsaw ; dismemberment by knife ; electrocution ; forced g / g sexual acts ; forced urination ; suicide by a head shot ; disfigurement ; castration ; and multiple sexual partners . When this movie was released , it was a more gentler age than today . Kids were literally puking in the theaters , passing out , and becoming traumatized by the material in this film . They devised a mantra , " It's only a Movie , It's only a Movie . . . " to keep everyone who watched it , centered and focused in the here and now , rather than burying themselves in the horror of this film . A necessary step for a society who was less jaded ; and even some people today . The performances featured herein were gritty , realistic , and natural . Craven's documentary style lent to this work a specific realism which made it seem more like you were there watching it , or watching it on the news , rather than subscribing to the Mantra . It was highly provocative ( in a BDSM kind of way ) , and yet at the same time , repugnant . Lines were crossed and bells were rung . No opportunity for villainous behavior was lost , making this a highly disturbing work . This film was not a " masterpiece of horror , " but it was a beauty of a little exploitation film , and has the virtue of being Wes Craven's very first . This is the movie that got Craven's director's cherry , as it were . lol This is not meant to be " scary . " It was meant to disturb you ; to crawl into your brain and make you react , however that reaction manifests itself . I must say , it definitely succeeds in its goal . This is a sure one for the collection , even if you're like me , and plan to NEVER watch it again . It rates a on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Vastly under-rated obscure sci-fi .	This little-known , under-rated , obscure little film packs a lot of entertainment value . A 1987 production , directed by Steve De Jarnatt , and starring Melanie Griffith , David Andrews , and Pamela Gidley , " Cherry 2000 " goes highly unnoticed and unsung in the sci / fi field . However ; I cannot say why , as this movie is extremely well written and extraordinarily entertaining . When Sam Treadwell's robotic companion breaks down , he goes in search of an exact duplicate in which to install her memory chip , and continue his life . He hires Edith " E " Johnson ( Griffith ) as a tracker to find her , and together they begin their journey into " The Zone ; " a danger-filled jungle of a city in which Treadwell finds the ideal replacement for his Cherry model 2000 love . It is not just a science fiction classic , but it is a tremendous love story , and a marvelous work of writing . The acting left a bit to be desired , but this little-known work of art is definitely more than worth seeing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Unlike most critics , I like this one better than 2 , but less than 1 .	Our beloved Turtles go back in time to visit Ancient Japan where they must , of course , save . . . something . Honestly , the story gets lost amid the cacophony of comedic exploitive attempts , but frankly , I was happy that those idiotic genetically-enhanced snapper turtle and wolf pup weren't back . This attempt was more fun than the second , which I found entirely puerile , and while this one wasn't aiming at any awards or accolades , it was far superior to the last , but not as good as the original . Unfortunately , I have to report that the turtles are still 4 feet thick , and are still campy crack-offs . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweetly Engaging	This is another of John Travolta's " come back " movies , and if he continues on with characters and movies like this one , his come back will take hold . This is so sweet . . . sickeningly so if you're not into the romance comedy scene . If you are , this is one innovative RomCom . Every performance ( including that of Skippy the Dog ) was beautiful , without much more than a trace of the irreverence found in " Dogma . " ( Although , as movies go , I loved Dogma ! ) Travolta is not nearly as brash in his performance as the previews would lead you to believe . He is an angel and if you consider yourself to be well read , then you understand that angels were far from perfect . You will not , therefore , be insulted by this film . Even those who are overly sensitive to such things shouldn't be insulted by this work , as Nora went to great lengths to see to it that it was the least abrasive as possible , given the subject matter . I love this , and love it more each time I watch it . It's beautiful and sweet , engaging , and endearing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A Beautiful , Though Dark Children's Fable .	AKA : THE NEVERENDING STORYThis is a tale of imagination ; an epic journey one boy makes in restoration of his hope , his heart , and his world . This is a small masterpiece of fantasy by Wolfgang Peterson , in which are found interesting and creative characters , artistic innovations found nowhere else , and no small amount of entertainment . This is suitable for all ages , regardless of the darkness within , as it is safe for younger children , but not so safe as to negate the perilous journey upon which Atrayu must embark . I found this wholly entertaining , and a lovely piece of fantasy , and as such , it rates a on the Children's Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Like Smokey and the Bandit , But With Cars . . . And It May Be A Tad More Enjoyable Today	This really is like Smokey and the Bandit in that there is a deadline , a great race , and an all-star cast , which makes this work like an unintentional ( ? ) remake of " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World . " This was my very first glimpse of Jackie Chan on the big screen , too , as it was for many Americans . This flick stars Burt Reynolds , Roger Moore , Farrah Fawcett , Dom DeLuise , Dean Martin , Sammy Davis Jr . , Jack Elam , Adrienne Barbeau , Terry Bradshaw , Jackie Chan , Bert Convy , Jamie Farr , Peter Fonda , and dozens more ! The only one missing from this work was Sally Field , and she WAS sorely missed . This has been held in chronological remake order as 2 of 3 in the set ; the set being " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " , " Cannonball Run " , and " Rat Race , " but in the # 3 spot in terms of popularity . Unbelievably , Rat Race is a tad better rated . This is still one of my favorites from the early 1980's , and as such , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Disney's Best , But Certainly A Disney Classic	There are better Disney films to be seen ; among them are Finding Nemo , Snow White , and Beauty and the Beast . However , this IS among their best , and one of my favorites . While entirely politically incorrect , this work retains the heart and love typically demonstrated by early Disney films . This is a grand adventure which provides you with superior animation , a beautiful soundtrack , well defined characters , and-for many-fond memories . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is Charming , And Not Nearly As Bad As Critics Claim !	This update will not withstand the tests of time , however , it is above average and on par with other Disney updates like the Parent Trap , Flubber , Freaky Friday , My Favorite Martian , and the list goes on and on . Though none of these updates / remakes are masterpieces , they do adequately modernize their respective originals , as does this one . The trained animals are great , and the CGI ones are as realistic as any I've seen , even WITH the mutations . This , of course , isn't as charming as the original , but we were a more innocent society then , and let's face it , Tim Allen is no Fred MacMurray . As a direct reflection of our society , this update bears a little scrutiny and forgiveness . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Series Always Felt Like A Continuation of Stewart's Bell , Book , and Candle	One of the most beloved television series of its time , this series always seemed like it was a continuation of Jimmy Stewart's Bell , Book , and Candle , wherein a young witch , played by Kim Novak ( whom Elizabeth Montgomery amazingly resembles ) falls in love with a human , goes through some changes , and ends up getting her man . As such , this series ran like the day to day life beyond that story . Millions love this series because of the unbelievable cast of characters , the irascible Endora , hapless Darrin , poor old Aunt Clara , and the stately Maurice . But most of all , it was Elizabeth Montgomery who drew in the viewers . Her style and down to earth beauty enchanted millions , weaving a spell about the show , which seemingly held it all together , even through the replacement of Dick Seargent . Watch Bell , Book , and Candle and then watch the first view episodes of Bewitched , to see what I mean . It rates a on the TV Series Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Seriously Under-Rated , Even Among Ernest Fans ! This Is Clearly The Second Best Of The Line !	I love Earnest . He is genuine , caring , dedicated , and about the dumbest redneck I've ever seen . ( Sorry , don't mean to intentionally insult any ignorant rednecks out there . ) Portrayed so excellently by Jim Varney , Earnest is the redneck you love to laugh at ; a real-life , walking-around cartoon character . My favorite of his movies is Earnest Goes to Camp , followed closely by this one , and then Earnest Rides Again . This movie contains some really good horror elements , while maintaining the classic Earnest feeling . Watch for Eartha Kitt ; remember her ? She was the original Cat-Woman , and the best , in my opinion . This production , while hilarious at Earnest's expense , was also a bit tense at times , lending an excellent perfection to the elements of horror and comedy . I loved that almost-Gothic cast iron dragon with the flame in his mouth there at the entrance to Kitt's house . Excellent touch . And then there's Kitt going after Varney's character with a flame thrower , the Murdock's ( a brother team of bullies ) , and the trolls which Earnest , in all stupidity , sets loose upon the children of a small , middle class American town . Way to go , Earnest . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , but still lacking	I LOVE this movie ! But it's not all that it's made out to be . In some ways , it's more , but in others , it's less . Let me explain . This film has been hyped as a masterpiece of cinematic art . It IS wonderfully filmed , with great effects , superior sound , and beautiful location shots . A masterpiece ? Hardly . The plot line is too weak , Cruise's character so contrived , that there is little point to this movie . This film has been dogged as completely useless with too many slow spots . It DOES have slow spots . It is primarily a drama , actually , regardless of how it was billed , so there ARE slow areas where story - or character-development are given center stage . It seems viewers either love or hate this movie based on the two basic factors above ; however , I find myself somewhere in the middle . I was genuinely surprised with the caliber of performance Tom Cruise turned in . I'm NOT a fan of his work , but this time , his portrayal was quite compelling . I found the story and all and details surrounding the way of life of Japan's past to be interesting , and the action sequences ( what there was of them ) were stunning . So was the cinematography of this picture . Astounding and the landscape shots were breath taking . All in all , I enjoyed this work , although I don't consider it as art house as the makers ( or the Academy ) did . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Startling	I had no expectations surrounding this work , as I had no exposure to ads , trailers , etc before my initial viewing , so this was a cold viewing , which is rare for me . There are two impressive elements with this film . The first is Michael Gambon . If he was making the attempt to counter any type-casting associated with his Harry Potter character , Albus Dumbledore , he was 100 % successful . This performance is gritty , hard , and even rough . But he is also great in this role . The second impressive element is the story itself . It generates enough intrigue to hold your interest . Usually with a plot such as this one , I need some suspense to do that , but this story generates the interest enough without the suspense . I found that refreshing . This work is a bit reminiscent of the feeling found in Things To Do In Denver When You're Dead , though lacks the same intensity . All in all , I was intrigued and thoroughly entertained . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This movie is just wrong ! Hilarious , but wrong !	A true top comedy , a genuine homage , and a wonderful parody . This irreverent spoof of the hugely-popular television cop series , ranks up there with " Spaceballs , " " Robin Hood : Men in Tights , " and " Murder by Death . " Starring Tom Hanks and Dan Aykroyd . The scene featuring Enid Borden had us absolutely howling . Offensive and hilarious . Not often does a movie come along which can make you laugh each time you view it . This is one of those rare gems . The only way to have bettered this wonderfully rich comedy would have been to have cast Bill Murray as Pep Streebeck , rather than Tom Hanks . That is not to say that Hanks did not do a wonderful job ; he did ! But Bill Murray would have done it better . I watch this movie routinely ; once or twice a week , and I have never tired of it . It gets a 7 . 2 from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun and Frivolous	Chocked full of biblical inaccuracies , this fun free for all lasts for hours and hours . People complain that films are too long today , but those who do the complaining obviously have no idea that these older films even exist . Guess they also never heard of Gone with the Wind or To Kill a Mockingbird , either . LOLAnyway , Rita Hayworth is beautiful in her part as Salome . She's quite possibly the most beautiful Salome ever , though the ambiguity of her character herein is a bit annoying , and the direction taken by this version of the biblical story is a bit odd , but the overall production is fun , nonetheless , though entirely frivolous . All in all ? It's entertaining and historically accurate , if not biblically so , which is so often the case . It rates a from . . . . . . the Fiend : .
Entertaining fantasy fluff	Big Trouble in Little China is touted as one of Carpenter's many masterpieces . In fact , it's even touted by some Carpenter fans as his best movie . I have to disagree on both counts . While it is far from a " masterpiece , " it is an enjoyable endeavor . But John Carpenter has done far superior work . The budget does not make the movie . ( Look at " Gigli . " ) Big-named stars do not make the movie . ( Look at " Gigli . " ) Personally , I thought " In the Mouth of Madness " was a much superior attempt . When a big name moves out of their usual genre into that of Fantasy , there is almost always evidence of a large-scale rally of support for this move . Stephen King strayed from his horror genre into Fantasy by way of " Eyes of the Dragon . " That was so well received by his horror-fan audience that he did more than stray ; he dove head first into the " Dark Tower " series . That series has been phenomenally successful . Dean Koontz strayed from his usual political-thriller formula and wrote " Dragon's Tears . " It did not fare as well as King's walkabout , but his fan base is not quite as large . Peter Jackson side-stepped the horror genre for a horror / fantasy when he did " The Lord of the Rings " trilogy which was also phenomenally successful . Wes Craven's " Vampire in Brooklyn " was his attempt at a horror / fantasy / comedy which was moderately well received . I'll stop here , as I'm sure you get the general idea . Now , don't get me wrong . I believe a fan should support the work of the object of their devotion , but never blindly . A " star " ( be they in front of the camera , behind the camera , or behind the scenes ) deserves any level of devotion only if they are worthy . Only if their work is worthy . I am a Lucas fan . I've enjoyed all his movies . Yep . That's right . Every one , including the SW prequels . But I do not support his Star Wars OT money machine . I refuse to support him any further until he listens to the millions of fans who made him who he is today and gives us the OT in its original form . He has forgotten his fans ; turned a deaf ear to us , and for that , he is usurped as the Fantasy King . Jackson sits on that throne today . Carpenter should have stayed more within the boundaries of horror and action with this attempt , and dropped the comedic aspect all together . It is not his fort , and it shows . I found the levity to be distracting from the work , and rather out of place in this dark fantasy . He walked up to the bell , but would not ring it . To me , that shows a lack of courage and faith in his work . Had this been darker , had he put more of himself and less Hollywood in this work , it would have been a thousand times better . The martial arts elements are obviously choreographed , but most movie martial arts are . This , however , was executed poorly , as you could virtually see the " dance feet " chalked on the floor . Step , two , three , Kick , two three . The villains telegraph from so far away , you would have had advance notice of their attacks days in advance . The characters are cardboard cut outs of the worst stereotypes of the 1980's . Jack Burton is a macho tough guy with little or no brains , just brawn , and not much of that , either . Gracie Law is your typical ditsy blonde with too much mouth and very little brains to get in the way . The bad guys are in a gang , the heroine is dumpy and startlingly non-sexual , and you have the " cute " sidekick element . You also have a decent ( but anti-climactic ) clash of good wizard vs . cursed / evil wizard and their respective armies ( which amount to a dozen or so men ) . There are some monsters , but in this critic's opinion , they were hokey and unintentionally factored into the comedic aspects of this movie . I was not afraid . Carpenter's Big Trouble in Little China is a shallow look into the virtual bottomless ocean that is Chinese theology , mythology , legend , and religious belief systems . It contains the elements of horror ( however minuscule ) , comedy , mysticism , and fantasy . It is not a thinking person's work , nor is it of " masterpiece " quality and / or content . It is entertaining , well enacted , nicely executed , and enjoyable . But it is a popcorn movie , and nothing more . It is not epically filmed . You will not be frightened , touched , or inspired . You will chuckle , but not laugh outright . You will neither be enlightened nor educated in the ways of these ancient people . You will merely be entertained . For most movie goers , that element alone , is enough . If that is enough for you , then this movie will not let you down as long as you don't have expectations which exceed the real limits of this work . For a much better fantasy , I recommend " The Dark Crystal , " or " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Does not quite find the mark	Looking for ( but not quite finding ) the footsteps of " Murder by Death . " While I love this movie and watch it quite often , it is a rather cheesy knock-off of " Murder by Death . " This time spoofing " The Maltese Falcon " and " Casablanca , " Neil Simon's hit or miss style misses this time , but only by a small margin . This movie is not hilarious , nor exceptionally intelligent comedy , but it is still very entertaining . I honestly found " Murder by Death " to be a much more enjoyable experience . That having been said , this star-studded cast puts forth at least a valid attempt to pull off this sometimes haphazardly written screen play , and hits at least punch lines with some effect . If you are a fan of the Bogie movies which it satirizes , this is definitely a must-see . It is you , for which this movie was written in the first place . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Has panache	Wow . What a wonderful experience , to see them update Godzilla yet stay true to form ! The first thing I noticed , and I noticed this right away , was that this was not the Godzilla of my childhood . Thankfully , this also was not Roland Emmerick's " Jurassiczilla , " either . I was stunned and ( at first ) in denial . This was so much better than the Godzilla of my childhood ! It starts out pretty much like any of the older ones . ( The DVD , however , comes with two choices . You can get English-speaking voices with English subtitles , or you can choose Japanese-speaking voices with English subtitles . Personally , I prefer to understand what I'm hearing , but it's cool the other way too . ) But it quickly becomes something more substantial and much better written , produced , directed , and executed . All that having been said , what actually impressed me so with this movie is the effects quality and their treatment of the monsters . Considering they only spent 1 , 200 , 000 , 000 Yen ( approximately $10 , 955 , 902 . 92 US ) , the effects were extremely well executed . I was enthralled with the treatment they gave King Ghidorah . What a spectacular sight ! Not at first , but . . . later on in the movie . The story was easily followed , though not so much so as to put you to sleep . The action sequences were not the kung fu styled cheese of the 60's and 70's . They were strategically orchestrated and executed with that certain Godzilla-like panache . Some Big G purists , however , will tout this as the one we've all been dreading . OH , the movie's great , but this is the TOHO installment which validates Emmerich's Jurassiczilla by including a New York sighting of past Godzilla sightings in the opening , and then later on in the movie a commanding military officer asks , " Why Japan , again ? ! Couldn't he have picked on some other country ? " to much laughter all around the table . The cabinet members ask repeatedly , " Why here ? " as if they have forgotten that Japan is home to the Kaiju , and further cannot seem to recall that Godzilla was their protector for decades . He wasn't always the bad guy . Also , Godzilla is now said to hold the souls of the thousands killed in Japan in WWII , which drags this off the Creature Feature shelf of my DVD collection , and slips it into the Supernatural / Monsters section with the 1930's Universal Mummy and other such collections ; a movie about which I am somewhat conflicted . The set models are as bad ( or as good ) as ever , the field reporters sound like ring-side boxing commentators , and the Big G looks mahvellous in his new makeover . This is obviously due to Emmerick's Western Dragon / Jurassiczilla interpretation , but don't worry Big G fans ; he's bigger , he's better , but most importantly , he's still our Big G , although Emmerich's influence is seen throughout this work in everything from a more complex story , through plot execution , monster concepts , to the superior effects . I previously thought allowing Emmerich to influence this line would be a bad move , but oddly enough , this is the only Godzilla movie in the franchise to receive the same rating as the original here at IMDb ! This venture is as implausible as the rest , but that's one of the things that makes this line so darned fun . The bad dubbing , the cheesy dialog , the obvious models all add to the campy monster fun , but this time , there were some GREAT effects ! They were much better than any previous installment , in my opinion , although the score was enough to drive you buggy ! This time the Big G relies heavily on his laser breath , to devastating affect ! and with the appearance of some of our other Kaiju favorites , this installment is one of the absolute best ! In my opinion , this is by far the best Godzilla movie made ( and I love them ALL ) ! I highly recommend it ! At a Fiendish rating of ( on the B scale ) . That's a solid ( on the A scale ) from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Great , But Good , IN SPITE Of Crowe's Involvement !	Let me begin by saying that I believe this movie deserved the awards it won , but not because of Russell Crowe . Mainly , this was a good movie because of Ridley Scott and Joaquin Phoenix , who had to work AROUND Crowe , and support his performance , in order for his " work " to even be watchable , much less steal an Oscar for the best leading male role . He SO didn't deserve that . I also have to admit that I did NOT agree that Gladiator was the best movie of 2000 . I thought that award should have gone to Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . Now THAT was a film ! Other than my misgivings surrounding Crowe's inept performance and the fact that he did not deserve the awards he won , Gladiator is still enjoyable ; despite Crowe's involvement , however , NOT because of it . Joaquin Phoenix is GREAT in this film and makes it well worth watching . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This sequel surpasses the original , but only by a very small margin .	Anthony Hickox is only about a light year ahead of Steve Miner in his vision of modern-day witches and magick users , but he still gets it wrong . The narrative begins as such : ' Throughout time , people known as Druids have used their mystical powers to protect the Earth from evil . Once every millennium , when the sun aligns with the moon , these guardians summon the magic of their sacred rune stones in the quest to prevent the birth of Satan's son . . . ' Druids would be working hard to prevent untoward events , yes . But the birth of Satan's son is not a concern to the Druids , who also realize and understand that Satan is a Christian heresy and invention , and not one that any pagan would hold in high regard . Therefore , the entire plot of this movie is moot and negated , as far as learning or ' getting ' anything from this movie . However , it is an entertaining thriller with a few surprises , turns and even a twist or two . Classic ' B ' movie horror , again starring Julian Sands , and as sequels go , I find this one to be a more entertaining endeavor than the flick from which it spawned . The idea of the Druid Stones is ancient , though they had nothing to do with the birth of Satan's son . As legend has it , the Druid Stones were the only keys to the seven World Gates , leading to seven different areas within the three dimensions of this World ; IE : Primordial , Psychic , and Ethereal planes . Therefore , the signs and omens utilized within the context of this movie are quite good and well used . The story centers around two young people , Kenny ( played by Chris Young Buck of Candy / Aykroyd's ' The Great Outdoors ' ) and Samantha ( Paula Marshall , who's had a rather . . . obscure acting career , so far ) . Both are children of Druid heritage and blood , and although neither have been trained , taught , nor raised within the magickal system , now they must realize their powers and abilities in order to prevent the end of the world . A bit far-fetched , if you ask me . What's also a bit far-fetched is the very idea that a Druid's power comes from ' God . ' Druids were here thousands of years before christians and the Hebrew god YWYH . That was just stupid . Outright ignorant . A small listing of well-seasoned actors makes this movie quite enjoyable , regardless of the puerility of story line / plot . This production is full of ' B ' movie effects and classic horror fare . The mirror scene with the carny has a very strong ' Dean Koontz ' feel to it with the end of that scene finishing out in an almost Hellraiser style . All in all , not a bad way to kill ninety minutes . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dangerously entertaining !	I loved this movie about a framed police officer and an inept lawyer - turned - security guards . Once licensed and assigned to their new jobs , they uncover a labor union ( teamster / Mafia ) plot to embezzle a load of money from the employees Pension and Welfare Fund . John Candy is almost serious in this role as he ferrets out the bad guys , defends the honor of Meg Ryan's character ( Maggie Cavanaugh ) and helps to reverse her father's wayward ethics . Oddly enough , Eugene Levy is the funny guy to Candy's " straight man " act . It is an odd formula , but it was quite effective . This is one of Candy's better movies , and the most serious role in which I've seen him , thus far . ( LOVED Candy's small role as Augie Morosco in " Once Upon A Crime , " 1992 ) - - - ( On the firing range , after a demonstration ) " As you can see , it's really quite simple . Just remember , when you pull the trigger , the bullets come out going very , very fast . So make sure to keep the weapon pointed away from you . Now that's about it , you are now ARMED guards , God help us all . " Maggie Cavanaugh . - - - I am a true John Candy fan , and own most of his movies . But while many of his fans have all but dogged this production , I found it quite entertaining and a breath of fresh air . Also starring Tom ' Tiny ' Lister Jr . as " Bruno " ( President Lindberg in " Fifth Element " and many , many more ) , Robert Loggia as " Michael Carlino , " a Jimmy Hoffaesque character , and Kenneth McMillan as " Captain Clarence O'Connell , " Maggie Cavanaugh's father . Meg Ryan's performance was sweet and honest . She has done better , but this was in 1986 and her experience was not yet as worldly as it is now . Even without taking that into consideration , hers was one of the brightest of the supporting roles . In the end , Candy's character's reputation is redeemed and his life as a law enforcement officer is restored and plays out to a very satisfying 1980's ending . While there are better comedies out there , and also while most of Candy's other movies are better , this is one of my favorites of his line . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Doesn't Have the Classic Feeling of Night , But Is Somehow Superior	This installment contains a few additional elements not seen before in the line : A stinging social commentary , an overall look at the fall of our civilization ( often misinterpreted as societal collapse ) , and some of the best splatter of the franchise . You must realize that Romero meant these to have the feeling of a horror comic . It's supposed to be fun , but funny at the same time . It's supposed to have an element of suspense , but only just , often relieved by some out of place comedic element and then BAM ! you've been punked by some horror element while you're enjoying your laugh . Dawn is the epitome of what Romero intended all along for his franchise . It is a horror comic on film , and one of the more enjoyable of this line . Also I must herein state that I cannot choose between this original work and the remake . The remake is edgier , but loses the lighter comedic feel . This episode of the story rates a on the Movie Scale . It rates an on the Romero Scale . It rates a on the Splatter Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not A Masterpiece , But Quite Endearing	Well , I wouldn't call this one a masterpiece . Considering everything the Arthurian legends engenders , there was a LOT left out of this one . The Merlin is downsized to something which strikingly resembles the possible progenitor to the blue genie in later Aladin , but he's still quite endearing . Actually , Archimedes is the real star of this work , but that's okay , too . The story was not ground-breaking , but does maintain the ability to remain mildly amusing , peppered throughout with some truly comedic moments ( usually by way of exchanges between Archimedes and the Merlin ) . Some of the original Arthurian characters are included , lending at least something to the story that isn't a talking animal , or some other Disneyism , and I found this to be very enjoyable . Comedy , rather than story or character , is the main drive behind this one , and as such , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Intriguingly Under-rated Spy Thriller	Richard Donner ( Superman 1 & 2 ) 1995 actioner starring Sylvester Stallone , Antonio Banderas , and Julianne Moore . A veteran hit-man embarks upon his final assignment . This did pretty well at the box office , but suffers pretty rotten ratings here at IMDb . For the most part , this work features the typical Sly Stallone performance , Julianne Moore in pigtails ( ? ? ! ! ? ? ) , and Antonio Banderas as a ( as in not THE ) villain . It's not a bad mix , the story is adequately supported by the performances , and the direction was top notch . I would have to say the main detractor from this work is the apparent weakness of the lead villain , the spy factor as most Americans were over the Cold War at this film's time of release , and possibly Moore's pigtails . All in all , although a bit uneven , with extended slow moments , I still enjoyed this , if for nothing else than Banderas's performance . Believe it or not , this is probably his best performance so far . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Serious , Often Gritty Screenplay Doubled with Tommy Lee Jones as Both Director and Lead .	Tommy Lee Jones has done more than paid his dues ; his acting expertise has grown exponentially over the years , and now he not only plays a dynamic lead , but is , for the first time , directing himself and his awesome cast ! As good as this is , I hope to see more of Jones , both behind and in front of the camera . He conveys a tough but caring self assurance to his characters , which endears him to his audience . Though he typically portrays a law enforcement officer in one capacity or another , he is competent and gifted in that he can change that type-casting at will . This story is highly compelling fiction , while it gives a cinematic glimpse into the world of borders , border patrol , and those who live in that world . But more than that , it tells a complicated and enthralling story , which entertains completely . I liked it , though it isn't my usual cup of tea . It rates a for performance quality from . . . the Fiend : .
Entertaining Drama	Two elderly sisters take in a young Polish man who washes up on their beach . You can search this film in an attempt to identify an obscure filming style , go on and on about the two ladies who star in this work , or preen and posture over the quality performance of Daniel Brhl . . . or you can merely enjoy this work for what it is : A beautiful drama ; one fraught with intrigues . This is very well written , and highly enjoyable , though it is not anything I would watch again out of choice , the first viewing was quite good . A second viewing , however , is not warranted . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable In Spite Of Bad Reviews	Historically speaking , this era was fraught with war and difficulties . Chiang Kai-Shek's Kuomintang regime was defending its position against the insurgent Chinese communists and there were many smaller factions vying for position , should either side fail . Out of that time of uncertainty and unrest , this story is woven . But this story , written lovingly by Alfred Gough & Miles Millar , delivers a breathtaking , epic tale of the ruthless Emperor Han and his journey to forgiveness and redemption . . . or self destruction . I like the story . Some have reported experiencing difficulties accepting Maria Bello as Evelyn O'Connell , but I must say . . . although I am a huge fan of Rachel Weisz , I found Ms . Bello's performance delightful . I enjoyed the story , the action , and flow , the performances , and the overall presentation of the finished product . Jet Li ? He was the one piece of perfection this movie had to offer . He has grown exponentially as an actor , and it really shows here . All in all ? It appealed to the child in me , the adult I've become , and the critical eye I've developed over time . This was more a popcorn movie than the rest of the line , but it was an enjoyable popcorn movie , and found worth , as such . ( WARNING ! SLIGHT SPOILER ) My favorite part ? The Yeti ! ! ! ( / SPOILER ) It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Very Deep For Its Time	Again , as usual , I'm in the minority . If you've seen Flatliners , you will undoubtedly recognize the work from which it spawned . This was completely fun , totally deranged , and unbelievably interesting . The performances here were typical for the time . Many have deemed the characters " unbelievable , " and in a way , they could be right . However , for the time , contrived screen plays seemed to be the norm , rather than the exception . Today ? This movie would tank big time , but it's not fair to judge this work by today's standards . It's dated , and could stand up to a strong remake , but the work itself is quite interesting . Plus , it bears the honor of standing alone as Drew Barrymore's big screen debut . As far as I'm concerned , this is one of the good ones . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Family-quality Rom-Com	This is a family-quality attempt wherein Steve Carell of comedic fame makes an earnest attempt at a dramatic rom-com wherein he pretty much plays the " straight man . " I'll have to say that this is probably my favorite of his films so far , in that he isn't a brain-dead mouth-breather , and actually demonstrates some degree of intelligence . Honestly , I like it . . . and I like Steve Carell IN it . I think he may have found a new niche . At least I hope he has . This is heartwarming , with great characters , interesting quirks , and some lovely dialog . I loved watching the relationship between Carell's character and his daughters . While endearing , they were also totally believable , delivering honest portrayals and a lovely sense of actually watching a family instead of just a bunch of kids thrown together and labeled as Carell's kids . This was beautiful . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm writing this as a NON-fan of the game .	I have to begin this by saying that I don't understand the confusion . I followed the story line just fine , without benefit of ever having played the game . Other reviewers have declared this screenplay to be a convoluted mess , but I don't understand their perspective , as I had no trouble in following the storyline . Perhaps that was a " perceived " storyline , as I do have enough imagination to answer my own questions , filling in the blanks as the movie goes along , but either way , the time was lacking for the type of character and story development most seem to need in order to enjoy this work . Silent Hill is a darkling wonder of twists and turns . It is one of the few contemporary horrors which caught me and moved me to the edge of my seat . I found it exhilarating and genuinely thrilling . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Not the best , but my favorite	The intelligent script of the second installment is no longer in play , but these movies run seamlessly , one right after the other , with no discernible break . In my opinion , this is the most fun of the series , and grants a fond farewell to the franchise . Our favorite characters are back and are dealing with the problems of time travel once more . While the first installment had the virtue of being " fresh and new , " and the second was " dark and atmospheric , " this third chapter is just downright fun . The story here was developed as a way of saying , " Goodbye " to the series . From start to finish , you feel it . While it is bittersweet for some , it plays out to a rousing and satisfying end . It is my favorite , though it is not considered to be the best of this run . Perhaps it is the flying locomotive , or maybe it's getting to see Doc Brown's sons , or suppose it's getting to watch Doc fall in love . Whatever the reason , this concluding chapter of the Back to the Future trilogy is my favorite of the bunch . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior sequel that lacks vitality	Before I start , let me say that I thought Spider-Man 2 was superior in every way to Spider-Man 1 , but one . Honestly , I don't know what it was about Spider-Man 2 that I found lacking . While it was a better movie with excellent effects , great performances , well-conceived plot elements , and beautiful film shots , it still felt " flat " in comparison to Spider-Man 1 . Perhaps it was the fact that Peter had to surrender the mask this time . Or maybe it's that he wants to be with MJ so badly , but can't find the intestinal fortitude to be happy AND a super hero . Or it could be that I expected much more with a $61M budget increase . Whatever the dilemma , apparently it was felt by other movie-goers , since the return for that increased budget was down $23M from the first installment . This was like Superman 2 in that our hero chooses to be an earth-bound human to be with the gal he loves , discovers there's a new menace and immediately regrets his decision . Perhaps that was why it felt " flat . " It's been done . But then again , what hasn't ? This was a superior story with superior effects and action sequences that looked realistically played out rather than the CGI mess that was the first installment . Peter coming clean with Aune Mae was a difficult scene to watch . It was a courageous step on the character's part , and Aunt Mae reacted much the way I expected she would which lent a believable tone to the scene . The villain this time around is done extremely well . Gone is the camp of the first installment's treatment of the nemesis , and enters an age of superior CGI . After Spider-Man 1's Green Goblin , I was frankly reluctant in seeing this chapter . I'm glad , now , that I have . Doc Ock is malevolently beautiful in both design and execution . I thoroughly enjoyed his character . While the first Spider-Man rates a 7 . 4 ( at IMDb ) and received two Oscar nominations and Spider-Man 2 received none ( but strangely , receives a 7 . 9 rating here at IMDb ) the second installment was definitely above the original in every noticeable way . Yet it grossed less with a bigger budget and received no special effects Oscar nominations like the inferior Spider-Man 1 did , which leads me to believe that the lacking element , whatever that may be , affected more than just this movie Fiend . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Dark , foreboding , suspenseful work .	This movie was the spawn of an entire run of sequels , and now , ( 2004 ) a big-named , " fun " remake . But as " fun " as the remake is to watch , the real story is here in the original . This movie influenced an entire culture in the area of mind-control plots , and drastically changed the way most people viewed feminism . It is about Free Will , a woman's ability ( and right ) to stand on her own and make her own choices . It is about men , and their desire to cage and control the beautiful , free butterflies they've captured . PLOT : There's something odd about the women of Stepford . They are too friendly ; too perfect . You soon learn that one , by one , they were murdered by their husbands and replaced with picture perfect robots who are programmed to serve with perfection . END PLOT . I won't say this is a masterpiece , but it is a strong work in dark suspense and diabolical intention . This is one of the more disturbing films of the 1970's , and definitely one for the collection , even if it is a bit dated . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior to Alien 3	While this is commonly thought of as the weaker installment of this line , personally , I believe it to be superior to Alien 3 in many important ways . 200 years after Ripley's death , she is cloned and brought back to life . The cloning process , however , also involved the DNA of the Alien Queen , giving her superhuman powers and abilities . After several failed attempts , they finally make good with a humanoid Ripley / Queen with superior intelligence and talents . According to the Making of documentary , this installment was very unlike the disorganized mess which was Alien 3 in that this attempt was together and ready to go a year before they actually started shooting . The story was polished and perfected , and was a unique and creative story in comparison . It was a big script in Hollywood . The buzz about it was that it had elements which made it a worthwhile successor to the first two , completely ignoring the third installment all together . Alien : Resurrection takes the Alien franchise to places fans would never have dreamed , without compromising the key elements of the Alien world , and does it successfully . The studios did not want a typical Hollywood popcorn movie to be part of this franchise , and therefore hired Jean-Pierre Jeunet ( City of Lost Children , if you can dig it ) to bring in a unique interpretive eye to the direction of this project . His visual style is quite distinct and permeates this work in a pro-active way . It was , perhaps , the most shrewd move Fox could have made in that his unique perspective was the single-most saving factor of this attempt . The action sequences are quite rousing , the story here is once again solid and convincing , and the performances are still the top row quality you expected from this line . The fight sequences are well choreographed and executed ; beautifully done , as is the rest of this movie . While I cannot rate it as high as I did the first two , it is obviously superior to Alien 3 in all ways that matter . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Disney's Done It Again	Although CS Lewis's material appears as though stolen straight out of JRR Tolkien's mind , this second film adaptation is much more lively than TLTW & TW in that the character development is already out of the way , and the audience gets pure story . Our quartet have not outgrown their characters , and it was lovely to see Warwick Davis as Nikabrick . This series , while disgustingly simplistic in its non-vocabularic writing style , is thought to be so deep and complex , as to require entire literary classes / courses devoted to the understanding of it . It is , however , nothing more , really , than a lesser , watered-down version of a greater ( and I'm stating opinion , here ! ! ) purloined story . There is nothing here , which wasn't found in that original work , yet some WiLL go on and on about the genius of it , in spite of the factual evidence , which states loudly and clearly that there is nothing original or creative herein . One has but to read the little short stories to understand that the mind , which wrote this , was neither literary , nor brilliant . HOWEVER , the movies FAR outreach the little children's stories , do NOT hide the darker side of reality from the audience , and strive to teach a lesson ( however secular and more's the better ) as the focal point of the individual little works themselves . Their literary counterparts are not little masterpieces , and that goes far more the way of showing the intelligence and creativity of the Disney SCREENWRITERS than CS Lewis . If you've read the little stories and can be honest with yourself , then you know what I mean . And Disney did a marvelous job in weeding out all the religious references which do not belong , and adding in a little bit of Magick . Great job , Disney ! As usual . This film adaptation is beautiful ; fleshed out in a way that works . Every added element is done so in such a way as to pay respect ( however undue ) to the original literary work by added in something which was lacking in the story , rather than changing the plot to suit the need for a franchise . All in all ? It's a GREAT movie for the family , although some of the smaller children WERE frightened and DID ask to be taken home . As I said , this movie does not attempt to hide the stark reality of death and cold deeds from its audience . This is darker than its predecessor , and holds more intrigue , action , and dark deeds . Aside from that , this is pretty much meant for everyone , and judging from the diversity in our audience , I'd say it hits that mark . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Now HERE is a president I can get behind !	Harrison Ford portrays the true American ideal . He is brave . He is loyal . He is true . Aside from the way Andrew Marlowe wrote the character of James Marshall , Harrison Ford portrays this president with a level of honor and dignity this country has not seen in many , many years . It moves me and touches my patriot heart in ways most other flag-waving flicks can only hope to do . This story is riveting and action-filled , while retaining its quality of a story-driven work with honest and believable dialog . Wolfgang Peterson is a talented director , and his gift shows herein . The element of humanity one finds in the overall execution of the work is inspiring , to say the least . The overall style is not slick , it is gritty . The sentiment is not polished , it is raw . The humanity is not made for public viewing , it is meant for personal consumption . . . for we are people . Do I sound dramatic ? Perhaps because this movie affects me in a way that IS dramatic . I want a James Marshallesque president . Oh yes . I do . This is not for casual viewing . . . at least not for people like me . But regardless of your patriotism , location , or citizenship , this is an excellent action film , even if it does not invoke the same response from everyone that it does from me . I think this is one of Ford's finest movies , that Gary Oldman is a fine antagonist , and that I can actually watch William H . Macy now without groaning . . . as much . It rates an from . . . the Fiend .
Amusingly bittersweet comedy .	Gene Wilder is one of my favorite people in the biz . He has a fanatical side which instantly makes you embarrassed for him , while at the same time , he has an open honesty which makes you feel for him every little thing which his characters go through . He was one of the best of the best before his beloved Gilda died in 1989 . And has slowly let the sadness permeate to his very soul , every day since . To look upon Gene Wilder today , you don't see the nervous little fuss-budget of a man he once was . You don't see the carefully happy and deeply devoted husband he was to Gilda during those years , anymore either . What you see now , is a sad , sorrow-filled Gene who is struggling to maintain the grip he has on his bootstraps , that makes you love him all the more for his courage . He has worked little since ; his 1990 comedy " Funny About Love " having already been filmed at the time of his wife's demise , was the last of the greats to be released by Wilder . His 1991 comedy " Another You " bore the brunt of Wilder's grief , and it showed in his performance , complete with a death skit worked into the plot line where the beloved deceased rose triumphantly from the grave , and was not the hit Wilder desperately needed at that time . His defunct TV series was another tremendous let down for the star , but that did not destroy his spirit . Wilder has made several Made 4 TV movies over these last few years ; keeping himself busy amidst struggling with his grief , and is now , some sixteen years later , heading once again to the big screen . This newest endeavor ( Instant Karma - 2005 ) is also centered around death and the reincarnation factor , and carries several big names . It is unclear which of these superstars will be the lead , but the list of cast members includes Pierce Brosnan , Dom DeLuise , William Katt , Eartha Kitt , Billy Preston , Burt Reynolds , The Rock , Mira Sorvino , and Gene Wilder ( among others ) ! This film has had NO press even with the all-star cast . New Line Cinema appears to have little faith in the project or they would be hard-spinning it by now . If I could say one thing to Gene Wilder , it would be this . . . " We never get over losing the ones we love dearly . But somehow , we do get past it . I hope your heart heals one day , Mr . Wilder , for as things are , we not only lost Gilda that fateful day . We lost you , too . " I care not for what other people have to say about this movie . I have loved the Wilder / Pryor comedy team since the very beginning , and this movie is no exception . They haven't done a single movie together which I would dog , and this is no exception . Another You is about George , a habitual liar who has spent the last three years in an institution to try to help him stop lying . Eddie Dash is a washed-up con artist who somehow qualifies for unemployment . His case worker finds him a position as a sitter / caretaker for George , who is about to be released . Eddie starts out trying to con George , but soon learns that there are bigger fish to fry . When confronted on the street by Abe Fielding's bookie who owes Abe a ton of money , the bookie mistakes George for Abe ( in front of Eddie ) and the con is on . Before you know it , George IS Abe , living in Abe's house , boffing Abe's wife , and Eddie has moved into the small mansion as an ex-fighter who needs a little " recovery time . " This is a wonderful premise , and the movie is both touching and hilarious . While it lacks the " epic " feel of Silver Streak , it is every bit as good as Stir Crazy , and at least 2 notches above See No Evil , Hear No Evil . This is a wonderful movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Well Done , Effective Remake	You know , when it comes to remakes , directors just can't win . When the change one little thing , fans of the original go nuts . Yet when they fail to make those changes , fans still go nuts and state there wasn't a reason to make a remake , because they didn't change anything . Honestly , in the venue of contemporary remakes , Hollywood just can't win . But let me tell you now . . . This IS a faithful and effective remake . As far as this movie goes , it was far above par and highly exceeded my personal expectations where it was concerned . I have to say that Liev Shreiber is no Robert Mitchem , but he was well above adequate as Damien's Father . Mia Farrow is a darkling joy , and Sir Michael Gambon turns in a brilliant performance . Frankly , Mia and Gambon were the only reasons I bothered with seeing a remake of this worn out old gas station dog of a franchise in the theaters . Otherwise , I would have waited for the extended edition DVD release . This line ( if you don't already know , crawl out from beneath your rock ! ) is based on the Mark of the Beast of biblical myth . I am genuinely tired of the Christian heresy angle . I would much rather see something based on the older systems . But that is neither here , nor there . If you're a fan of the franchise , you won't be disappointed . The action is well paced , the effects are NEVER over the top , and the performances are astounding . That's all I have to say . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Smart , Quirky RomCom	Addicted to Love delivers more than it promises . The summary for this work was less than inspired , however , the work itself is quite well done . This one has a few twists , a good screen play , and some wonderful dialog . I really enjoyed this one . This is probably one of Broderick's best performances ; one among many . He was sincere , fresh , and utterly believable . Meg Ryan also contributed her usual stellar performance . I've never seen a single movie of hers , which did not allow me to enjoy her performance . . . yes , even In The Cut . This was a " black " rom / com , which is something of a unique occurrence . It is also a bittersweet , chaotic mess , but then again , so is life . I found it very refreshing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful fantasy .	A Fantastical Quest Through the Labyrinth of Time . This Henson / Lucas production isn't quite what you'd expect from these legendary directors . Somehow , it's better . The genius of Henson and Lucas shines brightly as Jennifer Connelly and David Bowie perpetuate this wonderful tale of fantasy written by Dennis Lee and Jim Henson . Henson's son , Brian ( now the head of the Henson Empire ) , even gets in on the act as the voice of Hoggle . The story opens in the present , this world , this plane . Sarah ( Connelly ) is a spoiled rotten little drama queen who thinks she is the center of the universe and the sun around which the world revolves . In a brattish fit of colossal immaturity , she stumbles upon the correct words to summon Jareth the Goblin King ( Bowie ) to take her little brother to the Goblin Realm . Once done ; however , she realizes how angry her parents will be and decides that it's more prudent to go " rescue " Toby rather than allow his assimilation into the Goblin fold . Jareth gives her 13 hours in which to find her way through an impossible labyrinth , fight her way through the Goblin City , and puzzle out the staircases of the Goblin Castle and save her half-brother . She is punished for arrogance , beguiled in her naivety , confused in her indecision and imprisoned for her quick , thoughtless decisions . " That's not FAIR ! " is one of her most used and best delivered lines ; used again and again , until it FINALLY sinks in that life just isn't fair . It is a warm , funny and enriching tale , once started . It's about growing up , accepting responsibility for your actions and choices and making them more wisely in the beginning , rather than cleaning up your messes as you go along . In the end , Sarah realizes all the infantile tantrums and childish toys are nothing but detritial remains of her otherwise out-lived childhood . She begins to stumble upon the reality that the important things are family , friends , and the responsibility that comes with making mature decisions . She throws away her immaturity and child-like selfishness to save her brother and thereby sets her feet back on the right path to adulthood and maturity . It's a wonderful " coming of age " movie , and perfect for its target audience : girls 9-13 . But I must say that children and adults alike love this movie , worldwide . It's not ONLY for girls , but for anyone who loves fantasy . This movie is far superior to what most consider to be your standard " Muppet Movie . " It's one of my favorites . This movie gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Eastwood's Best	Shirley MacLaine , Clint Eastwood , Manolo Fabregas . Profane Sister Sara recruits a drifter to help Mexican rebels attack a French fort . This is Clint in the prime of his B Western career , and ultimately one of his very best films , western or not . This work features some stunning vistas , whether real or back-lot drop sets , the vistas are beautiful . Shirley MacLaine kicks in a convincing performance as the Profane Sister Sara , who conducts business like a wrangler . Fraught with intrigue , some great performances , and an interesting story line , this well executed western makes for a fine rainy Saturday afternoon . Otherwise , unless you are an aficionado of the classic American western , this may be somewhat of a disappointment , if you had to clear your busy schedule to allow appropriate viewing time . This is my favorite Clint Eastwood film , western or no , and it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
While Generally The Less Popular Installment , This Is Perhaps The Second Best !	Most Jaws fans hate this installment , but I think the reason behind this emotion is more that this installment marks the end of the franchise , rather than because the movie was not worthy . The story is not afraid to admit its previous mistakes , returns us to the beginning when the franchise was awesome , and revisits old characters , while introducing us to new ground . And it works ! Michael Caine is , as usual , stellar ; but it is the return of Lorraine Gary as Ellen Brody that makes this chapter of the saga truly remarkable . Her performance , the story itself , and the fantastic effects-generated atmosphere truly uplift this could-be lackluster sequel into the annals of creature feature greatness . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Stands alone well , but misses the prequel mark .	Obviously , this movie had a little bit bigger budget than the original two . It is better filmed , as the quality of film itself seems to also be better , while it carries with it a fantastic and creative story surrounding the girls ' origins and also their curse . This tale is beautifully told and is well enacted . And there IS a story here . Imaginative , creative , and well written , this production far surpasses the quality of the first two . While it lacks the charm of the first movie , it is successful in capturing at least some of that charisma between the two sisters ; Black and Red . This was an excellent addition to the series , although there was one issue I had trouble with in this installment . I'm having trouble with the fact that Ginger and Brigitte , in the original movie to which this work is a prequel , have no idea with is happening to themselves in the original work . Had they actually lived through the events in the prequel , they would know perfectly well what was going on in the original movie . There would not have been a problem , had they used a continuity editor in the writing / production process of this movie . How is it that Brigitte is no longer a " sister of the blood " in the original movie , and that the original work shows Ginger being bitten for the first time in the park ? It makes no sense . What also makes no sense , is how Ginger and Brigitte could live over 100 years if they weren't Immortal Beings . Other critics have stated that the Ginger and Brigitte of the original story were descendants of THIS Ginger and Brigitte . I don't buy that , as they made no distinction between the two sets of sisters . They used the same expressions and sayings and were , indeed , identical in every way . Therefore , the viewer has to assume that these are the same sisters that were featured in the first movie , who will live from the late 1800's until present time . However , unless their parents were also werewolves , that doesn't wash , either . The Ginger and Brigitte in the original work had parents . Natural parents . Ginger , at one point in " Ginger Snaps , " says , " God , I hate our gene pool , " in reference to their mother thereby negating the " adoption theory " readily believed by some of the franchise fans . So we are left with a huge continuity rift between the prequel and the first movie which fans of this line do not seem to care to notice . That having been said , the effects in this installment were much better than in the first two . The werewolves themselves looked fantastic ; however , the points above left a rather odd aftertaste in the mouth of a true fan of the first two , and did not balance the questions it created with the answers it gave . It lacked the sinister feel the first movie captured . It was dark , yes , just not dark enough to figure in with the rest of the franchise although there were some really nice killing scenes there in the end . Especially nice for splatter fans . Not as good as the other two , but definitely an enjoyable experience . As a prequel to this franchise however , it rates a as it never really explains . . . anything . Though it is slightly better than the first installment . As a stand alone movie , it rates an aggressive on the " B " scale . That's a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet and adventurous	This is by far one of the best Disney animations . The story gives you swash-buckling action and a genuine sweetness . Vincent Price as Ratigan was a stroke of genius . He puts so much of his dark personality into this part , as to exude the embodiment of treachery . He is by far my favorite Disney villain , because of Price . These characters were very well done , well developed , and endearing . This is one of those older productions in which the extras like backgrounds , furnishings , etc . are drawn with great attention to the styles and details . This adds so much to these animated productions , and are sadly forgotten in the newer ones and , unfortunately , the sequels . The use of a Disney-esquire Sherlock Holmes was brilliant , and the absence of those annoying songs was a definite plus . There is one . Just enough . I love Disney . I grew up on it , and have a rather decent collection of Disney animations and live action movies . I also understand that some people enjoy them , but those annoying songs are a factor which detracts from the enjoyability for me and I am glad they left them out , this time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
An action-packed delight .	Delve into the Chinese Underworld with Steven Seagal by your side and Michelle Goh's soft voice narrating the story . Provocative and Compelling ! Steven Seagal is archaeologist Robert Burns ; renowned in his field and wanted by the Chinese Mafia , the Tong . It seems he's uncovered some very valuable artifacts in the ancient eastern ruins of China and they would like to see them used for more lucrative endeavors . When Burns is framed for the murder of his assistant , he ends up being used by the American government as the carrot before the nose of the Tong . His fight to the Emperor of the Tong is quite literally some of the most explosive martial arts assaults on film this year ! With Direction by Michael " Hounddog " Oblowitz , it surely wasn't what I expected . Although his direction of Seagal in " The Foreigner , " 2003 and did a very fine job of it , I have otherwise been unimpressed with his talents , until now . Very Well Done ! The storyline is plausible , the backdrop is beautiful and exigent , the sets were very well furnished and added immensely to the atmosphere of the movie , and the casting choices were outstanding . Seagal just gets better and better . His acting is exemplary ; not at all like some of the other so-called martial artist / actors out there . He never misses a beat . Every strike is dead on , every step is in place , and his action sequences are never slow , fake or " hokey . " Sorry people , but I'm NOT a fan of the ' 70's " Flying Through The Air , Doing Impossible Leaps and Throwing Magick Out Of Our Hands " martial arts flicks . ( Movies like THAT are " flicks , " not movies . ) Michelle Goh really shines in her performance . I hope to see more of her talents on the big screen . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior Story , Average Action , Great Atmosphere . All In All , A Good Creature Feature !	Predictable ? Perhaps a bit , but not near as much as most of the other " monster " movies I've seen . And , while John Patrick Shanley's adaptation of Michael Crichton's novel is about as bad as the adaptations of Stephen King's novels , the movie ( when not held in comparison to the original literary work ) is quite good . It stands alone , though it really should have been a " based on " and not an adaptational work . Amy is a seven-year-old gorilla from the Verunga Region of the Congo , taken captive and sold to a university for study . Dr . Peter Elliot ( portrayed so very well by Dylan Walsh ) is the primatologist who has full charge of Amy and her development . In a " lonely impulse of delight , " he has taught his ward to speak through the use of sign language and technology , but Amy is having problems . She is experiencing nightmares , based on her past as a very young gorilla , and a deep longing to return to the jungle . In his love of Amy , Dr . Elliot endeavors to return her to the place of her birth , with the assistance of philanthropist Herkimer Homolka ( one of Tim Curry's best roles in my opinion , as a serious actor and not a character actor , he is quite believable ) and the well-equipped Dr . Karen Ross ( wonderfully portrayed by Laura Linney ) , an ex CIA agent who is now an executive with Travel-Com ; a corporation in desperate need of a flawless diamond from the Congo to power its next " Cash-Cow . " ( SUB-PLOT ) : Travel-Com's megalomaniacal CEO / CFO has sent his son and another team to the Congo to search for the diamond so desperately needed by the corporation . But when the expedition fails and Travel-Com loses contact , the psycho insists that Dr . Ross take over the Amy expedition in an attempt to discover what happened with the first team , and his son . ( / SUB-PLOT ) ( ALTERNATE SUB-PLOT ) : When they finally arrive near the last leg of their trek to the Verunga Region , they discover that Mr . Homolka has a hidden agenda ; he is in search of the lost city of Zinj , and the diamond mine purported to be hidden within its walls . He compares the one artifact of which he was in possession ; a ring with the single eye emblazoned upon it , with the drawings of Amy's which were published in a scientific magazine , and concludes that Amy and Amy alone has knowledge of Zinj's true location . ( / ALTERNATE SUB-PLOT ) But the Congo is neither easy to get to , nor easy to navigate and their party is beset by problems . The cinematography and photography of this movie are astounding . The scenery is absolutely breath-taking and the direction is superb . I love this production . The story is a wonderful adventure , the acting is quite professional , the effects are top ROW and the sets and scenes are extraordinary . The character development is above reproach as by the time they reach the Congo , you KNOW the characters and care what happens to them . All in all a very wonderful adventure , and with the added " monster " factor , this makes for one excellent artistic work . I love this movie , and watch it often . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Interesting Introspective , With A Few Entertaining Moments .	Frankly , this runs a lot like Delores Claiborne , which is actually sort of fitting , since Ed Harris stars herein , and he is the best Alan Pangborn OF the Stephen King line , in my opinion . But . . . I digress . On the surface , this is an odd meandering tale of a daughter in search of herself . In reality , it is a moving study of the survivors of an atypical dysfunctional family , accompanied by two socially challenged hangers-on . This film is a drama . There is no comedy . There is no joy . There is only drama , pain , and self discovery . In other words , it succeeds as a stand alone drama , without depending on any other style as a crutch . It fails to fully give closure , yet satisfies in the promise of inner healing between its participants . All in all ? I liked it , though dramas aren't my bag . I guess that says something , in itself . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Charming .	Brilliantly witty horror / comedy starring the best husband & wife team in the genre of comedy . Gene Wilder is , admittedly , an acquired taste . His humor is expressive and intelligent and not for everyone . But who can not love sweet little Gilda Radner ? This is one of the few collaborations between the husband & wife team of Wilder and Radner , and one of Wilder's best attempts , in this critic's opinion . While there are a few plot holes here , this movie was not meant to be an Oscar contender , nor was it made to be thought-inspiring . This is pure entertainment which hits dead on the mark . Gilda is sweet , competent , and assertive here as Vickie Pearle , fianc to Larry Abbott ( Wilder ) . The couple work as radio stars for a weekly horror broadcast , but Larry is having some anxiety problems , and it's up to Vickie to help keep him glued together . Just as their show is starting to top the charts , Larry begins to show serious signs of wear , and now his uncle , Paul Abbott , steps in and takes Larry's reins . It seems Dr . Abbott knows how to cure Larry's problem , but with murder , treachery , and intrigue all around him , will Larry ever be cured of his anxiety ? This is a wonderfully fun movie with an all-star cast , which bears a definite Agatha Christie feel about it , even with Dom DeLuise in drag ! I adore this movie , and watch it often . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A decent art-house psychodrama . Not what you expect from Carrey	This movie was a surprise . I never expected it to be as compelling as it is . I don't really want to say too much about this work , because until you've seen it for yourself , I'd hate to ruin it for you . Suffice it to say that this has some wonderful darkling twists , coupled with superb ( not brilliant , but very well done ) performances , and marvelous direction . It lacks character development in the beginning , but you find out why that is , soon enough . I was genuinely surprised by this story and the execution of this production . It is WELL worth your time to check it out . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
What a Surprise !	I wasn't going to review this one , because I only watched / own these films because I'm an avid Goldblum fan . Yeah , I know he's not in Henry Fool , but he IS in Fay Grim , and because Fay Grim makes no sense WHATsoever without having first watched Henry Fool , I have them both . Having started out that way , Henry Fool was , for me , something to " get through " in order to get to the " good stuff " with Jeff . Boy , was I surprised . Henry Fool is a brilliant piece of work . I was shocked , frankly . Now , I can't stop telling my friends about it . This is thoughtful , even if it is a bit dialog-heavy . It is fun , even as it takes itself seriously . It appears superficially fun and quirky , even as it surreptitiously broadens its depth . It entertains , even as it teaches us to shoot for the stars . Henry appears to follow his own advice - he appears to shoot for the stars , when all the while , he seems to be buying into his own con . . . or does he ? This film is awesomely quirky , but there is substance beneath the idiosyncratic screenplay . This has become one of my new favorites . However , you can't fully appreciate the depth of the deceit without following this one up with a good strong dose of Fay Grim . Check it out , or lose out on a GREAT ending to this film . I would recommend this for just about anyone who likes intrigues , livid dramas , and / or Parker Posey . I have to say this is one of her best performances . She's a NUT in this ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Disney's Best	I understand why some do not like this work . It tends to be a bit preachy , and is completely about love . Therefore , even some Disney fans will turn their nose up at this one . In all honesty , I prefer Atlantis to this one , but that does not mean this was not a superior film . The story is a love story . Oh , there is adventure , betrayal , bravery , dancing , songs , high sea action , and some pivotal father / daughter moments , but all these elements come together to create one fine love story in pure Disney Romantic Comedy Adventure fashion . This film is probably one of the sweetest love stories in the Disney vaults , and a must have in any Disney collection . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Politically incorrect , sadistic , slap in the face comedy	While it's not meant for young audiences , this is one of the best Anti-xmas movies I've ever loved . Adults with a jaded sense of humor will fully embrace this irreverent , hateful , sadistically sarcastic take on Yuletime cheer . This wonderful comedy is the product of excellent casting , perfect comedic timing , and beautiful execution . It's uproariously funny , and even touching at times , in that off-handed kind of way . This is my second favorite xmas movie , with Chevy Chase's " Christmas Vacation " as my first . A chronic , abusive drunk with a good heart , but no outlet for it , teams up with the devil in disguise as " Wizard of Oz " Munchkin , to rob department store chains as their Yuletime careers . This take is usually enough to float them for the year , but there is always a second chance in a few months . - - - " Is that what you do ? You're Santa ? " " Yeah , except in April . Then I'm the fin ' Easter Bunny . " - - - This is darkly hilarious , sadistically witty , and socially unacceptable , which is a large part of the draw . This is NOT one for the kiddies ! Happy Yule , everyone ! It rates an . " Badder Santa " is even better ! ( or worse , depending on your point of view ) and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
In some ways , this is better than the first , but in more substantial ways , it fails .	This is great fun , and possibly one of Disney's best sequels as far as story and content goes . But the animation is so poor that I could barely enjoy it . As far as I'm concerned , a Disney animated film , be it feature length or short , should present nothing but the BEST in animation . I HATE Disney sequels , on the whole , as they are always inferior in care , love , animation , story , and execution . This one does deliver a good story , but unfortunately , that's as good as it gets . For an animated feature , the ANIMATION should be given more care . It was still fun , it was still entertaining , it was still Mulan . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly under-rated Vampyre flick !	I found this movie to have a solid story , sound performances , and believable execution . It has all the basic elements of a good vampyre movie , and for once , here's a movie which follows the basic rules of the genre . I realize any director can change the " Universal Monster Rules " any way he wishes , but as a fan of the genre , there are certain expectations one looks to have honored in a vampyre film . While it's not the best vampyre movie out there , it is highly entertaining , and deserves much better than the 5 . whatever it got here at IMDb . com . If you liked this movie , I also recommend The Lost Boys , Underworld , Van Helsing , Near Dark , Modern Vampires ( a horror comedy ) , My Best Friend is a Vampire ( a horror comedy ) , and John Carpenter's Vampires . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderful !	As a Disney Computer Animation , this isn't half bad . There are many references to other Disney works ; A Lion King poster hangs down in town square ; one of the wildebeests says to Ryan , " Hold it , Tigger ; " Samson the lion is referred to by a wildebeest as " the sacrifice " a clear reference to the Chronicles of Narnia , etc . The movie is full of them . This almost ran like a 90 minute ad for other Disney works , but that's okay . It didn't make the whole thing feel as commercial as perhaps it could haveThe lions looked like moving stuffed toys , but they are still endearing . The characters are well conceived , but the execution is a bit soft on the part of the lions . The movie rolls along well , the story progresses at a nice pace , and we discover all the intricacies of the characters ' interrelationships , leading us to the action of the movie . I found it odd that the Koala had a British accent , rather than an Australian one , and the relationship between the squirrel and the giraffe was a bit weird , but Disney has always been a proponent of diversity , so though it was weird , it was not surprising . The accent coming out of the Koala WAS surprising . Not in a good way . Some reviewers say that the last act is weak and the cohesion begins to dissolve , but I can't agree . I thought the ending was magnificent , triumphant , and utterly Disney . This is one cute movie , and belongs in any Disney collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Seagal walks hand in hand with Mother Nature	I must say , as the practitioner of an earth-based religion , that I was so totally enthralled with this movie , I was moved to tears at the end . Steven Seagal's acting style has changed over the years . He's gone from tough and ready hard core action to take an environmentally political stand on issues in which he believes . He is quoted here , at IMDb for having said the following . . . " Hollywood is a mercurial place where people are sort of ( in the film business ) a victim of their environment and how the environment changes . Movies that would be timely now , ten years from now would be pass and nobody would be interested in the subjects . All the movies that I have done I have not been in control of . Sometimes there is a contractual situation where you go to the studio and they kind of tell you which ones they want you to do . Be that as it may I have also been lucky in the sense that I have been able to make environmentally conscientious movies as well as politically conscientious movies . ABOVE THE LAW was a politically conscientious movie . ON DEADLY GROUND was environmentally conscientious so I want to keep making movies like that which are more geared with a certain entertainment value but also bring people forward into contemplation . " Well , Mr . Seagal , you succeeded in accomplishing both , with " The Patriot . " The action is fast enough to keep you involved in the plot . The plot is simple and easy to follow , concerning a " good old boy " with what seems like noble aspirations , until he releases a biological weapon deadly enough to kill off the entire US populace . Now , it's up to Dr . Wesley McClaren ( Steven Seagal ) to clean up the mess . Will he find the cure in time to save everyone he loves from annihilation ? Watch it and see . Nice action and beautiful cinematography . Excellent footage of the mountains of the central northwest US . Strong acting ability demonstrated here through superb directing and some good fast-paced fight scenes . But beneath all that , you get the sense that Seagal's character loves the Earth and all Her greatness . He gives you the feeling that he respects Her and cherishes all that She is , and has to give . As a Pagan , I cannot help but feel a kinship of sorts with the lead character in this movie . " Kith and kin " means more than mere blood relations , you know . As this movie well demonstrates . It gets a from . . . . the Fiend : .
Emotionally Dark , But Still My Second Favorite	As far as the Muppet line goes , however , this is not the best , nor the second best . This was marketed towards the kiddies , but has some dark , and emotionally upsetting adult moments , to which parents may not wish to expose their children . One of which showcases Miss Piggy going " postal " in a jealous rage , which lasts basically throughout the duration of this work . Beyond that , however , the story is progressive , and highly entertaining . One scene in which Joan Rivers and Miss PIggy go berserk in a department store is simply hilarious ! And there are other parts of this work which contain the same level of levity and fun . I like this very much , and enjoy it still today . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , sweet , and amusing western / comedy	Cat Ballou is a fun romp through the great American west . While it presents a definite " Apple Dumpling Gang " atmosphere , it still retains its gritty and resolute ( . . . they'll never make her cry . . . ) feeling . One of the best American Western comedies . Fonda is compelling as Catherine " Cat " Ballou , the " schoolmarm-gone-bad . " Her performance in this movie is among the best performances of her career . Lee Marvin's acting abilities really reach out and grab you with his dual role as Kid Shelleen and brother-gone-horribly-wrong Tim Strawn . As Shelleen , you get to experience his comedic genius ( this movie has a classic comedy scene that most of us never forget , featuring Marvin as Shelleen sitting on his horse , and he AND the horse are leaning drunkenly against a building ) , and as Tim Strawn , the tension POPS out at you . Michael Callan plays Clay Boone , Cat's would-be love interest . Michael Callan , also known as Mickey Calin , has done tons of movies starting with " They Came to Cordure " in 1959 . In " Cat Ballou , " his honest face and earnest smile captivate you right away , and his performance as Boone , holds you there . Although he's had loads of roles , most Americans will probably remember him from his stint on " One Life to Live , " a popular American soap opera . ( He played Jack Simmons . ) Frankie Ballou ( Cat's Father ) is played extremely well by John Marley ; a curmudgeonly rancher who has definite views ( however odd they may be ) on the true origins of the Native American . This movie has it all ! Action , suspense , comedy and heart . It also boasts some of the greatest stars of its time : Jane Fonda , Lee Marvin , Dwayne Hickman , Stubby Kaye ( ! ! ) ( Marvin Acme in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit , Ellis Island 1984 , Taxi 1953 , Guys and Dolls 1955 , and Lil Abner among many more ) , Reginald Denny and Bruce Cabot ! The story is narrated in song by Nat King Cole , playing professor Sam The Shade AS Nat King Cole . This movie whisks you from your seat , carries you down the river , and plunges you over the waterfall . Hang on and enjoy the ride . It easily rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Resident Evil : A Project in Terror .	To be honest , the first time I saw this , I didn't care for it . It did not follow the story line of the game , and that made me very unhappy with this endeavor . Upon realization that a video game is " dumbed down " for the players to be able to concentrate , however , I opted for a second viewing and came to realize that this was not the waste of time I first believed . I was disappointed with how it played out because there were no cures along the way , they made little notice of records and files lying about , no matter how relevant they were or were not , and the sequence of things was not on par with that of the game . I realize that to do things that way would have severely hampered the flow of the movie itself and would have made it far less active . Considering this is first and foremost , an action movie ( with horror elements ) , that would not be considered a good thing . The truth is that Milla Jovovich contributes a very capable and entertaining presence and performance to this work . Her supporting cast ( every one ) gave nothing but the best they had . The story itself flows quite well and was creatively written and executed . There is nothing wrong with this attempt . It just didn't live up to a fanboy's expectations . Unfortunately , that was their major principal audience ; game fans , and that explains the lackluster box office payoff and the low IMDb user ratings for this attempt . The fanboys were disappointed ; the casual fans casually attended this event ; and the mainstream didn't understand the big deal , either way and so did not participate to a profitable level . With the release of the second installment and all the advertisement and hype Apocalypse received , it drew the mainstream fans a bit harder ; the casual fans were less casual ; and the fanboys were still disappointed , but resigned to the fact that this was just how it was going to be ; take it or leave it . We took it and , in retrospect , embraced the first attempt , as well . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Groovin to the Movin	This film is far from the best film of the 1990's , but it DOES feature one of John Travolta's best performances . I'm talking about his performance , not his character , or the movie surrounding it . As far as Pulp Fiction the Movie , it is stylistic , quirky , evenly balanced in its chaos , and thoroughly enjoyable . It is not the instant classic many people have proclaimed it to be , but it IS fun , witty , clever , and entertaining in its Tarantinoisms and " hip " stylizations , and makes for an entertaining 2 hours or so . It's worth a viewing or two , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A clever new malediction has come to Elm Street .	Based on a true story from the late 70's and published in the LA times were articles concerning young people were dying while in the grips of a nightmare . This is to be one of the freshest innovations of the horror genre of the 1980's . These articles detailed a particular young man who , after his death , was found to have hidden a coffee pot in his closet ; utilizing caffeine as a means to keep him awake rather than facing his nightmares . He had even told his family that these nightmares did not " feel real . " Written and directed by Horror Maven Wes Craven , this series took on a phenomenal success rate with this first installment in what later became the " Freddy Franchise . " He incorporated a man from one of his early childhood memories in the characterization of his newest nemesis by giving Freddy the characteristics of this stranger who had frightened him as a child . As a risky endeavor , this film turned out to be one of the surprising innovations in the slasher sub-genre of Horror . Indeed , this film was extremely risky for New Line , as they had a credit limit of around $100 , 000 . 00 and was forbidden by the bank to use a dime of that in film production and had to raise the money to begin production on this endeavor . As a variation on the news paper articles , this attempt needed something which would bring in the ladies , to widen the target audience and give it a stronger feeling of reality . The element of " Beauty and the Beast " was written in and played upon in such a darkling twisted way that this film was pivoted into the horror movie Hall of Fame , so to speak , by recreating the modern myth of the ultimate battle between good and evil . Another credit to this production is that it does not take itself too seriously . It pokes fun at the horror genre itself , thereby lending a solid reality base to the fantastical subject matter . Something which was also done in Craven's later slasher trilogy , " Scream . " This vehicle does more than provide the element of humor , it also sets up the audience and commences the process of drawing them into the story by giving them various points with which they can relate to the lead characters . It also homages other horror greats , as many movies will later homage this one . The character development here was extravagantly done . You felt like you knew them and thereby it mattered what happened with them . The process was never slow , tedious or boring , always drawing you in and making you feel like you were a part of the " team . " Starring Heather Langencamp and John Saxon , this movie has the distinction of introducing Johnny Depp in his first screen role at the age of 21 . While these performances were nothing Oscar-worthy , they were way above and beyond what the average movie goer would expect from a low budget teen slasher movie . It seems that Johnny Depp was destined for stardom as his portrayal , even then , was that of a polished professional . The camera work here was creatively done , but the real achievement in this department goes to the lighting crew . The shadows and lighting choices here were an integral part of what created the incredible atmosphere of foreboding this movie held . Using split-mirror shots and an innovative eye for shadow and light , you never seem to notice the low budget aspects of this film . The liberal use of blood shows the audience that this villain is not afraid to get his hands dirty . Nay , he revels in it ; hungers for it ; exists for it . The sets were realistically designed ; the Thompson house felt like a home ; the police station felt authentic and that boiler room . . . Great sinister feel , it had . This movie had a beautiful element of suspense ; dark and foreboding tension which builds with a rhythmic fretful crescendo to the climax . But does it scare ? I have to admit there are several scenes which made me literally jump . Some were predictable , but most were honest thrills . All in all , while this is not THE best of the many horror franchises of the 1980's ( That distinction goes to the Hellraiser run , in my opinion ) , it is definitely one OF the best , and second only to Hellraiser . ( Some would class Halloween in here somewhere , but in all fairness , it was released in 1978 and therefore does not qualify as an " 80's film . " This first installment rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent Performances , But Don Cheadle Is A Delightful Surprise !	This film is gritty . It is . . . explosive . Dramatic . There is little to warm your heart , but there is a great deal of connectivity with the troubled youth of today . Don Cheadle is 100 % convincing in his role as Dr . David Monroe , which was a genuine , but delightful , surprise . Lyle teaches us that society and societal issues drives us , shapes us , and sometimes misshapes us down deep , where it matters . The problems of his friends and fellow in-house residents cuts the meat this film is made of , while demonstrating aptly how our messed up society produces messed up individuals . They teach us to believe in the Easter Bunny , Santa Claus , the Tooth Faerie . . . and then they tell us it was all just a lie . But we're not supposed to lie . So do we hate those who have lied to us ? Hate the lies themselves ? Or adapt and accept ? This demonstrates the fight or flight instinct within us all , and aptly so . All in all , this is a great film which is deserving of your time , however , it may be a bit too darkly depressing for a Friday or Saturday night flick . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Under-rated Barrymore Love Story	I can't say that I embrace this as a Romantic Comedy , as I found little funny about it . I did find it endearing , entertaining , heartwarming , and terminally sweet , and while there were some witty moments , I found them more bittersweet than outright comedic . I liked this one . Barrymore has grown so much as an actress , and it's always wonderful to catch her on the big screen , but this translates well to the small screen , too . In fact , on subsequent viewings , I like this one more and more . If you're a fan of the Romantic Comedy , then you may be a bit put off by lack of comedic effect with this one , but if you're in it for the romance , it's definitely here to be found . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
In Living Color meets Lethal Weapon 3	This is a well-done venture into the buddy-cop venue , by Seagal . With the help of Kennan Ivory Wayans , Seagal pulls off a decent attempt at this new line . As a Buddhist cop from New York , Jack Cole ( Seagal ) has a very dark past . Transferred from his last assignment to assist in the capture of the latest social disease known as " the Family Man , " he is teamed up with Detective Jim Campbell ( Wayans ) , in the task force assigned to that feat . As a psychological thriller , this movie was not nearly as good as Se7en , Identity , Fallen , or Silence of the Lambs . . . as it appears these movies are what this one attempts to compete with ; however , it still has a strong psychological edge to it . It does not contain the level of suspense associated with Copycat or even Red Dragon . The socio-religious implications are almost classic Stephen King in that it beats you over the head with Christian dogma , yet it fails to ascend to the stigmata achieved in Exorcist or even . . . Stigmata . As an action movie , it is top row . The action is some of the best of Steven Seagal's style , demonstrated effectively with that fluid style and grace that we have come to expect from Seagal's characters . Bone-crunching , blood eliciting non-stop quality action . As a buddy cop venture , this is not Lethal Weapon quality ( they even used a character named " Rouso " from internal affairs , see LW3 for the reference ) , but surpasses Tango and Cash in that there are no clichs throughout aside from the fact that Seagal himself is a walking clich . Outside that , there are no glibly-delivered puns and precious few one-liners , making this a more serious , more intelligent action / comedy . The plot demonstrated within this endeavor is quite well written , nicely-paced , and exhibits a fluid control which I found quite enjoyable . Its elements , while not remotely original , are creative , intelligent , and well presented . The sets are average . The soundtrack is average . Neither lend anything creative to this production though , strangely enough , these shortcomings did not manage to lessen the finished product . As the plot unfolds , things are not looking good for our Detective Cole . From that point on , the action and intrigue begins and carries us quickly through to a satisfying end . All in all , this is not a bad attempt , but in my opinion , Seagal works best when working alone . I enjoyed the comedic aspects and intensity contributed to this work by Wayans , but I prefer Seagal a la carte . I still thoroughly enjoyed this production and found it to be highly entertaining . The final product is greater , it seems , than the sum of its mere parts . This movie rates an from . . . the Fiend : . .
The Rocky Horror Picture Show of the historical / comedy genre .	Two sets of twins are mis-matched at birth . One set belongs to a royal family , and one set belongs to a peasant couple . Just as things begin to get interesting for the royal brothers , the peasant brothers trade places with them . The peasant brothers join the revolution while their idiot twins sit around eating and failing to notice the French Revolution which is going on all around them . This work has heart yet never takes itself too seriously , making for a level of enjoyable chaos suitable for an entertaining 91 minutes . Unfortunately , this movie died upon release only to become a Rocky Horror Picture Show of its own among the college crowd . For some reason , this movie reminds me of Cheech and Chong's the Corsican Brothers . I can't help but associate the two , since they do have the same feeling . Gene Wilder turns in his usual wonderful performance and Donald Sutherland actually manages to carry off the comedy . The plot is littered with small holes , but the story is rather irrelevant . This work is more for the comedic effect than anything else , and it holds up well throughout . That having been said , let me also point out that this movie was nominated for best story written for the screen by the Writers Guild . This work is great fun to watch and a MUST SEE for any Gene Wilder fan ! He plays two parts and therefore gets loads of screen time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Heart-warming retelling of a classic story	Much has been said concerning the lackluster box office revenue generated by this attempt . My only comment towards this condition is to say that it was not marketed properly . Most Americans had no idea this movie was even being made . There was no " media blitz " to hype it , and the proceeds reflects that neglect . This is NOT a remake of the original movie . It is also NOT a faithful adaptation to Jules Verne's literary work . What it IS , is a delightful comedic ( dare I say " parody ? " ) version of a story many of us have enjoyed . It is labeled a " Disney " production , but in truth , Disney only distributed it . But it is made with Disney's involvement firmly in mind and is a fun , adventurous , and even rousing family movie . Now as a version of Around the World in 80 Days which lists Passepartout before Phineas ( here , known as Phileas ) Fogg , this had no business pulling itself out of the mire . Passepartout is a supporting character , not the main . However , I must say that no matter who the principle character was , Jackie Chan's Passepartout was the star . Steve Coogan proved himself more than capable of commenting the Phineas / Phileas role and did so with a crisp dignity one can only hold in regard . Jackie Chan exhibits some of his most inspired comedic martial arts to date in this production and I daresay it's worth the price of the DVD just to see him . Many fans were beginning to wonder if he still had " it . " Personally , I loved " Tuxedo " and " Medallion " but apparently there were doubts . Not anymore . Jackie Chan demonstrated , as only he could , that he still has what it takes to make his fans happy . Now , as I indicated earlier , this was not the blow-by-blow retelling of Verne's vision . But that did not take away one ounce of enjoyment . It was entertaining and deftly captured the spirit of Verne's work . True , the original work was not a comedy , but if you've read Jules Verne , you'll understand that he did have a wonderful sense of humor . He included characters in his works which were present for no other purpose than comic relief . Jackie Chan's Passepartout fits that mold perfectly . This production possesses every aspect held dear in the novel . There is adventure , comedy , beautiful vistas from great locations all around the world , and inventions . It presented a beautiful culminating blend of many of the themes from Verne's works . There are many gentle reminders of Verne's vision and his novels scattered all through this attempt . As someone who loves Jules Verne's novels , I felt proud for him to have been shown the respect and admiration he deserved . This is a fun , entertaining , and heart-warming retelling of a classic story . Check out Frank Coraci's nod to his " Wedding Singer " and " Waterboy " days ( and the Adam Sandler crowd ) with a very short speaking part from Rob Schneider . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweetly cynical	Sweet , yet cynical . . . beautiful landscapes and textures colored by Myers's " If it's not Scottish , it's crap " skit from SNL ( not a good thing ) . A faerie tale wrought with sarcasm and jaded one-liners . This movie is definitely for the adults in the family . The children should be spared this tired , jaded , and cynical view of the world presented by our hero and his side-kicking ass . While the story is typical , the characters are very well developed and the computer graphics are fantastic . The background textures and skin tones are beautifully realistic and you can tell there were many great talents devoted to this production . The textures of the trees , the characters , and even the facial hair growth of the characters was amazing . Too bad they did not put more into the story to rate this wonderful CGI treatment . Unfortunately , they did not , and it shows . The tritely delivered one liners , the cynical philosophies , and the jaded presentation of love and self esteem should probably not go directly into the minds of America's children . There are enough sources for this negative kind of thinking , in my opinion , and the children do understand what is being said . Never for a moment should you be under the misconception that they are ignorant of the underlying meanings of these adult-based jibes and insults . I love this movie , myself . But , having been a parent , I can safely say that were there small children about , they would not be watching Shrek very often ; if at all , until they were old enough to understand that there is a difference between cynicism and sarcasm , and that what is funny is very seldom what is right . All that aside , as an adult , I love this movie . The story , as I have already stated , is a bit recycled , but nevertheless , it is classic . Unfortunately , the fairy tale portion of this production is more of a fairy tail . Though I loved the Donkey . This character ( done well by Eddie Murphy ) was the comedian , bouncing the one liners off of Shrek's " straight-man " persona , leaving Eddie Murphy to get all the laughs while Myers's character ( working from the murky depths of a horribly muddled accent ) must remain in the dark and gloomy mode , as ogres are not known to be very social creatures . The messages here are plain and simple , right from the start : love yourself , friends have value , and be true to yourself . Good messages which do come through the sarcastic wit and cynical philosophies , regardless of the strong delivery of these devices , but perhaps a bit watered-down by the time it filters through into children's minds . This is nevertheless , a fun movie with good characters , a classic good vs . evil format , and strong visual effects generated by true artisans in the field of computer graphics interface . I love the inclusion of the Dragon as a non-evil entity . Dragons are far too often the symbol of evil incarnate ; an erroneous and unfair convenience generated by the Catholic church of the first millennium . After the Druid priests were converted , their ties with Dragon kind had to be severed in order to fully control the followers of these priests . Thus the link between Dragons and evil was created , established , and used wrongfully in their persecution . I found it philosophically and theologically heartening . But I digress . This is a fun movie , if you can hear the soundtrack over the cheering of the executives behind this production , and can manage to feel uplifted by the love story as it filters past the cold-hearted jibes and cynicism found throughout . If you haven't seen it , do so . It's well worth the 93 minutes invested . Just screen it first , if you plan on allowing your kids to view it . As I said , some of the philosophies are a bit cold and hard to stomach . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Rousing With Intrigue and Top Row Performances All Around	This plays very well , if watched as an unintentional Part 2 behind Disney's Three Musketeers with three older male members of the Brat Pack . This is a very moving , compelling rendition of the legendary tale of the Man in the Iron Mask . This is also , in my opinion , Leo's best performance to date ( March 2007 ) . He really comes through as one of the greatest talents of his years , in this work , which led to many great roles being awarded him , later . Enter the best cast list of Musketeers ever conceived : Jeremy Irons as Aramis , John Malkovich as Athos , Grard Depardieu as Porthos , and Gabriel Byrne as D'Artagnan . These guys depicted the epitome of these iconic characters , and delivered performances so believable , they were chilling . This work is not a masterpiece , but is QUITE good , and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Great TV Returns !	This is one of the " Age of Aquarius " television shows sweeping network television this year . The others are Medium and Raines ( Rains stars Jeff Goldblum ! ! ) . Ghost Whisperer features Jennifer Love Hewitt . She's an actress whose talents have been questioned over the years , and perhaps rightfully so . In spite of that state , in Ghost Whisperer , she shines . The writers of this series seem to have a love of the paranormal ; a conclusion one might draw from the sense of the writing , the tone of the dialog , and the execution of story via episodic installments . Here's hoping the quality of story and production remains intact . This is highly entertaining , and the series on the whole , as of today , rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Brave and Magical .	Witty , amusing little Disney movie , regardless of the horrid song element . I'm not a fan of the Disney musical formula . I do not like the made-for-five-year-old song element found in most Disney animations , so I tend to just ignore those sections except in movies such as " Beauty and the Beast , " where that activity is just not possible . I therefore avoid the movie itself , as often as I can . This movie , has much of that Disney musical element , which for me , lowers the value of the movie . However , the animation is far better than that of other later Disney movies , and the backgrounds are well done , which is a delightful surprise . Disney has taken to ignoring detail , of late , which is a major disappointment for those of us who watch these movies for the animation quality . The story itself is really very compelling , innovative , and strong . I thoroughly enjoyed this Disney attempt , although I am sure , as with all Disney sequels , they will screw up the animation quality and background value in Mulan 2 . And I fully appreciated the comedic element provided by Eddie Murphy . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Enterprising and enjoyable	While Zero Mostel is the lead , Gene Wilder is the star . This is a clever and slick production featuring two very unlikely comedic forces which work magically together . The chemistry created by these two stellar personages is undeniable and extremely entertaining . While this production is horribly dated , it almost seems timeless . You get the impression that it was made as a modern production and merely set back in a distant period . This is a very endearing venture which never fails to amuse in its crass and crude content , which presents itself as elegance personified . Although this attempt failed miserably upon its initial release ( a $112K return from a $941K estimated budget ) this is some of Mel Brooks ' best work to date . Topped , in my opinion , only by " Young Frankenstein , " I'm happy to see it running on Broadway , in London , and it is being given a new treatment due out later this year ( 2005 ) . It's way overdue . This is a classic and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving sequel .	Fletch is back and I LOVE his return ! As sequels go , this one surpasses the original . This story line is excellent and the plot was a brilliant vehicle for Chevy . I really wish they would do another for him . This time , Fletch is so disgusted with his boss Frank , that when his hermetic Aunt Belle passes away and leaves him her mansion , Belle Isle in Louisiana , he quits his job and moves to the Bayou . But things on the Bayou are anything but serene . Aside from the expected clichd stereotypical fare generated by the southern locale , this movie was more than enjoyable , and far superior to its predecessor in that the role has expanded and encompasses a far broader spectrum that did the original . While still a comedic venture , it has a more serious undertone than did the first . A far more enjoyable movie , in my opinion , with the same lovable comedic efforts by Chevy . My name . . . most of the time , is Irwin Fletcher . I write under the name Jane Doe . That's the kinda gal I am . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Exceeds Expectations , But Does Not Fully Live Up To Its Potential	This does not star Kurt Russell , but rather allows him what amounts to an extended cameo . This work is more centered around the " son of " story line than it is the actual super heroes themselves , thereby failing to deliver the appropriate level of entertainment , and contributing instead , that enigmatic substance known as " kid appeal . " I expected more . But having said that , there is more to this work than meets the eye . The story is modeled after the old classic " B " science fiction movies we hate to love , but do . The effects are nothing spectacular , but are still above what you would expect , all things considering . And beneath the camp , lies a stronger feeling , reminiscent of a classic superhero story , yet it still fails to achieve the desired affect ; if only marginally . It was entertaining and I still had great fun in watching it . This rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet , Romantic and Completely Underrated !	This is NOT the masterpiece that is Snow White , Cinderella , or Bambi , but it IS a very sweet , enjoyable , romantic , well-done Disney animated feature . There are , of course , lessons included herein for the kiddies , and some very appropriate kiddie-cheek , but there is plenty herein for the adults , as well . While this is somewhat of a regurgitation of the Classic Disney RomCom Adventure , it still holds some elements , which solely belong to the AristoCats . O'Malley is the " tramp " and Dutchess is the " lady , " but Dutchess has several kittens and they are all trying to get home . Phil Harris is our tomcat O'Malley . You may recognize his voice , as he also furnished the voice of Baloo the Bear in the Jungle Book , and Little John in Disney's Robin Hood . Eva Gabor lends her silky sweet voice to Dutchess . Directed by Wolfgang Reitherman , who directed , or worked on , every Disney animated film worth mentioning until his death in 1985 . This is among my very favorite of the Disney animated feature films , and belongs in any Disney collection . The 2-Disk Special Edition Is Due Out This Summer ( 2007 ) . This rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Fresh , edgy , and sinister .	Talk about a play on words ! This was great fun to watch . The horrific scenes are never over the top , the girls are so realistic , they reminded me of dear friends of My past , the direction was extraordinary , the wolf looked good , and the performances are nothing but professional . This is a brilliant little " B " movie which I highly enjoyed . Top row portrayal of sisters who have that close bond . Beautiful movie . This was a wonderful story , given above-par execution by all involved . Absolutely wonderful . Usually for Me , a lack of set design would totally ruin the movie . But the story and execution over-ruled My sense of graphic design and I never missed a good back-drop . The whole movie was filmed between a field at school , a couple of rooms at school , 3 or 4 rooms in the house which was under construction and bore no resemblance to a home , and the county greenhouse horticultural department . You'll never miss the background here . This was a very pleasant surprise . Excellent job , compelling story , and totally professional performances . Also stars Emily Perkins ( Bevvy from Stephen King's IT ) as B , who got top billing in the movie credits , as well she should . Great movie . On the B scale , it earns a . On the A scale , it's about a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dogmatic but highly amusing	This work is a very unorthodox and irreverent look at ( mainly ) catholicism , and other forms of organized religion . Absolutely hilarious , if you have a jaded sense of humor . Frankly , I love this movie ! It plays well , even , and intelligently clever throughout . Alan Rickman's performance as the Metatron is most excellent ; ironic , dark , and dryly witty . Matt Damon rocks as Loki , and even Ben Affleck contributes a decent characterization . In my opinion , Dogma doesn't deserve the low rating it's received here at IMDb , but that rating does reflect the opinions of a Christian-dominated society . I'm frankly a bit surprised it rates two tenths of a point higher in the US than it does in other countries . Pleasantly surprised . In a society dominated by organized religion , I found this to be a great 90 or so minutes ' diversion . True , unadulterated entertainment . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
I liked it more !	As usual , I'm in the minority with this opinion , but I liked the sequel better than the original . I know that most people had a problem with the " Son Of . . . " factor , but I loved this episode . This sequel delivers edge of your seat action , beautiful imagery , a well-written story , and sweet performances . I was especially interested in the story this time around , though the action is quite compelling . I would have to say that I rate this at least 1 . 3 above the original for a lack of trite and / or cheesy dialog , while retaining all the style and lovability of its first installment . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkly Sweet and Intelligent	I won't go on and on detailing the story herein but suffice it to say that the overall execution renders a top notch , intelligent , and darkly sweet black comedy intended for those of us with an adult perspective , meaning it holds within a smattering of sexual situations not meant for younger minds to ponder , nor young eyes to behold . I'm not a Rowan Atkinson fan . I've not appreciated his idiotic shtick previously , but herein his dramatic performance is a delightful surprise , as well as Maggie Smith's choice of role this time around . She manages to shock , while giving an honest performance ; totally believable on her part , and something you just can't take your eyes off of . . . like a train wreck , but only in regards to the character's deeds and personage , and in no way is the " train wreck " comment a reflection of Dame Smith's performance . The story is smart and darkly sweet , and I enjoyed it from start to finish . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A perfect continuation of the original .	Picking up where Halloween 2 left off , ( as though 3 never existed , thankfully ) this sequel goes a long way in living up to the first two Halloweens . First of all , Danielle Harris is pure talent ! Secondly , Donald Pleasence is as excellent as he ever was ! Regardless of what some critics will say , this critic says this sequel is very worthy of the Halloween line . Michael has been transferred out of the institute and Loomis's care . Of course , he escapes and is on the rampage once again . Our trusty Dr . Loomis is hot on his trail . Michael has to get back to Haddenfield so he can play slice n dice with Laurie Strode's daughter , Jamie ( a completely professional performance by Danielle Harris ) . One thing of note in this installment of the franchise is that director Little used some interesting lighting in many sequences here . I enjoyed the photographic perspective employed here . It lent to a much better endeavor . I must say that this bore a compelling story which ran well with the Halloween time line . It is solid and well done all around . The portrayals were decent , the direction was wonderful and the editing was fluid , leaving no choppy spots . I also must say that I found the change in Michael's mask to be a bad change . I realize that at some point they had to get rid of the William Shatner mask , but the new mask is rather stark and detracts just the tiniest bit from the atmosphere . That having been said , the atmosphere is GREAT ! This is a prime demonstration of suspenseful , edge of your seat fare . This particular vein of the Michael Myers story is really a quite interesting take on the whole affair and Danielle Harris is the freshest innovation to come to the series so far . I can't wait to see what she does with her career in the future . That little girl is fantastic ! ! While the Carpenter / Hill idea to have a different story every Halloween was a grand idea , they should have done it with the first sequel . That would have made it much more acceptable from the fans . But either way , welcome back , Michael . Just like the original , this rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful Vision , Great Elements , All Destroyed By A Clichd And Unimaginative Ending .	Even with the awful , idiotic ending , this film rates well among genre fans . However , the individual elements themselves are not enough to carry this through the lackluster ending this work offers . If one can ignore the ending , and ultimately , one cannot , this work was in possession of all the elements to make this a beautiful classic work of horror . The suspense is tense , the story is well timed , the performances are totally believable - idiosyncratic , but believable , and the direction was exemplary . It flows well , entertains and compels the viewer to emotionally invest in the characters . It just cannot hold up to its own momentum and seems to fold in on itself at the very end , which is a real shame because otherwise , this was a great film . It rates a even with the awful ending . It could have rated a 9 or higher from . . . the Fiend : .
The Surprise Continues	Henry Fool surprised me . I didn't expect it to entertain and amuse as well , or as strongly , as it did . Fay Grim continues to surprise in that it provides solid continuation to a story that seems not to need it . Once the viewer watches the first 20 minutes of the movie , however , it becomes blindingly aware that this is one of the BEST sequels to brilliant indie film . At least as good as Ginger Snaps Back , if not better . I am a little disappointed that Jeff Goldblum's part is so small , but I'm happy he is a part of this short run . He is convincing and delightful as Agent Fulbright . Also a delight is Liam Aiken who quite aptly portrays Ned Grim , the son of Fay and Henry . This movie is a pleasure for so many reasons . I am pleased , for example , to discover that Henry isn't really the loser he seems ( by the end of Fool ) , and to further discover that he is , in fact , a genius . . . well , that really is a lovely stroke of the pen . I am hoping they do a third . . . like the end of the trilogy . It seems to be missing . They should entitle it Ned Fool Grim and it should be Liam looking for his father , to validate the awesome change in his mother , and the sense of near-genius he himself feels welling inside him . Assuming , of course , that Fay continues withholding many of the most important facts from her son , concerning his father . It feels like it needs to be done . I'd buy it . Even with more action , this is still not an action flick . It is more drama and intrigue . . . a mystery , of sorts . I'll watch it often . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Operation Condor prequel	Okay , I'm thoroughly confused . The prequel was released in 1987 , but the movie it prequelled was released in 1991 ? How ? But okay , we must move on . This is a fairly good movie , considering you can't tell whether it's supposed to prequel Operation Condor , or sequel it . On the box , it's billed as a prequel , but I must say it did feel more like a sequel , even though Jackie appears to be . . . younger . . . ? I don't know , I'm still confused . But that not withstanding , this was a fun adventure with excellent martial arts , a good story , and some other nice elements . The dialog was a bit stiff and unprofessional , but the story and the great action / martial arts sequences more than make up for that . There were some very good landscape / skyline shots here , as well . The photography was well done , the copy I have is clean and clear , and the filmography was nicely done , giving you good , interesting angles and the like . All in all , I did enjoy this production . Not was well as I did Operation Condor , but it was still quite enjoyable . Some elements were better in this than in the " original , " but somehow it was not as fun , though the story was better here . I dunno . I'm so conflicted . LOL I've got to rate it an from . . . the Fiend : .
Hilarious romp through the Great Outdoors ! !	Family will screw you over faster than anyone . It's an old adage and this movie demonstrates it as well as any other I've ever seen . Aykroyd and Candy are delightfully at odds in this wonderfully entertaining farce about family " A " vacationing in their own style , and family " B " crashing in upon them , uninvited , and unwanted . This is one of both Aykroyd's and Candy's best , and a favorite of the Fiend's . The acting is relaxed and exactly what you expect from seasoned actors ; the direction is great and the story is hilarious . Just go rent it . It's a lot of fun for the whole family . If you're an adult though , just a hint . . . rent the PG version and not the G version . It's much more entertaining . Great movie that gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Craven's back ! !	Well , they obviously realized where they went wrong with NOES2 and brought back the wizard of weird , Horror Maven Wes Craven . And just in the nick of time . I don't think this franchise would have survived another screen play by David Chaskin . " Dream Warriors " original screenplay was written totally by Craven , and he was he executive producer this time . Dream Warriors definitely puts Freddy back on the right track with a solid story and innovatives in both effects and story ideas . " Sleep . Those little slices of Death . How I loathe them . " Edgar Allen Poe . This is how we are reintroduced to the Nightmare . A common element between the first and this chapter of the NOES franchise is that of distant mothers . Nancy's mother was distracted and detached from her child , as is Kristen's mother . I find that to be a particular contrivance , as it allows the story line to flow without a high level of interference from the parent gallery . Otherwise , these kids would have been restrained , sedated and institutionalized . Speaking of institutionalization . Just when it becomes apparent that there is no more story to keep this franchise going , Craven and the other writers pull the fat out of the fire , so to speak by introducing the " Dream Warriors . " Very nice premise which I won't spoil here , but this is the installment in which you begin to put together the why's and wherefore's . This chapter also has a purpose ; a goal , if you will . As Craven begins the methodical rebuilding of the Freddy Bible , some rules are laid down , giving this segment the structure which was so sorely lacking in the second . Celebrate the return of both Heather Langencamp AND Wes Craven and return to the Nightmare the way it was meant to be with great performances , a hideous villain and a lovely dark story line . But this movie also offers some strong , convincing and realistic effects ; not enough to overshadow the story , but just enough to properly enhance it . ( I , personally , LOVED the barking pig ! ) While there are a few slow spots , they are few in number and brief in duration . All in all , I have to say that A Nightmare on Elm Street III : Dream Warriors is a most worthy sequel in the Freddy Franchise . ( Just forget they made a second one . They play very well 1-3 . You never even miss the second one . ) Did this one scare ? This one actually had the jump on the first one a far as scares . Several seat jumps were experienced . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Awesomely Sweet and Highly Enjoyable .	Sweet . Now that's not a word I like to use , but it's THE word for Ice Age . The characters are cagey saber tooth lions , a sloth with a speech impediment , a curmudgeonly mammoth , and a human baby . See ? It's already sweet . And it just gets cuter and sweeter , more zany , and absolutely FUN from there on out . There are some tense moments , so parents may wish to prescreen before allowing younger children to view it . This was easily the best animation of 2007 , and is still highly enjoyable today . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Every bit as good as the first ! !	I made my own edit of this movie , right behind the first , with no credits between them . I watch them back to back , and almost forgot that there were two movies there . This movie is the perfect continuation of the first , with a whole new story , and a bunch of new ghosts , ghouls , and bad guys . I thoroughly enjoy this movie as much today as I did when it first came out . Bill Murray , Dan Aykroyd , and Harold Ramis all reprise their roles as our favorite ectoplasm extracators , with Sigourney Weaver returning , along with Rick Moranis and Annie Potts . You will find that the story is wonderfully treacherous and darkly delivered , making this an amazing addition to any horror / comedy collection . If you like these movies , I suggest Candleshoe , The Ghost and Mr . Chicken , Transylvania 6-5000 , Monster Squad , Haunted Honeymoon , Young Frankenstein , Second Sight , Vibes , and / or High Spirits . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as Conflicted and Uneven as Critics Say	Cuba Gooding , Jr . is magnificent in this role . This film is a drama which demonstrates the psychological elements inside a maximum security institution for the criminally insane . Or does it ? While the story is quite contrived , the drama a bit anti-climactic , and the dialog sometimes choppy and poorly-delivered , the overall work is far above the current critic's estimation . Anthony Hopkins is exemplary as the angry mental patient who is enamored with gorillas ( don't ask , it's actually interesting , once you get into the story ) , and delivers a stellar performance . While his character is not given the same love as is Hannibal Lecter , Hopkins still contributes a good portion of his talents herein . All in all , while it's not Friday night fare , there is still something here worth seeing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Vastly Underrated Homage To Hitchcock !	SYNOPSIS : " Dr . Richard Thorndyke arrives as new administrator of the Psychoneurotic Institute for the Very , VERY Nervous to discover some suspicious goings-on . When he's framed for murder , Dr . Thorndyke must confront his own psychiatric condition , ' high anxiety , ' in order to clear his name . An homage to the films of Alfred Hitchcock ; contains many parodies of famous Hitchcock scenes from THE BIRDS , PSYCHO , and VERTIGO . " This is a Mel Brooks movie which also stars Mel Brooks , but Cloris Leachman steals the show ! As Nurse Diesel , Cloris Leachman dominates every scene in which she appears , as the lusty Dominatrix who has made Harvey Corman her love slave . That is the sub-plot , and it cranks into high speed about half way through the movie and shows a side of Cloris Leachman we KNEW was beneath those three-layered skirts worn by the Frau Blucher ( Young Frankenstein ) . This is wonderfully entertaining , and is perhaps one of the most horribly under-appreciated , and underrated of Brooks's wonderful spoofs . It is one of Brook's best , in my opinion , but I love Hitchcock , as well . If you're not a fan of Hitchcock's exponential style , you probably will not appreciate this , either , which probably is the heaviest contributing factor to this movie's under achievement . That is a real shame , as this is a highly entertaining venture . That having been said , this work is great , if you're a Hitchcock fan . Otherwise mere Brooks fans may not be able to experience full appreciation of all the wonderful gags . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Honestly , this one is my favorite of the run .	A unique and creative plot , and sans baby , this installment feels more like the first two than even Shadow did . Nick and Nora have grown entirely comfortable with one another , and while the comfort zone herein is not quite as cute and sweet as before , it is , nonetheless adorable . Nick is again sober for this one , and Nora seems a bit concerned that Nick isn't quite himself anymore . NOT an attitude most wives would adopt . William Davenport , illustrious silent film director , contributes a stellar performance as Nick's father . And this time , it's NOT the mob , see . It's small town , small minds , and small ideas , but Nick doesn't let any of it get him down . With Nora at his side , Nick can still do anything . - LOL - Honestly , this one is my favorite of the run , and the added fact that Nick isn't drinking throughout the film makes it all that much more enjoyable for me . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A Sometimes Overlooked , Often Underrated Disney Family Classic .	This movie is utterly heartwarming in its genuine mother-daughter sweetness . Starring Joan Cusack as Joan Carlyle , Kim Cattrall as Tina Harwood , Michelle Trachtenberg as Casey Carlyle , and Hayden Panettiere as Gen Harwood , this inspirational work suggests honesty over withdrawal when making life's decisions . This concept is far too seldom featured in works aimed at today's children . This work suggests to young ladies that their dreams are important , but that their relationship with their mother should neither be canceled by chasing their dreams , nor get in the way of doing the same . The dialog is hard , while the story itself is genuinely endearing and belongs in any Disney collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun family film featuring Woody Allen and Sharon Stone .	I thoroughly enjoy this animation / CGI production , although the quality is not up to par with what we have , today . The main characters are well developed and easy to adopt as focal interest points . The story is quite well-written and delivered , the colors are bright and crisp , and helped to sell the DVD media to the average civilian . Even today , the content is still better than that of , " A Bug's Life , " which just basically has a few characters bouncing one-liners off each other . At least this movie has a STORY ! Woody Allen's character is the star . . . and an Ant . He was classified " worker " as larvae and he's having a few problems with that classification . He feels inadequately judged and pigeon-holed by this assignment , and lets the whole world know it via Allen's nasal whining . There is something better in the world for him , and he is sure he could find and attain it , if only he had the chance . Finally , he realizes that he has to take the chance ; opportunity doesn't come on its own to the normal people . There is a nice sub-plot and a strong main plot ; well developed characters and a star-studded cast of voice and likeness donors in this adventurous and entertaining story . All in all it earns an from . . . the Fiend : .
So Terrible I Have To Like It .	Farrell is an intelligent man , most gifted comedians are . Now , I'm not saying he's Robin Williams , but he is talented . But with one mediocre movie after another , we SNL / Farrell fans were wondering what was going on . How could he be so good on SNL and die on screen so badly ? It seems the key was the screenplay . He needs a specific vehicle line in order to demonstrate his talents . Maybe it was the supporting cast . Maybe it was the combination of writing and the casting . I'm not sure exactly what that formula consists of , but Achorman has obviously nailed it . This is one funny movie , but if you're not a Baby Boomer , it might lie flat on the screen for you . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Realism Colors This Creature Feature	Spielberg either hits or misses , there are few who fall through the cracks of the mediocre . This one was the exception , at least as far as box office response is concerned . It didn't bomb , but it failed to generate the deserving revenue . Jeff Daniels had promise as a leading man , at the time this was filmed . That promise has since been broken with movies like Dumb and Dumber , 101 Dalmatians , and My Favorite Martian , but he still has what it takes in the Squid and the Whale , Gods and Generals , and Good Night and Good Luck . But then he goes and does something ridiculous like RV . Ah well . I digress . When Arachnophobia was filmed , Daniels was a competent and talented leading actor . His performance is completely believable and actually lacks that feeling of being mis-cast as do his comedic roles . I do have to say that I prefer him as a serious actor to his comedic attempts . This film , however , has been constructed in a less grand scale than Shatner's 1977 Kingdom of the Spiders . As a result , Arachnophobia is far more realistic than the overdone KotS . The antagonists exhibit realism , are not three stories tall , and the acting quality better reflects the talents of the actors involved . All in all ? This is pretty atmospheric and generates some great taut suspense . It's definitely a creature feature worth watching . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Even If You're Not A Fan Of The Comic Book Series , This Is One GREAT Vampire Flick !	This isn't the best vampire flick I've seen , but it is ONE of the best . The action is non-stop , serving up car chasing , head butting , bone crunching , heart staking pandemonium any vampire fan would be proud of . The acting is good enough to sell the plot and its few contrivances , and the story is exciting and involved enough to hold you throughout . Wesley Snipes is awesome as Blade . This is how a Comic Book movie SHOULD be made ! I sincerely enjoyed this one , whereas most other comic book adaptations have left me cold . A few of the best have been made contemporarily : Blade , Spiderman 1 & 2 , Batman Begins , and Ghost Rider . Blade definitely belongs on that list . It's awesome , and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Piece together the puzzle .	Fun and fast paced adventure that lets you , the viewer , figure out the riddles . I enjoyed almost every minute of this movie . There did not appear to be a second of wasted film , nor did it leave you with the feeling that half the movie ( the good half , even ) was left on the cutting room floor . Honestly , Nicholas Cage has never been a favorite of mine . His movies were always good , but the content he chooses tends to bounce between comedy and dark drama . I do not like him as a comedic actor , and I am not into any kind of drama . I prefer horror itself over the imitation that is dark drama ; good comedy , adventure , or action . In this attempt , he delivers a quick and quirky sense of humor which he uses to great effect in this role as a hereditary " treasure-protector . " SPOILERSThis vehicle begins in ancient Egypt ( briefly ) , then quickly whisks you forward to the American Revolution ( again touching briefly ) before bringing you to Cage's character's childhood where he first hears the family legend . We are transported once more to the here and now to find Cage's character Gates following the clues , solving the riddles , and utilizing that superior intellect . But there is treachery afoot , and Gates's partner decides he could do better on his own . The only problem with that is that the partner is the one with the money , and Gates has all the answers . This premise is based heavily on the mythology of the Freemasons and the Knights Templar . In ancient times , the Knights Templar grew so wealthy that the Catholic church became fearful of being usurped as the heaviest influence over the principal lawmakers and ordered the Templar's wealth to be distributed ( of course , the Roman Catholic church took a goodly sum , themselves , to administer this distribution ) among other such organizations . In modern times , the Knights Templar sit at the top of the Freemason ladder . They are the sole members who are aware of the underlying agendas of the Masons . This work touches on this knowledge but throws a seriously pro-Mason slant on the entire work . Politically speaking , this movie was more a 100-minute political plug for anyone who is in the Skull and Bones Society than it was a movie for simple entertainment . That having been said , however , this was a very fun movie . Not only was it fun , it was fast and it was VERY funny . We thoroughly enjoyed our viewing of this work . Everyone in the theater was having a blast . Here in Redneck / hillbilly Eastern Tennessee , there is not a lot of laughing or booing going on in the small home town theater . Everyone is too uptight to just relax and enjoy themselves here , for some reason . We do not have that problem , being transplants rather than " locals , " but of course that means we have to endure the strange stares which subsequently come when Phreaks venture out into the " str8 " world during the daylight hours . Now , it is a given that this is no Indiana Jones contender , and there were not even half the elaborate sets featured in the Laura Croft movies . But as is the way of good old-fashioned mysteries , this was great fun to puzzle out . Except for that first riddle , we stayed about 30 seconds ahead of Gates in solving everything else . This was , as I said , fun , fast , witty , and extremely entertaining . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable Confliction Makes This Fun To Watch .	Greg Kinnear , Pierce Brosnan . An upstanding but down on his luck businessman meets a veteran assassin whose job performance is starting to slide . The premise sounded a bit questionable , but the execution is quite well done . Enough so that this is a highly enjoyable endeavor . This film seems conflicted but consistent in its indecision . Is Brosnan's character a catalyst for havoc or is he the quintessential blessing in disguise ? Watch to find out , and you will discover the inner conflict of the film was just an illusion . This work features two very strong performances , which bolsters the otherwise weak vehicle and tacks it firmly in place , just where it needs it , thereby delivering a fine finished product . This film carries more drama than comedy , but the comedy is light and scattered throughout so as to lighten the harrowing suspense some of the heavier scenes can generate . All in all , I enjoyed this work , which came as a total surprise to me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Courtroom Heroics at their best .	This story has been detailed again and again , so I won't waste my keystrokes with doing it again . Suffice it to say that this story is more than compelling ; it is an eye opener . T his work was reminiscent of another drama , though it in no way attempts to rip it off . . . Silkwood . For me to even make the comparison , means that this work was above par in the genre of Courtroom dramatics . I found this very disturbing , due to the subject matter , but also rewarding . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dark study of the duality of human nature	The Dark Half is more about duality of human nature , demonstrated here by the metaphor of a supernatural Being . We all have a " Dark Half . " We all have those things which are hidden . Sometimes they are hidden so well , we manage to hide them from ourselves . We all have masks which are put on and removed , like Eleanor Rigby with her face in the jar by the door . There are things of which we are not proud , do not speak , think or express , except through the idiosyncrasies we develop . Our inner guilt and pain . While some would-be martyrs wear these as a badge of honor , those of us who are private people keep these things close to ourselves . We keep our own council and therefore develop , nurture and foster our Dark Half . George Stark is a metaphor for Thad Beaumont's Dark Half . George Stark has different habits , mannerisms , and ideals , than does Thad . When Thad writes as Stark , he becomes a man his wife barely tolerates and hardly knows . Because Stark is Thad's Darkness , his closeted self ; his Shadow . On the surface , this production is viewed as a supernatural thriller , but in my opinion , it is a psychological one . A very well-written and highly intelligent psychological thriller based on the personification of that inner guilt and pain , and the resulting hatred and violence which sometimes issues from the closeting of these feelings . However you wish to view it , this is possibly the best adaptation ever done , of King's many brilliant novels . Probably because King himself did not write the screen play . As a novelist , King is a genius . But as a screen play writer , he falls flat on his face with every adaptation he has ever written . George A . Romero , who brought us " Night of the Living Dead " and " Monkey Shines , " is a legend in the field of Horror . And , like Kubrick , with the original release of King's , " The Shining , " he used his own creativity to bring out the very best of King's novel , rather than attempting to make lame paper-to-film translations . Let's face it . Things which are scary when read are oftentimes . . . not , when translated to the visual . In my opinion , that is one of the main reasons this is such a good ( in fact , one of the best Stephen King ) adaptation . Watch this movie and when you do , let out your Dark Half . Give it the car keys . Let it Ride ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Rousing , if historically inaccurate	A lot of proselytizing and posturing has been done concerning this work , so I will not bore you with more of the same . What I will say is that this movie was entertaining . It was historically inaccurate , but otherwise well done as a means of entertainment . I thoroughly enjoyed this endeavor , the performances , and the story itself , although archeology . org has debunked most of the plot and even the situation of the lay out of the area . It would have been nice to have been handed a good bit of history along with this battle-torn work , but all in all , I have to say it was quite good . The story was quite inventive , all things considered , and the characters were developed well enough as to allow you to gain a small measure of kinship with them . The two Golden Boys of the Biz did well in the execution of their characters , as one would expect . Filmed in the opus of the epic , the climaxail battle was rousing , and the movie played out to a satisfying , if disturbing , end . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Don't get me wrong , I LOVED this movie . . . but some of the fanboys have GOT to gain some perspective . . .	I won't go on and on about how good this movie is , nor will I detail each and every nuance of the film as others have . What I'm here to say is , " Yes . . . this is a great film . Heath Ledger is the quintessential Joker . This is , quite possibly , the best performance of Ledger's illustrious ( if shortened ) career . " This film is beautiful , dark , wonderful , tragic . . . electric . It features breathtaking city elements ( skyscrapers to beat all city monoliths ) , stellar performances , and beautiful darkling nemeses . Bale delivers as both Batman and Wayne , but no one expected him to fail in this role . Morgan Freeman's character { Fox ) asserts himself this go around , and pulls it off beautifully . And I couldn't be happier about Sir Michael Caine's reprisal of his role as Alfred , and I hope he continues throughout the franchise . It's always nice to see Gary Oldman , regardless of the work , and Maggie Gyllenhaal was totally strong as Rachel Dawes . I was more than satisfied to see her assume that role , and she does not disappoint . The chemistry was far superior to that of the original . . . both between the characters and within the story itself . Honestly , I had not previously believed it would be possible to top the first of this run , " Batman Begins , " but , " The Dark Knight , " does so with little difficulty I must say , for posterity's sake , however , that the CGI job on Eckhart's Dent ( post explosion ) was ambitious , but the finished product was just nasty . Makeup effects along with a LITTLE CGI would have been beautiful , but what we got was more reminiscent of Imhotep's early incarnation in the first , " The Mummy . " Well , half of it , anyway . ( I won't explain that , you'll have to see the movie for yourself . ) It messes with the suspension of belief , for me . It is like a book that keeps reminding you that it's a book . The CGI . . . was so impossible that it kept snapping me back out of the movie , and had me looking at the rest of the effects for the remainder of the film . It WAS effective , however , in shocking the audience , but once achieved , it was difficult to get back into the story flow . Otherwise , this is a most excellent piece of work , and I cannot wait for the next one . At least . . . I'm hoping above hope that there will BE a " next one . " Considering that this movie has been billed as the most mistake-ridden film of the year so far , who knows . Personally , I don't care about the 16 " major mistakes " found in continuity . I love the story and would pay to see another one . But above a here at IMDb ? I think not . This film is not better than Schindler's List , Star Wars IV , Casablanca , or ANY installment of The Lord of the Rings . You fanboys have GOT to be kidding me . It's great , yes , but not THAT great . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun for the kiddies , but NOT for fans of the original Comic Book !	I have to admit , I love this movie . I own the DVD . But if you're a fan of the original comic book series , you might be disappointed in the lack of serious approach , the camp , or the fact that the turtles are four feet thick . Regardless , it was fun . I really enjoyed this work , although I AM a fan of the comic books , but I knew beforehand that these elements were as they were . If you're looking for a fun 1980's-stylized popcorn movie , you could do worse than this one . As a side note , on a $13 . 5M-US budget , this movie grossed $202M-US worldwide . Not bad for a popcorn flick that wasn't true to the original source material . laughs It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving sequel	Excellent sequel in what was meant to be an excellent trilogy . Spielberg and Hooper both walked away from " Poltergeist " when Dominique Dunne was murdered by her boyfriend . The shock and anger was too high for either of them to cope with the filming of the next " Poltergeist " installment , and the job went to Brian Gibson . Now Mr . Gibson isn't entirely unknown , but his list of directing credits is short and the titles themselves are obscure and not well known . I figure he must have had SOME help by the greats ( Spielberg and / or Hooper ) because the movie is not as bad as I figured it would be , considering who directed it . The story is still solid , and the characters are just as well developed . The acting is still quite convincing and the effects are actually more believable than in the first . However , you can definitely tell that it wasn't a Spielberg film . It lacks the " feel " of Spielberg's genius and drive that is so evident in the first movie . The casual mention of Dana being away at college nearly always brings tears to my eyes because of how she died ; senselessly , needlessly , suddenly and violently . She was on her way to a brilliant acting career in a role she'd earned in the TV series " V " when it happened . The sequel is set and released four years after the first . The family now lives with Diane's mother , a brilliant clairvoyant who realizes the psychic gifts that Carol Anne possesses . Whether they are a result of her journey to the " Other Side , " or they were innate abilities is never made clear in the movies . ( the books are ALWAYS better . . . almost always ) Will Sampson was an incredible addition to Zelda Rubenstein's entourage of psychic connections . " What side of the rainbow are we working tonight , Dr . Lesh ? " ( Steven Freeling ) He quite genuinely portrays a spirit warrior named " Taylor , " sent to assist the family in this newest visitation from the Poltergeist . Personally having had a bit of exposure to Native American culture , I must say that his depiction of the Native American " spiritualist " is very very good . If I met his character on the street , I would believe his credibility based on the actions taken by his character . Very nicely done . Also in addition to Sampson , we are given Julian Beck as the diabolical Henry Kane . " Reverend Kane . What I sell is free . " He is the epitome of evil , hate and despair all rolled into one uuuugly personification . Believably portrayed Darkness . I don't like Kane . lol If a character in a movie can make me have any emotion towards them , it's well done . I tend to be a bit detached from movies at times . So if it breaks through that , to me , it has been done well . " Nothing really dies . Like a caterpillar becomes a butterfly , death transforms us into a different level of being . " ( Taylor ) This sequel explains what happened in the first ; why it happened . It delivers the storyline with an easy , steady flow even if production was rushed by the studio . There are a few holes and a couple of stutters in the plot due to scene deletions and the like , but on the whole , it still manages to maintain that easiness about it that I mentioned earlier . One of the things I loved about both of these movies is that the family was so real , so down to earth . They were your typical , middle-class family without the stereo-typical dogma usually associated with such a depiction . Their love and caring was believably and realistically portrayed . Other than Ms . Dunne , the original cast is back in this wonderful sequel to an amazing work . A good addition to any horror collection and rates an alongside its predecessor , from . . . the Fiend : . RIP , Dominique Dunne .
Endearing comedy-porn .	This is a comedy-porn , rather than a porn-comedy , as there is no pornography to be found herein . While sex acts are alluded to , there is no execution of said acts in this work . The NC-17 rating is surely indicative of this fact . A young Mormon couple have come to the big city to make a life for themselves . The plan is to remain within the spiritual restrictions of their rigorous religion , while seeking financial security . Unfortunately , they live in a fantasy world , as that's just not how the world works . When questing for money , you sacrifice your principles . How much , is determined by no one but yourself . But as I said ; they are young and inexperienced in life's lessons . If you've a soft heart , this movie will surely hurt your feelings for the young couple . But if you're wise to the world or even remotely jaded , you will sit back and laugh at the obvious downfalls which telegraph themselves from moment one of the opening . All in all , this is a very entertaining endeavor , if you're not easily embarrassed and can laugh at human sexuality . If you have hang-ups , go rent the Barney movie , instead . It rates a solid on the " B " scale . That's about a on the " A " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Take my wife . Please !	Barbara Stone ( Bette Midler ) has been kidnapped , but her husband not only does not care , he violates deadline after deadline in the hopes the hapless kidnappers will kill her for him . But Barbara just is not the " lay down and die " type . Bette Midler has generated a nice line of comedies containing the " revenge " element . She gets you back , but manages to make it fun for those of us who are watching . This movie is among the very best of that line . It is cutely witty , heart-warmingly entertaining . I highly recommend this lovely dark comedy . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Lovable , sweet and intelligently witty .	I love almost everything Steve Martin has done . There are a few exceptions , but most everything he has done has captured some part of my heart . " Leap of Faith " is another shining example of that quality . As a con artist / traveling evangelist who is in it for the money , Martin exposes what that business is all about . The mindset of the characters , the motivations behind the " business " of religion . He sets it out on the table and calls it what it is . A con . As an evangelist with all the right moves , and all the right words , he can make almost anyone believe . Almost . But he is a salesman , selling a product . That product is faith . And if you buy in , he'll promise you the moon and the stars , and all you'll get in return is an over-abundance of bus fumes as he tooles out of town on his way to his next gig . The ironic ending was perfect , and a bit more satisfying for those of us how know what the business of religion is all about , and I couldn't help but consider that perhaps it was his character's final sales pitch ; unspoken and left to bait the crowds for his next installment . Very enjoyable movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Totally Endearing , But in a Different Kind of Way	This time around , everything is different . Paul's coming from somewhere he's never been , going into a new life , and in new directions , and dragging the f'ing Doctor along with him . The same dynamic from " Analyze This " is in play , but it is applied differently , with more skill . This chapter feels like it tries to be more serious , and loses some of the charm of the first installment , but it manages a certain gritty edge missing from that first movie . This is still a witty movie , don't get me wrong . But it gives the viewers more of the business end of Paul Vitti and family . The laughs are less the belly kind and more the thinker's tickle kind until about half way through it , and then it changes gears and the belly laughs start coming again . I really enjoy this movie , and watch it often . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Generally Despised , But Not By Me	This work falls in there with movies like Howard the Duck , Oliver Stone's Alexander , Cherry 2000 , and Taylor's Cleopatra in that tons of money was spent in the making , only to have the audiences reject the work . None of the works named stunk , indeed , there are endearing moments and qualities to every ONE of those works , but as far as average audiences were concerned , they were dismal disappointments , for one reason or another . Clifford is generally considered to have fallen into that category . Martin Short portrays a 90 year old priest , and a 10 year old holy terror of a child who will do anything he can ( and what he can do is formidable ) to get to Dinosaur World to fulfill his dream . I found this work amusing . I was highly entertained by Clifford's constant , non-stop , one track obsession and his total lack of that little voice which tells most people that their inappropriate actions are a BAD idea ! It makes me thankful I'm not raising children at this point in my life ; that part of my life is done , so I can appreciate the humor herein . I do not understand why this work is generally despised , other than Clifford IS a holy terror . He is the epitome of the Demon Seed . But the work is endearingly quirky , amusing , and entertaining . I liked it and own it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Creepy Little Flick	This one starts out slowly , but that's just to get you in the mood to have yourself creeped out all the way . It'll be a little while before you can look to the skies and appreciate the birds for their beauty and song , rather than in suspicion and a certain level of wariness . The performances are riveting , the atmosphere is high , and the payoff is magnificent . Jessica Tandy , Tippi Hedron , Suzanne Pleshette , and Rod Taylor . If you're a fan of suspense , creature features , or Hitchcock , this is a must-see . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
So far , this is the best Dune done	While this is not Dune itself but a continuation thereof , I believe that this is the closest so far , to capture the real feel of Herbert's source material . The meat has not been bastardized , and the spices are not absent . I still cannot say this is definitive , but we're getting closer to a genuine Herbert movie . Even though this expounds on the tale instead of retelling it , it is a more than worthy sequel to the two preceding attempts , and is far superior in virtually every way . The story missing from the first attempt is present , and the effects missing from the second attempt are present , yet it still lacks , though not by much . Here's hoping Peter Berg's 2010 Dune lives up to this work . Dare we even hope it will surpass it ? It would not be nice to have the made for TV sequel shine above a more technologically adept remade original . ; ) All in all ? I love this , although it does feel overly long and has more than its share of wasted film . This is not Friday / Saturday night viewing , as it IS too long for that , but it's perfect for a snow / rainy day activity . Give a little of the Baby Boomer culture to the grandkids . This is a worthy sequel which surpasses a classic cult sci-fi juggernaut and as such , rates an on the M4TV scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent " buddy " team that rivals that of Gibson & Glover	Perhaps that statement is a bit of an exaggeration , but perhaps I'm on to something . The obvious natural and easy chemistry between Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson went a long way towards endearing this work into my collection . As a solid fan of Chan's work , I have a modest ( in comparison to hard-core fans ) collection of his works . In consideration , I have to say that . . . while this attempt , like his other American attempts , does not exhibit enough of that marvelous comedic fighting style we all know and love , Shanghai Noon is genuinely enchanting , action packed , earnest , and entertaining . Owen Wilson is a natural talent . He brings an honesty to his otherwise shifty personae in everything he does . Frankly , I'm surprised at some of the places he has succeeded in making this work for him . He is a true comedic force on the big screen . This work is a rival to other comedy / action teams , and bears a serious viewing , as I feel it is comparable to my second favorite comedy western , " Cat Ballou . " In case you're interested , " Blazing Saddles " is my first . If you enjoyed this , I highly recommend the following : Jackie Chan : Mr . Nice Guy , Rumble in the Bronx , and Around the World in 80 Days ( 2004 ) Owen Wilson : Anaconda , The Haunting ( 1999 ) , and the Big Bounce . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A sweet , memorable journey back in time !	Geared towards the young ones ( rather than the baby-boomers who love him most ) , Curious George was animated in the now endangered form of hand drawing . The focus remained on primary colors and simplistic stylization in order to best flow with the books . The man in the yellow hat turns out to be a loving caretaker of George who finds him first amusing then annoying and then discovers he absolutely loves his monkey . Show me the monkey ! And boy did they ! This was a very enjoyable affair ; however , it belongs on the small screen . It was not nearly as fun on the big screen as it should have been . It rates an on the Kid Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Koontz tops King !	One of the best adaptations of Koontz's work ever made ! And no wonder ! He wrote the screenplay ! And he's MUCH better at it than Stephen King appears to be ! I saw this movie on the shelf and thought to myself , " Great , another movie I'll just HATE , based on a novel I loved . " I could not have been more mistaken . " For centuries we've been told terror would come from the sky . " Thankfully , there is Dr . Timothy Flyte ( Peter O'Toole ) , who has some knowledge of this ancient terror , its origins and intent . This is a quirky movie , just as the book was , exhibiting man's ability to be easily influenced , manipulated , and victimized . After Dr . Flyte is practically dragged to the small mountain town of Snowfield , California , it is his job to puzzle together the pieces of what is going on . Liev Schriber ( " Scream " ' s Cotton Weary ) is a total lunatic in this movie ; a sick , perverted , would-be necrophiliac deputy who can't seem to keep it together . Also from the cast of " Scream , " is Rose McGowan ( who portrayed Dewey's unfortunate sister , Tatum Riley , in " Scream " ) in a co-starring role as Lisa Pailey . I found the use of Patsy Cline's music in this production was quite inventive , and lends a " creepy " air to the finished product that it would never have had , had these specific musical selections been omitted . It was the perfect accompaniment to the eidolonic presence in this work . This was a disturbing novel of suspense and Dean Koontz has translated the dark humor and clever characters , masterfully into this creative screenplay . This movie is intense and very enjoyable thanks to Koontz's ability to adapt his own work effectively , and the surprisingly wonderful direction by Joe Chappelle . As I have never liked anything else he has directed , I was more than a bit surprised with the care and talent exhibited in this work . The opening shots of the Colorado mountains is breathtaking , and the scenery and settings throughout ring true ; ie : the motel felt like a motel and not a movie set ; the town , the businesses and homes all had the feeling they were real and not some cheap imitation thrown together on the cheesy back lot of some obscure studio . This in itself is an accomplishment . Although this movie is set in California , it was shot in Colorado , lending to us the beautiful cinematic shots that I have come to appreciate in any good production . The budget for this work is not listed , but I can tell you they never spend the same amount of money on Dean Koontz's work as they do on Stephen King's , although in my opinion , Koontz's work deserves much more investmental interest . A good many of his novels would translate beautifully to the big screen , making some very successful financial ventures , as well as great entertainment successes . " Darkfall , " " Night Visions , " " Midnight , " and " The Bad Place , " immediately spring to mind . While I favor his more simplistic older novels , his newer literary ventures are far more well written . His talent was unquestionable earlier on , but his style has greatly improved over the years . If you are , by chance , a producer , director , or work for a producer / director , and are reading this , please do give this some consideration . Also , in my opinion , this is one of Ben Affleck's best performances . It is possibly - the - best performance of his career . Not saying much , I realize , but his character is so very well enacted in this production that I thought I was a fan . That went away about 20 minutes after the movie ended , but needless to say his performance was quite compelling . I found this movie to be disturbing on a very base level , creatively written , talentedly portrayed , and imaginatively directed . This was not the let-down I've come to expect from the low budgets , cheesy sets , and lack of caring direction I've witnessed in other Koontz adaptations . ( ie : " Whispers , " " Watchers , " which was not anything LIKE the novel , and " The Servants of Twilight . " ) While " Servants of Twilight " was quite suspenseful and enjoyable , the budget was extremely low , and it could not help but be all too evident in the finished product . This was also , a low budgeted Koontz movie , but the story line , plot and performances more than make up for the lack of love and caring given by the ungenerous producers of this work . If you are a fan of Dean Koontz's novels ; if you enjoyed " The Faculty " or " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers ; " if you are a fan of good " B " horror movies , or if you are just looking for something good to watch on a Saturday night , you should enjoy this movie very much . In spite of this project's obvious lack of budget , this work rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beguiling and Entertaining	Ustinov is accompanied by generous talent in the way of co-stars in this intriguing caper . The plot is more intricate than one would first notice , and if proper attention is devoted to the actual storyline , there are intrigues throughout . I found this completely beguiling and wholly entertaining . Peter Ustinov is young here . He seems younger than his actual age of 43 . The vista shots , locations , and rich details add immensely to the enjoyment of this work . All in all , this runs like your basic heist flick . All the common elements are in place , you get to see Tom Cruise's skylight entry via a much more talented actor thirty years prior , and you can almost lose yourself in the atmospheric splendor of 1964 Istanbul . I would say this is great viewing anytime , even on a Friday or Saturday night . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Awesome Near-Classic	If you're a fan of the old Universal horrors , you'll find this a breath of fresh air . Karloff is awesome , perfectly cast , and perfectly performs . Although , after Karloff's portrayal in Universal's Frankenstein , I really don't feel that he has much , if anything , to prove to the world , but if so , he comes through as a career grave robber who sells the cadavers for fun and profit . Bela also makes an appearance , and although his appearance is too brief , I still enjoyed him . If you generally enjoy retro-horrors , I would definitely advise you to check this one out . I found it a nice surprise . It rates an on the Oldies scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Thoughtful and Creative	The world of the Supernatural seems to be back en vogue . I really wish this trend paid off for Jeff Goldblum . His series , " Raines , " was great , and I looked forward to it every week . That not withstanding , however , all things paranormal have made a comeback , whether you are talking about aliens , other dimensions , or ghosts . . . They are all the same anyway , are they not ? They all come from other dimensions , whether you are talking about the other side of the universe , or the other side of the Veil , inter-dimensional travel is all the rage these days . Scientists have lately proved that Magick works , but more importantly , they have proved WHY Magick works . ( That's Magick with a " K " for you uninitiated , to show the separation between magic , which is stage magic and Magick , which is spiritual Magick . . . or . . . the result of manipulation of energies around us to affect a change . ) So , as exciting a time as this is for many , it can be frightening for those who experience these events , with no knowledge or ready information concerning what the phenomena IS . This movie plays on not only that fear , but a few new ones . It takes the viewer into a new direction , and actually manages to be a plot-driven movie with strong character-driven tendencies . Your two principle characters are phenomenally well done , both in creation and execution , and I found nothing more for which I would ask of this movie . It is extremely easy to follow , with a solid premise , believable dialog , and a tremendously powerful finished product . All in all ? This makes for GREAT Friday / Saturday night viewing , though the initial violence may be a bit much for some of the girlfriends . Do not watch this movie in the room with young children . There are some scenes both enacting AND promoting wanton physical violence . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Most of these series lines got old and boring as time went on .	I couldn't bear watching anything beyond Friday the 13th , Part 3 . Prom Night 1 was enough for me and Nightmare on Elm Street was played out for me by episode 3 ( until much later , after A New Nightmare ) . Leprechaun in Space was enough of THAT franchise for me and after Hellraiser 4 , I lost interest in those too . . . for a while . I must admit , that after Halloween 3 : Season of the Witch , I lost interest in the Halloween line until H20 was released . THAT was a kick @ ss Halloween movie . It inspired me to catch up with the rest of the series I had missed over the years . Now , I own the whole set . This franchise is not yet tired . It is not yet trite . There are still elements and plot lines which can be followed , and Hall6ween : the Curse of Michael Myers is a worthy installment to this franchise and far superior to H5 . SPOILERSThe story attempts to further explain the actions and behavior of Michael Myers . In this installment , we discover that there is a black cult behind Michael ; fostering him , helping him magickally heal , and driving him to kill and kill again . Donald Pleasence is a sheer delight delivering nothing less than the poignant and dramatic performance you expect of him . Alas ! This was to be his last Halloween . RIP , Mr . Pleasence . We will miss you . The direction this time around carries the movie through with an even flow , decent portrayals , and a strong climactic ending to a suspenseful edge of your seat horror movie . I found it was one of the superior films of the line . Some critics have discredited this particular installment for trying too hard to be intelligent , aspiring to be more than what is possible for a movie of this sort , and taking itself too seriously . I find all these statements to be untrue . It does not try to be intelligent , it does have intelligence in the story . One has but to possess the intelligence to understand the plot . I think Wes Craven demonstrated all too well what is possible for the slasher genre , as he redefined this genre with his latest trilogy . It also does not take itself too seriously . This is one of those horror movies which knows it's a horror movie and does its best to convey that feeling and atmosphere with keen precision . There were a few things I would have done differently , were I the director , however . The first and foremost being making Michael at least as tall as he was in the first few movies . I mean , he's not short , by any means , but he's not nearly as tall as he was . He seems to have lost about 6 inches this time around . Platform shoes would have made the difference , but apparently they thought no one would mind or notice ? The chase down the red corridor scene . As Michael is chasing the doctor down the hallway , and ends up squishing his face between the bars , it occurred to me that Michael is slower than usual . To make up for the attempt to bestow him with " Mummy's Walk , " the director also had the doctor fall down five times to compensate . That was an obvious contrivance and it lessened the value of that scene . The hair on Michael's mask appeared to have been sucked on by a thousand dead rats and the face was whiter . I realize at some point they changed out the " Shatner " mask , but ( as in 4 & 5 ) they could have at least made the attempt to keep them similar in final appearance . Back to the positive , this is one of the less splatter-oriented and more psychological chapters in the Michael Book . Instead , the cheap Hollywood gore was replaced with intelligence and story , but not all together , as this was billed as one of the more violent of this line . It rates just below the original at a . the Fiend : .
Great Fun !	While some purists were disappointed in this work , I found it quite refreshing . There is the appropriate tongue-in-cheek fun , indicative of the massively - popular 70's television series ; clever humor , and a wonderful story line . This movie is the absolute epitome of everything the Charlie's Angels series was : intelligent women , doing an incredibly hard job , and managing to have fun while doing it . The performances were everything we've come to expect from these veteran actors , and Bill Murray was perfect as Bosley . Too bad his argument with Lucy Lu will keep him from continuing this franchise . The effects were well done , the plot was classic Charlie's Angels fare and the entire production was very well executed . I loved this movie . I found it very entertaining . On a more mature note , I find it distressing that a whole new generation of young women will have an unrealistic mental vision of what a woman should look like . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Quriky Fun Gangster Romance	When I was growing up , I knew girls who wanted nothing more than to be a " Mob Princess . " This movie would be their dream come true . . . sort of . Starring Uma Thurman , Robert DeNiro , and Bill Murray . Many reviewers found this combination a bit off-putting , especially after the initial viewing , but I love the combination , personally . Mainly due to Murray's eccentric ( and sometimes ego-centric ) personality . The story is complicated enough to occupy the mind , but not so complicated as to lose the average movie goer . This film is eccentric and fun , and I found it both intriguing and enjoyable , both times around . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The town that Carpenter built . . .	While this movie is rather reminiscent of Play Misty for Me ( with the coastal location of the radio broadcasting station ) , Night of the Living Dead ( with the movements and design of the walking dead men ) , and Halloween ( in that it is a small town ravaged by an unbelievable horror ) , this is still a quality production . Jamie Lee Curtis and Janet Lee together in this darkly sinister tale woven by Carpenter and Hill , and beautifully executed on film . While this is not Carpenter's best work , it is superior to most done at this time . In this critic's opinion , Carpenter's worst still tops most others ' best . This story is a good premise in that it embodies fright , a good story , and strong performances within a great darkling atmosphere . This production , while terribly dated and sometimes slow , does bear that intensity and suspenseful chill most fans have come to expect from Carpenter's work . STORYLINE : ( From the box ) " Exactly 100 years ago , the treasure ship ' Elizabeth Dane ' was horribly wrecked in a thick , eerie fog under mysterious circumstances . Now , shrouded in mist , the long-dead mariners have returned from their watery grave to exact a bloody revenge . Can this waking nightmare be stopped , or will the fog keep rolling in . . . to kill and kill again ? " The movie also stars Adrienne Barbeau and John Houseman . SPOILERS HERE ! ! ! Contained within this sinister production are some extremely creative elements : the gold coin which turns into the watery , flaming ship sign ; the spooky priest who jumps out at you from the shadows ; the darkling use of the " Witching Hour ; " the use of creative lighting behind the fog to make it appear to be glowing and ethereal ; the fact that the fog itself is alive and not just the things in the fog ; the use of a character known as Dr . Phibes ; and many , many more . END SPOILERS ! ! ! All in all , we were thoroughly spooked by this production , and I look forward to the future remake ( ) . . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Screenplay Raises The Standard	On the surface , this seems to be just another teen movie , but the dialog and performances elevate the work above the myriad of trash teen films . The material seems superfluous and shallow , but upon viewing , one realizes that this is deeper and more thoughtful than the rest . The players represent some of the best " teen " talent of the time ( though many are in their twenties at this time ) . Most of these young people have made it as adult thespians ; a testimony to the performance quality presented here . Teen rom / com's are not my thing ( if you can dig it ) , but this was highly enjoyable and more thoughtful than at first , it may seem . All in all ? Don't save this one up for Friday or Saturday night , but it's great for an afternoon romantic comedy / teen flick , thought it may be a bit dated . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
He slimed me !	At the top of my list of favorite comedic actors , right next to Gene Wilder and Steve Martin , is Bill Murray . These three comprise over of my entire comedy collection . This movie was beautiful . It was funny , not clever , but it was not intended to be an intellectual film . This is pure comedy with a little sci-fi and a bit more spirituality thrown into the mix , making for a great comedic effort . I was , and am , happy that their references to the Hebrew God were few . Far too often in films of this type , the dialog is riddled with too many references to religion . Here , they failed to do that , and made for a much better film , in my opinion . Dan Aykroyd is another of my favorites , and his performance in this production is one of the reasons why . I love his ability to portray a serious straight-man to the comedic efforts of the films in which he stars . He stands there , straight-faced , and allows the laughs to rebound off his lines , his facial expressions , and himself . He is a quality actor , and he demonstrated that quality in this work . The script was creative , the dialog was funny and endearing , and the performances were professional , top row comedy . I will refrain from detailing the story line here , as most everyone else has done that already , and I do hate to be redundant . So rent it , watch it , then buy it . It's definitely one for the collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not your standard Girl vs Boy movie	Although it starts out as so many of these movies did , the sexual revolution seems to have taken a back seat quickly in this film . Thankfully . Although this work begins as a battle of the sexes , it quickly becomes a two person show of cooperation , understanding , and a genuine caring . Bogart exhibits herein the dynamic of a struggling submissive male in a male-dominant era . He strives to stand alone , and has found his own survival more assured , when so doing , rather than in the company of other men who expect something from him , he is not . The same goes for the company of simpering submissive females , who also expect something from him he is not able to give . His character literally blooms before the audience under the watchful and caring guidance of a dominant female role delivered perfectly by Hepburn , an actress whose entire career is marked by dominant female roles in an age where Female Dominance was generally frowned upon . Thankfully , much of the world still held a matriarchal heart , and She achieved the level of stardom her performances deserved . I love this one , and it rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Quirky rom-com manages to entertain .	A cut above " Armed and Dangerous , " A line or two below " When Harry Met Sally . " Romantic comedies will always be a popular medium of expression . Let's face it . It is human nature to share our joys , and our sorrows , and the vehicle of romantic comedy lends to us the ability to do just that . This is , in my opinion , one of the better examples of that vehicle . This one , stars John Candy , Maureen O'Hara , and Ally Sheedy . Ms . Sheedy is really quite good in this attempt ( one of her best performances , in my opinion ) , having been made in the tumultuous post-St . Elmo's Fire and Short Circuit years during which many of the " Brat Pack " faltered and ultimately fell . The premise involves a brow-beaten police officer who is struck by Cupid's arrow the instant he captures the painfully shy funeral home cosmetologist in his sights . But will he be able to overcome the life-long emotional and mental manipulations cast upon him by his overbearing , outspokenly racist , socially retarded mother ? Maureen O'Hara plays Rose , Danny's mother . Her character has the social skills of a leper and the temperament of a rattlesnake with a toothache . I HATE her character , which indicates that it is played extremely well , as I LOVE Maureen O'Hara . This is one of Candy's better films , reminiscent of both " Armed and Dangerous " in the fact that Candy is the straight man here , and " The Great Outdoors , " in that his character is the epitome of the family man , doing everything he can for his family , and looking out for himself last . I enjoy this film , though it is a trifle sad at times . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Agreeable Dysfunction	Jeff Daniels , Laura Linney , Jesse Eisenberg . A teenager and his younger brother cope with the fallout from their parents ' shattered marriage . This is a vehicle wherein all perspectives are given , though not so deeply as to bore you , while documenting the passage of time through the inevitable breakdown of this family . The children experience confusion and angst over their parents ' oddities , and begin to retrace their beginnings in order to better cope with the oppressive present and daunting future prospects . Laura Linney and Jeff Daniels deliver convincing performances , backed up by a solid story , competent direction , and two talented younger actors . All in all , though it is a drama , and therefore not my first movie choice , this was a believable walk through agreeable dysfunction . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric Puzzler Really Delivers !	Before I start this , I would like to say that Jodie Foster turned in a stellar performance . I admire her talents as an actress , and do not hesitate to see her works . This movie was completely intriguing . I loved how hard it tried ; it had spunk . The motives and solutions to this would-be mystery were anything but transparent . We thought we knew the answer as soon as the question was posed , but were wrong on most . I found this work very capable in the area of generating the " Hitchcockian suspense " the publicity hype claimed . There was quite a bit about this which was reminiscent of Hitchcock . It was interesting , entertaining , and compelling . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is One Tense , Creepy , Atmospheric Gaming Movie . It's Like Brainscan Meets Silent Hill Coming Together In A Very Enjoyable ( And Creepy ) Way !	I am a fan of horror . In these later years , there has been a proliferation of bad horror movies on the market . Most begin with four or five kids , heading to a remote location for a weekend , they are stalked by whatever antagonist , and all die but one or two of them . Voilas , there is the rote formula for nearly all your B-class horrors of the last two decades . This one starts out with six or so kids , and therefore , I was expecting nothing whatsoever in the way of innovation or fun . I thought I would be writing a different kind of review than the one I am currently writing . While the premise used in Stay Alive is nothing new , it feels a bit like the original Saw in its atmosphere , without plodding . It feels a lot like Brainscan in its realism , without coming off campy . But more importantly , it feels quite a bit like Silent Hill in its atmosphere , without leading us into the pseudo-religious , dogma-filled prattlings . In essence ? This was one creepy little film , if you can allow yourself to become involved in the story , that is . But you must suspend disbelief in order to let yourself be drawn into most any cinematic work . Above the atmosphere , which is the real star of the work , the story itself is quite compelling . Beyond the premise , which HAS been done before , the plot itself is pretty fresh , and goes a long way towards preventing this work from feeling rehashed , recycled , or otherwise done and done . I have to say that I enjoy this venture to the fullest . It has some VERY tense moments , features some great ( although wholly goreless and pretty much bloodless ) kills , and delivers a fine execution of the concept . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Uneven But Entertaining Horror	If this was supposed to deliver a warning , it failed . If it was intended to entertain , it hit its mark . Stunning visuals , compelling story , and gritty performances mark this Emerich tale from beginning to end . Graphically speaking , this film is amazing . The visuals are completely awesome ; wholly realistic . The story line runs smoothly as possible , with gaping scientific holes reminiscent of Gore's alarmist presentation in An Inconvenient Truth . This is in no way what WILL happen . The story embraces the most unintelligent of popular tripe and capitalizes on the fears of the ignorant . But in an entertaining way . If you are intelligent enough to ignore the environmental posturing to enjoy the fictitious story presented , this can be a great way to spend a couple of hours . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Chevy's brightest hour .	I have always loved Chevy Chase . Since his stint on SNL , he has been among my absolute favorite comedians . His dead-pan , smart-alec comedic style assured his stardom , early on . First hired by Lorne Michaels as a writer for SNL , it didn't take long for his face to appear on camera . With the opening line . . . " Good evening . I'm Chevy Chase , and you're not , " he launched his successful career . Unlike many of his turn-coat fans , I have and love 25 of his feature films . There has never been a movie by Chevy Chase that I did not like . I even have " Couch Trip " because of a cameo by Chase in a condom ad in the background of this movie . In my opinion , the " Fletch " movies are among his best works . I loved " Vacation , " but " Fletch " and " Fletch Lives " are by far his best endeavors . Irwin " Fletch " Fletcher is an investigative newspaper reporter who is currently working on a story about illegal drugs on a CA beach . With this future star-studded cast , take in many names you'll know and love , who were still struggling to achieve some level of fame at this time . George Wendt , Geena Davis for starters . In this one , Chevy runs an almost one-man-show as a roller skating rabbi , a doctor , an airplane repair technician , a beach bum / junkie , an insurance investigator named Harry S . Truman , another insurance investigator but this time a Comanche Native American named Mr . Poon , a wannabe LA Laker , and a sycophantic tennis bum . Although I know this is not the case , this character seems to have been written for Chevy's style . If you were a fan of SNL , at the time " . . . back when it was GOOD . . . " in the late ' 70's and early ' 80's , then by all means , check out this movie . It is some of Chevy's best acting . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , Witty , and Downright Endearingly Funny	This comedy is absolutely beautiful in its execution . The wacky story line is classic in that it's been remade ( whether intentionally or unintentionally ) twice over the years with " Cannonball Run " and the more contemporary " Rat Race . " This features an all star case and great performances . It entertains , regardless of the age of this work . Featured herein are some of the world's greatest comedic actors , a rousing story line , and a tragically zany ending . Watch it , if for no other reason , than the " greats " this work holds within its cast members . Some of these guys have been dead for decades , but the greatness of their works still lives on . Although this work is not as good as it could have been , it is entertaining enough that if you love classic comedy , this is a must see . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Above-average Stephen King theatrical fare .	Psychological and psychedelic testing produce some amazing results . Now those results are walking and talking and very unhappy with the agency who created it . Delightfully triumphant , wonderfully destructive forces are about to be tapped , honed and unleashed against the government who has created and now hopes to utilize these frightening powers upon the world . Charlie McGee ( Drew Barrymore at the age of 9 ) is the product of psychological and psychedelic drug experiments performed by the US government upon her parents before her conception . After witnessing the murder of her mother , she and her father are on the run from the mysterious bunch of gun-carrying miscreants known only as " the Agency . " Her father ( David Keith ) is also a telepath as a result of these experiments , who enjoys telekinetic abilities as well . These abilities help , but not well enough . Will Charlie be able to save her father ? Herself ? Will they make it through this , or be forever torn apart by the Firestarter ? Excellent movie . Excellent performances by Drew Barrymore ( if a little hesitant and deliberate at times ) , George C . Scott ( hated , Hated , HATED his character ! ! that must mean he played it very very well lol ) , Martin Sheen and David Keith . The effects were quite good , though in post-StarWars 1984 , I had hoped for better ; as was the plot and storyline . As Stephen King adaptations go , it varied from the book just enough to make it one of the FEW adaptations of King's work through which I don't find myself cringing . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Solid and Compelling Twisty Thriller	A surprise in the direction ( Ben Affleck ) , and an equal surprise in the lead . My first introduction to Casey Affleck was in Drowning Mona featuring Bette Midler and William Fitchner , Neve Campbell , and Danny DeVito . His performance was less than impressive , but he did catch my attention . This is the first honest shot I have given his talents , and I must say I was completely surprised . Casey Affleck is simply stunning in this role , co-written and directed by his brother , and upheld by a fabulous supporting cast . Although this is based on Dennis Lehane's novel , this runs in the beginning like it could have been inspired rather by Caylee Anthony's disappearance , but the story quickly turns around and takes control of itself as its own work . This is really amazing , and is highly underrated , in my opinion . One thing is for sure , I'll not dismiss Casey Affleck's work ever again . That's for sure . This is fabulous . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A serious review of a classic horror comedy .	The makeup effects here are wonderful . Humor is used to balance the heavier moments , and to give you more of a feeling of realism within the character base . While this is not a movie to be taken seriously , there are some good horror elements and even some tense and freakish moments . There are even some seriously frightening scenes here . The story is not new , but this class of characters renders a new life to the old vehicle , giving it a much more endearing quality which has brought this movie into My personal collection . This endeavor , while a bit campy at times , follows all the basic rules of the sub-genre , and still manages to deliver a delightfully thrilling finished product , which I highly recommend . Evil Ed . He is the boy everyone picks on . He is the horror fan , the computer nerd , the gamer of the bunch . His portrayal here was heart-wrenching , funny , dramatic , and completely professional . He was the greatest casting asset to this entire endeavor . Roddy McDowell of stage and screen was believable as he gave an entirely convincing portrayal of the television vampire hunter playing a role . So often , fans tend to fasten the personalities of the characters these stars portray , onto the persona of the actors themselves , as Charlie Brewster and his friends , do to Mr . Peter Vincent ( McDowell ) . He is brilliant as the reluctant hero here giving , as always , his very best-regardless of the role , the budget , or the project . But again , it was Evil Ed who stole this show . It rates a on the " B " scale . That translates roughly to a on the " A " Scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Grindhouse Tribute Pays Off	Tarantino's films are a bit of an acquired taste . Frankly , most casual movie goers either love him or hate him . I'm one of the few who can take or leave him , but when Grindhouse was announced , I knew I would have to see it . As a tribute to the " B " flicks of the 1970's , this " Grindhouse " feature has been worked until the quality digital media closely resembled the scratched , hair-laden , ill-cut films of the era . I would imagine with today's technology , it took more work to rough it up that badly , than it would have to present a quality modern-day actioner . The idea of the Grindhouse Double Feature is not new , but this work stands as Tarantino's revivalist attempt , and both films were great fun . Planet Terror is a sci-fi horror gore-fest I found delightful . The story was prominent , but did take a back seat to the gore effects , which were mostly make up effects . This was great in that " B " movie kind of way , and even serious movie goers can view this one comfortably as a guilty pleasure and rates a on the " B " scale . Death Proof was the one I was waiting for , personally . Kurt Russell again on the big screen as the tough-guy / bad boy ? Yes ! The stunts here were true stunts , without the use of CGI . The girls in this work were awesome , and it was heartwarming to see Russell back in the role in which the nation came to love him . This one was just plain good , in spite of the " B " movie factor and rates an on the " B " scale . I'd say this attempt was a " HIT . " Here's hoping for Grindhouse 2 . Together , they rate an on the " B " Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Not Awesome , But Entertainingly Quirky WhoDunnit - RomCom	Woody Allen , Helen Hunt , and Dan Aykroyd ? This unlikely trio make good in this Woody Allen vehicle wherein mystery , deceit , and mayhem ensues . I have to say I love this movie , and it's found its way to my collection . Part of the lure and charm is the casting , but the real drive behind this work is the story itself . This is a fun , but well-written tale , told quite aptly by Allen . I didn't expect much , frankly , and I'm happy to report I was pleasantly surprised . This is one of those movies that grows on you ; the more often you see it , the more you like it . Dan Aykroyd was totally believable in his performance . I wish he were on the big screen more often . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Positively risible	Many critics have bashed this movie and Chris Kattan's talents herein . I personally found this movie completely bewitching . Corky Romano is a mama's boy who was sent to college while his two older brothers kept at home , working for " Pop . " Therefore Corky has an education and a promising career as a veterinarian , while his older brothers are nothing more than thugs for their mob-boss father . Upon the death of Corky's mother , the brothers kicked him out of the house and converted his room into a gym for themselves , leaving Corky on his own , but he appears to have done quite well for himself without any help from his " family . " But now , Dad ( Peter Falk as " Pops " Romano ) is in trouble with the FBI and now they want Corky to actually care what happens to them . Personally , I would have let them rot , but being the kind-hearted , sweet , and gentle soul that he is , he agrees to help by infiltrating the FBI with phony transfer documents and a lot of guts . His mission : To steal back the evidence files against Pops or his father could spend the rest of his very short life in prison . It sounds serious , and could have been , but Chris Kattan is absolutely jocose in his role as Corky Romano . I laugh every time I watch this movie . He is insightful , caring , and intelligent , if a bit nervous and spastic at times , but that is part of his charm . Some of these scenes will have you wiping the tears from your eyes from laughing so hard . This movie is a delightful fish-out-of-water story , and another of the Fiend's many favorites . " Do you guys want . . some . . cookies ? ! " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is A Great Sequel To Westworld !	Years after the Westworld disaster , the folks who brought you Westworld haver reformed , reinvested , and now bring you Futureworld . It sounds more corny than it is . Actually , this is a deserving sequel , with some great elements , and an intriguing story . While some of the original charm is lacking , they more than make up for it with an emboldened story line , and better effects . Not GREAT effects , but better effects . When the folks who are remaking the classic Westworld get ready for a sequel , I do hope they look to this one to get a few pointers on what to do . This features some good performances , a few wonderful elements , and a solid grasp of robotics ( for its time ) . I can't wait to see what the remakes can do ! This rates an ( just like the original ) from . . . the Fiend : .
At Last ! Will Farrell Has Found His Niche !	Will Farrell is a talented actor , in my opinion . After a decade of meaningless , inane , and even stupid roles , he has finally found a proper vehicle by which to showcase his talents . . . Stranger than Fiction is a beautifully blended , well-adapted chronicle of the life of a hapless victim-cum-quintessential hero . It has often been said that we all ( humans ) carry within us the traits to be a hero in times of darkness , via the character Harold Crick , this is demonstrated with a great style and panache . The plot is wonderful and the narration by Emma Thompson is inspired . This will touch your heart without leading you down the smarmy path of melancholy . It seems Mr . Farrell has gone the way of Steve Martin in that this time he chose the role of the " straight man " ( to use comedic vernacular ) in a rather intelligent romantic comedy , and to let the story carry the comedy rather than his antics , pratfalls , and the like . While this is not your typical Will Farrell comedy , I sincerely ( and without hesitation ) hope to see him in more roles such as this one . He came off as thoughtful , intelligent , and sincere in his performance . I always knew Will had talent . I'm just glad the rest of the world got to see it . . . finally . All in all ? This was great ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Endearingly Sweet	Catherine Hepburn plays well as the beloved flibberty-gibbet who will do anything , and I do mean anything , to be near her man . Many fans do not like Cary Grant's comedic attempts , preferring instead his tough-guy man's man roles . I have to say that I do enjoy his comedic efforts just as well as his actioners , this being one of his best , and at least on par with Arsenic and Old Lace , with Hepburn taking the place of those madcap insanely endearing aunts . This runs a bit like It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World meets Silver Streak , but without the train . I love Cary Grant's whole library , and the same goes for Catherine Hepburn's , so I can't say this is one of my favorites , as they're all my favorites . I don't own this one , but if I did , I'd watch it often . All in all , this is fun , clean , wholesome family viewing anytime , day or night . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun Sequel .	This movie has been dogged by nearly every critic here at IMDb as being an insult to the original and / or just an all-around bad film , but IMO , it is highly misunderstood . This film , in reality , is at least two times better than the first . Bear with me on this , please . I realize that , as usual , I'm in the minority in my opinion . The obvious camp in this film was not unintentional . The tongue-in-cheek humor and delivery was perfectly indicative of the original series and therefore an homage , not an insult , to that series . The effects were intentionally over-dramatized , again , with tongue-in-cheek humor , demonstrating the industry's disdain for itself and the direction in which it is headed ( CGI , CGI , CGI ) . Jaclyn Smith appearing as Kelly Garret was , in her own way , her seeming endorsement of this installment , and a touching tribute to this job well done . This story line was creative , imaginative , and solid . The performances were professional , and delivered with humor , and intelligent wit . You have but to look with an open mind . This production was not intended to be the action flick of the year , nor was it meant to be the comedy of the year . It hits somewhere in between and finds itself in a position of intellectual homage ; a vastly misunderstood vehicle . While not a parody , it - at the same time - was . It was , however , not as obvious as " Spaceballs " was to " Star Wars , " or " Blazing Saddles " was to the " western " genre , thereby leaving open the window of misunderstanding which , apparently , most people willingly leaped through . This movie was FUN , and end the end , isn't that what's important ? It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Dark and atmospheric	Wow , what an epic ! Now I understand why fans of this movie hate both the remake , and Stephen King's Rose Red . Instead of using insomniacs as a ruse , as in the remake , clairvoyants are used , as in Rose Red . Both are obvious rip offs to this classic demonstration of suspense . Interesting . And here , I thought Rose Red was an original story . In my opinion , it should have a " based on " by line on it , it is that much like this work . Julie Harris is Nell . I remember her best as Reggie , the pipe-smoking medium from Stephen King's The Dark Half . Interesting , that King would feature her in one of his works , while another of his works features so many similarities with one of her best . This movie has atmosphere . Loads of it . It delivers what it promises , seduces with its ambiguity and then thrills with its delivery . I , for one , love this original . But I also highly enjoy the much despised remake , for all the beautiful CGI and other physical effects . EYE CANDY ! But this one delivers some pretty fancy effects for 1963 . Very nicely done . The dialog in Nell's mind was translated a bit over to Nell's character in the remake , but the atmosphere relied a lot on the effects there . Here , the atmosphere is built through suspense ; dialog and story building and building . I love this movie . I still love the remake , but I have a new-found respect for the original work . This house is grand , but not as grand as that in the remake , which , to me , played a large part in making the remake as much fun as it was to watch . The musical score gets a little crazy sometimes , but for the most part , it adds a lot to the atmospheric properties which make this such a good movie . It is not scary , by my standards , but it is suspenseful in a slow , building way which does not lend to boredom or give a tired or tedious story . I still prefer the remake for the great effects , but the original is where the story is . I do have to say this , though . The remake made me JUMP several times . It suckered me in and actually startled me a couple of times . This original did not . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is My Favorite of the Line , So Far .	This could serve as the concluding chapter of the Santa Clause trilogy , or a deserving sequel to a longer franchise . Personally , I'd not mind a franchise in the least . I love these movies , and they just keep getting better and better . The second installment was lesser to the original , but this third chapter surpasses even the beginning . Martin Short , Ann-Margaret , AND Alan Arkin ? ! How lovely ! They are so funny , and contribute such wonderful aspects to this film . It has become one of the family favorites in our growing list of Yuletime " must watch " films . But I'll watch this in July , too . Spencer Breslin may be growing too old to portray an elf for The Santa Clause 4 , but he's still adorable herein , and a delight to watch . I hope they continue on with this franchise . It would be a shame to stop now . I would actually love to see this run on and on as a tradition , but Tim Allen , et al is a mandatory must . I think he's GREAT as this new generation Santa . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Interesting and Memorable Blend	This is a different kind of Western , featuring Tom Selleck as an American cowboy in Australia , Laura San Giacomo as a mentally challenged and emotionally shattered woman Selleck must save , and Alan Rickman as the villain . This is a general crowd-pleaser as it paces the suspense and action slowly enough to make the movie enjoyable , yet with enough action to keep most people interested . The gentle romantic sub-plot helps smooth the rough edges , and Selleck's ironic wit acts as a cushion to those sometimes gritty scenes wherein the action can get a bit rough . This film also lends a hand at showing the world that the Australian Aboriginies were ( and still are ) treated pretty much the same as the Native Americans were . I enjoyed this one , though there are Westerns out there I like more , but this has a great deal of original creativity , which makes it a must see for fans of the American western , regardless of the fact that this is set in Australia . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving of Accolades and A Broader Audience	An obsessed beautician heads for DC when JFK is assassinated . Along the way , she loses her husband , but finds something within herself she never knew was there ; courage and fortitude . Fraught with dangers only our parents remember , this film shows you what the US was like back in the late 50's , early 60's . It also teaches us that we haven't changed that much , as a nation , in the last 50 years . Michelle Pfeiffer , Dennis Haysbert , and Stephanie McFadden endear with their honesty in this gripping drama by Jonathan Kaplan ( Project X , the Firm , and Bad Girls ) . The performances are heartening and lends us hope that things genuinely CAN improve in the future . Not necessarily that they will , but that it is possible , should we apply our hearts to the problem . This is a great film , though you have to be in the right mood for it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Precocious , Adorable , and Irascible .	This movie is a delightful start to a stellar romantic comedy detective series . The principals involved are awesome , as they realistically demonstrate the intimate relationship between two balanced and mentally healthy people with a great sense of humor and inner strength . Honestly , these are so fun . They are heart warming and endearing , and give a great couple of hours ' entertainment . This IS black and white , and retro-dated . Totally period , and beautifully sentimental in a nonchalant kind of way that Chevy and Goldie never captured in Fowl Play , but touched upon in Seems Like Old Times . MacMillain and Wife was pretty good , but still not of the caliber . Hart to Hart had some of this kind of magic , but only to a superficial depth . Cybil and Bruce had a bit of it in Moonlighting , but not to the same depth as Zimbalist and Brosnan of Remmington Steele . No matter where you look at these types of 1970-1990's rom-com / detective stylized serials , the Thin Man movies of the 1930's and 1940's top them all and surpass the 1950'stelevision series , in my humble opinion . All in all ? This is precocious , adorable , and irascible . This bears some decent suspense and a lot of endearing chuckles at its own expense . I really like this , and own the whole series , but if you have a problem with the children being exposed to gratuitous alcohol abuse , you might want to watch this after they've gone to bed . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Story driven with marvelous effects .	It's hard to believe this was done as far back as 1996 . It was phenomenal then and I still love watching this flick today . The plot is great , the effects are dynamite , and the dialog is natural with an easy flow , and the performances are awesome . It still surprises me , today . this was the film that made me stop dismissing Bill Paxton as an actor and Helen Hunt as a flibbertigibbet . But there is more to this film than the incredible effects . The ultimate raw believability of this film's effects is what drives it , not the effects themselves . Regardless of how it may be viewed by casual movie goers , this film has a depth many overlook in their awe of the effects . The story itself is good , solid work , with an interesting plot line and magnificent flow . The only problem with it is that the average Joe can't SEE the story for their infatuation with the effects . That doesn't make it an effects-driven work , and indeed , it is not . It is story driven with marvelous effects . It still amazes me , and I watch this often . It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
Charmingly quirky , sweet and endearing .	This is my favorite of the " Vacation " movie installments AND ( next to Baddest Santa ) one of my favorite Yule-time movies . While the first was the strongest , this one captures some aspect that makes me love it more . I have no idea what that aspect is , but it works . Clark has invited the whole family for Christmas Vacation and as usual , nothing goes right . With the sudden , unexpected appearance of Cousin Eddie and his whole family ( including their beloved dog , " Snot " ) , Clark slowly begins to develop a nervous twitch . The lights he has installed all over the entire house do not work , and his family is driving him insane . Short trip . The only real gripe I have with this movie has to do with Rusty and Audrey . It's " Back to the Future " meets the Grizwolds ! WtF ? ! WHY is Rusty now SHORTER and YOUNGER than Audrey ? ! But the zany factor lacking in the last installment , is back with a vengeance . And , while I found the constant transformations of Rusty and Audrey to be annoying , I suppose I've gotten used to it , and come to expect it , as it did not bother me nearly as much this time around . By far , my favorite of this series . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The honest truth about one of the most beloved action / comedy series in the movie industry .	THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES ! ! 1 - was fresh , innovative , edgy and hard . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us . The comedy was educated , intelligent and expertly-delivered . The characters were lovable , and we got the feeling that we " knew " them , cared about them , wanted them to succeed . Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person , due to the high-level of development his character received . True , the " gun handling " left a lot to be desired , but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip . Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground ; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid . That aside , this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value . One of the best of its kind . 2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character , Leo Getz . Because of Getz , I honestly found this film to be rather endearing . Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series . Unfortunately , the edge and freshness is toned down way too much , and the action is really rather predictable . I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh , and was not in the least bored with that aspect . It is still a good movie , even though its edge is shelved for a more " marketable " product . 3 - is just as good as 2 . Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well . It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover / Gibson signing for 4 & 5 , so it seems the series has wound down , rather than up . The action is still quality , though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments . The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired . And while the performances are still professional , it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out . 4 - is the perfect ending to this series . Honestly . The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness ; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct , Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring , and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore . ( Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming " Indiana Jones 4 . " ) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old , and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's over-used line , " I'm getting too old for this sht . " It is far beyond that . And now , with Riggs's marriage to Lorna , Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters , the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending . . . enough is just enough . 5 - should never happen . I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two . The characters we all loved are already gone . Like in " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers , " they've been stolen from us . The edge from Riggs's character is gone . He's a bit hapless now , and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character . The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character , the baby AND Butters . Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2 , or don't bring him out of the moth balls . PLEASE . I loved these movies , but for the love of Mike ! NO MORE ! If you liked any of these movies , I highly recommend " Tango & Cash , " an excellent , much-overlooked , highly under-rated " Buddy-Cop " movie . 1 . . . . from . . . the Fiend : .
Different style from the first - !	This movie starts out with a gangland riot / war happening in LA . Okay , no problem . Then it drags a voodoo bocur into the scene and I was like , " WTF ? ! This isn't PREDATOR ! " I checked the box and sure enough , it was . So I unpaused the DVD and started again . This attempt is completely different than the first in the attempt to modernize the Predator story . The characters are less solid , but more likable even though they included Bill Paxton . I don't mind Bill Paxton too much , actually . You know him . He was the whiner / fake spy in True Lies with Schwarzenegger . He played the whining punk leader that got his hand nearly ripped off in the first Terminator . He was the whining brother to Wyatt Erp in Tombstone . He also played the whiner Hudson in Aliens . And so now they want us to believe him as the " Cowboy ; " a renegade tough guy cop . Okay . I'll buy it . But I want a refund and a Coke , okay ? The Predators were done in a slick style in this attempt . I'm not going to say better , but slicker . Their gadgets were better conceived , as were their abilities , and you really felt like you got a bit more movie for the time you spent watching it . The story was solid and the performances were better than average . The first one was slow and suspenseful ; a device well used in suspense type productions , as " Predator " was . This one moved at an even pace and wasn't slow anywhere . I'm too impatient to enjoy that suspense-building device , though . When I go see a monster movie , I want action . I need the character development , but the monsters better be aggressive at some point ! But this one gives you both . You get to know the characters and to care about what happens to them , through the exchanges in virtual non-stop action sequences . This movie starts off with action and ends with action . Niiiice production . Very nice . You also see the Alien tie-in in this installment . At the end , when Danny Glover is standing inside the Predator ship , notice the Alien skull hanging on the back wall . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Delightful , Big Budgeted , Period Rom / Com	This is a beautiful piece , but at the same time , the lovely period setting takes a back seat to the romantic comedy vehicle . Fitting , I suppose , since the love story IS the story here , but there were many missed opportunities to make this wonderful . Where there can be substance , there is flash . Where there can be high action , there is mild dialog and a lesser suspense . And yet , this work bears an undeniable charm . And while it does seem a bit heavy handed and overbearing at times , it fails to take itself too seriously , in spite of ample opportunities provided herein . All in all , while not a masterpiece , I found this highly enjoyable , entertaining , and delightful in its amusement with itself . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent " Scare You ! " Adaptation of Koontz's Work ! !	While the movie does vary from the original literary work by Dean Koontz , it's a great thriller . It demonstrates truly talented acting ability on the part of Bruce Greenwood in the leading role as Charlie Harrison . The storyline . . . well , was a bit weak , as they NEVER put into Koontz's work the money they funnel by the fistfuls into King's , but it's still a terrific movie , for a low-budgeted horror flick . It has some truly tense , even edge-of-the-seat , moments and is a good addition to any horror collection . The plot goes something like this . . . the kid is the child of Satan , and the Servants of Twilight are there to stop him from reaching maturity . Good luck on that one , if Damien was any indication . Solid acting and good direction , along with Koontz's writing , put this into my fav's as far as horror movies go . I give it a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Beauty and the Beast	I LOVE this original . I love that they had a brontosaurus eating someone ( after emerging from UNDER the water ) . I love that the T-Rex is hokey and Pokey-ish . I love that the native baby sitting on the ground when Kong attacks has a WILD " afro . " I love that the natives all sounded like they were from the south side of Chicago ( beneath the foreign dialect , of course ) . I even love that Kong himself wasn't quite as well done as the Bumble from Rudolph the Rednosed Reindeer . It's GREAT ! I even loved that when they approached the natives , Carl Denham attempts to hide nine people behind one tuft of pampas grass and , instead of shooting THROUGH that grass , he tries shooting right there in the ( obvious ) roadway ( although there were no cars ) . It's been said ( yes by me , as well ) that with the most recent rash of remakes and remixes , Hollywood has become stagnant . Do they not understand that Hollywood has always believed in remakes ? Remakes have been the bread and butter of this industry since the beginning . Every time someone does a presentation of " King Lear , " it's a remake . ( If any of the information posted below is incorrect , I'll count on some trusty IMDb poster to correct the dates . ) In 1931 , Universal began a project entirely centered around older movies . Their remakes are considered the " originals , " yet you have but to look for yourself to see that the 1931 version of Dracula was , in fact , a remake . As was Frankenstein ( first done on film in 1910 in the form of a short ) , the Wolf Man ( first done in 1915 ) , the Mummy ( also from a short , this time from 1911 ) and on , and on . RKO did the 1933 version of King Kong ; the beloved classic . And now , Universal's doing what it's always done . It's remaking it . Edgar Wallace , whose novels and stories have been committed to film for decades now , was the principal writer of this epic tale of savagery . Merian C . Cooper also wrote this story ( along with Wallace ) , produced and directed the original 1933 work , and flew the plane which killed the beast , in that same work . So as a 1933 RKO production , this movie had the novelty of being new , fresh ; a work which had never been given to the public in any form before . Save for one . Beauty and the Beast , first committed to film as far as I can tell , in 1899 . So King Kong was just a new spin on a much older tale , which is fine by me . This masterpiece of 1930's film-making rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Action / Comedy which can double as a date movie !	This is one of my favorite Schwarzenegger actioners . I was afraid this movie ( along with the long line of Kid titles and inane comedies ) would lead him down the path trodden so deeply by Eddie Murphy . Thankfully , that was not the case . He took another path to banality . That having been said , this is one witty , exciting flick which doesn't take itself too seriously . If it did , I missed it , at any rate , as this movie is just pure fun . The drama is not compelling , but interesting enough . The comedy is not in your face , but common and amusing . The action was entertaining if not exciting , but the cast turned in wonderful performances . Tom Arnold's best role to date is featured herein , as is Arnie's . Jamie Lee Curtis is ALWAYS a joy , and True Lies is no exception . If you haven't seen this one yet , I highly recommend a viewing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Neo-Noir ala Petersen	Wolfgang Petersen ( Poseidon & the Neverending Story ) ' s Neo Noir starring Tom Berenger , Bob Hoskins , and Greta Scacchi about a West Coast developer who has amnesia after a car accident and begins to suspect his wife of treachery . This begins in a pretty mundane way . It runs like any one of thousands of films of the early 1990's , and there doesn't appear to be anything special about it until you get a little bit of the way into it . Roughly one third through , you begin to see the subtle idiosyncrasies of this work , and soon , you are wholly absorbed . This features some great intrigues , a nice well paced plot , and a really twisty ending . Dialog delivery isn't as bad as you might expect , and the story itself steals the show . Camera angles are a bit odd at times , but nothing like some of those 1970's flicks ! All in all , though it was done as recently as 1991 , it is horribly dated but I was still completely entertained by this film , and while it's not Friday-Saturday night quality , it makes for a great Saturday or Sunday afternoon diversion . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Delightful !	This is a low budget production which parodies life's situations . It is a pop-culture-driven vehicle which feels like Monty Python Meets Mel Brooks Meets Benny Hill . While it truly has not withstood the tests of time , it is still a highly amusing film ! There is a skit which parodies the old Ma and Pa Kettle movies , some nice and darkly amusing work at the front meant as a tongue in cheek social commentary on the execution of the death penalty ( featuring a VERY young Bill Murray ) , and ending with an irreverent take on Star Wars . In between , there's Buddy Hackett ( as Buddy Hackett ) speaking up for STOPIT , and more ! This is funny if not witty , and entertainingly amusing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
As An Ex-Catholic , This Is Very Enjoyable !	This work brings back memories of school . Those were good days . Mary Catherine Gallagher is a misfit . In fact , I can't imagine anywhere she WILL fit in . In every school , there is a girl who marches to her own tune , outcast by all but others who , like herself , were cast out of the crowd for their idiosyncrasies . Molly Shannon is a Goddess , as she refuses to let others re-tune her inner song , finds her way , and reaches for her star . Some will not like this work . Some may find it difficult to watch as Mary Catherine falls and fails . Others will think the work to be stupid or unintelligent , and on the surface , that would seem to be a fair appraisal . If one cares to take the deeper look , however , this work will teach you to have faith in yourself , to look for the best in others , and to hold onto your dreams . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Delightful Deviation From Tommy Lee Jones's Usual Formula	Well , that plane just flew into the side of a mountain ! Call off the search ! No survivors ! Honestly , this is a huge deviation , as Jones is still a cop-this time a Texas Ranger , but it is a pseudo-comedy with his only a smidgen of his dramatic action woven throughout . The direction is quite good , highlighting the talents of each young lady in turn , giving them a chance to shine on their own , in the spotlight of this sweet , gritty , almost-comedy , which still manages to aptly capture at least some of the spirit of Jones's older more tense actioners . I found this story involving and completely charming . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Introspective Romantic Western .	This runs like a soap opera , however , it is more thoughtful than that . This is a female introspective , where it comes to who to trust , and when . Other than that , this is enjoyable and ranks above purely enjoyable fluff , in spite of the unlikely casting of Rock Hudson alongside Kirk Douglas . That's like casting Billy Crystal alongside Jack Palance . . . oh , but they've done that ! However uneven the casting , this production runs well . 1961 ; Rock Hudson , Kirk Douglas , Dorothy Malone . A Texas lawman follows a fleeing outlaw headed to see the women in his life . That's right . . . women . The premise is fun , the action is gritty , and the comedic elements lighten the sometimes too serious moments . Chocked full of beautiful unspoiled vistas , great performances , and hundreds of cows , this is quite visual , with a little intelligence woven throughout . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Don't listen to the nay-saying critics . This film is wonderful .	If you're looking for a serious martial arts film , this isn't it . But if you're missing that old classic Jackie Chan style , this is more than deserving ! ! ! Jackie Chan's brilliant blend of slapstick comedy and very capable martial arts has brought him another winner with " The Medallion . " This wonderfully fun action / comedy is a sheer delight to witness . To appreciate Mr . Chan's style , you must first understand that he does not endeavor to deliver a serious martial arts movie . In his attempt to not live in the shadow of Bruce Lee , he developed his own wonderful style by combining slapstick with martial arts , and the result can be seen in most of his productions , especially those over which he has retained choreographical interests . And for this attempt , he has shed those few extra pounds he was carrying around , and is back in top form . The only problem I had with this film was their use of Lee Evans from " Mousehunt " in such a prominent role . Though his Cockney accent really was quite good , he was almost completely unbelievable as an Interpol agent with that accent . He is almost too well known as a character actor to be taken seriously in any other type of role . Also , his attempt to pull off the earnest but bumbling inspector bit from Peter Sellers's hit run of Pink Panther movies just did not work . Peter Sellers , he is not . However , the wonderful story of the Living Budda more than made up for Lee Evans's shortcomings , and ( thankfully ) Mr . Evans did finally produce , as the movie went on . The Golden Child is in danger , and it's up to Jackie to save him . Complete with a resurrection by the Living Budda , and a magickal charm which extends some of the gods's abilities such as invincibility , immortality and the ability to practically fly , our hero is on the job . Snakehead , portrayed by the very capable Julian Sands , is the " bad guy " who is after the Living Budda . This is almost reminiscent of the Highlander movies in many aspects , combined with Eddie Murphy's " Golden Child . " But a far superior effort , in my opinion . This is an excellent premise , and is executed extremely well by Chan and Company . Also present among the cast members is our favorite " dwarf , " John Rhys-Davies . Adrian Lee's musical score is a bit uneven , however . Excellent one minute , horrid and wrong the next . Notice the cat's cry when the two femme fatale's are about to go at one another . That was just wrong . Cute , but wrong . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
All in all ? This ROCKS !	What I wanted . . . I wanted an epically filmed visceral movie wherein thousands of Lycans are pitted against thousands of Vampires in full armor on horseback . Wow ! What a great movie THAT would have been . What I got . . . was somehow . . . better . I honestly can't say that I'm disappointed , although I just KNEW I would be if they left off that bit . What they give us is story-driven rather than effects or action-driven . I know that sounds ridiculous when talking about a movie in which action and effects are completely necessary in order to properly tell the story , but in all too many cases , they end up overshadowing the story and eliminating any sense of storytelling . I am happy to say that such is not the case with Underworld : Rise of the Lycans . I won't spoil the movie as so many have . I will say that the obvious parallels between Sonja and Selene's characters are endearing , and Sonja's love of Lucien is breathtaking . The overall feel of the movie is as dark and Gothic as the original work , beautifully echoing the brilliance of that film which caught us so by surprise in September of 2003 . This still leaves a few small questions , and I would have loved to see Kraven make the deal with Lucien and cut Viktor's mark off of him , but you can't have everything , and all in all , this will run back to front with the original . All that's left now , is an extension of the Story of Underworld : Evolution ; one that either gives the viewers a satisfactory ending , or perpetuates the species . . . of Underworld films , that is . All in all ? This ROCKS ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Almost as good as Bride .	This work , as has been extolled by countless reviewers at IMDb , features Boris Karloff ( as the Monster ) , Bela Lugosi ( as Igor ) , and Basil Rathbone ( as Wolf Frankenstein , Henry's son ) . The single fact that these three are involved in the same work , a beautiful collaboration , is enough to make it one of my favorites ! All that was missing was Lon Chaney , Jr . as the Wolf Man . It is also the third ( and final ) chapter of source material which was later worked into Mel Brooks's phenomenal " Young Frankenstein " masterpiece . SYNOPSIS : Wolf arrives onto the Frankenstein scene for the first time , his wife and young son in tow , to claim his immense legacy . When he and his family arrive , no one seems to welcome him whatsoever . He meets Ygor ( or Igor ) who asks him to resurrect the Monster who is lying in a coma . An honest attempt is made , but after the apparent failure of Wolf's resurrection attempt , some venerable villagers begin to turn up murdered . Unfortunately , many of the victims are the same villagers who condemned Ygor to the gallows , and it isn't hard for the villagers to piece it all together . Soon after Wolf discovers Ygor is the Monster's puppeteer , the Inspector sent to investigate begins pressuring Wolf to the point of bringing on a fit wherein Wolf kills Ygor . The Monster is so tormented by the sudden loss of his only friend , he goes after Wolf's darling son Peter as a replacement . Wolf must save his son and ( he finally hopes to ) destroy this walking family curse in the process . You can see portions of this work which are obvious studio sets ; namely , Henry's lab sequence . From the outside it is obvious and horrible ! In the first two chapters , you never really notice , as the action and suspense are adequately riveting that you are distracted from any shortcomings experienced by the editing and backdrops / backgrounds . But in this chapter , the audience is too quickly rushed into the story so that the suspense is not well built of yet , thereby not allowing the audience to be drawn in before introducing factors of bad blending , horrid backgrounds and / or NO attention to set design or details , or Karloff's sudden stilted performance . He is still formidable as Frankenstein's Monster , but his performance is lacking in this work . He lacks the ability to generate sympathy , as if his heart is not in this work . Unfortunately , after this chapter , the role is no longer Karloff's . I can't help but wonder if , at the time , Karloff knew that ? Lugosi's performance as Ygor is haunted and bestial , but for some reason , he sounds amazingly like Bergis Meredith . I've always found that marginally odd . . . and a bit off putting . Nonetheless , Rathbone's Frankenstein is one of style and grace , much like Rathbone himself . He generates this sense of fallen nobility in his portrayals , and in this work particularly . Wolf seeks to vindicate his father's work and reputation . A noble and common ideology which , more often than not , results in villainization of the proposed recipient of the vindication . And with that in mind , our story progresses to a rousing , if difficult , end . It is still wonderfully done and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Solid Consistent Parody .	This time taking on Rambo , Harley takes his team into the deserts of the Middle East to save . . . someone . This is a very good parody , and ranks almost as good as the original Hot Shots , although it is only a tad lesser due to having lost the virtue of freshness . There are so many Rambo movies , that after a while , it was like they were making fun of themselves . However , this work is quite funny , entertaining , silly , and lovable . The characters are as enjoyable the second time around , and the gags work . As with the original installment of this run , they aren't Mel Brooks-worthy , but they still work even though they walk up to the bell , but seem afraid to ring it . It sometimes seems a shame to see Charlie Sheen doing work like this , instead of something more meaningful . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Suspenseful mind game	This movie is fantastic on many levels . While it is highly entertaining , it is just as disturbing . The thought of someone knowing your life , your routine , the most intimate details of your private world . . . how genuinely perturbing . This production is very thought-provoking , extraordinarily written and the direction is surprisingly coherent , considering it was done by Joel Schumacher , the guy who DROPPED THE ATOM BOMB on the Batman series ! ( the badly done Batman Forever and the horrid Batman and Robin ) . The characters were well developed enough to allow the audience to care what happened to the lead , and the talents of the thespians involved were very well used and displayed . Though , in my opinion , Forest Whitaker's was above and beyond any other performance in this entire production . I could go on and on , but I will refrain . I do not even intend to outline the plot here . If you appreciate a good psychological thriller / suspense , then by all means , see this movie . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is a deserving sequel that is fun throughout .	Wow , second film out of the gate , and Jimmy Stewart is on board ! I'm sure this must have been noticed before , but in all honestly , the mystery herein was not very complicated , and not very hard to figure out , and indeed it seems as though the mystery is superfluous to the opportunity to showcase Myrna Loy and William Powell and the beautiful and enchanting dynamics of their on screen relationship . Actually , there IS a story , and the plot is progressive , while leading us down the primrose path , but the twists are slow and obvious and the entertainment is heightened by the delightful repartee between Nick and Nora . Jimmy Stewart contributes a stellar performance , albeit an earlier one , and the principals are delightfully cheeky in this playful romp through a murder investigation . All in all , this is a deserving sequel , fun throughout , with a sweet surprise ending , but if you have a problem with the children being exposed to gratuitous alcohol abuse , you might want to watch this after they've gone to bed . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
I will think of it fondly for the rest of my life .	This is a fantastic look into a dysfunctional American family , 1950's Style . I was prepared to hate this movie , as I typically don't get into dramas at all . Fortunately , I was completely drawn in . Paul Newman's character ( Brick ) is enigmatic at best , but somehow , because Maggie the Cat loves him so much and is so utterly devoted to him , you find yourself caring about what happens to him and Maggie both . Big Daddy and Big Mama both bring back fond memories of my own childhood , and if you grew up in the south , chances are you knew someone like the both of them . Their characters are written and performed so typically Southern , that I realized half way through I felt family connections with the whole family , including the no-neck monsters ! Sister Girl is the sister in law from Hades , and her husband needs to dig into her purse for his . . . manhood . We ALL know a couple like that ! All in all ? Elizabeth Taylor , Paul Newman , and Burl Ives are breathtakingly beautiful in their portrayals . This is probably not a good family movie , as Brick has a serious drinking problem and Maggie IS so desperate for his affections , and probably not a good Friday / Saturday night movie , but I still love it , and will think of it fondly for the rest of my life . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Jackie's best Chinese productions .	This is definitely one of the best of the Chinese line of Jackie's work . Right up there with Operation Condor & Operation Condor 2 . If you liked either of these films , you will enjoy this one . Although it's dubbed , and he says his name is " Jackie Chan " rather than the name of the character a couple of times , this is a surprisingly decent action film . In comparison to his older work with the bad sound effects , bad visual effects , horrible dialog , and totally unbelievable story line , this is top row . This is an excellent vehicle in which Jackie really shows his dramatic abilities . He has grown so much in his talent as an actor , and I for one , really enjoyed this effort . I highly recommend it , even if you are only a casual fan of his work . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Completely Fun	We viewed this work at Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN ; our hometown theater . This film begins with a " folded " feeling not unlike the first Neverending Story in that the boy discovers he is in the story . . . that , indeed , he IS the story . From that point on , it runs like a younger version of The Covenant , with some Harry Potter thrown in . That is not to say this movie felt in any way like a rip-off or a clone of those other movies , but a definite kinship exists - in a good way . This movie stands alone and does not borrow too heavily from any of the aforementioned works . In fact , we found it refreshingly warm and well-written , while managing to demonstrate a tense and edgy element of suspense , but not enough to necessitate strong parental monitoring . I , personally , love the character development in this production via Will's siblings . The family home felt natural and real , as did the children . Especially " Guen . " These child actors will do well if they continue to pursue their careers . All in all ? We found this movie completely fun , well written , and expertly executed . This is a great viewing , regardless of age , but probably not a good choice as a Friday night movie for " the guys , " unless the guys are into young-adult fantasies . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
This one is closer to The Thin Man than Another Thin Man .	Ridiculous hats , less of the baby , and more of the Nick and Nora we all love . But this time , the chemistry is better than the previous installment . The story is more rich , although there is no danger of rivaling the first two installments , this one is a far cry closer than the preceding installment . In the 1930's-1940's , one must expect the mob to be the antagonist somewhere in the story , but Nick's entire repertoire of friends includes nothing but shill-men , hucksters , and con jobs , so they're also protagonists , which serves to twist the story somewhat , and makes for an interesting mystery . All in all ? This one is closer to The Thin Man than Another Thin Man , and runs beautifully back to back throughout the franchise . I wholly enjoy this work , and advocate it as an anytime movie , and Nick seems to have joined AA . Way to go Nick ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent modernized remake of an old Disney classic .	With the HORRID Made for TV remake of Freaky Friday starring ( get this ) Shelly Long ( ! ? ! ? ) , I had believed we had just about seen the end of Disney's Family Films . Let's face it , they lost sight of the target years ago , and even their animations are getting worse and worse , except for a few . The sequels to these animations are about the worst things I've ever seen , of late , with no attention whatsoever to detail , or scenery , background , or character development . When this movie was originally made , it was with Jodie Foster as the daughter , and while it was a fun Disney Family Film , it lacked something . Having been made following the formula of " The Parent Trap , " you would think it would have fared better , but honestly , Freaky Friday just was not that kind of movie . In this endeavor , they actually pulled it off . It is difficult being a teenager these days . It is nothing like it was when we were young and in school . There is so much pressure now , whereas before , it was much easier to get through the school years . But it is also more difficult being an adult . Every moment of our time is spent and accounted for , scheduled and planned and even the simplest mishap can throw off the entire day , and thereby affect the next and the next . All this is captured without spoiling the fun of the film . I found Jamie Lee Curtis to be delightful . I have never seen a single portrayal by this consummate actress that I did not enjoy , and this film is no exception . I found Lindsay Lohan to be an absolute joy , and look forward to her upcoming 3 movies . Regardless of the many movies of this type to spring up in the last decade or so ( Dream a Little Dream , Hot Chick , Like Father Like Son , and so on ) , Disney was the first ( and only ) company to get it right . I adore this remake and will add it straight into my very selective Disney collection . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderful Made For TV Fare Featuring Jeff Goldblum	The " Dynamic Duo " of Levinson and Link have written another even and cohesive WhoDunIt . The cast for this M4TV production isn't what would be considered " All Star " fare , but each of the actors involved with this work have enjoyed wonderful careers since ( and many before ) Robert Preston . . . Alex Dennison ( the Last Star Fighter ) , Lynn Redgrave . . . Monica Welles ( Georgie Girl ) , Patrick Macnee . . . David Mathews ( the original series The Avenger ) , Lawrence Pressman . . . Lloyd Andrews ( Shaft ) , William Russ . . . Frank Heller ( Cattle Annie and Little Britches ) , Madolyn Smith-Osborne . . . Karen Daniels ( Funny Farm ) , Jeff Goldblum . . . Leo Gibbs ( Framed , Independence Day , Jurassic Park , etc . ) , William Daniels . . . Walter Lamb ( the voice of KITT of Knight Rider fame ) . It is nice to see Goldblum in his pre-Gena Davis era . Well written , pleasantly enacted , and well presented , this is a wonderful mystery with a darkling plot and an astounding revelation sequence towards the end . It rates an on the " character-driven pre CGI made 4 TV " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent movie !	This is not just an entertaining little movie . This also serves as a warning not to let any government become involved in the religious choices of its citizens . On that front , this is a very aesthetic approach . But on with the movie review . Dennis Hopper and Julian Sands . What more could you ask ? In a world where magick is mundane ; a normal , every day , common joe detective ( Hopper ) attempts to solve a murder mystery without the use of magick . With the assistance of a clairvoyant and her associates , our hero faces the dark use of magick , zombies , intrigue , and outright treachery ; head on . I love this movie . It's fun , intelligently witty , and even gritty at times . Sands is the perfect weasel , and Hopper is a seriously gifted talent . Somehow , this movie kind of reminded me of " Who Framed Roger Rabbit , " although there were no " toons . " See it for yourself and maybe you can explain that . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Refreshing new spin on an old favorite .	As a movie based on a popular TV series , this movie is nothing like the series . Phil Silvers played Bilko as a master con artist ; the one man who could con a con . Martin plays Bilko as an underhanded brown nose who has some deceitful ideas , a good bead on making an extra buck , and an even edge on the con game . I thoroughly enjoy this rendition of an old favorite . I loved this movie because Martin did not come along and attempt to imitate Silvers ' style . He played it straight from the vest , as himself . If you aren't a Martin fan , but instead , a fan of the TV series , you probably won't find the humor in this endeavor . But if you are a Martin fan , sit back and enjoy . I loved this movie , even though I loved the original series , but I'm a huge fan of Martin's work since his earlier days in stand-up . " It is my understanding you can no longer ask me these questions , sir . " Chris Rock , Dan Aykroyd , Phil Hartman , and Glenne Headley also star . This production was quality work by all involved , and a fun way to spend 90 minutes . I was thoroughly entertained . It rates an . 0 from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable chiller	Excellent psychological thriller . Nice work , Robin Williams ! I was a bit hesitant to critique this movie . I've read the reviews and frankly I don't understand why it's not universally liked . The only reason I can conceive is that Robin Williams has been the underdog / hero for so long that perhaps people are having a hard time accepting him as the villain . These characters were well developed , the story was creatively written , the direction was strong and the plot was rather edgy . This was an excellent attempt and greatly boosted my estimation of Robin Williams's future career . I enjoyed this movie tremendously and look forward to Robin Williams's next endeavor with a level of anticipation that I have not felt about his movies in a very long time . I thought he was quite good in this . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Successful bone-breaking hit for Seagal .	This , the third installment in what I like to think of as " Seagal's Tough Guy Sequences , " is every bit as good , if not better , than " Above the Law " and " Hard to Kill . " Seagal's first four movies ; aka : " Above the Law , " " Hard to Kill , " " Marked for Death , " and " Out for Justice , " are the movies which broke Steven Seagal into the action genre , although his heart seems to be more interested in his later environmentally responsible movies such as , " The Patriot , " " On Deadly Ground , " and " Fire Down Below . " While I enjoy Seagal's earlier movies , I tend to prefer those later movies over them . His acting is better and more convincing , as I lean towards the feeling that he is more " himself " in those movies , and not just wearing the hard core mask of a heartless bstrd . In this installment of Seagal's " Tough Guy " movies , he is up against a Jamaican " posse " ( gang ) headed by a very strong bocor ( pronounced ba-kwa ) of the Dark Arts , and all his drug dealing minions . It's a nice twist on the usual drug lord / hard-line cop confrontation . The action is very compelling and the acting is believable and professional . I even enjoyed the dialog which is a rarity for me , with action flicks . " One thought he was invincible and the other thought he could fly . " Chicago DEA agent John Hatcher . . . " So ? " Max . . . " They were both wrong . " lol Both witty and gritty . Nice . I personally have had a little exposure to the path of Voodo , I have had no experience with its dark counterpart ; certainly not enough to intelligently comment on the authenticity of the spell ingredients and rites used in this movie ; however , I can say that the various VeVe's used ( magickal symbols / idiograms ) were of proper design . There is a nice love interest between Seagal's character and Joanna Pacula who is only named " Leslie , " in the credits AND in the movie itself . " I finally met a guy who is nice , not married , gay , or trying to find himself , and he's trying very hard to get himself killed . " While there is more than the usual amount of Seagal-styled bone-breaking , the chase scenes are not too frequent , there are minimal explosions and this production carries more drama / tension than you might expect . What effects there are , are realistic and kept small ( thus adding to the realism in my opinion ) , and the confrontational scene in " Tiffany's " totally redeems whatever the movie may or may not have been lacking up to that point . Hatcher's pursuit of the notorious " Screwface " takes him to Jamaica's darkly beautiful and mysterious underground where he learns the secret of his new nemesis , before engaging him in a final explosive ( and eye-opening / heart-rending ) confrontation . All in all an enjoyable and entertaining 90 ( or so ) minutes . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Carrey's best !	The premise is simple . A heartbroken and often disappointed 5 year old boy makes a birth day wish that his father , a prominent and up-and-coming civil attorney , cannot lie for just one day . In this vehicle , through obvious wish magick , the wish is granted . In pique form of Jim Carrey's classic Dick Van Dyke-meets-Jerry Lewis style , the results of his son's wish wreaks total havoc on his life , and on the lives of those around him . With an all-star cast , fine direction , and expert screen writers , this production is top notch , classic Jim Carrey fare . IMHO , this is his best performance yet . There is not one millimeter of wasted film to this work . Every moment is either vital in the building of a principal character , or filled with side-splitting laughter . I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants , enjoys or needs , a truly genuine belly laugh . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Just as scary , dramatic and entertaining as the original !	This marvelous sequel picks up right where the first one left off , and delivers an end product that is just as scary , dramatic and entertaining as the original ! This sequel is just as good to " Halloween " as " The Godfather , Part 2 " was to " The Godfather . " Debra Hill and John Carpenter have produced another fine production in this sequel which strives hard to justice to the original . . . and succeeds with flying colors . On watching these movies again for this review , I have really come to appreciate just how well this movie follows the original . The acting is quite enjoyable , the scenes are well thought-out out and executed and the plot is firmly in place and congruent with the first movie . These movies , the Halloween " series , " were meant to be more than just your run of the mill slasher flix , and these first two were just that . After this one , they go off the storyline and venture off into the Land of Stupid . . . all the way to Halloween H20 . That's where you get a free pass from Insipid-land for a beautiful sequel made 20 years after the original . Great movie ! And then we slip back into the World of Idiotic Movies with Halloween-Resurrection . And I understand that they are in production with Halloween 9 Why ? ! In my opinion , just get H 1 , 2 and H20 and run them back to back . You honestly never EVER miss the other movies which had nothing whatSOever to do with the original movie or its storyline . H2 and H20 bring it back into line and perpetuate the horror that is Michael Myers . Excellent sequel to an excellent movie . Wonderfully scary slasher with a good plot . This is also the movie where you discover why Laurie Strode is being pursued by psycho / stalker / slasher Michael A . Myers . You get a few good , but uncomfortable , laughs as well . Laughing at our fears is healthy for us . I'm not in ANY way saying this movie is campy because it's far from it . It is definitely one of the few truly GOOD horror movies out there . But like the scene where the watchman at the hospital investigates the phone outages , looks into the dumpster and gets the living begeezes scared out of him makes you jump and then laugh due to the source of his fright . If you like these movies , you may like the " Scream " trilogy , though I do hesitate to put them in the same category with " Halloween . " It's also one of the Fiend's favorites and as such gets an right alongside the original from . . . the Fiend : .
Modern Cinderella story makes good .	After what seems like three decades of dark absence of newly introduced Disney live action family movies , the machine seems to have been rebuilt and keeps popping out winners . As a child , I was more a Candleshoe kid than an Apple Dumpling one , meaning I have always preferred mystery and adventure to warm , fuzzy feelings and smarm . I'm much the same today , so I had not seen either of the Princess Diary movies until someone ( who does not know me at all ) gave me the PD2 on DVD . So now , I own one of them . I really didn't have a choice after that . I'm kinda stuck in my ways , and I just won't watch 2 without having seen 1 first , so I rented the first , watched it and then watched 2 . This was a great movie ! It was sweet , and tender where it should have been , and serious in all the appropriate places . Capped off with stellar performances and Julie Andrews ( ! ! ) , what was not to love ? Though this is far from my typical fare , it was a very entertaining and memorable experience . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is A Very Detailed , In-Depth Look At The Bigfoot Legend .	This was very well done . Not surprising for National Geographic , but exciting that NG would sponsor such a documentary . The documentarians do not attempt to prove or disprove the legend . They merely lay out all the evidence , give you both sides of the ideology formulated from the evidence , and allow you to make up your own mind . I found that approach rather refreshing , after all the other preachy documentaries concerning Bigfoot I've been forced to sit through . They expose hoaxers , and present the evidence they consider plausible , tell you why they consider them as such , and then sit back and let you draw your own conclusions , but after you've seen this report , you'll feel that the conclusion you begin to formulate at least are now based on INFORMED opinions , rather than simple belief or disbelief . This was very well covered and argued from both sides . All in all ? I enjoyed this stylized documentary , and felt that I learned something in watching it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Underrated and Under-appreciated	To me , this plays like the children's ' version of What the Bleep Do We Know ? Down the Rabbit Hole . This IS Down the Rabbit Hole in one aspect , and appears to bear ties to Through the Looking Glass , as well , but that is a large part of its charm . This is not so much Alice in Wonderland , but is more what would have happened had Wonderland come to Alice . . . had Alice been smart enough to have figured it out . I enjoyed this far more than expected , as there have been SO many kid's movies out lately with quantum themes , but this one had something lacking from most . . . and rather large amount of heart . I found this to be intelligent , touching , and inspirational . Regardless of age , this is an enjoyable film , with a great story at the center , some stunning ( and realistic ) effects , and a fantastic execution . This is wholly enjoyable and I love it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Not a Masterpiece , But Loads of Fun	As usual , I must say I'm in the minority with my critique , but I really enjoyed this one . My local hometown theater Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN , actually experienced a decent turnout for a Monday matine . We expected to be the only two in the audience . We were surprised . I can't say Roland Emmerich has found his way back to the beginning , because it is rather unclear what the beginning would consist of , but he HAS found his way back to favored and familiar ground . This ran , for me , like a secret prequel to Stargate . Honestly , the only thing lacking was a Stargate standing 3 mounds away in the distant background . For some , this may seem like a bad thing , but for me , it was delightful . While anthropologically ridiculous it IS a lot of fun , and the use of the word " demon ? " That word wasn't invented for another 11 , 000 years . While I will not even try to point to any specific historical data to substantiate Emmerich's vision of woolly mammoths assisting in the building of the great pyramids , the Shakara texts ( though written eight thousand years later ) DO indicate the presence of " great beasts of burden " at that time . Not that I would attack or defend this element . I found it beautiful , whether accurate , or not . So regardless of the probability that one should not learn from this film , one can still derive some level of entertainment from it . But there are many elements here I found common with Stargate . Here are the ones that rise a bit above commonality , which is shared with many other movies . The cultures appear nearly identical between the boy in the mountains and the people the Stargate travelers found . Baku and the mentally challenged boy in Stargate obviously acted as the movie " mascots . " The battle scenes had a stand off in front of the pyramid with guards between the hero ( es ) and the God . Sha'uri's brother's hair and that of the boy from the mountains ( D'Leh ) were done in nearly identical fashion . They both used children ( Stargate ) and a blinded child-like people ( 10KBC ) as attendants of the God . There are more , but that's enough . I loved it . It had the look and feel of a wonderful period piece . It felt like a period romance , actually , though brutal in places , and downright gritty here and there . I was pleased overall . Although I was expecting more mammoth and saber-tooth scenes , I enjoyed it immensely . All in all ? This is going to work hard to find its niche . The guys may not care for the smarmy romance elements and the girls may not care for the " women as property " elements , but truthfully , there is something there for most everyone . We really enjoyed it , and rate is as a for Friday / Saturday night viewing . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Christie classic just as good today .	' Out flew the web and floated wide ; The mirror crack'd from side to side : " The curse is come upon me , " cried The Lady of Shallot . ' If you are a fan of Christie's detective novels , this is a definite " must see . " Lansbury is the personification of Christie's character , Miss Jane Marple . Her portrayals as Miss Marple are dead on Christie's wonderful character development , and in this critic's opinion , there is no other Marple . Lansbury takes a back seat this time as Miss Marple lets her favorite nephew Scotland Yard Inspector Delbert Craddock ( played very competently by Edward Fox ) , conduct his official investigation into an accidental murder which takes place in a rather posh English home , peopled by American movie stars . Rock Hudson , Elizabeth Taylor , Tony Curtis , Kim Novac , Pierce Brosnan ( as an uncredited ' Jamie ' ) , and of course Angela Lansbury star in this wonderful who-dunnit , which was originally written by the notable Agatha Christie . While this production is not of the epic quality of her two best-known book-to-film adaptations , " Death on the Nile " and " Murder on the Orient Express , " this is a quality production which was great fun to watch . The barbs exchanged by Taylor and Novac were darkly wonderful , and the relationship between Taylor and Hudson was beautifully represented with Taylor's lines . . . " Bags , bags , go away ! Come again on Doris Day ! " Hudson's facial expression is absolutely priceless ! I found all aspects of this production to be well done and professionally delivered fun . While this was far from Taylor's best performance , she is believable and genuine as a washed-up one-time starlet desperate to make her come-back . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Rejoinders to the original	This is a completely different animal from the original , 2001 : A Space Odessy . With this second attempt , you get a completely straightforward science fiction film , which stands alone , and does not need the muddlement that was its forbearer . Peppered with good performances , some mysticism , a little intellectualism , and one of the greatest on-screen villains ever conceived , this stand-alone sequel greatly surpasses the original in enjoyability , watchability , and entertainment . You are served the solutions to the problems and questions posed in the original , but without going back to find them . Beautiful . Unfortunately , this is one of those " genius films " which fans and foes alike will search far too deeply for hidden symbolism and metaphors ; thereby making it seem far more intellectual than it really is . It was reminiscent of my 10th grade English classes in that respect , and yet I still found this a much more enjoyable endeavor . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly Informative and Totally Educational	This not only gives you an honest look at old Western Deadwood , but an insider's dream view of the inside of the Homestake Gold mine in Lead , SD . This is highly informative and totally educational . It details every aspect of life in Deadwood of the Wild Western days , and shows us how things worked , looked , sounded , and were . This series is passable , but this particular episode / documentary was well done . I was surprised at the depth the producers went to in scripting this one . I have to say that it was a pleasant surprise . Actually , I lived in Spearfish , SD , and didn't learn as much about the area taking the various tours , as I did by watching this documentary . What more can I say ? VERY well done ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
the Haunting meets the Haunting	This movie presents , if nothing else , a rather unique theory on the origins of Vampyres . But there is oh , so much more to this movie . Julian Sands . Loved him in Warlock 1 & 2 , Tale of a Vampire , WitchHunt . Loved him in this one too . His performance was dead on and he was perfectly cast in his role as Nick Hardaway . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Joyce Reardon ( Nancy Travis ) is an obsessive control freak who cautions her group not to take offense if she is a bit " crazy " on the subject of physical data concerning her latest obsession . . . The Rimbauers . She is so obsessed , in fact , that she's sleeping with the great grandson of the original owners in order to gain access to that house . The house is a beautiful , wonderful work of art ; set after set having been meticulously created and artistically designed . The atmosphere of the house was every bit as dark and real as that of the Hotel in the Kubrick's adaptation of " the Shining . " I would have liked to have seen more of it , actually , but what I got was enough . This , another of many Made-For-TV adaptations of King's work , stands alone . This is wonderful work with wonderful actors portraying close personalities to those created in the original work , without coming across as smarmy or hollow . Reardon's Department Head is dead set on booting her from the Psychology Department of their university . Parapsychology isn't his thing , you see , and he wants her and her co-spook hunters out of the university for good . This house , Rose Red , is the only chance she has to produce real , physical proof that the supernatural world exists and thereby save her career . She assembles a rather impressive group of psychics to go into that house and possibly " make it come back to life . " Against the warnings of her would-be boyfriend , Steven Rimbauer , she insists on including Annie Wheaton to the group . Kimberly J . Brown is a compelling and shining star in her role as Annie Wheaton ; an autistic child with high clairvoyance , telekinesis , telepathy and powers which far surpass anything imaginable . " The others are candles , but Annie Wheaton is a SEARCHLIGHT . " Joyce Reardon . What happens once that house is reawakened , is the rest of the movie . It's well written and marvelously directed , and another feather in King's cap of successes . I highly enjoyed the scares in this movie , and experienced more than a few edge-of-the-seat moments on its first viewing , but it is an odd blend of the original " The Haunting " and the " The Haunting " remake . There are obvious aspects of both to be found here . I bought it . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Neuvo-Classic Comedy	I have to say this was a complete surprise . I liked Will Farrell on SNL , but his movie attempts have fallen short due to his blustery baby-man style . He just didn't seem to mesh with anyone , until Anchorman . That was our first indication that he could do something better , and still remain within the comfortable confines of his realm . Bewitched , besides being a folded comedy with which I could not find total satisfaction , was entertaining , but mainly so due to Michael Caine and Nicole Kidman , but Farrell certainly can NOT take the credit for contributing much at all to that film , other than work and screen-time . Blades of Glory is the second . It is a story about redemption overlaying a strong comedic premise , which works on screen as well as it did on paper . Two hostile rival Olympic single skaters join forces to compete as a figure-skating duet . Both are men . And they hate one another . I had little hopes of the execution of this work , having been a somewhat disappointed Farrell fan for years , however , this work far surpassed my expectations ( or lack thereof ) . Farrell hasn't found someone with which his quirky , blustery style meshes 100 % , but it works well enough to be funny , instead of making you cringe and groan . I enjoyed this due to Heder's more toned-down pouty comedic style utilized herein . If only Farrell would turn to more intelligent comedy . His fans KNOW he has it in him , and it would be a great improvement . But this was still fun , and more importantly , it was highly entertaining and brings a moral , whether you look or not . All in all , this is one of the best Farrell movies out there , to date . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
First Contact ; a quirky , odd , and sometimes weak best installment	While this is not as solid as its predecessors , this is the first of the series in which the Next Generation attempts to stand on its own . After the shaky start that was " Generations , " this looks great in comparison . Based on several episodes of the " Next Generation " television series in which Piccard was assimilated by the Borg , and fought his way free . You are not given the benefit of this knowledge or experience in this installment . They elude to it , and even mention it , but they fail to discuss it which in my opinion is a necessity for you to get a good bead on the events and Piccard's passions concerning the Borg . In the opening scene , they have DATA stealing Spock's lines and that really just did not sit well with me . It was a cheap , slip-shod attempt to endear him to the fans of the old series in Spock's place ; a place , which I may add , that he will never in a million years be able to fill . I can appreciate his character for what it is , but not as a replacement for any of the original crew members , let alone Spock . And . . . Enterprise E ? What happened to C and D ? It was B which was destroyed in 7 ( Generations ) . So . . . what happened ? Did someone just forget the alphabet ? Or did they not care enough about continuity to bother with it ? Above that , the Borg have found a way to create a rip in time , in order to go back to 20th century Earth , assimilate the planet , and prevent the human race from achieving warp speed ; an event which effectuates mankind's first contact with the Vulcan race , sent to welcome humans into the group of beings who heretofore have not enjoyed the capacity for interstellar travel . Meanwhile , the Borg have infested the Enterprise and are in the process of assimilating Star Fleet's top crew ; Jordi La Forge has a new set of eyes which are beautifully and creatively designed ; we learn a lot about the functionality of the holodeck , the Borg , and the way some features work aboard the Enterprise E ; DATA is given human skin by the Borg ( and then given something else which is much more effective in controlling even the mind of a machine ) ; the inventor of the warp drive takes off running for the hills after being overwhelmed by the Enterprise crew's hero worship and has to be captured and returned to the project ; the Borg devise a way to send for reinforcements after their ship is destroyed ; and Dr . Crusher kidnaps the warp drive project head in an attempt to save her life . All in all , the story itself is well written , and the acting on behalf of the thespians is good , solid and even rousing . There are some holes , as I have pointed out , but for the most part , the story works and is a deserving addition ( and perhaps the best NG installment ) to this franchise . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Charmingly Quirky	Many found this work a bit hard to take . Major names , beautiful faces , starring in a movie about immortals , life elixirs , and a Goddess ? Is the world ready for this ? Apparently not . This work was generally received with a sigh and a covert eye-roll , but I found it refreshing , innovative , and darkly funny . This is a great diversion from the day to day grind , and if you have even half an open mind , you should find it as entertaining as I did . It's part of the collection . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Often touted as THE best . . .	This installment in the never ending Bond franchise features more gadgets , more action , and that infamous Bond movie intro , featuring the over-done title song , and silhouettes of . . . girls , girls , girls , all injected into this , the franchise installment many fans label as " the first REAL Bond movie . " Our villain is an insidious gambler who also happens to be a jeweler , a metallurgist , and a cad . He employs " Odd Job , " a Korean baddie who looks like the 1960's version of wrestling's Fuji ( or was that Mount Fuji ? ) . This is a great chapter in the Bond world , but it is far from " the best , " in my opinion . That honor is bestowed on Moore's " Octopussy . " Connery swaggers a bit too much in this film , for my tastes . It is as if he is believing his own press , and has lost his style as a result . Frankly , although I know Connery leaves the franchise eventually , I think he should have left prior to this installment . It's fun , but it's not all that it's made out to be . Goldfinger is a classic in the venue of Bond films , and if you have never seen it , I recommend it , even though it is not among my personal favorites . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Seriously Underrated Drama , Two Outstanding Performances !	This is a love story , of sorts , which conflicts the viewer in that it tenderly presents this tragic heroine and then shocks the audience by eloquently demonstrating the ins and outs of the moderate-to-severe bi-polar disorder , with which the heroine attempts to live . ( The mother states her daughter suffers from depression , but Drew's depiction does NOT indicate depression alone . There are extreme highs and bottom-dipping lows , which would be more indicative of manic depression or bi-polar disorder than depression alone . Not to minimize the life-changing effects of clinical or chemical depression , because I'm not . ) Drew generates a stellar performance here , and fully sells the range of emotions her character experiences . Her portrayal is dead on perfect ; in not just the disease itself , but her depth and range here is nothing short of phenomenal . Chris O'Donnell is not as lacking as some would make one believe . He contributes an adequate performance as a young man without a clue ; therefore , his character is vastly disliked because he comes off as clueless , and movie-goers associated him with the character . Go figure . This work is seriously underrated , primarily due to the unsatisfactorily heart-wrenching ending , but also due to the audiences inability to conceive of Drew as anything but bubbly and intelligent . She customarily takes parts in which her character is put in a sweet ( if rose-colored ) light , whereas her role herein is quite edgy and tragic . The screenplay itself is not solid . The flux is very fluid within this story . The only solid thing here are the performances by Drew and Chris , and the profound sadness and sense of loss experienced by its viewers via the execution of the story line . I actually enjoyed this , though the ending IS unsettling and fails to satisfy . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful atmospheric suspense behind a darkly Machiavellian story	Quite honestly , at first , I did not know what to make of this film . Upon first viewing , it seemed like an overly-long , over-dramatized , superficial piece of cinematic sludge . However , upon a second viewing , I've come to appreciate the fiendish wit , and slow building suspense which is comparable to the malevolent Hitchcock-ian style suspense fans will quickly recognize . However , it does lack the subtlety of said director's style but gives you in-your-face evil in its place . These performances are really quite indicative of America's New England accents , mind-sets , and coastal way of life . Everyone contributed above-average performances , so there is no need to single out anyone other than Colm Feore . Colm Feore takes on the character of Andre Linoge ; the personification of evil itself . As a Being of great power and extreme longevity , his quest for a prodigy is actually quite understandable . However , the way he goes about it , was psychologically sound in execution , and provides him the very end he desired . He divided . He terrorized . He manifested . He planted the seeds of apathy , and he conquered . Very cleverly written and portrayed with a marvelously Machiavellian execution . You never even notice that it was actually , Made for TV . There was one issue , I had with this film . You never discover what Linoge's race is . You are told he is neither a God , nor an Immortal . He has Vampyric teeth , and lives a long , long time , but he is obviously not a Vampyre . He demonstrates some of the elder Vampyric abilities , but I got the feeling there was much more there than mere Vampyrism . It would have been nice to have been told . I must also add that the DVD version contained about 30 minutes ' worth of snips of scenes which the 2-tape VHS edition I had for years did not possess . The DVD version , marked " the Complete Mini-Series " thereby gives the viewer a much greater understanding of the details surrounding the events . It rates an on the " TV " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
The HellRaiser of This Decade	Every now and then something comes along that is new and fresh . It catches the slasher / serial killer fan by surprise and gives us hope that there will be a good franchise run in the making . Hellraiser was one such film . Now , I'm not saying Saw is anything like Hellraiser , other than it also caught me by surprise . When I first saw the previews , I thought oh no ! Not another " 5 kids start off for a weekend and get stalked " kind of thing , which this is NOT . This is also NOT your typical slasher , serial killer , etc . movie ! This work has the advantage of not only a fresh spin , but a fresh screenplay , compelling characters , and some awesome atmosphere . I thoroughly enjoyed this one , found myself on the edge of my seat a few times , and nearly breathless once or twice . I was delightfully surprised , as I did not expect this level of quality performances and direction . It was thoroughly enjoyable and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Ever So Silly , But Sweet Overall	The opening animation is shaky , at best . This is devoid of Disney Magick AND Disney talent . But once it goes live action , the Disney charm shines through , and holds you throughout . Medieval-Victorian Fairy Tale meets Aquarian-Age New York . I must admit , I was a bit turned off by this premise . Every Rom-Com endeavors to weave the Fairy Tale in a modern-day setting . Some succeed , but most fall flat . Enchanted does not attempt to weave a Fairy Tale , it IS a Fairy Tale , and a darned sweet and entertaining one , at that . All in all ? This is definitely a Friday / Saturday night movie for the family , children worried about a " wicked " stepmother , or dating couples , though probably not one for " the guys . " I cannot say there is something here for everyone , because frankly , if you have a cynical eye for romance , this work will probably cause you to long for some Visine . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Style , Great Movie , But Doesn't Quite Match The First .	This chapter of the Blade trilogy does not quite deliver the same atmosphere as the first installment , but still brings enjoyment , a capable cast , and a good story . I can't rate this one as high as the first , but it's still a great vampire film , which delivers some of the best elements . This delivers some gritty action from beginning to end . Wesley Snipes is awesome in this . I thoroughly enjoyed it , and that's saying a lot where horror sequels are concerned . They are seldom as fulfilling as this , although it is far from a masterpiece . I liked it , but didn't love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Daring and unlikely Anne Rice adaptation makes good .	As an adaptation of Anne Rice's novel , this is putrid ! But as a comedy featuring Dan Aykroyd and Rosie O'Donnell , this movie is joy and laughter . Also , this is one of the best movies featuring Rosie O'Donnell . If you liked " Another Stakeout , " you will love this movie . As undercover cops , Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd find themselves on a private island , living the BDSM / Ds lifestyle in the attempts to gather evidence inadvertently obtained by one of the island's submissives . Rosie poses as a Guest , and Dan ends up working as maintenance . I found this comedy to be fun , witty , and highly entertaining . The jokes were well-placed , well-delivered , and clever . The acting quality was what you would expect from seasoned professionals like Dana Delaney , Dan Aykroyd , and Rosie O'Donnell ; and the sets and depiction of the Lifestyle was very realistic . Dana Delaney is wonderful as the Dominatrix in charge of the island , and Paul Mercurio was a fresh new face to American cinematic production . I found his acting quality to be quite good . This is a funny , fun , but kinky little comedy and is not for all tastes / ages , which is why it did not do so well at the box offices . It is not filmed epically and almost has a " Made for TV " feel to the film quality , cuts , and angles . However , if you are a fan of Anne Rice's novel , then you'll hate this movie . It changed so much , and added some serious comedic elements , thereby completely bastardizing the original literary work . If you like the novel , then watch this with an open mind . I loved it as a movie , hated it as an adaptation . I'm rating it at an . the Fiend : .
Less Cynical , More Endearing .	The second installment of the Shrek franchise was less cynical , but more in your face than the first . The snide comments are still present , but they are presented this time in a family atmosphere , for the most part , and therefore were less sexual in nature . Mostly . The characters this time are more extravagant , less adventuresome , but at the same time , they cast a creative spin on older , more familiar storybook characters and reintroduced them into the Shrekiverse . I thought that was a smart move , considering the content and execution of this particular story line . I ultimately found this endeavor more enjoyable than the first . And , while the cynicism was still pervasive , it was less edgy and more family / child friendly than its predecessor . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Top Gun Spoof Hits More Than Misses .	This is probably one of the better spoofs / parodies today . In my opinion , while it doesn't come close to Blazing Saddles , Young Frankenstein , Robin Hood : Men in Tights , or Spaceballs , it does rank with the Naked Gun and Airport movies . It is not intelligent , but it is plain stupid fun . Turn off your intelligence , leave your common sense and thinking cap at the door , and just enjoy . It is quite mindless fun , and holds nothing Top Gun to be sacred . I find that a plus . If you like satire , this is well worth your time , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A magickal experience .	My expectations were low . This was a " Hallmark " made for TV attempt that smacked of smarm and registered high on the " cuteness " factor . Neither of those elements prove to be very endearing , where I'm concerned . I was delightfully surprised . This was an almost addictive near-seven hour epic . A seven hour movie that I found otherwise delightful , adventurous , creative , and endearing . That is quite an accomplishment , in my opinion . This production will undoubtedly teach your children to walk around and say , " Suck an elf ! " But there are worse things they could be repeating . It had the look of television , but not the feel . It felt larger . Not epic , but larger . The plethora of stars cast in this work was both surprising and satisfying . I would have to say that Bluebell the Troll ( terrified throughout the nine Kingdoms ) was my favorite of these creative and well-developed characters . Check out the cameo by Warwick Davis , as well ! ( Willow & Flitwick of Harry Potter fame ) . This star-studded television production is wonderfully written , beautifully executed , and lovingly presented by Hallmark . Watch it . It is timeless . I fervently hope that they do follow through with a sequel , as they did leave it open at the end for a follow-up work . I hope they go that way and not take the road of a weekly television show , which would cheapen this lovely and rich production . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Superficially Superficial	On the surface , this appears to be a pretty pointless flick . In reality , however , this work is quite well informed concerning drug abuse , and unrestrained sexuality . This is depraved and despairing as it enlightens One to the NY Club Kid phenomenon via the life of one confused , sad , love-starved , drug-crazed little boy . But as it enlightens , it also glamorizes gratuitous ( and prolific ) drug use , and wanton demoralized sexuality . I wish I could say the performances herein were " brilliant , " however , One needs only look into the criminal past of some of these ex-child actors to see that the performances were not mere performances , but some ( overstated ) statement of self . All in all ? This needs to be seen , if only to get the picture of where our society is headed . We ARE the modern Rome , just prior to the collapse . But while the desperation and depravity reigns the screenplay , there is some detached enjoyment to be had , if the viewer can manage it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is pretty atmospheric and tense .	My favorite version of this work is the 1978 Philip Kaufman work featuring Donald Sutherland , with Jeff Goldblum and Leonard Nimoy . But that is because I am a fan of those actors . As far as the actual WORK goes , I must admit I am blown away by the atmosphere , the caliber of performance , and the overall execution of the premise herein . Wow ! I grew up with the 1978 version , as that was my mother's favorite , too . I had never seen this original until recently . This original work is far more suspenseful than its subsequent remakes . This work bears a much more realistic feeling to it , and while it is terribly dated , it still feels more fresh than the 1978 remake . This review is , however , being written without viewing the most recent Kidman remake entitled The Invasion . All in all ? This is pretty atmospheric and tense . Surprisingly good for one so dated as this . Many times , the age of a film can cut into the suspension of belief factor , but this film does not suffer that malady . I was thoroughly immersed , and highly entertained . It rates an on the B & W Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Campy Humor at its best ! !	This movie was supposed to be a big blockbuster hit . but it ended up as almost the end to Bruce Willis's career . Fortunately , that wasn't the case . The whole world likes Willis's acting , action and the characters he portrays . Although this movie was recently rated among the 10 worst movies of all time at MSN , I found it quite refreshing , interestingly funny and downright campy . I laugh every time I see the movie . how many movies can you say that about ? " Bunny ! Ball Ball ! " Just precious . The storyline is as follows . A Dominatrix ( Sandra Bernhard ) and her megalomaniac husband ( Richard E Grant ) are setting in motion a plot to take over the world . Willis's character , Eddie Hawkins , is the only person who can stop them . The plot is a classic and the laughs just keep coming . Complete with Andie McDowell as Hawkins's love interest , this movie is very entertaining . What other movie has " the guy on the donkey " listed in its credits ? This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Purely Fun Family Film	Vin Diesel ? In a Comedy ? Yes ! And he's awesome ! I'm hoping this doesn't indicate a genre change for Diesel-I love watching his actioners , but when he decides he needs to retire , he should definitely give comedy a sincere consideration . This wasn't " awesome , " but it was highly enjoyable . The premise has been done before . . . when I saw the previews for this work , I thought , " Just another Suburban Commando ripoff . " I'm happy to report that this endeavor is so much more than that , and stands alone , without any connection to that work than a military character in a suburban setting . Everything else is different , and well executed by these gifted child actors and Vin Diesel in his most lovable role . I highly recommend this work to any family who are looking for something worthy in which to invest their movie time . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inkheart is a highly enjoyable film . But it is NOT the book .	Let me begin by saying I have read the book and most of the second . When I saw the trailer , there were so many elements I could not place that I presumed this film would be some combination of all three books , and almost did not see it as I had not yet read the last book . I'm glad I did not succumb to this temptation . The movie itself is loosely based on Funke's book . That's right , " book . " It is actually NOT based on all three books , but rather , just as the title implies , the initial Inkheart . The elements I could not identify were never in the book . So . . . If you're a book fan and are unable to separate the literary story from a film adaptation , you WILL be disappointed . But honestly , if you're looking for something that bears more than a slight resemblance to the book , you still may be disappointed by the omissions , rearrangements , and substitutions . But do let me say that Brendan Frasier is a wonderful Mo . The casting choice of Eliza Hope Bennett as Meggie was a bit of a surprise , but she is lovely and does very well as Meggie . Paul Bettany is a beautifully tragic Dustfinger . Wow , what a performance Bettany gives ! I was also surprised by Helen Mirren's casting as Aunt Elinor , but she was a capable and endearing Elinor . I was even impressed by Rafi Gavron's Farid . I can't wait to see where HIS career leads him . He has great promise . They , and the supporting cast , were wonderful . Not one stiff performance . Andy Serkis was also good as Capricorn . I can't say he was " awesome , " as he was not nearly as scary as the literary version , and seemed somewhat of a victim of his own circumstances herein , but he was enjoyable , nonetheless . If you have never read the books , however , you may find this as I did ; an enchanting lovely fantasy with enigmatic characters and a slick execution style . I enjoyed this work far more than I should have , considering the plethora of WIDE variances from the literary source . All in all , while Inkheart is a highly enjoyable film , it is NOT the book . My advice ? Watch the movie . Love the movie . Then read the book and find a hundred new reasons to love it again . It's still fun , it's still wonderful , and it's still enchanting . It rates an on the movie scale . It rates a on the adaptation scale . It rates an on the fantasy scale from . . . the Fiend : .
What a Nice Surprise !	I saw it was set in Colorado , and I had my doubts . I saw it featured a cast I had never heard of and I had further doubts . I read a few of the story ideas , and I almost passed on this one . I'm glad I didn't . First off , this was rated " R " rather than the watered-down whiny version of AvP which was served to us like a steaming pile of feces , in the theaters a couple of years ago . This installment of the combo-franchise is true to both the Alien AND the Predator franchises , as well as the AvP line , itself . I was quite impressed with the beauty of the continuity , the auspicious design of the Predalien , and the incredible attention paid to detail . Look for a return of the weapon removed from the sarcophagus in AvP , some of the toys and gadgets aboard the Predator ship you may remember from Predator 2 , and the deep forest setting in the beginning is quite reminiscent of the setting of Predator . The acting was the only area , which needed some help , in my opinion . The dialog delivery was poor , although the dialog itself was quite well written . However , the slick production design , the great story , and excellent execution do serve as qualified distraction from the aforementioned fault , thereby rendering this film worthy , in the extreme . All in all ? This is a most excellent Friday / Saturday night movie ! But NOT one for the kiddies . This is a fitting and deserved installment in the AvP franchise ; one which tops the original by leaps and bounds . This actually rates up there with A2 and P1 ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Under-rated and unappreciated .	Highly entertaining adaptation of King's beloved literary work . Far better than its ratings would suggest . I didn't want to like this movie . The cast was a motley crew at best , and the screenplay wasn't like the book . But what I found when I bought this movie was : it was better . INFINITELY BETTER ! All the " fat " has been trimmed out of the screenplay and what is left is the core of King's story . DEFINITE SPOILERSOkay , before I start this , let me say , I don't care about the turtle ( the other " good aliens " ) , the omitted sexuality or anything else King put into the novel . I read the novel over and over for years and I loved it , but as with all " adaptations , " there will be changes . Accept it and move on . The smarmy casting threw me off a bit at first . I thought , " Jeeeeez . " But I was delightfully surprised by the performances of the actors ( both adult and child ) in this artfully written and perpetrated attempt . It wasn't truly what I would classify as " horror , " but the moments were tensely suspenseful , and the acting was top row . The story is of seven children , brought together once again as adults to face an ancient evil ; an evil they have defeated once before . The town of Derry is more than just quiet . It has a history of mass disappearances and indifference concerning the untoward events which occur there . A mysterious shroud of forgetfulness lies over this town , and soon after leaving , most forget everything that happened . But Derry has one asset . It has Mike Hanlon ( Tim Reid / Marlon Taylor-12 ) , a dedicated friend to the other six , head librarian , " Lighthouse , " and Keeper of Derry . A phone call to the rest of the " Lucky Seven " brings them together once again and , as they slowly begin to remember the things which happened all those years ago , also serves to outline and reshape their lives forever . Is the magick that brought them together so many years ago , still in them ? Will they win against Pennywise a second time ? Will they survive ? This is a good movie . It's adequate as an adaptation , having been changed , as adaptations are ; the very WORD adaptation comes from adapt , meaning to change to fit . It's decent as a horror movie ; scary in places and has a consistent storyline . It's not what I'd call true horror , but more . . . suspense . The storyline and the performances of the child actors is what fully redeems this movie . These kids ( among them is Seth Green ! ) are true talent . I was also quite impressed with the adult actors ' performances . To get consistently good , believable performances out of this rather motley crew of comics and has-beens took directing genius on behalf of Tommy Lee Wallace . This come as a genuine surprise , considering everything else he's directed has just STUNK to high HEAVEN . . . ( Halloween 3 : Season of the Witch ! gags the ABSOLUTE WORST of the series , by the way ! ) It's entertaining and gives you a feel of having history ; roots , as it were . I did , however , find that they left out one significant detail . They never explained the relevance of the clown's repetitious , " They float down here . " It's a good movie . Watch it . This movie gets a on the " TV " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospherically dark , twisted , and gory .	I loved this adaptation ! ! Believe it or not ! It was dramatic , bloody , graphic and INTENSE just like the story was . But this was adapted from a short story . It is in my opinion that short stories tend to be easier to adapt , as they have little room for detail or too MUCH story , thereby making it easier to adapt , as it leaves quite a bit to the imagination . The scenes here were well directed , the plot stuck with the storyline , the actors were capable , if somewhat dullard and slow at times , and the carnage was awesome . This is honestly not for anyone with a weak stomach , or those of tender heart . It can be considered quite shocking . - SPOILER - In the airport scene , when you enter the airport and it's filled with blood and body parts ? That RAWKED ! ! - END SPOILER-Excellent job . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
A delightful surprise .	I read the box . I saw the previews . I was unimpressed . But in viewing this production , I must say I was delightfully surprised . Martin Sheen delivers an honest and genuine performance as a recently-widowed father who must battle the forces of evil to keep a grip on his son . This was a very close depiction of Santeria , a South American belief system similar to voodoo , and the darker aspects of its flip-side . It also is a very realistic representation concerning the bigotry found between religious groups , but that is SO not what the movie is about . Caught in a web of deceit and ritualistic murder , Cal ( Sheen ) must puzzle his way through this intricate maze of dark riddles to save his son from the clutches of an ancient evil . If it sounds dramatic by that description , then just wait until you see the movie . It is edgy , suspenseful , and bears some downright scary moments . This is good cinema . I personally think this is one of the best of its sub-genre , second only ( and not by much ) to Rosemary's Baby , but superior to the Servants of Twilight adaptation ( though not superior to the book by Dean R . Koontz ) . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet and Beautiful .	I know I'm in the minority and this , like many of my other reviews will receive poor marks here at IMDb . I cannot allow that to color my reviews , and therefore , I do not . Although I thoroughly enjoy it , I can see why this tanked at the box office . This work is going to be insulting to Christians , and anyone else wouldn't care to see it . This film is based on Christian mythology , so most people of other faiths would not care to bother with this . Also , people seem confused as to the purpose of this work , citing it as " unfunny " and " sacrilegious , " when this movie was never intended to be funny . It may be billed as a comedy , but the purpose is to make you think . . to improve your spirituality , and quality of heart . If you're looking for funny go somewhere else . This work is totally sweet , and serves to remind us that faith is something that comes from within , rather than a church building , temple , or synagogue . If you walk away with this realization , regardless of your spiritual path , then this work has served its purpose , in my opinion . I give it an . Mae Govanan , Mellon . The Fiend : .
Compellingly Spellbinding .	Leland Gaunt ( Max von Sydow ) is coming to your neighborhood . What's Your Needful Thing ? It doesn't matter . From enchanted sunglasses to baseball cards to Hubble figurines , he's got it all . Come on in ! Look Around ! He's got a line of used and indeed , rare , merchandise to show you . Don't see it ? No problem . Just ask . More than likely , housed in the back of his store , he's got just what you're looking for . But . There's a price to be paid for all things given to you by dark entities . And this Leland fellow , he's not a Lighthouse , that's for sure . Once you've made the deal and the item is exchanged , you owe him a favor ; a prank , as it were . Nothing dangerous or dirty . . . just . . . mean . No harm , no foul . Not until all the pieces begin falling into place , that is . But once the full picture's finally revealed , will it be too late to stop that final piece from sliding right into its slot ? Great movie . Better book , but as Stephen King adaptations go , it's quite entertaining . Did I mention the book's better ? Mmmmkay . This movie gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Coffee with Pinhead .	This was the definitive movie in the Hellraiser series in that it defined Pinhead as the ultimate nemesis whereas before , Frank held that role . Many critics have stated that this movie was totally unnecessary within the series , but I beg to differ . It explained who and what Pinhead was , introduced you to his character in a much more satisfying way , and allowed the viewer to develop a bond with his charismatic persona ; both as human and as demon . These factors are quite necessary if this series is to continue . Terry Farrel and Paula Marshall ( of Warlock : The Armageddon and Steve Martin's surprise 2004 summer hit " Cheaper By The Dozen " ) both contributed their best work ( Paula Marshall was just hitting the big screen ) , rendering solid performances . This movie will be somewhat of a disappointment for splatter fans as it is not the bloodiest of the line . While this may not be the bloodiest ( but it is quite bloody ) or most action-filled installment , it is most necessary in following the story line and flow of the gruesome nightmare journey into Hell that is Hellraiser . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Stirring and Visually Stunning	Is this a masterpiece ? In a word , no . But it is quite good in its stunning visuals , beautiful performances , and its heart wrenching treachery . This film is quite disturbing , but in intended ways , and delivers a strong story filled with tragically beautiful renditions of post-war Japan , the preservation of its ways , and the perseverance of its people . I found this work absolutely lovely in its triumph , but the real triumph is in the performances of the three beautiful stars . These women are gifted actresses , who are not afraid to give their all on camera . Their contributions are what uplifts this otherwise lackluster production into the annals of cinematic beauty . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Better On The Second Viewing	When I saw this in the theater , I hated it . I was like . . . WHAT did I just SEE ? For some reason , it made no sense to me . The story didn't flesh with the characters , and the creatures were just plain out of place . Upon the second viewing , however , the whole thing made sense . I can't say this was a " good " video game adaptation , but the movie itself is awesome as a stand alone . It's better than the norm in the way of adaptations from a video game , but it may take a viewing or two to realize it . Check out the first person sequence during the walk through . Now THAT's what we expected with Resident Evil . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
An Old Favorite For Many	This was an old favorite for many younger baby-boomers , who were teenagers and in their twenties at the dawn of the personal computer age . This one was a bit more than amusing , though . It opened many eyes to both the potential and the dangers we faced while coming into the computer age . The government had these marvelous machines and the internet by which they communicated for decades before the public was given access from these ancient Commodore 64's , Amigas , and Atari home computers via phone line , back in the late 1970's . While this work is entertaining , it also bears a valid warning , even today . Broderick and Ally Sheedy both were 21 , playing 17 year olds , competently . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Winning Drama !	If it's horror and / or action you want , then this isn't it . But if you're looking for a dark , disturbing , thought-provoking drama , this is the movie for you . This is a woman's movie in that it details the dysfunctional family life many women experience , from both perspectives ; the daughter and the wife . It empowers , and makes for great drama , without regard of the subject mater . As a general rule , King's books translate poorly to film . A fact which made this endeavor a delightful surprise . While not the most faithful of adaptations , this endeavor works well on film . Kathy Bates is more than convincing in the title role of Delores Claiborne . Her acting in this movie is exemplary . While this movie is pure drama , it is some of the darkest drama you can envision , although many families survive events such as these , it will definitely make you realize how lucky you are , should you not be one of them . This is a nice dark deviation from King's usual formula which is well worth the time . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
A deserving hit	What can I say ? Four Academy awards , Steven Spielberg , Robert Zemeckis , Bob Hoskins , Christopher Lloyd , and Jessica Rabbit ! ( Kathleen Turner ) this was a beautiful and rare collaboration between Disney and Warner Brothers ; something I wish they would repeat . This film is hard to describe to those who have yet to see it . I hope I do it justice . First off , this is not mere animation . It is a combination of animation and live acting , which works wonderfully together here to weave a gritty , touching story . Also , this is not for younger audiences . There is quite a bit of harsh language , sexual referencing , and adult innuendo , not to mention some gruesome murders . While there is a total lack of gore , the implications are still there . There are murders , mysteries , twists , and some really strong performances . It is a really gritty story , yet sweet and endearing at the same time . You will enjoy cameos by Bugs Bunny , Tweety , Mickey Mouse , Bambi , Pluto , Donald & Daffy Duck , Goofy , Droopy , Porky Pig , Betty Boop , and countless others . Enjoy ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
While this Is A Deviation From Disney's Typical Formula , And Is Not For Children of All Ages , It Is Quite Enjoyable !	From time to time , Disney deviates from the typical formula , and generates something new . . . something fresh . Atlantis was one such movie , without the first usual musical-ish feeling or element . It was a grand movie , with a beautiful feeling about it . This is another of those deviations , but without the same final effect . Something was lost in this translation , as it lacks much of the same old Disney feeling we've come to expect . It was prevalent throughout the atmosphere , story , and execution , but what struck me most of all was the lousy and often cheap-looking animation . The animation found herein was more what one might expect to find in a Disney animated sequel in that the backgrounds were haphazardly done , the principals were cheaply done , and the effects bore no concern or care in their design or presentation . The story , however is still quite compelling , while the elements of the story are darker than usual Disney fare . This was far darker than most Disney animated features , and may not be suitable for younger children , as the atmosphere is rather dark and foreboding . All this said , because of the story itself , this is not only in my collection , it stands as one of my Disney favorites . I AM a horror fan , after all . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet and Smart	This film is delightful . It's also sad and disrespectful , while maintaining a nice level of dark comedy . The dynamic between Crystal and DeNiro is the machinery that makes this work . Crystal is the quasi-neurotic psychiatrist while DeNiro portrays the panic-ridden , anxiety-prone psychotic with severe abandonment issues , and a strong need to maintain the Alpha Dog posture . Thus you have the grist for the mill . Joe Viterelli delivers a fantastic performance as Jelly , DeNiro's right hand man , but even Joe's marvelous performance is upstaged by an emotional DeNiro and the shrink who is trying to help keep him alive . The surreal feeling throws off those male viewers who cannot see the humor in an alpha dog losing his nerve ; those viewers will undoubtedly dog DeNiro's choice to take on this role , saying he's gone soft , etc . It took great courage and security in his own masculinity to take on a part like this , and I applaud it , and him for having the nerve to do it . I found myself laughing from start to finish . This is a fine comedy , and I have shared it with many friends . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Dark fun .	From the director of " Addams Family " and " Addams Family Values , " comes a dark comedy / sci-fi featuring two of America's most loved actors . This movie is anything but a let down . The intelligent darkly comedic aspects of this movie are both clever and witty . While the science in this movie is a little lacking , the action and comedic elements are highly effective . I found the performances to be solid and well-delivered . Tommy Lee Jones could not give a bad performance , even if his director was Mick Garris ! It simply is not IN him to do so . Will Smith . . . well , I'm not really a fan of Mr . Smith . In my opinion , he is the single-most over-rated , ego-inflated figure in the industry . I'm neither a fan of his work , nor his over-inflated pay checks . That not withstanding , his performance in this movie was quite good , and even I could enjoy it . The direction was wonderful , the creativity of the aliens was imaginative and astounding , and the plot was quite inspired . We found the finished product to be an instant and welcome addition to our " comic book " collection . PLOT : A new " bug " has come to town , and it's terrorizing Manhattan in a brand new Edgar suit . It is up to K and his unseasoned partner J to determine why he is here on Earth , and to foil his evil plan . It sounds far more campy than it is . The superior direction and ultimate polished execution never allowed this work to cross that line . And while it is delivered with tongue-in-cheek humor , the darker aspects cloak the levity in a fine darkling gossamer shroud . I highly enjoy this production , from all angles of a critical eye . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Charming M4TV Faerie Tale .	Although this does begin slowly , it picks up nicely and proceeds at a fair pace . This is basically set as a commentary on the idiocy of war , having set the Leprechauns against the Faeries over nothing more consequential than race . Although forbidden by the Grand Banshee ( Whoopie Golodberg ) , the fighting continues , as the Troopoing Faeries are the " natural enemies " of the Solitary Faeries . They have no pause to battle one another , as Fae Folk cannot die . Having no consequence to war , war seems a trivial thing to these folks . It is discussed with great dramatics , for to these wee ones , it is but a game of acting and playing , regardless of the caustic cause of the war . Once war is taken seriously , they still engage one another to a surprising effect , via the Grand Banshee , who is attempting to teach them to value their lives via reward and punishment . Too bad humans do not learn from such drastic consequences . Actually , this was quite enjoyable ; featuring some great performances , an interesting story , and decent execution . The story is fashioned after a Romeo and Juliet setting , with good contrast between the two opposing sides , and a clearly defined relationship between the involved couple . Additionally , there is a simultaneous romance involving the humans Jack ( Randy Quaid ) and Kathleen ( Orla Brady ) . Endearing characters , enchanting story with solid morals , and magical execution make this a near-classic . If you like this , you should try Disney's " Darby O'Gill and the Little People , " " FairyTale , A True Story , " or " Legend : The Ultimate Edition . " This rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Conflicted and uneven , but still fun	This attempt begins with a beautiful sequence between Laurie Strode ( reprised by Jamie Lee Curtis ) and Michael Myers . She is " killed " almost immediately and we are left with teen-aged cast members imitating the cast of " Scream 3 . " Character for character . We all know that Strode isn't dead . She did not survive all that just to die from a 12-foot fall and a single stab wound . Try again . The rest of the movie centers around the " Gale Weathers who isn't the ' real ' Gale Weathers " character and her would-be Deweyesque boyfriend who goes by " Deckard . " Everyone else will die . Everyone but Busta Rhymes , that is . He was the main reason I didn't want to like this movie . I mean . . . Busta Rhymes ? And he is a little over the top here , as I expected , but unlike my expectations , he was otherwise quite good . Other than the clichs ( and there are thousands , it seems ) , the fact that it could not decide between a PG-13 rating ( the level of violence and the kill saturation ) and an R ( waaay too much gratuitous sexual shots and scenes ) , and the obvious ripped-off characters , it was fun . It was not unique , creative , intellectual , or fresh , but it was fun . Average , but enjoyable and it's ( not vastly ) under-rated here at IMDb . I give it a from . . . the Fiend : .
The Fugitive Sequel Is An Awesome Stand Alone Feature !	Tommy Lee Jones is totally believable as Chief Deputy Marshall Sam Gerard . His performance is outstanding in this character-driven vehicle involving a major manhunt , a duplicitous government agent , an awesome performance by Wesley Snipes as the object of all this unwanted attention . This focuses more on the story than the action , which I found refreshing , although that is not to say that the action was not prevalent or rousing , because it was . I mean simply that the story was the star . This is definitely worth your time , and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Flawed but fun	I can see why comic book purists aren't happy with Elektra , but they are missing out on a fun 90 + minutes ! Firstly , let me congratulate Ms . Garner on a hard-fought and dedicated embodiment of Elektra . Her performance alone , would have been enough to make this an enjoyable endeavor , had it needed to carry the movie . She worked very hard with the choreographer , trained long days , and did her own stunts ! And while this was a flawed presentation , I found it was still enjoyable . Fortunately , it was not necessary for Garner to support this work alone . Kirsten Prout's portrayal as Abby was beautiful . She exhibited a wide range of emotions and abilities with which my hometown audience was spellbound . Terence Stamp demonstrated a lovely versatile acting style which I had never before seen from him . His portrayal was honest and utterly realistic . I do not agree with the common hatred for Daredevil ( the first movie of this vein , and to which Elektra is a sequel ) , but in spite of the Affleck bashers out there , I enjoyed the appetencial spirit exhibited in Daredevil , and the intellectual and physical rapport between Affleck and Garner's characters . The characters and action were steeped in Japanese mysticism , combined with some impressive free-wheeling martial arts , and a few over the top wire flights which did nothing to detract from the action . I thoroughly enjoyed the wonderful level of suspense generated by the sinister plot , and solidly backed up by the action sequences . It held a beautiful synergy throughout the endeavor . Garner stayed true to the personality of Elektra Natchios , even when it seemed dangerous for her future career . She took risks and allowed superior direction to take over when necessary . Unfortunately , the director ( Bowman ) doesn't seem to feel the need to give us enough of the back story . We don't know much about the Hand , or Mr . Stick , except that they were there , and how they acted when in our presence . We did get some quality character development concerning Elektra , but I also wanted more of Abby and why she was so necessary . He does let you know ; he does give you just enough to get through the movie without disappointment . But not enough to satisfy either the real fans of the genre or casual fans who are lacking the foreknowledge of the series . ( Now , in all honesty , it is quite obvious that Stick and Daredevil are aligned in some way , as they are both blind and seem to use the same fighting style . ) The plot is as deeply mystical as are the characters . It has been criticized as weak and tripping itself up . However , I did not find one scene which did not seem to know where it was going . Each dissolve was as seamless as the one before it , and each small bit of the story connected nicely with the next . As I've indicated , however , there could have been a bit more in the way of explanation of some of these beautiful plot and design elements , but all in all we were thoroughly engrossed . There was no snickering or quiet muttering going on during this . That in itself is rare for our hometown theater . While this wasn't the spring board out of the ( commonly perceived ) mire of Daredevil the studios hoped it would be , it does well to stand on its own due to Jennifer Garner's dedication and professionalism . We found this work to be an honest , fresh , and heart-warmingly solid source of entertainment . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
If This Hadn't Been Associated Wtih The Television Series , It Would Have Done Well !	Honestly , what most people didn't like about this film is that they cast Will Smith in a part previously carried by a white guy , a popular actor , and the lead of another popular television show , Ba Ba Black Sheep . It insensed many people , and others felt outright insulted . If they had named this ANYthing else , it would have been MUCH more successful . But alas ! No one listens to me . LOL It made its money back , barely , but has a horrible rating here at IMDb . I personally think it deserves better than the 4 . whatever rating it holds today , but there is further cause for this phenomenon . The South was depicted as insanely ignorant , and the north was given victory only by virtue of Southern capability gone awry . Neither the North NOR the South liked THAT one , I can guarantee it . Me ? I don't take sides . The Civil War stops here , with my family line . I had kin who fought on both sides , so I don't share the same prejudices , even though I'm from the South . Otherwise , this is a good movie . . . a little preachy , but enjoyable nonetheless . I like it . I watch it . I own it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Adam's Best RomComs !	Okay , I have to start by saying I really do enjoy 50 First Dates better , in spite of Rob Schneider , but The Wedding Singer is a very good Romantic Comedy . In fact , this is one of the best since the Meg Ryan RomCom run ended . I'm not typically one for romantic comedies , or at least I wasn't , but I still found this exceptional , especially for an Adam Sandler movie . But having said that , I must interject that Drew Barrymore is a dream . She brings joy to almost anything she's in . This one is above the norm for this type of movie , and was actually enjoyable , beyond what one would normally expect . It rates an on the RomCom Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
A very enjoyable . . . enterprise .	Let me start this off by saying I found this movie to be endearing , sweet , and very well written . But is that really what we look for in a Star Trek movie ? No . At least it isn't what I look for . It's what I would expect from an episode on the series , but not in a full-length feature film . While I found this production to be quite well done , I never expected such low quality to be present in one of the movies . This FELT and played like an over-long episode of the television series . Spiner and Stewart , having the control they do , get to make script changes seemingly at whim , before ever signing into their contracts , guaranteeing them certain assurances of screen time and story line . Both have apparently utilized that option in this production , and with Frakes directing , it seems to have created a serious gap in the production quality . This simply was not of feature film quality and should have been reduced to the weekly series where it belonged . That having been said , there is one other seriously disturbing factor to this installment . The procedures performed upon the So'na were just disgusting . This was an obvious attempt to draw horror fans and teens who had not grown up with the series , into the Star Trek fold . Gore has no place in Star Trek , in my opinion . There are many franchises which offer that feastial eye candy , and Star Trek , until this production , was not one of them . Because of that sole factor , this movie turned off a lot of die-hard fans . Premise : the Ba'ku are a nature and peace loving society who live on a planet which is the apparent equivalent of " Tuck's Everlasting , " in that the environment provides an almost eternal life to its inhabitants . The So'na , lead by Ru'afo , have worked with Star Fleet in establishing a base , secreted in the heart of the Ba'ku village from which they can bear witness to the life of the Ba'ku , run tests on the environment , and attempt to duplicate the effects of the planet's environment on behalf of the So'na who are dying , as a race . However , DATA malfunctions , due to some unknown interference , and exposes the hidden base , and its inhabitants to the Ba'ku , thereby nullifying the entire mission . The mystery is why ? The premise is quite good , but as I said , it belonged more as part of the series , rather than this line of feature films . Also , Piccard's love interest was rather disturbing . I expected Kirk to go after every female within a 20 light year radius , but not Piccard . I thought it was well-established that that was Riker's job , anyway . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
While Not Well Received , This Is Quite Well Done	I must inform you that that Roland Joff has utterly bastardized Nathaniel Hawthorne's work with this film , but I find I must review the film as a film , rather than an adaptation due to the strength of the film itself in comparison to the original literary work . As an adaptation , it is a sexed-up , stylized-down piece of detritus . But as a film . . . This work stands alone , as it will not bear up under scrutiny when compared against Hawthorne , but aside from that , this " based on " work is a fabulous dramatization of Hawthorne's story . I have to say the performances are marvelous , the story is captivating , and the emotion of the portrayals is wrenching . I highly enjoyed this bastardization , and rate it at a from . . . the Fiend : .
Not as good as the first two , but Not bad , either	While I must agree that this third installment is not as fun as the previous two , it is still fun . Studios always want to employ the " son of " vehicle , and it usually falls flat . I have no idea why they keep doing it , but they still do it today . This time , the usual suspects include mobsters , and while I do enjoy a good Cosa Nostra actioner , that is NOT what this is . Some of the cheek is gone , but for the most part , the humor still reigns supreme , but to a lesser extent . The baby factor kind of drags down the usual lightheartedness of these works , as there is a new concern factor wherein the baby's safety comes into question . Asta's more , rather than less , adorable in this one . All in all ? This was great fun and a delight to watch , if somewhat of a piece of milquetoast next to the first two installments . I find these endearing but if you have a problem with the children being exposed to gratuitous alcohol abuse , you might want to watch this after they've gone to bed . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Many Agree , The Sequel Surpasses The Original	It is hard to best a movie deemed an " instant classic " by so many , but Joe Dante appears to have the secret . There is more humor , though much of it is backhanded and more adult oriented , thereby making this sequel even less younger kid friendly than its original . There are also sexual innuendos dipping into the bondage and discipline lifestyle , so if you're opposed to your 4 year old asking why the gremlin is DOING THAT ? I would advise prescreening before allowing the kiddies to view this one . While the story line leans heavily on the mad scientist aspect of most creature features and is thereby clich , I found this work much more fun than the original . It doesn't attempt to make you think , doesn't shove social injustices in your face , and doesn't attempt to teach you a thing . It is pure mindless entertainment , and as such , rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I loved it , although they only made 12 episodes . : (	This was a compilation of about 18 different successful shows of the previous decades , all shuffled together and redistributed as a revamp of the previously loved Yogi & Boo-Boo . There was Hair Bear who was the bad influence in a fro , Square Bear who was the goody-two-shoes Southern Baptist , and Bubi who basically was Yogi's sidekick in virtually every way . Oo ! Oo ! Botch , and Mr . Peeveley the Zoo manager . After bedtime , the bears would sneak out into the world to see what they could get into and then try to get back into their habitat by the time the sun came up and Mr . Peeveley would be back on the grounds . All in all it was pretty cute , and I have fond memories of watching it as a child . I can't say today that the stereotypes would be entertaining , or that the premise of sneaking out at night is a good thing to teach a kid . So much for the memories . Cheers ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
I was impressed . . .	DMX can act ! Now don't get me wrong , he was good in Romeo Must Die and a bit better in Exit Wounds , but he really showed a marked improvement in this venture . With the return of practically the whole Romeo Must Die cast , you get all the pluck for your buck with this action-packed venture into the dark world of the double-dealer . I honestly have no idea why this movie has so little a rating at IMDb ; this is a quality action flick with a solid story , great performances and some awesome action sequences . I won't spoil the story more than the box already does , but this is one surprisingly good action / crime drama . Seriously . This was as total surprise . Check it out . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent Disney fare . One of the best .	Okay . They rewrote the whole legend . But Disney has an unerring way of doing that . Anyone remember Pocahontas ? They even changed Cinderella , Snow White , and every other Disney Masterpiece sitting on your shelves , so why does it matter that this , too , was changed ? It matters on several different levels , but the most important reason it matters is because Disney , in their positioning among the children's entertainment market , is in the unique position to actually teach these legends , these snippets of history , these morals and ethics , to the children of their audiences , rather than proffering sugar-coated , merchandized over-glorifications in exchange for the great American dollar . That having been said , this is still an entertaining introduction to the legend , but I highly suggest " Greystoke : The Legend of Tarzan , Lord of the Apes , " ( 1984 ) , directed by Hugh Hudson . It is the most faithful adaptation I've ever seen , and a highly enjoyable adventure , which carries a PG rating and is safe for most ages to view . A lot has been said about the deep canvas effect used throughout the jungle scenes , and I must admit that I found the technique highly effective and extremely well done . I do computer graphics myself , and I was very impressed with the 3D effects throughout , including the water variants and textures used in the ship scenes , the fire effects used in the jungle , and the smoke effects from the guns used by the poachers . The textures and backgrounds were absolutely stunning , and for me , as a graphics artist , that's what I look for when I view a quality animation . Very good endeavor . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Moody , atmospheric action / thriller	Very good thriller , in spite of Gwyneth Paltrow's involvement . I generally detest Gwyneth Paltrow in everything she's done . I can't abide her presence and it is my personal opinion that she suffers from a total lack of talent . However , Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt pull this one completely out of the wastebasket , dusts it off , and sets it back on the shelf . The story is very telling , the performances are completely professional , the set designs are inspired , and the whole production is darkly and eerily executed . You can , however , see Mr . Pitt's character from 12 Monkeys in his character in this movie , as they were filmed very close to one another . You can see some of the schizophrenic mannerisms exhibited here , which in no way draws from the character , nor does it draw from the finished product . I found it rather endearing , in fact , as I enjoyed 12 Monkeys very much . Freeman and Pitt work together quite well , after a slow and faltering acceptance of one another , to lead you down the road which takes you into the dark and noisome mind of a killer . All in all , not a bad movie . I'm very grateful that Ms . Paltrow's part was small and almost inconsequential . I've just one question , though . What is with the fascination with Christian legend , of late ? There are thousands of ancient civilizations out there which worshiped thousands of gods / goddesses . What is with this Christian obsession ? While this is an original screenplay , with creative and unique elements , due to its Christian elements , it gets thrown right in with about a hundred other movies of this type . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Great , funny , sweetly dark mystery / comedy .	This movie really makes me laugh . The dialog is hilarious , the acting is very realistic and Danny Divitto , Neve Campbell , Jamie Lee Curtis and Bette Middler add their own talents to this otherwise wonderfully dark comedic masterpiece . There are no special effects , there are no expensive props . There is nothing to lend to this movie but the acting talents of these marvelous actors and William Fichtner ( Detective Alex Tardio of " What's the Worst That Can Happen ? " ) is excellent as Phil Dearly , husband of the deceased Mona Dearly , the woman everyone loved to hate . Mona drives herself off a cliff , but during the preliminary investigation , one which the police chief ( Divitto ) thinks in the beginning will be cursory , he discovers that there isn't just a list of small-town suspects . There is a town FULL of suspects . The question turns quickly from " Who did it ? " to " Who didn't do it ? " There are even a few twists as the story moves along . Marcus Thomas portrays Mona Dearly's son , Jeff , in a way that only he could . His portrayal is good enough to make you want to see him hanged upside down into a pool of piranha . That's good acting . Somebody give that man a ROLE ! He's good ! It's a great movie with a great cast and wonderful portrayals of small-town life . Dead on . The characters have depth , and the story has a line . It's directed well and presented beautifully . Very entertaining and enjoyable movie . If you liked the Addams Family's feel of dark comedy , " A Fish Called Wanda , " or " Fierce Creatures , " you'll love this one . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Entertaining , slick endeavor .	DePalma's all about lighting , camera angles , the perfect details for the perfect scene . All this makes for a much better finished product , and helps set the mood and pacing of the story . The story for this enterprise centers around Tom Cruise and his character , Ethan Hunt . When his mission goes awry , the frame begins to tighten . Everywhere he turns , everyone around Ethan seems to be on the " other " side , or operating in a duplicitous manner . It's up to our hero to fit together the pieces of this mental puzzle and figure out " who dunnit ? " An interesting ( if unoriginal ) plot which plays out well beneath DePalma's direction and Cruise's performance abilities . I'm not a fan of Cruise . I personally don't like him very much . I've never cared for the way he comes off as feeling superior . But I do have to admit that he's done few movies that I haven't liked . He is a talent unto himself , and as over-rated as he may appear to be , I think he's earned those ratings by delivering quality entertainment through quality performances . Nice action , good level of suspense , interesting characters , and a flexible yet solid plot . A very entertaining ( if unremarkable ) , slick endeavor . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Muppet Evolution	The Muppets we loved so much , have changed . Is it for the better , or the worse ? You decide . While this movie was more like the sequel to the original " The Muppet Movie , " in that it tries to explain Gonzo's origins , as the first did Kermit's , there is a definitive difference between Brian Henson's Muppets and those of his father : it's not as zany . The plot is wonderfully written , and acted well by the human actors and lovingly portrayed by the muppeteers . However , the Muppets have lost their edge ; the crisp delivery of the zany but witty one-liners is gone . Forever ? Gods , I hope not . I hope Brian is just warming up to those incredible shoes he has to fill , and isn't planning on changing the magic his father created all those years ago with a simple sock puppet and the creativity of a genius . The soundtrack , while not usual Muppet fare , is excellent ' 70's giants like Hot Chocolate , James Brown , etc . Wonderful music . I loved that change ! Don't worry , the Muppets sing along and dance , as usual and the adult innuendo is properly guarded and camouflaged , in classic Jim Henson style . - MAJOR SPOILER ! ! - I had one problem with this movie . Even after you go through the whole ordeal with Gonzo , you never know WTF he is ! They don't tell you ! Okay , he's not from this planet , but what IS he ? WHY leave that out ? It exasperates me to no END . Good Movie . I own it . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Easily , One of the Best Muppet Movies	I own the entire Muppet Movie collection , and have watched them all , many times . While this is not my personal favorite , it is easily the best of the line . As an adaptation of a classic work , as was the Muppet Christmas Carol , this zany recreation holds some intrigue , some good tense moments , and great laughs , while managing to project a strong moral center . With the wild popularity of Disney's Pirates line , I can see why a reissue of this work was necessary . With Tim Curry as Long John Silver , HOW could you go wrong ? This is great fun , wildly entertaining , and just plain good . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Dazzling depth for a comic book movie	I love this series of comic books , and I was not disappointed with the movie , although the character development I had hoped would be rich , was almost nonexistent , and there wasn't enough movie here to satisfy . It is 104 minutes long and needed to be at least two hours to enable some decent character development . While they tried , they fell short of what I would deem acceptable in this area . Other than that , this movie was very well done . The action sequences were rousing , the portrayals given were a good start in the right direction . The direction itself proved to be inspired , and the sets were creative . This whole production was executed in a manner which lent the darkling feel of mystery captured in the comic book , and some awe-inspiring CG-Eye Candy sequences made this film appear to be more than it should have been . The casting is one element which gave this movie its incredible success , but the effects and story were the products of a great and loving care devoted to the production of this movie , and it shows with each and every scene . This is a classic good vs . evil story with some romance , loads of action , a great story , and wonderful creative characters . It is pure sci-fi / action fan-boy delight . Let me also say that I highly recommend the X-Men 1 . 5 Edition . With over 5 hours of features , interviews and exclusive new extras , it is a bargain at the asking price ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Idiosyncratic X-Mas fare ! !	I love this movie ! It's about as muddled and messed up as life gets . Most of us can identify with at least some aspect of this film , sit back and just enjoy the chaos . This is my second favorite Christmas-time movie , the first being the Vacation Christmas with Chevy Chase ; another messy movie dealing with the holidays . Steve Martin is rather serious in this one , though he is still classic Steve , Madeline Kahn is excellent as the curmudgeonly Mrs . Munchnick , Rita Wilson is totally believable as Martin's love interest , and Liev Schreiber is hilarious as the cross-dressing " Arnie . " But it's Juliette Lewis as Gracie , who steals the show . She is an absolute schizophrenic joy . Most everyone has at least one of her in their family , and the kids always hope they show up for the celebration . This is definitely the movie for those of you who are not wholly filled with the Spirit of Christmas as it's a rather dark comedy with a lovely , darkling , idiosyncratic wit . This movie rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Reflective Comedy / Drama Pays Off !	To be honest , when this was first previewed , I had no interest in viewing it . It appeared to be a flick featuring Adam Sandler , portraying a manipulative and controlling moron . I wasn't interested . I LIKE Adam Sandler . I've been a fan since the first glimmerings of his career . I didn't want to see this . I know not to judge a book by its cover , now I've learned not to judge a movie by its previews . I just caught this against my will on the StarZ / Encore network , and it is extraordinary , but not in the ways one might expect . The story is not unique , but it IS innovative . The finished product only rates around a . But Sandler's performance drives this work , although it is geared to be story-driven . The work is reminiscent of A Christmas Carol by Dickens in that the main character has the opportunity to leap forward in time to see where his life is headed . Much like the Tarot , the remote he is given by the archangel Michael , only shows him what will happen if Sandler's character stays on the same path . It does not cause things to happen , but merely shows what will happen if changes are not made . This has nothing to do with Yule-time sentimentality's , yet it carries the same feeling of hope and love . I won't underestimate Sandler again . This was a delightful , if bittersweet , surprise . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Brilliant re-calculation of the original	As Stephen King remakes go , I tend to deTEST them . They always want to bastardize the original works , especially the literary works on which these movies are based . I loved the original " Carrie , " with Sissy Spaseck and John Travolta , having grown up in that era . And I rented this movie with the intention of hating it . But it actually grew on me . I was half-way through the movie , when I realized that it was , subtly , better . I also did not want to like Angela Bettis as Carrie White . But she , too . . . grew on me . The hesitations in her performance , are her CHARACTER's hesitations , not a lack of talent . Quite the contrary , in fact . The deviations this work takes from the original movie are constructive variations rather than the mindless drivel customary in the King remakes . Unfortunately , as with many of Mr . King's works , the dogmatic overtones hammer you in the head . They are nowhere near as " ignorable " in this made for TV movie , as they are in the novel , but that is to be expected . Mrs . White is still the insane pontificating zealot she is in the original literary work , but I found Carrie's faith uncharacteristically smarmy . It wasn't exactly out of character , considering who raised her , but it was distasteful , to say the least . The original Carrie was a head-strong girl who knew her mother was crazy . This Carrie was afraid of her own shadow , literally . The pig butchering scene was a delightful deviation , more like the novel and less like the original movie . Nice . It was compelling , disturbing and REAL . I also enjoyed David Carson's ( Smallville , the 10th Kingdom , etc . ) direction of Carrie , herself . Her experimentation with her powers was a nice touch . It added depth to her character instead of the shrieking plastic Carrie we got in the first movie . Added much to the depth of the movie , as well . The scene where Chris and Billy are in bed together discussing Carrie's fall , has a definite " Cruel Intentions " feeling . A likable , but sinister " Cruel Intentions " feeling . Niiiice . Except for the actors being in their mid-twenties portraying high school kids ( also done in the original ) , the movie had a reality to it that the first one lacked . Rena Sofer as Miss Desjarden was a delight to behold . There should be real teachers out there like her . Law-suits not withstanding , ALL teachers should demonstrate her level of caring and compassion . The way the entire movie was based around the police interviews with the students was wonderfully done , creatively perpetrated and convincingly portrayed . Many various and diverse touches were added to make this a very memorable movie . All in all , a much better movie , than the original . It contains the well-thought-out remake of the original scenes we've come to love and expect from the movie , " Carrie , " giving us both what we want and what the movie needed in order to best the original . As I said in the beginning , I had no intention whatsoever of liking this production , but it won its rewards by demonstrating superior direction , screenplay and performances . And , last but certainly not least , I found the ending to be even more dramatic in its portrayal than the original , by giving us less drama and more action . Very VERY nice ! Extremely well-done Made-For-TV movie . Brilliant adaptation of King's work . Absolutely delightful . It gets a surprising from . . . the Fiend : .
Watch it for what it is , rather than what others expect it to be . . .	It seems to be " trendy " to have bad things to say about this work , but I found it largely captivating . As the first ( or rather , the fourth , but we won't go into that ) installment of the Star Wars saga , this was meant not as a climactic piece of cinematic art , but more as an introduction to the series . This chapter of the Star Wars space opera had no " real " climactic center , no true " ending . " This is why the studios chose chapter 4 , the central climactic center of the story , to finance first . Of course , Lucas financed the rest , and 20th Century / Fox lost all rights to their share of the Lucas / Star Wars money machine when they lost their studio head , years ago . It was only due to Lucas's " generosity " that they still retain distribution rights . This work was an opening chapter only and had it been the first to have been made , the audiences would have been left to say , " WTF ? ! was that ? " So chapter 4 was rewritten to contain a definite beginning , climactic center , and ending so that it more resembled a " stand alone " feature . You know . . . just in case . But Lucas knew what he was doing , and Star Wars 1 ( as it was known then ) quickly became Star Wars : Episode 4 - A New Hope , and the progenitor of the Star Wars run . The action most critics seem to have missed , is covert . Duplicitious characters surreptitiously bargain behind closed doors , thereby setting up the story and the beautifully rich darkling sub-plots . And there IS actual action enough to keep even the die-hards entertained . But suspense , rather than action , is the element which fuels this fire . Action comes from the climactic build up , and is prevalent in Episodes 4-6 because they were the climax of the series . So don't be too disappointed if there is more story to these prequel installments , than action . The story is designed to bring about the action in the later episodes . Another issue with this work is the CGI . Fans are so accustomed to hearing the purists complain about the CGI from the Original Trilogy , that they've forgotten why there's an issue . That having been said , the CGI in this installment ultimately makes the final product as adventurous , exciting , and cohesive in story as it was . Lucas's Star Wars Universe is beautifully conceived , and wondrously executed as to be a treasure which is the fourth highest grossing film ever . Apparently , someone liked it . His characters are beautifully conceived and executed , and competently paint the world of Lucas in such a way as to endear , not repulse . All characters but one : Jar Jar Binks . He is more annoying than the Ewoks , and not half as amusing . He seems to be lacking cultural identity , but if you listen closely , his language and pronunciation closely resembles Mush Mouth from the Fat Albert show . He also , at times , sounds Jamaican . But it's on again , off again . I think this installment could have done well without him . Yes , he serves a purpose ; that of comic relief . You can't help but laugh at his ineptitude , regardless of how you feel about his presence . Yes , he is key to the plot elements , but Lucas could have created a much better , more PC little guy than this Ebonics-speaking , long-eared , spotty-lipped , blunderbuss . Much has been said concerning " stiff " performances . I can't help but laugh at that . Liam Neeson was characterized as a high-level Jedi , and he portrayed his part , as such , with dignity and sense of propriety . He was perfect as Qui-Gon Jinn and his bearing commanded respect . That was not stiff acting . That was an extraordinarily competent show of character acting . If that means he comes off as " stiff , " so be it . We get to see the beginnings of C3PO and R2D2 at the very beginning of his involvement with the progenitors of the Rebellion . Anakin Skywalker is young ( very young ) , and as good a child actor as you could ask . He is impressively portrayed by Jake Lloyd . I cannot wait to see where his life takes him . He is an incredible actor already . Natalie Portman was a complete surprise as Queen Amadala . She , too , has been described as " stiff " by many critics . But I must interject that , as Queen , she presents a stately presence . If that's considered " stiff , " fine . But I saw it as an incredibly accurate and apt characterization . Royalty can BE a bit " stiff " at times . Ewan McGregor is perfectly cast as Obi-Wan Kenobi , as he represents the " go get'em " attitude Sir Alec Guiness shows in his undertaking as Obi-Wan in Episodes 4 and 5 . It is this Fiend's opinion that he was the epitome of a young Obi-Wan , and effectuated his role with a quality of poise for which I hadn't dared hope . This is an excellent introduction to the Star Wars Universe . It rates an in appreciation for what it was , rather than what other critics expected it to be , from . . . the Fiend : .
Some of Spade's best work .	My whole family LOVES this movie ! David Spade and John Goodman's characters were hilarious . The whole production was excellent Disney fare ; highly entertaining and , of course , containing the typical Disney lesson . This one teaches you not to be too big for your breeches , that the world does NOT revolve around that Center of the Universe that is YOU , and that not everyone you think are your friends can be trusted . Emperor Kuzco has been spoiled since birth . Having been raised to be Emperor , his every whim was immediately granted , causing him to become a spoiled rotten , greedy little tyrant around whom the universe revolves . In his aggravated state over his regent dealing with the kingdom anytime his back is turned , he forgets ( or perhaps has yet to learn ) that not everyone is going to bow to his every whim . He fires Yzma ( his regent ) , and in his self-absorbed state of mind , does not stop to consider that there may be repercussions . Ah , but there are . Yzma has her assistant Kronk ( Richard Warburton of " Scream 3 " ) poison and KILL Kuzco , but instead , he goofs and turns the petty little schmuck into a llama . The rest of the movie deals with Kuzco learning his lessons and trying to find his way back home to the palace . Not an easy feat when he's never been in the jungles of his kingdom , in his life . After treating the " whiny peasant " Pacha like a red-headed step-child , he actually expects his help . Pacha , being a warm-hearted person , reluctantly gives it , but not without conditions . Conditions Kuzco breaks and breaks and breaks , of course , because he's still a SCHMUCK ! This Disney production is quite amusing mainly because David Spade is such a complete and total @ ss and he definitely gets what's coming to him . Nice to see that happen sometimes . You know ? NO ONE likes a person who is THAT uncaring of others ' feelings . Good movie , great story , decent animation and a lovely ending . The only thing I did not like about this movie was the animation . Disney's quality has gone down considerably in the last few years . They pay little or no attention to detail anymore . I hate that . For me , the visuals and the background details , can make a huge difference , and Disney doesn't seem to care much about that anymore . This should go straight into the Disney Classics collection . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
I'm in the minority with this , but I liked this one better .	This was Carrey on steroids . By that , I mean that he went completely over the top with his performance , here , and just obliterated his usual audience by seeming to try too hard . I , however , didn't agree with that assessment . In my opinion , this work far surpassed the original in story , laughs , and all around execution . Carrey actually seemed to be enjoying himself in this second installment , which goes a long way towards fleshing the work into something palatable , whereas with the original he seemed to be pushing himself to be funny . As I said , I'm in the minority in this opinion . I thought this was far superior to the original , but still far from award-worthy . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Clever Irreverence	Many fans view the Night of the Living Dead as one of the greatest horror films of all time . Because of that status , this irreverent take on the inside jokes , situations , and characters of NotLD , has brought this work to immediate cult status . Many reviewers have painfully detailed each and every reference to NotLD to be found in Shawn of the Dead , but the entire FILM is an homage to that which it spoofs ; George Romero's low-budget sleeper hit film of the late 1960's . Why then , would anyone feel the need ? Every scene , every detail , is homagic . If you love the zombie genre , this one is a definite must-see ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A horror movie classic with a message .	It's been years since I saw Prophecy on the big screen , 24 in fact , but it impacted me so greatly that I own it still today . This film has its campy moments , some performances appear hesitant and unsure , and some of the dialog really makes you roll your eyes and laugh . But the message of this movie sticks with you forever . This is the movie that contains that memorable scene of the camper , all zipped up in his bedroll / sleeping bag , trying in vain to hop away from the monster . You may remember this scene as it was used in many ads for Paramount , for years to come . The message of this film is simple : the Earth is our Mother , and only we can save Her . As a horror movie , it's extremely good , even by today's standards . It was well-written , well directed and for the most part well done . As I said before , it has its campy moments , but overall , Frankenheimer ( who's got so many films to his credit I won't bother listing them here ) did a wonderful job of getting the message across , even if it was through a creative media such as a film of horror . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , Tragic , and Entertaining , If Somewhat Overdone .	This production received SO much press and promotion that I almost passed on seeing it . In retrospect , I'm glad I didn't do that . This is one of those movies , which knows it's a movie . There are several scenes in which the characters look directly into the camera and pop off their one liner . It works well here , though . While this work is replete with clichs and the dialog is particularly trite in spots , the production itself is really quite lovely . As far as musicals go , this is one of my favorites , and this version of it is probably the best of the 6 versions I've seen . Nicole Kidman is , as usual , wonderful in this role . Even her movies I haven't liked , I've always thought she gave it her all , and the movie wasn't lacking because of her . All in all , this work was very enjoyable ; tragic , but lovely . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is A Provocative Thriller	I realize that . . . yet again . . . I am in the minority , but I like this better than the original . This remake is utterly disturbed , yet oddly provocative in its slick style and torrential execution . This film waltzes you through the plot without a hitch , taking you from scene to scene in an almost seamless way , which makes the climax all the more climactic for its stylish concepts and devilish innovations . The performances , especially Jeff Bridges , are extraordinary in that you can almost believe you are watching it happen , rather than watching a movie . I cannot say at what point in the story the transition takes place , but I have seen it six times , and it happens each time , regardless of my previously having seen the ending . This is a slick , provocative thriller , which builds awesome suspense , as it takes you into the mind of a psychopath . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Innovative and Under-rated .	Yeah , sure , this has been done and done , the dialog is trite , and many of the plot elements are contrived , I'll admit to that , but in 1956 , this was still some pretty fresh stuff . Edgy and hard , this attempts to cash in on Universal's immense success with The Wolfman . Everyone seems to think that the current Hollywood trends are just that - current , but Hollywood has scarcely changed its tactics at all since the beginning . Even the 1930's Universal horrors were remakes of silent films , and Hollywood has done remakes , sequels , reboots , and revisionist films since the beginning . Sometimes they are actually superior to their originals and sometimes they need not bother being mentioned . This one falls somewhere in the middle in that it is nowhere near as good as the original and nothing as bad as some of the 1970's and 1980's attempts . This isn't Friday / Saturday night quality ( more " rainy Sunday afternoon " fare ) , but it IS worth a watch . It rates a on the B & W scale . It rates a on the movie scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , sweet , fast-paced comedy that " steals " your heart .	It took a while for Martin Lawrence's style to grow on me . The first few movies I saw him starring in left me kinda blah . However , either he's grown on me , or his talents have evolved / matured over the years . I'm not sure which . This movie , starring Glenne Headley ( Sgt . Bilko , Dirty Rotten Scoundrels ) , Danny Divitto , Martin Lawrence and Carmen Ejogo , is highly entertaining . The plot moves along at a nice , crisp pace ; the acting is finely portrayed and the characters are well developed enough to make you have a feeling of knowing them . William Fichtner , Phil Dearly of " Drowning Mona , " is wonderful as Detective Alex Tardio . Although his character is stereo-typical as a flamboyant , obviously gay detective who has a past history with Kevin ( Martin Lawrence ) , he plays it very well and as an endearing character . He obviously has had past dealings with Kevin and is current in his familiarity of Kevin's reputation as a thief . Danny Divitto plays a back-stabbing , underhanded little weasel of a business-man who married for money and plays the field . He is just as unfaithful in his business practices , and at the hands of Kevin Caffrey , finally begins reaping the consequences . He consults the i-ching regularly and relies heavily on the tarot for guidance , hence the source of his great success ; but something has gone terribly wrong for him . This movie epitomizes the old adage , " What goes around , comes around , " in that Max Fairbanks ( Divitto ) definitely brings his down turn of luck upon himself . Also featuring Bernie Mac . I thoroughly enjoy this movie , and watch it often . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Moving	I was reluctant to give this a watching . The synopsis seemed a bit conflicted to the point of being muddled , and yes , the screenplay does tend to hold true to this analysis , while maintaining a beautiful nuance , all the same . Patrick / Paddy Kitten is a cross dressing transsexual from a very early age , much to the horror of his foster mother . He leaves home by mutual consent , and goes in search of his mother via the parish priest who arranged his foster care . This tale is witty and clever , but the story is quite serious ; a word which receives a great deal of reflection in this film . It ( the tale ) centers around young Kitten and his quest for roots , family , love , and self . All set against a backdrop of Disco and the IRA , oddly enough , but it works as a compelling drama . Cillian Murphy , Liam Neeson , Brendan Gleeson . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Lives Up To The Trailer	I must admit that I have become a bit bored with the latest rash of Vampyre / Vampyrical cinematic attempts . I loved Underworld , but Underworld 2 led us somewhere so totally off the beaten path of the original , it left me cold . If you go all the way back to John Carpenter's Vampires , you'll delve right into some great Vampyre elements of the mythos , and some really creative innovations . There have been good-to-great Vampyre movies since , strewn here and there . But the idea of having only 30 days to feed , each year . . . ? THAT is a cool idea . But it's not new . Jeepers Creepers comes to mind . . . every 29 years , they get to feed for 29 days . And yet , this film was highly enjoyable . Action , suspense , tense ( almost palpable ) atmosphere , and believe it or not , believable performances by the cast ! Hartnett surprises , but ( unfortunately ) part of his surprise is that he is the sheriff of this small Alaskan town . I do not know about anyone else , but I seem to have problems believing it . He gave an honest , realistic performance , but I could not buy him as the sheriff . I think it has more to do with his age and memories of him in other parts , than it does with his performance . As I said , his performance is believable . . . more so than in anything else in which I have ever seen him , and that is a fact . The execution of the elements was classic . I will refrain from detailing any particular element , as I hate to read a review that spoils everything in a movie , so I rarely write them . I WILL , however , say that there were a few things with which I had a problem . Those things are enumerated below , so proceed at your own risk . They aren't spoilers outright , but a few could be POTENTIAL SPOILERS for someone who doesn't want ANYthing revealed . As I've said , Josh Hartnett did not fit in as the sheriff . I could have much more easily accepted him as a deputy than as the actual sheriff . He always looked too clean to meet the circumstances . They did give him a bit of grime , but nowhere near the amount of gore and dirt one would reasonably expect , under the circumstances . The Vampyres were so visceral . I personally prefer the more romanticized versions , though I could buy into the premise that 1500 years of evolution could / would cause such an animalization of these Beings . The filming during the kills is too " busy . " The camera moves and the editing is so fast as to make you wonder if the camera man was having some sort of seizure during filming ? The overall affect was to make me dizzy , without adding anything of substance to the film , itself . NOTE TO DIRECTORS : Slow it down and give us the graphic sequences you are too afraid to film ! At least film alternate " kills " for the " Unrated Director's Cuts " if you MUST omit it for the PG-13 kiddies ! But this was an " R " and THIS was the best you could deliver ? ! The town itself had a " canned " feeling , like they filmed this thing on the back lot of some studio , or in a large stadium somewhere . The feeling of isolation is necessary , true enough , but the sense that this was constructed and executed at a location secondary to the place to which we were first introduced , should give one pause . If Sam Raimi could make a mistake like that , no one is infallible . The use of the Infernal Promise , without going into the lore , or the mystery of the Infernal Promise , failed to please . ( More on the IP in the next section . ) I DID like that they included the Infernal Promise at all . It is used throughout the Vampyre genre with some great effect , but it was never better used than herein . The use of the IP also generated a secondary element I found delightful ; that of the Stranger . The Stranger brought with it the sense of foreboding , sealed and personified . It engendered a betrayal on a level to which the average man needs to believe other men are not capable . From his introduction , the viewer knows there is something amiss on the pristine snow-strewn horizon . The use of the weather as a means of confounding the Vampyres ' superior scenting abilities ( done so subtly , as to negate this as a spoiler ) , and their method of covering the whole thing up , are both quite ingenious . All in all ? I really enjoyed this superior work of thriller / suspense . It is a definite Friday / Saturday night movie , and belongs on the shelves of anyone who enjoys a good Vampyre movie . I categorize this as a thriller / suspense , as the kills are not as graphic as I expected , the blood ( while there , laws yes ! ) is not as prolific as I anticipated , and the gore is at a bare minimum . I'd actually pay to see this again . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Historically Flawed , But Wonderfully Done .	Historically , there are myriad inaccuracies , but who cares ? Apocalypto is a " guy " movie , with savagery from start to finish . Found therein are a plethora of chases , escapes , challenges , crude humor , the arts of manhood and war , intrigues , sacrifices , natives , epic deaths , near naked women , honor , principles , valor , true love , and , severed-head bowling . Gibson may be one confused , lost , little man , but Apocalypto never fails to entertain . There are few slow moments , with action or distraction with every step . The film is shot closely , saving the epic style for the last of the work , which made it all the more enjoyable , to me . It does not take itself too seriously , yet doesn't go so far as to wink at us , either . The subject matter is VERY serious , while the film itself somehow manages to impart some level of entertainment even while it shocks us by giving us what we expect from this particular civilization . All in all ? It's a good Friday / Saturday night movie , but the gals may not like it . It is very bloody , though not nearly as bloody as Sweeny Todd . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Nice Commentary on the Mental and Emotional State of Teenage Girls	I really enjoyed this film , as it attempts through humor and irony , to show the emotional states and priorities of teenage girls . Some view this work as mere entertainment , but I think it went a bit deeper than that . This film demonstrates just how low some will go in order to insinuate themselves into the " in " crowd . It also demonstrates that there are few limits where some youths are concerned , when the goal is to just fit in . . . to survive the social demands of high school and college . This movie is rather sad , demented , and telling . It's billed as a comedy , but most people I know consider it more a drama with comedic moments . Lindsay Lohan shines as the new girl on the block . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Enjoyable , though not for all ages .	The controversy generated by this movie is astounding . Many claim that the ages-old battle between Church and Science , began with Carl Sagan ; an outrageous lie of ignorance , at best . The fundamental differences in belief go back as far as the days of Constantine and court magicians . Alchemists were persecuted by the Church for heretical acts , and . . . oh , but this is useless . This film goes a long way towards outlining the governmental interferences known to take place between ufologists and " real " scientists who , infuriatingly , side with the Church where extraterrestrial life is concerned . . . or they did until the last few years . Now , it is considered acceptable to admit that there " may be " other life out there , and many of Sagan's theories are considered an axiom today , such as his often-quoted philosophy , that " . . . if humans are the only life in the universe it would be a terrible waste of space . " At the heart of Contact , you are taken along one woman's journey to self-discovery , but all around her , others are making their own discoveries , even if they are too selfish and duplicitous to share them with her . Often , in real life , these people are just too self-involved to realize that they have HAD an epiphany and it soon goes away . But at any rate , Contact delivers awesome entertainment , some poignant drama , and a fluid and stylistic presentation from Sagan and Zemeckis . It's a bit dated , but not so much as to detract from one's enjoyment . This is a really good movie , with a decent budget , and it enjoys an impressive rating here at IMDb ( to be so preachy ) . I would say it would be a decent Friday / Saturday night's viewing , as long as the subject matter is appealing to the audience . Foster delivers a genuine performance in which the viewer has no choice but to subscribe to her character , and become embroiled in her intrigue . A top row performance , but I have never seen Foster give any less , even as a child star . Fichtner is a tremendous talent as a character actor , and he does not fail herein to engage . You should check out some of his other , more flamboyant , performances . That man can ACT ! It was lovely to see him again . I found it enjoyable , though not for all ages , as some portions and aspects of the story may confuse and / or distress younger viewers . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric adaptation	Excellent horror flick from Tobe Hooper who gave us Poltergeist ( that's Poltergeist 1 , the GOOD one ) . . . Lifeforce , Nightmares , The Mangler , Dark Skies , The Others , and so many more ! Written for TV by Paul Monash , screenwriter who adapted the marvelous TV series , " V , " and directed by one of the Masters of Horror , Tobe Hooper , this movie ( in the extended version ) closely follows Stephen King's original literary work much better than expected . While there are campy moments , and the effects could have been much , MUCH better ( it WAS post-Star Wars , after all ) , there are edgy , frightening moments ; moments where you literally hold your breath , if you've allowed yourself to be drawn into the movie . Riddled with " scare you " and " edge of the seat " moments , this film , while a bit dated , is still scary . I previously owned the " cut " version which aired on cable in 1979 . In writing this review , I purchased the full-length version and I must say that I was delightfully surprised . This version was so much better , followed the original work more closely , and added the depth of character development which the " short " version completely obliterated . In the wake of the remake to be aired in 2004 , I thought a fresh viewing of this movie was in order , and so it was . If you have never seen " Salem's Lot " in its 184 minute presentation , please do . It's a classic in the horror genre and will enrich your perspective of the plot by 100 % . Suspenseful and actually scares you from time to time . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Film , Just Not What Audiences Expected	This isn't the comedic Robin Williams , nor is it the quirky / insane Robin Williams of recent thriller fame . This is a hybrid of the classic drama without over-dramatization , mixed with Robin's new love of the thriller . But this isn't a thriller , per se . This is more a mystery / suspense vehicle through which Williams attempts to locate a sick boy and his keeper . Also starring Sandra Oh and Rory Culkin , this Suspense Drama plays pretty much like a news report , until William's character gets close to achieving his goal . I must say that I was highly entertained , though this movie fails to teach , guide , inspect , or amuse . It felt more like I was watching a guy ( Williams ) , as he was actually performing the actions , from a third person perspective . In other words , it felt real , and I was able to subscribe to the premise of the story . All in all , it's worth a watch , though it's definitely not Friday / Saturday night fare . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
It's A Mess , But What A Beautiful Mess It Is !	Admittedly , Xanadu is a mess . The story seems to be unsure of its goal , the lead casting decision seemed to have been made while SOME-one was drunk or on pills , and the dialog was about as campy-bad as it gets . But somehow , that seems to be a large part of its charm . Olivia Newton-John's performance is delightful , and she does seem to play the part of the Muse quite well . Her singing is a delight to the ears , and her on-screen presence is quite lovely , whether with Beck or Gene Kelly . The main problem with this work is that it tries too hard to be a disco-musical , which serves as a detractor from the actual muse / achieving one's goals / rom-com story line . In spite of this fact , Xanadu's charm is undeniable , and while disco IS dead , for many , fond memories of this movie , live on . It rates a for heart and charm from . . . the Fiend : .
A Real Treat	This work is more than the sum of its parts . I won't detail each and every element , but the acting is common to the era , as are the male characters and their attitudes concerning women . What really bowls me over with this film is the wildlife footage , the set layouts , and the beauty of the vistas . The Duke's base persona firmly in place here , he leads a group of rag tag roughnecks into the African wilds . This time , with a female photographer ! It's a hoot ! I can't help but think this is where the television show Daktari sprang from ? And Clarence the cross-eyed lion . Anyone remember him ? This is fun for more reasons than I'll give here , but the era's prejudices and total lack of political correctness is part of the fun , so if you're easily insulted , I wouldn't recommend any of the films of this time period . LOL As it stands , I loved it as a kid , and still find it amusing and entertaining . It rates an from . . . . . . the Fiend : .
Good Story Idea , Great Execution , But Not For Younger Children	From a small child's perspective , this movie is scary . Point blank and period , it's NOT for younger children . But your older youngsters will love it . There are a few twists in this animated house version of Fright Night , which lead the audience into an inner examination of bravery and courage . But above all that , this is a purely entertaining , though thoroughly recycled , venture . This work reminds us of Fright Night , Monster Squad , the Goonies , Ernest Scared Stupid , Bedknobs and Broomsticks , Hocus Pocus , Peter Pan , and about a million other movies , in that the kids tell the grown ups that something weird is going on , and of course , the grown ups don't believe them . It's fun , but nothing new . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Martin's Best .	OOOookk-laaaa-HOMA , Oklahoma ! Oklahoma ! Okalhoma ! Oklahoma ! From the very beginning , it is obvious that Freddy ( Steve Martin ) Benson is up to no good . He is a smarmy , sappy , obvious little cheat who will do anything to elicit money from unsuspecting women . Lawrence ( Michael Caine ) Jamieson is a smooth , polished gentleman with breeding and culture , who also will say anything to elicit money from unsuspecting women . The difference is , while Freddy is conning a young lady out of a free meal , Jamieson is conning several middle-aged heiresses of their family fortunes , one check and / or piece of family jewelry at a time . Janet ( Glenne Headly ) Colgate is next on the agenda for them both , and when Freddy discovers Jamieson is extremely wealthy from his talents , he endeavors to have him teach him , groom him ; style him into the sophisticated con artist as is Mr . Jamieson . But Freddy just does not have the same style and background as Mr . Jamieson , and therefore cannot bear the same finished product as he . The result leads to a certain enmity between the two men , precipitating a contest . Whoever gets Ms . Colgate into bed first , wins . But Jamieson , being too suave and debonair for a wager such as this one , agrees on the bet not to win , only that Benson will fail . So the bet is on , and the amusement sets in . Who wins ? Watch the movie and see for yourself . Very nicely told comedy / drama directed by Frank Oz . I thoroughly enjoy this movie , but I think I watch it solely for the scene in which Ruprect asks to use the bathroom first . That scene is so appalling as to make me laugh out loud every time I see it . While this movie is a bit campy , and does rely on a tiny bit of 9-year-old humor , it is very entertaining and makes me laugh no matter how many times I've seen it . You can't say that about many movies . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Intelligent action / mystery in the cloning genre	Impersonated by " Impostor , " 2002 , this production is far superior in many ways . The casting was excellent ; many of the main players having had only obscure parts until now , lent a crisp freshness to the production . Even with a few of them lacking in experience , these performances were completely professional and the characters were developed along the way well enough to enable the audience to care about what events occur . The mental turns this production takes are quite clever and intelligent , and demonstrates a superior directing ability . The scenery , sets , and background content are all quite well done ; as if real thought went into each detail and scene , rather than just throwing a house together , decorating it like a mobile home and a hearty , " . . . send those actors in there ! " Very nice . The story itself is quite disturbing down on a deeper level where people seldom reach you . It was both thought provoking and compelling . I found this movie hauntingly disturbing . We - are - in the age of cloning , after all . This is one of Schwarzenegger's best films , in my opinion ; one of many very entertaining , intellectual action films in which he has starred . While there was not much science to this science fiction , it was still extremely entertaining . If you liked Terminator 1 or 2 , Total Recall , or True Lies , you will thoroughly enjoy this wonderfully-written , ( almost ) directional ( ly art-house ) work of art . It gets a sound from . . . the Fiend : .
Good , But Flawed .	Ron Howard is , without doubt , an excellent director . One of the best , in fact . And this film does go a long way towards showing subsequent generations what happened aboard the Apollo 13 in 1970 . But while it does chronicle the events , it fails to show the political upheaval which took NASA by storm as a result of this failed mission and instead , chooses to focus on the heart-wrenching and sometimes played-to-death angst of the NASA wives . The arguments and disagreements which occur within that capsule are documented in the book written by Jim ( Hanks's character ) , and are downplayed something fierce in order to allow Ron Howard his warm and fuzzy feeling ; something he seems to need . While I haven't a problem with Ron's warm fuzzies , I do if they interfere with the story , and this time ( Sorry Ron ) , they do . Other than these oversights ( intentional or not ) , the film adequately depicts the actual events of the Apollo 13 mission . I know , because I was one of the millions who was alive , and remembers it . In spite of ignoring the ( understandable and excused ) virtual battle our three astronauts waged against one another in space , NASA fallout omissions , and errant warm fuzzies , I still enjoy this film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Disappointing but not dismal Burton sequel	The campy , carnival-like atmosphere above ground , while utter insanity in the guise of the Penguin stalks the city , beneath . Sounds intriguing to watch , doesn't it ? But Gotham City just isn't what it used to be . Gone , are the beautifully designed Gothic structures , replaced by gadgetry and standard , disappointing Hollywood fluff . There is plenty of eye candy , but that does not distract you from the fact that so much else is lacking . Has Burton lost his edge ? I wouldn't think so . But in this attempt , he resorts to obvious fifth-grader tactics to amuse us ; ie : the Penguin drooling black filth from his mouth throughout most of his scenes ( what WAS that crap , anyway ? ) , and killer clowns ( which were oh so reminiscent of the detrital film , " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " and the 60's camp of Adam West ) . While this production was still quite entertaining , it held none of the wondrous edge from the original masterpiece . I did , however , love the performances of the principal actors ; Michael Keaton as Batman ( Bruce Wayne ) , Danny DeVito as The Penguin / Oswald Cobblepot , Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman / Selina Kyle , Christopher Walken as Max Shreck , and that wonderful Michael Gough as Alfred Pennyworth . Their portrayals were quite professional ; the character depth was well developed and everyone contributed what I feel was their very best . What lacked here , in my opinion , was that lovely darkling nightmarish feel from the first . The Dark Knight having been turned into the Light Grey Knight , Gotham ( Gothic ) City was dismayingly morphed into a Carnival Midway , and the allowance of the horrid 60's camp at which we all groaned and rolled our eyes to creep into this otherwise darkly amusing production was just purely wrong . Sorry , but I fail to find having my gag reflex triggered to be entertaining . Honestly , I was still amused by this flick . DiVito's talent for acting is above reproach , though I found his constant black drool to be completely repulsive and it turned me off of his character totally . Again , that falls into the area of directing , and in no way cheapens his performance . Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman was mildly reminiscent of Eartha Kitt's portrayal and thus endeared the character . While she delivered her own style and talents to the characters of Seline and Catwoman , she portrayed Catwoman beautifully as a witty , intelligent seductress . Hers was a wonderful performance and I loved the perpetuation of the romance between Batman and Catwoman . " It's the so-called normal guys who always let you down . Sickos never scare me . At least they're committed . " Seline to Bruce Wayne . The attempt to humanize Bruce Wayne was a serious mistake . Gone is the edgy , almost sinister feel to the Gothic hero , the " Dark Knight . " Enter , instead , the comedic equivalent ; this reincarnation of a masterpiece . It didn't work for me on any level . Bruce Wayne , cracking jokes , forgetting his coat over some piece of fluff girl , and snapping off one-liners to the bad guys as he pretends to kick their butts . What a disappointment after the last Burton attempt . I found the change to be sad , rather than fresh or edgy . There were several points of this production that I found to be quite unoriginal . Penguin's plan to kidnap / kill the first born sons of Gotham was rather Biblesque and lame . The James Bondesque music during Shreck's party was rather tasteless . As I mentioned before , the whole movie had a " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " feel to it beneath the failed attempt to be Gothic and dark as the original from which this spawned . The voice designated to Penguin's computer alert system at the climax of the movie was very V'ger-like ( Star Trek : the Motion Picture ) , bordering on identical . And I've got one question . If the Penguin's army is penguins , and he himself identifies with penguins . . . WHY is he driving around in something as infantile as a rubber duck ? Just another contrived and trashy element I found disturbing and unattractive . " How outstanding ! You're Beauty AND the Beast , in one luscious Christmas gift-pack . " Penguin . While this production fell short of the first , it was still a fun and enjoyable movie , if only for the performances of the main players . I am frankly glad that Burton will not be directing the next installment of this , the " modern " Batman series . I am looking forward to Jim Carey and Tommy Lee Jones's performances . But Val Kilmer in the leading role ? We'll just have to wait and see . This one rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inferior but enjoyable BB sequel	Okay , I agree with the " professional " critics on this one . It is not the same caliber as the first installment of this would-be franchise . The first was more along the lines of Lethal Weapon & Tango and Cash . This one was a more serious action , rather than the comedy most of us expected . Not meeting the expectations of the fan base is solely why this movie was rated so badly . This is NOT a bad attempt , by any measure . The car chases were not obligatory car chases , they were well written and believably executed , rather than mindless crashes and explosions . The gun fights were not just the typical Saturday afternoon at the matine fare , there was a reason behind it . The one liners were used less , and the meaningful dialog was used more . This film has been dogged for being racially prejudiced , homophobic , and just plain bad . I disagree . I found Betty White's lines in Bringing Down the House to be far more offensive than this . The porcine woman with the tremendous breasts telling Smith and Lawrence , " Y'all mofo's need to find Jesus ! " is the typical kind of closed-minded bigoted harassment most gay men are subjected to by the Christian masses . Many times by their own families ! That was nothing new . That does not in any way excuse that horrible behavior , but for the most part , the homosexual community at large does possess the ability to laugh at themselves , and those who are ignorant enough to say such things . So get over yourselves . The " bad guys " were all of other national origins than American . Is that racist ? Not when most of the police officers were of origins other than American , as well . I suppose that was racist , too ? You can't have it both ways . This attempt was fun , with quality action , a creative dialog , and a very entertaining fast-paced story which moved right along to a satisfying ending . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Witty , sweet , and endearing .	I love and miss this comedy team ! This time our two hapless heroes are framed for a bank heist and find themselves in prison . These two actors have a wonderful chemistry together and generate a marvelous feeling of kinship , friendship , and give us the feeling that everything will be fine as long as they are working together as a team . The story here is both touching and creative . The direction by Sidney Poitier no less , is wonderful , and the sets are well designed . This movie gives you a wonderful feeling of hope . I love this movie , as I have all the others these two have done together . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderfully Fun Male Bonding Vehicle	It withstands the tests of time and relevance . Since this was first made , our society has not changed so much as to preclude the need for opportunities of male bonding in a non-challenging , noncompetitive way . This work , through virtue of being relevant and meaningful , has worked its way into the movie collections of the masses ; a position I feel it greatly deserves . The character development was wonderful , the script and dialog are compelling and witty , and the execution of the characters is beautiful , if not non-stereotypical . I find that many screenwriters intentionally create stereotypical characters in order to assist the viewer in easily identifying with the characters in their story . The more generic you keep the characters , the more people they will generally identify with . At any rate , this uneven cast of characters is one of the beautiful idiosyncrasies of this highly enjoyable work . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderfully Dark	As a more faithful adaptation of the Brothers Grimm fairy tale , this work represents the " adult " version of Snow White . By adult , I do not imply sexuality or inappropriate content . I simply mean that you would not want your younger children viewing this version of the story . Darkly sinister and highly enjoyable . Sigourney Weaver is priceless as the heartless Claudia Hoffman . Her portrayal was so totally believable , genuine , and palpable . Her character's furfuraceous personality and irascible wit which ranged from being angered by being angered , were beautiful portrayals of the conflict which must have been raging within the embittered Queen . For a truly dark version of Snow White , I have to recommend this movie . It was not scary , but held loads of atmosphere and beautiful portrayals . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Witty , But Gritty Knock-Down , Drag-Out , Shoot-Em-Up Cop Flick !	Fatal Beauty has the advantage of allowing Whoopie Goldberg to bounce her keen and cutting wit off Sam Elliott's straight and penetrating gaze . The action is bone-crunching gang-banging blended with South of the Border stylized gun battles , Corporate money , and big drugs . I particularly like this one for Sam Elliott's prominence . He portrays hired muscle for a corporate big wig , who has no idea what his boss is up to . He also has a hint of a love interest with the star , and I found that delightful . His down to earth personality is perfectly cast , and wittingly executed . This one always surprises me . It rates a on the Buddy Cop Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Hugely Funny , Even If You're Not A Fan Of The Show ! !	Wild irreverence is the head liner here . There are many hilarious scenes , characters , story elements , and one-liners herein , which elevate this work above the television series . The charm is rich with potty humor , and standard South Park fare , but the culmination and execution of the movie is far richer and more intelligent in its execution than the series . Not to say that the series is unintelligent . It's not . Showing no respect for anyone or anything , including the standing cast of South Park , this work exalts itself IN its irreverence , if you can dig it . Trey Parker has shown an integrity that few have equalled , in that he bows down to no one in the South Park parade of shame . You go , Trey ! All in all ? This is great entertainment , though not for the kiddies . This rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Darker , but just as good	These movies play back to back as one long movie . That is a definite plus , in my book . This attempt does not hold the same charm and " cutesy " factor of the first . It no longer feels like a mere teenager popcorn movie . This actually has some good drama , surprising twists , and a great script ! It seems a bit muddled , if you don't have a good attention span , but if you just pay attention , you will find a depth that went heretofore unnoticed but it never fails to remember not to take itself too seriously . . Of course , there are some campy moments as this entire body of work ( the whole trilogy ) is done with tongue firmly in cheek ; however , the comedic deliveries are perfectly timed and executed . I found this endeavor to be quite enjoyable , a bit darker than the first , with good timing , a great flow , and a more intelligent script . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A gossamer darkling Gothic masterpiece !	The Burton / Depp combination has really paid off with a truly chilling top notch production . This is by far Depp's best work ( until the 2003 release of Pirates of the Caribbean : Curse of the Black Pearl , that is ) , and I have had to completely re-evaluate my opinion of his talent . This , the latest remake of the old classic , " The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , " briefly entitled " Sleepy Hollow " is a true masterpiece of Gothic horror . Burton showed us what sinister darkling treasures resided within himself with his initial production of " Batman , " and his liberal use of Gothic architecture throughout the city of Gotham . I LOVED that single installment of the Batman franchise strictly because Burton knew what to DO with the Dark Knight . Well , he knew what to do with Sleepy Hollow , as well . The performances by all involved were wonderful , the sets and designs were awesomely constructed and executed ; and the direction , camera angles , shots , film quality , and even dialog were absolute perfection . Overall , this is a marvelous endeavor which I have enjoyed watching over and over . Additionally , Johnny Depp " adopted " Goldeneye , the one-eyed Andalusian horse who played Gunpowder , Ichabod Crane's steed , thereby saving him from the glue factory . Just thought I'd mention that . It raised my estimation of the man's character a bit , upon reading that here at IMDb . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent ! !	This is a modernization of the 1964 Ubaldo B . Ragona classic horror / sci-fi / drama , " The Last Man On Earth , " starring Vincent Price . This features Will Smith in the lead ( no , this isn't like the mistake that was Wild , Wild West ) and his strongest co-star is a beautiful German Shepherd named " Abby " who are both brilliant , by the way . Frankly , after the Pursuit of Happiness ( even the title gets on my nerves ) , I was afraid Will Smith was about to head down the dark and dreadful path which has led Eddie Murphy into obscurity , but I'm happy to see this is not the case . The pacing , story , and execution are beautifully done , leaving behind no second thoughts or misgivings , in this reviewer's opinion . This version of the tale is properly constructed and executed . It is beautiful , witty , clever , and artfully suspenseful , with a most excellent execution of a much older story . Neville's descent into insanity is nothing graceful , and there is no attempt made to make it appear candy-coated . This came off as " real , " due to the quality performances by Smith and Abby , the slick but still solid production style , and the quality CGI . All in all , this is definitely good for a Friday / Saturday night's viewing , though not one for the kiddies . This really does the original ( AND the original remake " Omega Man " proud ) . Wow ! What a movie ! Simply Beautiful in its Darkness . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : . We saw this xmas Eve night at our local hometown theater , Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN .
Surpasses the first !	Mia is grown now , but she is still learning what being a Princess is all about . I found this endeavor to be far more grounded than the first . Even with Raven's sudden appearance as a childhood friend of Mia's that we've never seen before , and the fact that she gets to sing with Julie Andrews ; a lifelong dream of millions of girls from all over the globe , and a few contrivances to help move the story along ; this was a top notch Disney work . As a company not known for its quality sequels ( neither in live action family movies , nor their animated works ) , I'm personally hoping this bodes well for Pirates of the Caribbean 2 . That's a movie I can sink my teeth into ! But back to this one . The relationship between Joe and Clarisse was precious . They were the couple in which I was most interested . I found their hitherto bittersweet romance rather endearing . As I stated in the review for the first installment of this apparent " run , " these movies are not usual Fiendish fare , but I must say I was enchanted . This is much more intelligent than the first , and therefore rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderful dark and clever rendition of the old comic strip .	This wonderful adaptation of the comic strip takes us out of the venue of camp and into that of darkly clever wit which soars above the TV series ! This wonderful attempt takes us out of the venue of camp and into that of startlingly clever wit . Excellent job , Sonnenfeld ! Raul Julia is the personification Gomez Addams . I'm writing this after his death , and unfortunately , for me , there will never BE another Gomez Addams . Julia contributed a lust for life , a dark and twisted animalistic ( and , indeed , cultured Barbaristic ) sexuality , and the Gothic overtones attempted in the comic strip , but which were miserably overlooked in the awful campy TV series . He was brilliant as Gomez , and in my opinion , when he died , so did the franchise . ( Though Jimmy Smits would make a passable Gomez , now that he's older and more mature . ) Also , Anjelica Huston is the perfect Morticia . Actually , this whole cast is about the most perfectly chosen cast for any movie franchise I've ever seen . Christina Ricci perfectly personifies Wednesday Addams , Christopher Lloyd is the absolute epitome of Fester , Jimmy Workman was the perfect shadow of Pugsley , and so on . The direction was dark and Gothic , just as it should be . The sets and designs were breathtakingly stark , wonderfully Gothic , and beautifully designed . The wardrobe of each character was lovingly created with a great care devoted to each piece , and the story was beautifully written ; crafted with a real pride in the work . The end result is far greater than the sum of its wonderful parts . This movie is sheer perfection . There is not a moment of wasted film , not one performance which was out of step , not one scene which should have been deleted . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Disney fun ! One of the best , of late .	Finding Nemo was a sheer delight , comparable to Lilo and Stitch , but made more like Toy Story . Pixar has really accomplished a classic telling with this one . Nemo is a small clown fish who is the sole survivor of his clutch . His only living family is his father , as his mother was eaten while defending her clutch of eggs . As a result , his father is a complete almost non-functioning paranoid who would be happy to just live inside his anemone with his sun , and never venture out for anything . This , of course , does not set well with his son , who is your average , adventurous child in every way but one ; he has a deformity which gives his paranoid father all the excuses he needs to closet his child and keep him from the world . Stolen from his father's loving and watchful eye by divers ( probably American , one of the other fish proclaims ) Nemo is taken into the world of humans and deposited inside an aquarium where he will be given as a present to Darla the Fish Killer . Meanwhile , his father races after the boat , loses the trail and must rely on the assistance of Dory , she of the short term memory loss . Ellen DeGeneres as Dory , literally steals the show with her dialog and lines which are hilariously funny . Marlin the clown fish hunts after his son for weeks , swimming hundreds of miles in search of his lost son . I highly recommend this movie to anyone who needs a good laugh , and a good shot of wholesome Disney . I was a bit taken aback by the anti-American line in this movie , considering it IS an American production AND Disney , to boot , but I suppose it is just Disney's little jibe at those who would blame America for everything , when it turns out an Australian was the one who stole Nemo , after all . shrugs I don't know , but it did not sit well with me . But it was just one line , and the rest of the movie was wonderful . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Surpasses the first !	The return of all the original cast members , the increased character development , the beautiful character development of Nightcrawler , and the addition of the newer characters , all contributed to the absolute success of this amazingly directed and executed production . The portrayals were pure talent , as was the writing of this story , the direction , the editing , the filmography , the sets and designs , the innovations surrounding the talents of the mutants , and everything else involved with this movie . I was stunned at the pure quality and creativity contained within this film . I am both inspired and delighted by this movie . It was twice as good as the first , and I can only look forward to the Special Edition of this chapter , and the third installment ( the Phoenix line and a better interpretation of Rogue's coming into womanhood and her full powers ) with a great anticipation . Absolutely amazing effects and an excellent story lend an enormous backdrop for these wonderful , creative and beautiful characters . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , But Disappointing .	There was a lot of debate at the beginning of this project concerning the options of making this two separate films , going long ( there was talk of a 3-hour film ) , or just trying to lump it all into one feature-length film and be done with it . I must say , I was hoping for 2 separate films . I don't think I would have minded that sacrifice just to have a comprehensive chapter of this saga . But before I start , let me say that all three main actors , Radcliffe , Watson , and Grint , have grown exponentially in their talents ! There were many things left out , nuances from the novel which went unused , and whole ideas / parts of the original literary work which were entirely ignored . SPOILERS ! ! Fleur was not nearly as saucy as the novel portrayed her . There was no giant spider in the labyrinth . Neither was there a sphynx ; a creature I was highly anticipating , by the way . After seeing the treatment of the hippogryph Buckbeak in the PoA , I was certain the sphynx would be completely AWESOME . No sphynx / sphinx . And also absent was Hermione's campaign against the abuse of house-elves known as " SPEW . " And , I must add that I was a bit . . . disturbed by the wardrobe choice for the Death Eaters . They were dressed as KKK members , but in dark robes instead of white . I realize this style of dress far predates the Klan , but in this day and age , it's the first thing to be brought to mind by that headgear . Perhaps this is just an American phenomenon ? Are the KKK not world-wide ? Or was this intentionally done to demonstrate to the children that these are evil men ? I thoroughly enjoyed Gambon's interpretation of Albus Dumbledore this time around . He put more of himself into the part , and stopped attempting to " do " Richard Harris's Dumbledore . While it's NOT the Dumbledore from Rowling's work , I've come to admire his attempt in GoF . Whether by natural aging or a decent dye job , Radcliffe's hair is darker in this installment , but oddly enough his eyes seemed to change from blue to green , off and on again , throughout the movie . Radcliffe's acting is maturing with him , but crying on demand seems nigh impossible for the lad . It could be that he's led such a sheltered and / or protected life that he's nothing upon which to draw that instantaneous grief many actors use to perform this task . Fred ( James ) and George ( Oliver Phelps ) Weasley were suitably brought forward , marking their positioning for Movie 5 ( OotP ) . Although Harry failed to hand over the gold coins won in the Tri-Wizard Tournament to the lads to begin their business , I'm sure the next director will make do with what set up was left for him , and find some way to incorporate that into the next installment . It's a necessary detail , in My opinion , which was totally left out of this chapter . It's needed , in order to maintain the continuous storyline between the cinematic attempts . Without that detail , there leaves a long , empty path which will remain untrodden in upcoming theatrical events . That would be highly disappointing . We're shown for the first time how Neville reacts to the Unforgivable Curses , but not told why , as is appropriate . You don't learn until Book 6 ( HBP ) exactly WHY his reaction to Mad-Eye Moody's demonstration , was so strong . Emma Watson ( Hermione ) was completely ready for this particular treatment . She was beautiful . Quite lovely and all grown up . I know her father must have felt SO proud to see her looking so lady-like , and without showing even the slightest hint of too much skin . The best scene ? For Me , it's a toss-up between Draco-the-white-ferret being tossed about by Mad-Eye Moody and Harry's scenes with the Horntail . A CNN reviewer stated that this film " tries to do too much . " Well , in my opinion , it didn't TRY , it succeeded ! It started off well , ran well , and ended well . There was not one moment of wasted film . Not one bad cut , not one lost second . From start to finish , there was meat and potatoes , but that's not all it gives its viewers . There are lovely bits of wonderful pastries and a fine dessert as well . Aside from what was mentioned above , GoF was everything for which I had hoped . As promised , the dragons were superb ! ! ! I would have loved to have laid eyes on the Chinese Fireball , but if you really want to see what it looks like check out The Noble Collection , where you can also purchase a sterling silver Time Turner ! ! The performances were beautifully directed , the cast was perfectly chosen , and the only complaint I had whatsoever concerning the performance executions was that of Fleur . Clemence Posey was the perfect actress for that part , but for some reason , Mike Newell traded in her sexuality and self-possession for a " girl-next-door " persona . I don't know why he felt the need to alter that character in such a drastic way , but it just did not achieve what he meant to achieve unless that was to rewrite a whole new personality for one of the principle characters in this chapter . But for book lovers everywhere , take heart . The story IS here . While some of the details were left off due to time constraints , and some of the lines were moved around due to contractual obligations , the meat of the story ( and there IS a LOT of story here ) remains completely intact . The flying horses are so realistically layered , textured , executed , and presented ! I couldn't take my eyes off of them ! They were magnificent ! I can't WAIT to own this on DVD ! It rates an and is , by far , the best HP movie to date . Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire Budget : $140M Opening 2-Day Weekend Box Office Ticket Sales : $101M Not bad , you guys . Not bad !
Unforgettable	This is easily one of the most unforgettable , heart-wrenching , bittersweet films I've ever seen . Eastwood not only directs a masterpiece , but directs himself - a feat which I'm told is rather difficult . Morgan Freeman's narration is hauntingly loving , even though the story he has to tell is quite dark , but the darkness is in the reality of the story , and not in the hearts of those involved . There are few obvious effects , car chases , bullets fired , or bodies burned , but this is quite beautiful in its story , grace , and execution . This is one movie which earned the kudos ( and multiple awards ) it earned . There are many award-winners which made me stop and say , " Huh ? " But this is definitely NOT one of them . Further , this is a movie for everyone . This is not a chick flick , but neither is it a guy flick . Literally all walks can love this work . It is simply amazing , and was a total surprise for this reviewer . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Amazing Patriotic Popcorn Fare . . .	Yes , the story has contradictions . Yes , the plot has holes . Yes , Will Smith is about the most over-rated actor on the planet . But this is still a terrific movie ! I'm not about going with the mainstream on anything . Chances are , if it's loved in the mainstream , I avoid it like the plague . I've never seen " Forest Gump , " because of that . I grew up near the Alabama Bayou town where part of that movie was filmed ( Coden is one block from Bayou La Batre , AL ) , and I never felt the need or desire to see that movie . The more I heard how good it was , the less I wanted to see it , until I had built up a pretty good aversion to it which still persists , today . Same goes for Apollo 13 . Never saw it . Never wanted to . I was alive back then , and remember the moon walk . I don't need a movie about it , to remind me how fantastic and awe-inspiring it was . It was like touching the face of a god . My point is , regardless of the plot holes , the obvious " War of the Worlds " similarities , and the grandstanding done by both Smith and Goldblum , I found this movie to be highly entertaining . It's not the most intelligent production out there , but its entertainment value alone makes it well worth the time it takes to view it . Goldblum and Smith both ponied up professional ( if at times hammy ) performances in this production , and I thoroughly enjoyed this movie . I watch it often , in fact . Also , I am highly patriotic . I'm proud to be an American . My family has fought ( and died ) for America's rights and causes , and in America's wars , throughout history since they immigrated here from Scotland and Germany in the ( very ) early 1800's , and I am proud of my heritage as an American . This movie inspired me , uplifted me , and made me feel a stronger sense of pride for feeling the way that I do . Bash this movie if you will . Bash Americans and American ideals . For those of us who love our country and are proud of the rights and freedoms for which our families have lived and died , your words mean absolutely nothing . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Largely superior sequel	By far , James Cameron's best work ! ! And the best of the Terminator Series . The first Terminator movie was made for 6 . 4M . This one got a 100M treatment , and brother , does it show ! This is by far the best sequel in the history of sequels . This movie so far surpassed the original that it left it in the dirt . I am writing this post-T3 , and I can safely say that this installment of the Terminator franchise is by far the best . The story was every bit as original as the first , without ever once coming off as a rip off . The effects were awesomely executed ; you will not believe how much better this movie is than the first . This one has the same element of action and suspense and continues the story without making it seem old , tired , or recycled . I highly recommend the 2-disk Director's Cut . Don't rent it . Just go buy it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
I Loved It !	For some reason unknown to me , this second Ice Age installment is receiving lower ratings here at IMDb than the original . It is beyond me why that would be the case , as the second chapter is just as much fun . All four stars return for this second run ( that's including Skrat ) , the story is just as compelling , the action is as uproarious as the comedic elements , and it wraps into a satisfying ending . For what more could you ask ? I found this highly enjoyable , and in fact , enjoyed it more than the original . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving sequel , better than the first installment .	Now , I was not an immediate fan of the first movie . I didn't hate it ! But I was not happy with it at first . But with an added budget ( the studios actually LISTENED for once ) , and a better , more cohesive story , this second installment is quite entertaining ! It combines top of the line CG-Eye Candy with natural dialog and some dark twists to bring you wonderfully dark story sequences and some bone-crunching action ! It was practically non-stop action from start to finish and Milla Jovovich's tom-boy style really served her well this time around . The direction was superb ! The shots and layouts ; the sequences and colors ! I could easily compare the use of color and cutting sequences with the over-touted Suspira , but . . I just did . This was a GOOD Resident Evil MOVIE ! ! Great action , great story , great portrayals . On the downside , the extras playing zombies must have all missed their mommies so much ! ! I'm telling ' ya ! Those in the background had that " gotta wave cuz we're on camera " thing going on , and it almost distracted Me from this otherwise GREAT flick ! I mean , put on the eggs cuz the ham's already DONE ! The " creepy kid sitting in a chair with his / her back turned who doesn't turn out to be a totally healthy lil kid anymore " device has been used and abused . In fact , this tactic should have been retired to a shoe box the second Scary Movie 3 parodied it so well . The fight between Nemesis and Alice was . . . well , it looked GREAT on film , but . . . okay , there's NO WAY it would've gone like that . But okay . Just one small contrivance to help further the movie , and it can be forgiven because it really - does - look great on film . This is not a " thinking man's movie , " nor is it classic horror fare . This attempt falls short in both of those departments because it is , above all , an action flick with horror - elements - . It is not meant to be scary . It - is - meant to be suspenseful , which it certainly is . This production utilizes brilliantly choreographed fighting sequences and some great style , without taking itself too seriously . It is played straight from the vest , with little humor ; just as it should be . The drama was a tangible entity . Some consider the cemetery scene in this movie to be a " Plot Hole . " Their contention is that the T-Virus would not ( or could not ) affect those already dead and under ground . While I agree with this particular vein of thought , I must explain that this sequence was an attempt to romance the fanboys . Call it an " homage , " if you will , to the cemetery segment of the wildly popular video game , " Resident Evil 2 . " The argument has also been made that Alice , being who and what she is , would never have led them through such a dangerous area - as - the cemetery . Again , I have to say that it was ( however contrived ) an attempt to win over the fanboys who all but killed box office receipts of the first installment of this line . IF you're a zombie fan , a fan of the game , or just like freaky deaky dark lil horror flix to snuggle your best girl by , this is the one for YOU ! ! ! This is definitely an " A " scale production which has surpassed its first installment and earned nearly three times the initial estimated budget ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful . Art-House Comic Book Gets Beautiful Cinematic Treatment .	I was hesitant . The comic book is GENIUS . The movie will not be because the director and writers will either rewrite the thing to get it onto the screen , or be SO faithful as to render it moot , on screen . The sheer genius of the comic book makes it difficult , certainly , but to remain too faithful to the written word is typically the death knell to any visual work . . . except when the written word is a graphic novel ( and / or comic book ) , it would seem . The film is genius , but ( as others have pointed out ) it's the genius of the comic book this movie holds and NOT directorial genius . As closely as this follows the graphic serial , it must have been pretty easy to alter the direction of the narrative , watch the ques , and insert visuals as dictated by the source materials , which were kept there on the set and used like a Watchman " Bible , " according to news sources . The angles , the colors , lighting , all contribute as much to the overall work as the performances and film quality , but this is exactly what the comics set as axiom wherein these elements are concerned . There are no surprises as to the cinematic adaptation . The surprise would have been a creative attempt at an actual adaptation . This is ( not merely , mind you ) the graphic novels translated to film , rather than an actual adaptation . That all having been said , this is fantastic both fundamentally and in final execution ! It is visceral , graphic , soulful , and visually stunning . But more importantly , it is beautiful , intellectual , and above all , human . Oh yes , it's the overall humanity of the work that renders it a must see , must experience , must HAVE film of the year . This is amazing , and my expectations were already running pretty high . That's saying something . On a parental note , however , this film features full male frontal nudity . It is done artistically and is a necessary and beautiful element of the film , but I thought there will be MANY parents out there who will not be expecting it . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Fantastic	NOTE : I only clicked the " spoiler warning " because I mention things which were featured prominently in the books , but were NOT in the film version . I in no way give away the story to anyone who has never read the books . Thank you . Unlike most movies of this type , there is no comic relief . Jared ( the starring character ) has serious anger issues ( he hits things whenever he is mad , yells at his mother , and acts out in general ) over a father who has left and a mother who refuses to explain anything . While the Faeries and Faerie-kind do serve to lighten the mood , there is nothing comic or comedic or even child-like about them . This work has lessons to teach , concerning when it's time to accept a situation with grace and work positively towards a satisfactory change . But the more superficial lessons are to listen to your children , give true time and attention to those in your life and the world around you , and time is NOT on your side . There have been lots of gentle cautionings to parents of younger children of the fear factor of this work and there ARE some startling scenes , but my caution would be more geared towards younger children's inability to understand Jared's anger issues and his behaviors as inappropriate , due to the movie's failure to address these issues . The CGI was wonderful , but after the Lord of the Rings and the Chronicles of Narnia , it almost requires something as creative as Pan's Labyrinth to impress me , but I am ( admittedly ) a graphics ( visuals ) addict . Freddie Highmore turns in a stellar performance as Jared Grace , while his interpretation of Simon suffers to give Jared's character adequate development and screen time . Also painted as sacrificial lambs were Mallory's fencing competition , a plethora of other events and details , and the WHOLE FOURTH BOOK ! I thought the rewriting of the troll as a " mole troll " was a horrible contrivance ; the mother isn't kidnapped ; there is no junkyard ( ergo : no Dragons ) ; no elves ; no inclusion of Simon's love for animals , his having loads of pets , etc . ; and NO Dwarfs ! No Poohka , no riddles , no Jared searching for the book , and NONE Of the intrigues , whatsoever ! And the whole bit about Byron ( the griffin ) was totally rewritten . But . . . what you DO get is a brilliant adaptation , which will be wholly loved by ANYone who has missed the books . . . A brilliant adaptation most book fans will no doubt find as incomplete as any Harry Potter movie . But wonderful , nonetheless . Mulgarath is darkly wonderful , as are his Goblins . Hogsqueal is done particularly well . I personally especially loved his nose ; it gave him a ' cuteness ' factor he otherwise would have lacked ( trust me here ) . The performances are professional but I was ( again ) particularly impressed with Highmore . Sarah Bolger contributed an adequate performance , as did Mary-Louise Parker , but it was Highmore who rightly stars herein . Also , I would be remiss if I failed to mention BBC Diva , Joan Plowright . Wow , what a lady ! All in all ? For all my complaints about what was omitted , I have to say I liked the screen adaptation even better than the accumulated story from the five sequential books ! Especially the ending . The ending was beautiful and it is probably what strayed most from the literary version . I loved it , but won't spoil it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
In A Word ? Solid ! In Two Words ? Edgy & Enjoyable !	Solid describes everything about this production , from the casting to the editing to the mixing . There are no holes , no weak performances , no wasted film . This is about as close to a perfect film as they get . Tommy Lee Jones , while not the " official " star , IS the star of this work . Harrison Ford , rightfully , plays an awesome secondary lead in this gritty , complicated actioner . This work competently generates some heady atmosphere , leading to a few nice edge-of-your-seat moments . This is one of the best action films ever made , with an involving story , wholly believable characters , and an execution so realistic it sells you the whole bill of goods . I thoroughly enjoy this work , and can watch it again and again . Don't forget to check out its deserving sequel , " U . S . Marshalls . " It's awesome , too . The Fugitive rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Totally Reminiscent of the Original Comic Book Series ! Welcome Home Turtles ! !	The work herein was far above par . The animation was well done , and the story was remarkable . I found this a most enjoyable addition to the Turtleverse , and highly recommend it to anyone who was disappointed in the live action series . Our favorite turtle characters were beautifully conceived with loving execution on the big screen . The story was a pleasant surprise in that it played well from beginning to end , included the more endearing characters of the live action series , and gave you an intriguing plot with competently engaging sub-plots . The " boys " were amazing in design and animation , lending a dark reality to the Turtleverse possibilities , carrying this smoothly from whichever is your favorite live action Turtles movie , into this next chapter . The action was beautiful . That's all there is to say . It was most excellent , and I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this work . It was well worth the wait , and I hope it does phenomenonally at the box offices to ensure a following installment . And I just can't resist . . . COWABUNGA , DUDES ! It rates an easy on the Animated Feature Film Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Disturbing but entertaining	This movie has been criticized for having no substance ; no meat , as it were . Now , I'm no great fan of Tarrantino ( in fact , I hadn't liked a single of his productions before this one ) , so there are no feelings to be hurt on his behalf . There is no other reason for me to defend this film , than the very real fact that I loved it ! The second issue is the " violence against women " issue . It's been said that this movie is like " A Clockwork Orange " in its demonstration of everything that is wrong with our society . Okay , as true as that may be , this film covers MANY societies , not just American . It also shows that the woman does NOT have to be the victim . She can ( and should ) stand on her own two feet and do something about her problems rather then waiting for some Prince Charming to come do it for her . This plot and story has been detailed so many times on IMDb , that I won't even bother laying out the plot except to say that this plot was so well-conceived and executed as to win it 10 awards and gross nearly 4 times its original budget . Every single artist involved in this attempt has surrendered a very compelling finished product in that it is a dark and lovely story ( yes , it has a great story ) , that is embedded with some of the most synergistically graphic brutality I've ever witnessed on film . The action is unbelievable , the narrative is instrumental in moving the story along from scene to scene , and the score is as inspired as the screenplay . The choreography by Sonny Chiba ( who also portrayed Hattori Hanzo ) was excellent and , when viewing the final work , looked natural and brilliant . And I must say that the soundtrack of this work was inspired and more than competently highlighted each scene in which the chosen music was featured . If you haven't seen this , I highly recommend it . It's action , not horror or even drama . It's NOT for the squeamish . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Enchanting , But Dated , and A Bit Scary For The Tots	A wonderfully enchanting live-action Disney fantasy with ( oddly enough ) some strong horror elements . This is a lovely fantasy featuring , among other well-known at the time thespians , Janet Murro and Sean Connery . The cast is peopled almost entirely of Irish-born talent , lending a certain sense of reality to this charming faerie-tale which would otherwise have been absent . The sets and scenery are really quite lovely , as is the story itself , the music , the atmosphere , the cast , and the finished product . This movie was fine example of premium vintage Disney live entertainment . The cinematography was strong , with lovely shots of the tor and the countryside . The sound effects were realistic as were the visual effects ; haunting and darkly beautiful . The horror elements mentioned include , among other things , the family banshee ( all of the " best " of Irish clans had their own , you see ) , the Celtic Grim Reaper , a Pookha ( click My name above and read My review of " Harvey " starring Jimmy Stewart for more on Pookhas ) , a village witch ( not a nice one ) , and of course , the Leprechauns . This is one of the best of the old classics , and while it is enchanting just as it is , I would love to see it receive a good modernized CGI treatment . I mean why not ? They're emptying out the vaults and remaking everything else . This one is far more deserving than most . This movie was great fun , and is an excellent addition to any Disney collection of an older child ( There is more than a lot of alcohol use and a nice bar-room brawl featuring Sean Connery's character , which may be a bit too intense and / or disturbing for younger children ) . This was a fantastic movie which is now dated and warrants a modern remake . It also belongs in any fantasy collection or horror collection . I fully enjoyed this effort as a child , and found that it still bears the ability to enchant . It gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Much under-rated psychological / stalker / serial killer-thriller .	This movie presents excellent direction , a cleverly-written screenplay and possibly some of the best acting of Sigourney Weaver's career . This is another movie I've watched over and over for the sheer entertainment quality . I highly enjoy its marvelous character development and the tense feeling this whole production generates . Sigourney Weaver portrays a criminologist who specializes in serial homicide . After years of lecture tours on the subject and the serial killers themselves , she is attacked and traumatized so badly that agoraphobia takes a firm grip on her psyche . As time goes on , the intensity of her condition increases to its worst degree . Now , more than a year later , she comes face to face with her worst nightmare : a new incarnation of Daryll Lee ' Killer ' Cullum . Ripped away from everyone she can trust , everyone she has allowed even nominally close to her , she is totally alone and at the mercy of her greatest fear . As her tormentor's plot develops , you will find yourself literally on the edge of your seat . Killer Cullum is portrayed in a startling manner by Harry Connick , Jr . His follower ' Peter Curtain Foley ' is convincingly portrayed by William McNamara . While the cinematography of this production was little more than average , the settings and scenery were creatively executed . You never get the feeling that they shot this movie in five rooms that they kept redecorating , as you do in many films of this type . The direction was very well done , and Sigourney Weaver is absolutely convincing as the ' pill-popping , juice-head , hyperventilating , agoraphobic @ sshle . ' ( Inspector M . J . Monahan , played by Holly Hunter ) This is a great movie , and one of my favorites . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderfully funny and sweet comic book fare .	This film was recently ( as of 10-2003 ) featured in MSN's 10 Worst Movies of all Time , and bears a paltry ( or . . . poultry ) here at IMDb . And , with a 30M budget and a $16 , 295 , 774 ( USA ) gross return , I have to admit , it did bomb . That not withstanding , I LOVE this movie . It's campy , funny ( if not witty ) , heart-warming , and has some good elements . The sound track itself is excellent , the story is cute and easy to follow , the performances are solid tongue-in-cheek deliveries , and the movie as a whole still bears that George Lucas style . I watch this movie about once a month , and enjoy it each and every time . The effects are realistic , the monsters are not badly done , and the characters are developed well enough to allow them to be likable and to enable us to care about what happens . And yes , while I found the bestiality scene to be quite distasteful , it was still sweet , and fuzzy-feeling provoking , regardless of the moral / ethical implications . It's a fun fantasy , with some good elements , decent action , and strong comic-book overtones to match the original from which this was adapted . Sorry , Lucas . It deserved better than it got . I rate it from . . . The Fiend : .
Sony's Inspired Answer to Disney's Chicken Little and Brother Bear . . . Better Than Both !	First of all , Martin Lawrence , while great when carried by a good supporting cast , does not at first seem to belong in this production . His speech patterns are very off-putting - so off-putting as to render Boog the bear nigh unlovable . It takes some time before Lawrence actually " becomes " the bear . However , after he ( or is it the audience who . . . ) achieves some level of comfort , he really settles well into the role of Boog , allowing the viewers to form an attachment to the character . It happens somewhere near the midpoint of the film . This work bears some highly entertaining elements ( I LOVE what they've done to the rabbits ! Call me a sadistic thing , if you will ! ) through to a surprisingly satisfying ending where Boog achieves self-discovery and Elliot finally has to accept his fate - he's an animal , he lives in the woods . The things the animals do to establish their safety zone are ingeniously creative . We laughed SO HARD . All in all ? We had a blast watching this , can't wait to get it on Blu-Ray , and watch it very often . It's great fun for all ages , although there are abandonment issues raised herein , of which parents should be aware . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Absolutely the most under-rated Disney animation ever	This is my favorite rendition of Robin Hood ! Costner has nothing compared to Brian Bedford ! This is absolutely the most under-rated Disney animation ever made . While it tells the story quite well , it also has some beautiful supporting characters , a wonderfully treacherous Prince John ( Peter Ustinov ) , and some adorable comic relief in Terry Thomas's Sir Hiss . While this was made when I was around 10 or so , it was still one of my favorite movies of all time . Of course , a scant four years later , Star Wars was to usurp it as my very favorite , but it remained a close second for many years to come . I'm not entirely sure , but I think this is the only Disney animation to have all the characters portrayed by animals alone . The songs , while I usually find them annoying , are quite endearing ; cute even . I highly recommend giving it a good watch or two . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the BEST Disney Live Action Family Movies Of Its Time	Before this vehicle became contrived , Disney did it while it was still fresh . A group of orphans must save the castle in which their adoptive " grandmother " has housed them . This work involves some intrigue and a very young Jodi Foster as a nearly incorrigible ruffian girl . This is a lot of fun , but it also bears some touching moments , endearing characters , and a great script . Honestly , this is one of my favorites of the Disney Family series . It offers you hope , love , and a promise of better things to come . This is truly good . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The honest truth about one of the most beloved action / comedy series in the movie industry .	THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES ! ! 1 - was fresh , innovative , edgy and hard . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us . The comedy was educated , intelligent and expertly-delivered . The characters were lovable , and we got the feeling that we " knew " them , cared about them , wanted them to succeed . Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person , due to the high-level of development his character received . True , the " gun handling " left a lot to be desired , but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip . Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground ; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid . That aside , this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value . One of the best of its kind . 2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character , Leo Getz . Because of Getz , I honestly found this film to be rather endearing . Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series . Unfortunately , the edge and freshness is toned down way too much , and the action is really rather predictable . I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh , and was not in the least bored with that aspect . It is still a good movie , even though its edge is shelved for a more " marketable " product . 3 - is just as good as 2 . Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well . It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover / Gibson signing for 4 & 5 , so it seems the series has wound down , rather than up . The action is still quality , though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments . The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired . And while the performances are still professional , it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out . 4 - is the perfect ending to this series . Honestly . The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness ; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct , Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring , and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore . ( Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming " Indiana Jones 4 . " ) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old , and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line , " I'm getting too old for this sht . " It is far beyond that . And now , with Riggs's marriage to Lorna , Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters , the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending . . . enough is just enough . 5 - should never happen . I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two . The characters we all loved are already gone . Like in " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers , " they've been stolen from us . The edge from Riggs's character is gone . He's a bit hapless now , and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character . The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character , the baby AND Butters . Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2 , or don't bring him out of the moth balls . PLEASE . I loved these movies , but for the love of Mike ! NO MORE ! If you liked any of these movies , I highly recommend " Tango & Cash , " an excellent , much-overlooked , highly under-rated " Buddy-Cop " movie . 1 . . . . from . . . the Fiend : .
Best King Movie EVER ! !	Silver Bullet , adapted from Stephen King's " Cycle of the Werewolf , " is THE best Stephen King adaptation so far . Not only that , it's a great movie ! While faithful to the original book , Silver Bullet is also a great movie with a great cast , focused directing and ( believe it or not ) coherent storyline . . . no holes ! If you've read my other reviews of King's movie adaptations , you'll realize this is a rare review for me to make . I love King's literary style . I own every book he's done , in hardback . I see all his movies and visit his website often . But the adaptations of his works , even when he is the screenwriter , usually fall short . No , sorry . They usually fall flat on their faces . This is the exception . Not the only exception , but the best one . It takes the innocence of the novel and translates it beautifully onto the screen . The characters haven't been plasticized , the writing genius of King isn't lost in the translation and the sense of small-town , middle / lower to upper / lower class life is portrayed as it truly is ; just as in King's novel . Corey Haim ( of all people ) takes the starring role as Marty Coslaw , an early-teen who is a paraplegic being stalked by a heinous creature of the moon . Megan Follows is wonderful in her role as his older sister , Jane , while Gary Busey brilliantly portrays their " Uncle Red , " who loves Marty enough to invest the time , money and talent into motorized " cycle chairs " for Marty . It is a valiant attempt to help him fit in with the other kids ; to not feel so different . Uncle Red also wants to believe Marty's stories . He wants to have and demonstrate faith in his nephew . In my opinion , this is one of Gary Busey's best roles ; not his most action-packed , not his most popular , but his best . His performance is pure drama ; no effects to help him out , no explosions , chase scenes , car crashes , no extreme make-up . . . nothing . Just Gary Busey in pure and rare form . Narrated by Tovah Feldshuh as an older Jane , it is told from her perspective . Marty is the " cross " she " has to bear . " As his older sister , she is responsible for keeping up with him , making sure he isn't lost , isn't in trouble and isn't hurt . She's Marty's reluctant and sometimes insubordinate protector . " Marty's such a boogar ! " Jane Coslaw . As you listen to her words , outlining the story and laying it out , you learn there is a shadow over Tarkington Mills . Within this shadow lurks an ancient terror ; called a curse by some , a monster by others . Within this shadow exists an evil in the guise of goodness , making martyrs of those who are damned . As the town searches out this unknown horror , it takes them one-by-one into its misty , hellish nightmare world . Will Marty survive the cycle of the werewolf ? Will Uncle Red be able to believe the wild stories Marty has to tell ? Will Jane kill Marty before the werewolf does ? Well , that's the rest of the movie . And it's too good to spoil . Watch the movie , buy the movie . Excellent ! One of the best werewolf movies ! Only slightly under the first and second Howling movies , the rest just got stupid . One of the BEST Stephen King adaptations ! ! THE most entertaining movie of 1985 . If you liked this one , you might like " The Lost Boys , " also starring Corey Haim . It gets a hard uphill from . . . the Fiend : .
The honest truth about one of the most beloved action / comedy series in the movie industry .	THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR ALL FOUR MOVIES ! ! 1 - was fresh , innovative , edgy and hard . It had everything a good action movie needs to make it successful ; excellent character development , imaginative direction , professional performances by the cast and crew , a clever and witty screenplay with intelligent dialog , and action . . . lots of good fast-paced , well-delivered action . It had a fresh comedic element without ever turning to camp or juvenile antics to solicit a chuckle from us . The comedy was educated , intelligent and expertly-delivered . The characters were lovable , and we got the feeling that we " knew " them , cared about them , wanted them to succeed . Riggs's character felt less like a character and more like a person , due to the high-level of development his character received . True , the " gun handling " left a lot to be desired , but the vast majority of audiences would not realize that you can not get 20 shots from a 16 shot clip . Nor would they realize that you can't just leave those empty clips on the ground ; they cost MONEY and no CoP would do that because law enforcement officers are typically not highly paid . That aside , this was an excellent movie with wonderful entertainment value . One of the best of its kind . 2 - gave us Joe Pesci's character , Leo Getz . Because of Getz , I honestly found this film to be rather endearing . Getz is one of the best characters to have been introduced to this series . Unfortunately , the edge and freshness is toned down way too much , and the action is really rather predictable . I thoroughly enjoyed bearing witness to the further development of the relationship between Riggs and Murtaugh , and was not in the least bored with that aspect . It is still a good movie , even though its edge is shelved for a more " marketable " product . 3 - is just as good as 2 . Riggs now has a new love interest and it seems as though all will be well and all manner of things will be well . It is still a few months away from the press release concerning the Glover / Gibson signing for 4 & 5 , so it seems the series has wound down , rather than up . The action is still quality , though there are fewer and fewer unpredictable moments . The comedic aspect which was enlightened and intelligent is now a bit puerile and tired . And while the performances are still professional , it seems as though Riggs and Murtaugh both are well on their way out . 4 - is the perfect ending to this series . Honestly . The characters have developed as far as I can bear to witness ; Murtaugh misfires his gun in the locker room of the precinct , Riggs gets his butt kicked by a rookie cop in the boxing ring , and Riggs and Murtaugh are both just too old for this action thing anymore . ( Gods help us with 60-something-year-old Harrison Ford in the upcoming " Indiana Jones 4 . " ) Their CHARACTERS speak constantly of being too old , and I'm not talking about Murtaugh's well used line , " I'm getting too old for this sht . " It is far beyond that . And now , with Riggs's marriage to Lorna , Murtaugh's daughter's marriage to Butters , the new babies and all the smarmy crap at the ending . . . enough is just enough . 5 - should never happen . I don't think I can bear to see anymore smarm from these two . The characters we all loved are already gone . Like in " Invasion of the Bodysnatchers , " they've been stolen from us . The edge from Riggs's character is gone . He's a bit hapless now , and sad rather than the lunatic mayhem we want and NEED from his character . The only way to pull off a 5th installment would be to kill off Lorna's character , the baby AND Butters . Either put Riggs back where his character was in 1 & 2 , or don't bring him out of the moth balls . PLEASE . I loved these movies , but for the love of Mike ! NO MORE ! If you liked any of these movies , I highly recommend " Tango & Cash , " an excellent , much-overlooked , highly under-rated " Buddy-Cop " movie . 1 . . . . from . . . the Fiend : .
Utterly Sweet	The overall Willy Wonkaesque tone will instantly endear this work to almost any youngster , or . . . the young-at-heart . Dustin Hoffman has assumed many roles , worn many hats , and become many people over his decades of life on screen , but none with the totality of charm and sweet wit than that of Mr . Edward Magorium , Avid Shoe-Wearer . This one really touches the hearts of its viewers , and serves to remind us all that Magick is , indeed , precious - Magick does , indeed , live within us all - and Magick is , indeed , to be shared with others to bring happiness , joy , and a profound sense of wonder to any who have lost their joy , their way , or their nerve . All in all ? I loved this film , whether you break down the components one by one , or take it as the sum of all its incredible parts . This movie is a keeper , and I cannot wait to own it on DVD . Realistically , this is a definite Must-Have for the kids in your life ( even if it's the kid within YOU ) , but the guys may not care much for it and it may not make for a rousing Friday / Saturday night's " guy's flick , " but that not withstanding , I'd watch it on Friday , Saturday , Sunday , or any other day of the week . This movie was both inspired in its conception and execution , but inspiring in its delivery and presence . And , stay through to the end to catch a bonus scene . ; ) It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A Delight !	Corey Haim is excellent ( for once ) in this Joel Schumacher comedy / horror . There are two gangs which run the boardwalk of Santa Carla at night . One is a lawless bunch of wannabe bikers , the other is a blood-thirsty group of vampires boys . This movie omits the gag war which ensues throughout the literary work , but still manages to be a lovable and highly-liked production . In my opinion , the reason behind this huge likability of this comedy / horror by the man who killed Batman ( Yes , this is the same man who directed Batman 3 & 4 ) , is the casting . In all fairness to Mr . Schumacher , he also directed " Bad Company , " which I found absolutely delightful , and " Phone Booth , " which I found compelling and highly entertaining . These actors were perfectly cast in their roles , which lent a most endearing quality and a sense of something right , to this endeavor , which lacks in so many others . ( Like Batman 3 & 4 . ) The soundtrack was perhaps the true star of this production , as it was literally the best part of the movie . However , the performances were professional , witty , and realistically offered by these veteran actors . Another element omitted from this work , is the fact that Grampa was a veteran / retired Vampire Hunter , which explains his fortuitous entry at the end of this movie . This star-studded cast each did his / her part to lend to this work a complete believability inside this dark fantasy . Some critics have labeled this movie as " pure camp , " and while the " Frog Brothers " did lend a campy element to this production , the movie itself was of a good quality and deserves the recognition and following it enjoys . Their manes , Edgar and Alan Frog are an obvious alludiation to Edgar Alan Poe , and is thereby acceptable camp as the homagic element in its purest form . Some of the scenes found within are quite compelling , dramatic , and portrayed with veteran talent ; ie : the scene where David ( Keefer Sutherland ) opens the ancient , ornate bottle containing the blood from which Michael must drink . It is perhaps - the - most compelling scene found within this movie . There are some edge-of-your-seat moments , good sound comedic elements , and an otherwise all around solid story to be found here . The sets were excellent , the effects were horrifically believable , and the characters were well developed enough as to give the audience a good dose of concern for the principal participants . The addition of " Laddie " on the milk carton shows the level of detail and care given to this attempt , and again , the soundtrack just adds so much as the songs are fitting and right with each scene , carrying the audience from one scene to the next in smooth dissolves . Very well done . I found the love interest between Michael and Star to be sweet , desperate , and tragic , as I believe it was meant to be . The fact that she chose to make love to Michael rather than feed from him was significant within the story line , as was Max's asking for Michael's invitation before he would enter the house , and as was Grampa's distasteful curl of the lip at Max's doing so . Very well done production which highly deserves the kudos it's been given . I cannot say this movie was " scary , " but it was suspenseful , funny , heart-warming , creative , and extremely regaling . A remake would be in order , I think , within the next 10 years or so . It would be nice to expound on the gang wars a bit more , and give a better character treatment to Grampa in this one . And even though I am a fan of this original work , a little more true horror and less comedy would not hurt my feelings in the least . Although , it will be very hard , in my opinion , to recast the role of " Sam . " This , again in my opinion , was Haim's best portrayal in any role to date . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Of All the Adaptations , This Is My Favorite	I cannot say this is the closest adaptation , or even the best adaptation . What I can say is that it is by far my favorite adaptation . It is rather effective in conveying Dickens's message , more so than others , and it did strike a chord in me , which has never faded . Albert Finney was not my favorite Poirot , but he is my favorite Ebenezer Scrooge . Although I am not fond of the vehicle of musicals , I nearly didn't notice that this even was a musical . The musical numbers are so unobtrusive as to go virtually unnoticed , yet are an integral part of the overall makeup of this work . I never really noticed where the music started and ended . The execution is so involving that it captures the imagination properly thereby assisting beautifully in achieving the perfect mindset one needs in order to genuinely celebrate the Yule season . I love this movie . It's a must have and a must see at least three times a year . It rates a 9 . 0 for fond memories and good feelings from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly Underrated and Under-Appreciated !	This film is a niche film , in that it IS a who-dunnit , but deeper than that , there seems to be a gap between modern audiences and the pre-television world of pop-culture radio . This , in part , accounts for some of the lack of popularity this film experienced . However . . . This film is intriguing in that it features some great performances , manic and frantic dialog indicative of the behind-the-scenes and on-the-air intonations of the age , and a slick style which elevates this work far above the rating it currently enjoys here at IMDb . The filming style is mesmerizing . The long shots of the outside of the radio building contributes to the feeling of isolation from the rest of the world , as the body count begins to accumulate . The sponsors just won't be sold on the station , everything which can go wrong is , and the station is dying to go into national syndication . All while the intrigue builds into suspense without generating the atmosphere of a thriller , which this is not . It was a difficult balance to maintain , but it never slips , never fails . I have no idea why this was universally thrashed . This was delightful ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful Ponderances	Steve Martin , Claire Danes . This is an interpersonal study of the dating and mating habits of the pleasantly eccentric . This work by Steve Martin , is thoughtful in its introspection , yet insensitive in the ways which could truly matter to the characters involved . But that is part of the draw this work holds , as it is intimately familiar with the character flaws of its players and points them out , expands and examines them , rather than making the attempt to candy-coat or ignore them . Two men , one woman . One seeks inner self , while the other seeks inner woman . Woman acquiesces to both . But it's deeper than that . I'm not going to give you a blow by blow , nor will I detail this work any further . This is one you should see if you enjoy a really good drama . And by " good , " I mean one which is well made , perfectly cast , beautifully enacted , and lovingly presented . This was a great movie , for what it was . This is billed as a romantic comedy drama , however , I found this more a romantic drama than a comedy of any kind . This was great , and I am genuinely impressed that Steve Martin wrote and produced this , as well . This is one I enjoyed , in spite of myself . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Endearing .	This was geared towards boys , 10-14 , but this movie appeals to all ages . The acting by these kids was wonderful , the story was excellent , and the effects were not nearly as bad as I expected . It seems Dracula is alive and well and has aspirations of world domination , but he needs the help of other creatures of legend to achieve his goal , and it's up to our boys , the Monster Squad , to save the world . With the help of " Scary German Guy , " his old tome of spells , a virgin , and a magic amulet , it seems they are well on their way to greatness . " Whoa ! Wolfman's got nards ! " This is a most excellent movie which I watch again , and again . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Brooks ' genius at its heighth	One of my generations ' most loved movies and one of Mel Brooks's best works . Brilliant casting , comedic Mel Brooks genius , and some of the best performances since Ten Commandments is what you will get with this 1974 spoof of the Mary Shelley classic . While Brooks's comedic style is somewhat of an acquired taste , and either hits or misses almost instantly , " Young Frankenstein " was not only a more intellectual endeavor than his wildly successful " Blazing Saddles , " but like " Blazing Saddles , " has stood up under ( almost ) thirty years of scrutiny . Watching " Young Frankenstein " today , it is just as funny , and just as clever , as it was when it was first done . Gene Wilder brilliantly portrays the grandson of Baron Victor Von Frankenstein ; an unwilling heir to his genius , his castle , and all the knowledge the infamous doctor had in his possession . Terri Garr is perfectly cast as the finger-in-the-mouth , knee-bent into the other knee , dumb blond , easy-to-seduce lab assistant to the young Dr . Frankenstein . And Marty Feldman had never been better cast in a role in his entire career , as Igor , Frankenstein's right hand . . . man . Complete with a cameo by Gene Hackman , and Peter Boyles as " the Monster . " The running gags throughout the movie are a bit weak , admittedly , but the overall genius of the film leaves no doubt that Mel Brooks captured something almost magickal in his direction of this wonderful homage . No wonder that the use of the English language was so well prescribed in this marvelous production . It was co-written by Gene Wilder himself , as a comedic adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel . As a classic in the comedy field , this fine Mel Brooks production has withstood the tests of time and stands with a brilliant line of classic parodies directed by Brooks . If you liked this movie , please give " Spaceballs " a try . It is another brilliant parody , this time of the " Star Wars " series by George Lucas . I also highly recommend " The History of the World , Part 1 , " also by Brooks . It is an irreverent look at our biblical past . " Life Stinks , " another parody , this time of the legendary comedic effort by Dan Aykroyd and Eddie Murphy entitled , " Trading Places . " And last but certainly not least , " Blazing Saddles , " a brilliant , well received parody of the western films of America's recent past . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweet & Magickal	This work is simply astounding in its story-telling . I adored this work from beginning to end . There isn't one moment of wasted film , one character out of step , one scene which doesn't achieve its assigned task . not one disappointment . Some have called Nanny McPhee , " clich , " but I say that if it is clich , it is clich at its finest . The story is completely endearing , and the performances by the child-actors are beautiful . I can't wait to see where these children go from here . Suitable and entertaining for all ages . I LOVE this movie , and own it on DVD . PS : If you are a Pagan Parent , you'll love it just that much more . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , dark symphony of pain .	This is one of those rare occasions where the sequel is nearly as creative as the original . This one picks up where the first left off , seemingly seamlessly transporting us right back into the Realm of Pain , holding us by hooks embedded into our flesh , and forcing us to witness acts from which we normally would have turned and fled . This story is every bit as enjoyable as the first , and leaves us in fearful anticipation as for what is to come . . The direction was inspired , the performances were realistic , the make-up artistry is a thing of pure art , the sets were believable , the characters were well developed and creatively constructed . . . all of which lends complete enjoyability to the finished product which is much more than the sum of its parts . Some critics have spoken lowly of these films , spewing forth the usual drivel concerning the over-use of blood , gore and mayhem . But I say that if that is all those critics see in these films , they are viewing them from behind their closed minds , rather than enlightened ones . There is dark substance , dire meaning and a hideous back-story behind these acts . They are not the senseless acts perpetrated in film after film of this time period in this genre . These films are constructed around a very solid premise . Just watch and judge for yourselves . If you are a horror fan , I highly recommend this attempt , and the one which came before it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Vastly overlooked and under-rated sad , quirky , funny little film .	Honestly , this is one of Martin's best . An odd combination of " LA Story " and " The Jerk , " the mix lends to a melancholy sweetness seldom captured on film . The Martin / Grodin team works here as well as any Hope / Martin " Road " movie , and I always view it with a fondness and a certain bitersweetness . This dark little comedy is a definite must see . I highly recommend this film for anyone who is lonely . While being lonely is not amusing , Martin lets you in on the details of how much worse it could be , and that there are better things for you in the future if you persist . This attempt lends hope , rather than smarm . No one who is lonely needs useless platitudes . They merely need the strength to carry on until their hope can be realized . Give this one a viewing . It is definitely worth the small amount of time to allow yourself to become uplifted . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospheric Actioner Really Delivers	Featuring one of Will Smith's best performances , but also presenting Jack Busey ( Gary's son ) , and a riveting performance by Jack Black ! Had I remembered this , I would not have been concerned over Jackson's King Kong ( 2005 ) . Enemy of the State delivers intrigue , suspense , action , intelligence , and actually generates some tense atmosphere . The dialog is never trite , the story line is well developed , not contrived . The performances are top notch . And the action is superb . This is one good movie . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Keeping Up With the Dickens	Over the years , Oliver Twist has been made and remade many times over . There are countless tales intended as adaptations , re-imaginings , and direct translations of the original Charles Dickens work . Everyone from Broadway to the Disney has a version with their stamp on it , including Disney's " Oliver " about a set of dogs under the same circumstances as the original Dickens characters . The performances herein are darkly beautiful , retaining the dark beauty of the original work . Actually , cinematically speaking , this is probably the best straight remake of the original classic I've ever seen . I found this version to be the best , so far due to filming styles , and maintaining a competent update without losing the atmosphere of the original . This production bears the perfect feeling of despair , drudgery , and betrayal as the original work , and as such , rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wow ! What a Comeback !	This is Roger Moore's first attempt as Bond , James Bond , and I must say that he is at home in Bond's shoes from the first moment . This was fantastic ! Yaphet Kotto is Mr . Big , a nefarious gangster , drug runner , and Voodoo Priest in this Bond stylized blaxploitation film . Filmed primarily in New Orleans , one can view our beloved NOLA as she once was , complete with tenetiary decor . This was a beautiful installment , actually . Moore is a smooth operator who isn't afraid to take a hit , plays the Cassanova aspect of Bond's character quite aptly , yet shines equally as well in the venue of the high-speed actioner . I think the franchise has found its Bond . This story actually drew me as well as Moore's perpetration of it . The story is interesting , well fleshed out , and executed with a great panache . I really enjoyed this one . Better than any of the Connery installments , actually . And here I had a preconceived notion that Connery's Bond would be the best . Hmm . . . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
It's the attack of Jurassiczilla ! ! !	This is a very good movie . But the name " Godzilla " should have never been attached to it . As a monster flick it is quite good . But this is NOT the Godzilla I love . I'm going to try to be fair here . I LOVE the hokey old campy " Godzilla " monster movies of the 50's and the 60's . . . the 70's and the 80's even . And the idea of Godzilla being an irradiated iguana is preposterous . That not withstanding , this is still a good production ; highly entertaining ; and creatively directed , enacted and presented . Matthew Broderick is wonderful in his role as Dr . Niko " The Worm Guy " Tatopoulos ( Project X , Ferris Beuler's Day Off , Election , etc ) . I've never been much of a fan of his work because I've never been able to identify with his characters . And I thought he REEKED in " Inspector Gadget , " but to his credit , that was more the fault of the direction and a really stupid script , than his . Maria Pitillo ( Olivia Honey of Roseanne Barr's " She-Devil " ) demonstrated her best talents in my opinion ; the best of her career . ( For my review of She-Devil , please click my name and then click the corresponding link . ) After a long string of obscure titles , this vehicle gave her a chance to show her true abilities . Her portrayal of Audrey Timmonds is open and appears genuine . She makes you care what happens to her character . That is the start of a good performance . But she never loses that open quality which makes you feel as if you know the character as a person . That is the mark of a great performance ; such as the one with which she presents to the viewer in this production . Although the scene in which Dr . Tatopolous finds himself standing inside the footprint of Godzilla was directly ripped off from the ' 76 remake of " King Kong , " the rest of the movie was quite creatively done ; written , directed , filmed and presented . I had a lot of fun with this movie , by ignoring the constant references to Godzilla , itself . The " monster " featured in this film is NOT Godzilla , but rather some " Jurassic Park " rip-off of Godzilla . I can enjoy the movie for what it is , rather than what it is supposed to be . What it is supposed to be is a modernized remake of a classic monster / horror movie . What it is , is a top quality monster movie which bears NO resemblance whatsoever to the original . PLOT : " Godzilla " is a colossal irradiated iguana who has come to NYC . The US Army , Corps of Engineers , and a band of French nationals know that " Godzilla " has found a home in the sewers of NYC , but have no idea where . After bombing and blowing up several buildings ( the Chrysler Building , for one . . . " Negative impact ? ! That's the Chrysler Building we're talking about here ! " Mayor of New York City ) , they finally decide to listen to their hi-jacked expert , Dr . Nico Tatopoulos , and allow him to bait the monster to lure it out into the open . Well , that works , but not as planned . ( Do their plans EVER work right ? lol ) So now , Dr . Tatopoulos , his ex girlfriend ( a would-be reporter ) , and the leader of the French Secret Service unit sent here to monitor and intervene in the capture of the monster , must go down into the sewers to find this elusive terror . Dr . Tatopoulos determines through scientific methodologies and just good old fashioned horse sense , that the monster is in NYC to find a breeding ground for his / its ( ? ) brood of world-dominating spawn . It seems that it reproduces asexually and therefore needs no mate . " What's the fun in that ? " Audrey Timmonds . But when they discover that our little " friend " has not only been busy , but very Very busy , in its egg-laying capacity , no one will listen to Nico's insistent pleadings to destroy the building in which the eggs reside , and it is up to our hero to save the day . Excellent monster movie , if you can just ignore the obvious and constant " Godzilla " references . Horrid , atrocious , blasphemy of a remake in the field of " Godzilla " movies . As a Godzilla movie , it rates a . As a monster movie , it rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Insightful and creative professional presentation .	While I realize this is old news , the story's been done and done , and the Royal family has been implicated by more than a dozen sources in the Ripper run , but I still found this movie highly enjoyable . The depiction of the working class in turn of the century London adequately depicts the use of absinthe , opium , and wanton harlotry ; from both angles of the later . I found this movie to be beautifully filmed , creatively directed and written from an inspired angle . And , while I do have a problem with the depiction of London streets as clean , freshly-washed cobblestones , I still thought the rendition of the city was quite remarkable and had great bearing on this almost Burton / Ridley Scott-esquire feature film . This story is believably portrayed by all involved , and is a brilliant introduction to those with little knowledge of the Jack the Ripper story . For those of us who have had some knowledge of this time-honored walking human disease , it was a beautiful and compelling work of art . The costumes and sets were all lavishly done , and the details were beautifully attended , with a care that is rare in the industry , of late . I rate it with an from . . . the Fiend : .
Dated but brilliant	Brilliantly intelligent kickstart to the ( possibly ) most successful run of serial movies in history ! ! This movie was not about action . It was about the beginning of a long and successful series of movies which were an extension of a long-running and successful television series . V'GER is coming ! Complete with the entire original cast of the hugely triumphant cult classic TV series , " Star Trek , " it was an absolute joy to see them on the big screen , after having grown up with them on the small screen . I remember the awe this movie inspired being much like that of " Star Wars : Episode IV . " Compared to the technology we have today , ie : CGI , digital sound , digital video enhancement , etc ; this movie is now a little dated , and thereby loses a tiny bit of its edge , but not one drop of its lovability or creativity does it lack . Directed by Robert Wise , the director of " The Andromeda Strain " and the original " The Haunting , " 1969 , this wonderful sci-fi legacy is a must-have in any library . I highly suggest the collector's edition DVD with 40 minutes or so of re-added , remastered footage . They don't just give you those deleted scenes , they have re-edited them back into the movie , where they belonged ! ( Such fate should be in store for " Superman IV . " Maybe it wouldn't be the turkey it is , if they would put back the almost 50 minutes of story line left on the cutting room floor . ) V'GER is a destructive space entity heading towards Earth , and it's up to our beloved captain and crew to head it off at the pass . While the premise is typical , there is nothing whatsoever typical about the direction , performances , or effects of this movie . They are state-of-the-art , top of the line and are still effective today ; some nearly twenty-five years later . To stand the test of time , in a sci-fi venue is truly to have created a masterpiece . Now , this has been dubbed , " Star Trek : The Motion-less Picture , " and " Where Nomad has Gone Before . " While I can see the point of that ( this movie is rather slow and has very little action ) , it really isn't ( and wasn't ) fair to the movie , as a whole . This movie came after the cancellation of the series , and most of us were starving for anything " Star Trek . " I waited in line for three DAYS , in the freezing cold and rain to buy tickets to see this on opening day , the first showing , in the theater , and I was not the least bit disappointed . It was a rather odd day for the movie to be released . I was in Arizona . . . and it was December 7th . If you can fit that together , you will readily see why I remember the day so clearly . The drubbing this film received was just wrong . " Star Trek " was always about ideals and principles , with action as a subtext , rather than the main theme . And yes , while Kirk was a devil-may-care captain who frequently broke the rules on the side of what was right , rather than what was proper ; in this movie , he did not . He stuck to the rules which disappointed a few people , true enough . But I was not disappointed that in this first movie , Kirk's attitude and resentment of authority was toned down in place of better acting and a stronger appreciation for the wonders of deep space . This story is rich and full of detail . The characters , which were already so well developed no one needed further character building ; and yet , the character development was very well established , for those who were not fans of the series , and were possibly viewing this much-loved crew for the first time . It added extra lovability to the characters we already knew and loved , and lent a richness to the whole production which it otherwise would have lacked . The vastly creative ideas surrounding the origins of V'GER are brilliantly conceived and executed . I won't spoil it for those of you who have not seen it , except to say that , as often is the case with " Star Trek , " there is a message there . I love this movie , and every single individual movie which follows it in this series , but this one was the one to start it all and therefore deserves the respect of anyone daring to claim the honor of being a " Trekkie . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A " Shining " Example of What CAN be Done With a Stephen King Novel ! !	Unlike the unfortunate Made for TV version of Stephen King's " The Shining , " the Green Mile really holds its own . Tom Hanks delivers a stellar performance , as we have come to expect nothing else from him . Michael Clarke Duncan , however , is the bright and shining star in this movie . He really steals your heart as John Coffey , a death row inmate with extraordinary powers and a heart to match . It is a bit reminiscent of the Shawshank Redemption ( also done by the same director , go figure ) in that it too is set in a prison , but the genuine depth of the characters is what completely delivers this movie . This movie just goes to show you that good movies CAN be made from Stephen King's marvelous literary works , after all . Loved the book . Love the movie . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Disappointing To Book Fans For Major Deviations .	Good thing I'm not a fan of the novel , then . I realize there are problems with this adaptation , but I must agree with other reviewers in that this story was obviously a total rip off of the base Star Wars plot , with a medieval setting tacked on , in the first place , so I don't CARE that this particular movie wasn't like the book . In fact , I found that a plus . The characters were enigmatic , unlike the written work . The dragon was awesome , unlike the written work . All the idiotic nonsensical details which did not mesh with one another were absent , and the story was amazingly coherent , considering the source material from whence this was drawn . I thoroughly enjoy this work , and will watch it again , and again . The book ? I couldn't stand the amateurish lack of style , the lack of demonstration of vocabulary , or the inability to string together a coherent paragraph . Sorry book fans . I hated the book . When I read others ' reviews screaming how NOT like the book this was , I bought the DVD sight unseen , and LOVED it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Hitchcock was the master of suspense .	Everything , the musical score , the performances , the story line , the dialog all felt right with this production . The attention to the finer details given by Hitchcock was what really set this movie to rights , but it did not hurt that there was real charisma there between Stewart and Novak . Stewart , who was Hitchcock's ideal for the " average American guy , " was nothing less than stellar in his Vertigo performance . His range of talent shows an outright absence of inhibitory characteristics . He goes from the warm yet aloof " Scotty " to the angry and downright mad " Scotty " in such a pure believability that his performance alone is one of the major factors in My assessment of this film as one of Hitchcock's very best . But where would Stewart's performance be without the full-figured and capable talents of his leading lady ? Kim Novak was arguably one of the best talents of this film era . She was perfectly cast in the role of the mysterious yet earthy type lady of wealth who had a slight . . . problem . But , while her performance here was nothing but pure perfection , I must say I liked her character more in " Bell , Book and Candle . " This story is one for the arm-chair psychiatrists out there ; fraught with twists and turns , switch-backs and double-meanings , you could easily find yourself lost if you look away only for a moment . This is definitely a movie for the thinkers , and not the busy-bodies who enjoy watching a movie while doing other things . This story deserves nothing less than your full attention . While not considered Hitchcock's best work , or even among his best work , while he was still working , this endeavor has come to be known as such since his demise . To look at this now , so many years after its making and see it for the brilliance it was takes only a couple of hours and an adult attention span . He was so far ahead of his time , that his audiences just did not " get " the cruel irony of this attempt and as such , we nearly lost for all time one of the greatest masterpieces of suspense ever made . Only through the hard work and great dedication of those involved was this brilliant work restored . We are , indeed , fortunate as a society that this was even possible . IF YOU HAVE NOT WATCHED THIS MOVIE , THERE ARE MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! I loved the cruel irony of the ending . The fact that she had played him so freaking well only to die as her predecessor had . I thought that Hitchcock tried his best to use a fear common to many people ; IE : the fear of heights , in order to draw his audience in . I enjoyed watching Hitchcock's demonstration of Scotty's slow mental spiral as everything began weighing on his subconscious ; all the little details , all the tiny pieces that were swimming around in his head . It really looked as though he would snap , when in reality , he was quietly placing each piece into the necessary slot to make the picture come together for him . I also must comment on the use of the gray suit used by Hitchcock and worn by Kovak . It was used , IMO to make her all the more stunning in the evening gown she wore when Scotty first laid eyes on her . Everything else she wore after that was black , white or grey , to heighten the beauty of her in that one scene . Grey is usually a bad color for blonds . It washes them out and makes them look like they're wearing green pan for a black and white oldie . But Hitchcock did that on purpose as effect . Speaking of effects , the camera work here is simply stunning . That and the whole movie was nothing more than a parable teaching us to face our fears rather than surrender to them . This was the best in his suspense line . I loved Psycho , too , but I always considered it more the first in the slasher sub-genre rather than suspense . This movie rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Enthralled in chilling entertainment .	This is for the 1968 B & W version , not the 1993 colorized version , nor the 1999 bastardized remake ! ! This is about the best horror film ever made . In spite of the obvious low budget and the inexperienced actors , this movie pulls through . It is a genuinely scary movie in spite of the grainy quality of the film , the obviously dated quality of the movie , and the many slow spots . It never fails to entertain you ; compel you to watch it through to the ending . It has a documentary-like feeling to it which lends an eerie realism to the entire production . This is a strange movie ; it looks strange , and feels strange , as we learn through the news casts that radiation was the cause of the dead returning to life . All things are explained , yet there is a sheer totality to this movie which is really very disturbing . I was entertained and completely chilled , which says a great deal . I am a rare horror fan who is not into zombie movies . But this was absolutely one of the very best of the genre of horror , and THE best of the zombie sub-genre . If you liked this movie , you may also enjoy Serpent and the Rainbow . It has the added element of having been based on actual events . It rates a on the movie scale . It rates a on the Romero scale . It rates a on the splatter scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Typically , I'm in the Minority Again . I LOVE This Movie !	Okay , so it's a male version of the Craft . . . kinda . Yes , I'd have to agree with that summation ; however , this features MUCH more story , more meat , more history , and a FAR better execution than the Craft . It also presents a much better developed story , characters , and production style . This is dark , yet shines throughout . It is witty without being stupid . It is serious without taking itself too seriously . It is entertaining without losing sight of the fact that its audience wants to be uplifted by their entertainment . This work features some innovatively creative elements , great performances , and strong dialog combined with historically based characters , enlightened direction , and an incredibly slick production style that does not lose itself in its . . . slickness . L I really enjoy this , and have the extended edition in my DVD collection . All in all ? It's not good for the kiddies . It tends to be a bit harsh in places , but falls well within the PG-13 rating it receives . Billed as " horror , " this work is more " thriller , " in my opinion . It makes for decent Friday / Saturday night viewing , if you have not yet seen it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Watchable modern Silas Marner sentimentality	Sweet , Sentimental , Modernized Journey Through Silas Marner . This is about the best Steve Martin movie I've seen . That , for me , is saying a lot , since I love all his movies . Steve Martin plays a divorced hermetic carpenter who discovers a motherless baby on his doorstep and adopts her . The conflict comes when her millionaire father , denied a lawful child by his legal wife , seeks to take possession of the child he sired by a drug-hazed prostitute ; Martin's little girl . Very good drama , with classic Martin style , and without smarm . Excellent movie . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This is one demented , sad little girl ; and one brilliant film .	I bemoan horribly low-budget movies , but this production is proof positive that money does not make the movie . I am still so disturbed by this effort that I am finding it hard to find the words . . . This movie was absolute brilliance . It was creatively written , realistically portrayed , inspirationally directed , and disturbingly sad and dark at the same time . Angela Bettis is astounding as May . May was born with a lazy eye which caused her have to wear an eye patch . Her mother , a neurotically judgmental woman , raised May to believe that her only choice for friendship was to either hide her differences , or withdraw into her own fantasy . But there are more differences within May than even her mother could see , and after May realizes that people are not perfect , she goes to any and all lengths to make herself seen . This is one of the darkest , saddest , most disturbing movies I have EVER seen . Bittersweet and truly mad . It rates a full on the " B " scale . That's an from . . . the Fiend : .
This Has To Be Lee's Best Role !	I've been a fan of horror throughout my entire life ; introduced to Dracula in the late 1960's , I've always been fascinated by the Vampire mythos itself , as much as the theatrical interpretations of those legends . While I believe Bela will always be the actor most commonly associated with the role , I also believe that Lee was the BEST Dracula . Unfortunately , this director considers himself to be an " arthouse " worthy stylist , when in actuality , he ends up wasting at least 15 minutes of every film with his " arthouse " shots , which are usually superfluous and lend nothing whatsoever to the plot he is supposed to be shooting . Fortunately , this time , he didn't bother with that mindless activity , and delivers an awesome bit of horror . Is this the best Dracula MOVIE ? Well , not in my opinion . I'm one of those " story+great effects over atmosphere " horror fans , so in my book the best Dracula movie so far has been John Carpenter's Vampires because the effects were mind blowing and the story was just plain GOOD . So why am I reviewing THIS movie ? Simply because Lee's performance more than rates your time . If you are a Lee fan , or if you're a Dracula fan , or if you're a horror fan in general , this movie is worth the 2 hours ' viewing time just to take in Lee's brilliance . As I've said , in my opinion , this is by far his best performance . ( Loved him as Sauron , but this is still his best . ) Check it out , if only for Lee's Performance . You won't be disappointed . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful and Rich ! WOW What a Movie !	This is the best Pirates yet ! Don't listen to the naysayers . This story does just what it sets out to do ! The visuals are staggering , the new characters are delightful , and the action is awesome ! These movies present some intriguingly fun characters who enchant from beginning to end . The worlds Pirate Lords . Wow ! I'm not going to spoil anything for you because the movie doesn't debut in the States until tomorrow morning , but this is one HECK of a movie ! If you love Jack Sparrow , you'll love him all the more when this is done . I can't really say anymore without spoiling SOMEthing , except to say that this is genuinely entertaining ! I was on the edge of my seat a couple of times , and the laughs are good belly laughs . This film is HUGE ! So enjoy ! This movie is the best one YET , and as such , rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Good Movie , Horrid Editing . I Expected Better Out Of Jackson .	The characterization of 1930's depression-era New York was hauntingly beautiful , authentic , and inspired . The recreation of the shanty town on the city outskirts was beautifully morose . 1930's NYC's careful reconstruction included the Pepsodent commercial billboards and the famous AlHambre Theater ( in which Kong is later displayed ) . Naomi Watts was brilliant as Ann Darrow , an excellent casting choice who turned in a stunning performance , which added new dimensions to the character . It is obvious that Jack Black was miscast in this role , but he certainly rose to the occasion ! He was a wonderful Carl Denham . In character or out , Black is convincing as a bllsht artist . Adrian Brody is NOT a romantic lead ! He is a capable actor who contributed a compelling performance , but his nose was in Naomi's EAR ! when they kissed ! They had to film him at a - profile to get a straight shot on his nose ! Miles of superfluous footage was shot and left IN the film ; art-house dreck which did not belong , resulting in a major loss of atmosphere . The arrival upon Skull Island was quite dramatic ; the structures were immense and spectacularly filmed , and the huge legendary wall was reminiscent of Helm's Deep . Their landing and approach to the deserted city began with a nice voice-over by Evan Parke ( Hayes ) , and it lent a nice eerie feeling to the work-up of the Island sequence . This was backed up by loads of wonderful set design and prop details which did more than just " back up " the intro , they helped create the whole atmosphere he tried to generate on the boat-trip to the island in the first place , IF you can force yourself to let go of the hour and fifteen minutes ' set up time . It does seem that Jackson's contractual screen-time obligations are what made the audience sit through a dragging hour-long introduction to the island . The CGI native pole-vaulting from rock to rock to the U . S . S . Venture looked like a lesser video-game character . I've seen Video Games which were better illustrated . Kong's entrance was extremely unremarkable . The wonderful lead into the scene offered little in the way of immediate pay off ; however . . . Kong himself is now a giant silver-back . He is magnificent and it is obvious Jackson developed him with the same love and care as he did the LotR saga . THIS is an awesome Kong ! Unfortunately , the dino pile-up scene demonstrated staggering CGI . CGI so ill-used and poorly edited that it was sloppy ! The scene was quite intense , but the CGI was just plain nasty . You could make out the blue screen lines around some of the characters where they were placed in front of the dinos . BAD ! The shrunken heads found everywhere really reminded me of Gollum . The skulls were shrunken , but every one had huge eye sockets which immediately reminded me of baby Gollums . I wonder if that was Jackson's attempt at a self-homage . . . ? ? If so , it failed . The dinosaurs were excellent . Jackson didn't rely on previous interpretations of these predators , he designed his own . All of Jacksons dinosaurs were top row . Their design was different from what we've come to expect from the movies we've previously enjoyed , and that did change the feel of the film . . . in a positive way . His premise that the dinos would look different , having evolved in an utterly isolated habitat , far from any other dinosaur-populated area ; that was the basis for his restructuring the head ridges and hides . The raptors got a whole new design altogether , and the T-Rexes were darkly sinister . I also loved the saber-toothed were-bats . They were excellent ! However , the giant bug scene was a bit much . It was totally unnecessary and lent nothing to the story . Naomi's neck and spine should have snapped in two at least 30 times , while Kong was whipping her around . There is no WAY anyone would have survived that ! Unfortunately , the first time Kong scoops her up , she would have been a paraplegic ( at best , but probably a quadriplegic ) ! Also , the CGI in that scene was horrid . You could tell that was most certainly NOT a human being in Kong's hand . Thankfully , the natives were not depicted as retro south side Chicagoites with huge afros and Geri curls this time . Instead Jackson went for cannibals sporting exotic body modifications and extreme facial piercings ! One stereotypical clich after another . The " beautiful " scene on the Island bears a bad spot on the film located at the top right quarter of the screen . I couldn't believe the sloppy editing ! I mean . . . for $207M , WETA could have afforded a decent editor ! Please don't misunderstand . Although there are CGI disappointments , this is one of the most visually stunning films I've ever seen ! The cinematography is beautiful and inspired , and the Kong graveyard was a very nice , sentimental touch which gave you some insight into the haunting sadness visible in Kong's eyes . In spite of the high level of entertainment , the ending was flaccid . No matter what the other problems are , or what they do to the DVD " fix " later , the ending is still gonna be weak , IMO . When Jackson's Kong dies at the end , Watts just watches him slip off the Empire State Building ! ! It was like . . . " Well , he's dead . How sad . Let's go . " It was far too subdued for my tastes . I enjoyed it , but it was NOT the $207M masterpiece it should have been . It rates a ( HP4 Scored Higher ) from . . . a somewhat disappointed Fiend : . EDIT : I have to say that the Director's Cut DVD has fixed the problems , and the addition of just 2 seconds of exposition at the ending has cleared away that problem , too . The Director's Cut Edition rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Amazing , fun , darker second adventure	After seeing the original Indiana Jones movie , Raiders of the Lost Ark , I did not think it was possible to do any better than that , but this " sequel " is every bit as good as the original work . With the addition of " Short Round , " a small boy new to the company of Indiana Jones , the producers have given children a new connection with this franchise . It turned out to be a brilliant move , and a wonderful addition which , unfortunately , they did not carry through to the third installment . What struck me most with this work was the depth of research done concerning the Sankara Stones . According to legend , there were five of these stones , taken from what is now referred to as the Sankara Complex , in India . The legend has it just as it is represented in the movie . In the presence of three or more of the stones , you were given an increasingly higher level of power by the Deities . To possess all five , you would be invincible . The Thugee Murder Cult was , and is , real . They have been documented and even associated with the Zodiac killings of the 60-70's , and mentioned , however briefly , in the disappearance of Jon Benet Ramsey . These followers of the dark Goddess of Death , Kali , of the Hindu Pantheon of deities , were known for living dual lives , especially when in other countries where secrecy was an issue . They believe that by sending souls to Kali , their lives here will be uplifted by this dark Goddess , and therefore , they have been known to commit multiple murders , including the annihilation of entire villages throughout India . These practitioners of the Black Kabballah are very real , and were depicted quite well in this production . I was very impressed with the degree of research involved here . This is action from the beginning ; adventure through and through . A grand total of ONE slow spot was found here , and that was used to further the character development of Short Round , and show the depth of his relationship with Dr . Jones . I thoroughly enjoyed this movie . The costumes were wonderfully designed , and were quite authentic in the area of Indian style and dress . I pay attention to set designs and costuming . They can make or break a movie , for me . Rich architectural designs can add so much to a movie , just as unrealistic , plastic-looking " rock " surfaces in the background , can kill the whole mood of the scene . But you have none of those problems with these productions . It appears as though no expense was spared ; no scene overlooked . This is a true quality production . Furthermore , the performances were completely believable , even those of the Indian children who were originally cast as extras . Their performances were absolutely wonderful , the story was quite enthralling , and the time just sped by . The only problem I had with this movie is that it was over far too quickly . This attempt was professional in all ways , and is , in my opinion , the very best of this series . This is my favorite of the Indiana Jones run for its dark realism . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Action-filled sci-fi thinker	In my honest opinion , this is the most intellectual of Arnold Schwarzenegger's movies . The screenplay and plot lines are so well written , coherent , imaginative and complex and cohesive . The performances of these stellar actors are absolutely professional , quality and believably portrayed . PLOTWhile his wife teasingly steers him clear of his obsession , Doug Quaid is obsessed with Mars and Earth's colonization of the Red Planet . In an attempt to realize his obsession without damaging his marriage , he goes to the much-touted " Recall , " a memory implants vacation team to have at least the memory of having been to Mars . But something goes wrong , and before they can implant the " secret agent " portion of his mental " vacation , " they hit a memory cap which was already installed by an anonymous governmental bureau known only as " the agency . " He freaks and begins screaming at the techies , " YOU BLEW MY COVER ! ! " END PLOTFrom that point on , the action does not stop . But this is not your typical Schwarzenegger fare . This action is underlined and surrounded by intelligence , thoughtfulness and a main plot riddled with complicated sub-plots which are cleverly written and beautifully executed . The sets are creatively designed , the scenes are wonderfully constructed , and the landscapes of Mars are pure sci-fi / effects genius . The visual effects are some of the best I've ever seen ANYwhere , and the finished product leaves you feeling more enlightened and thoroughly entertained . For these reasons I say , this is one of the best of AS's movies . It tops T1 & T2 . These three , are his absolute best in the genre of sci-fi / action . A definite " Must See , " even if you are a fan of sci-fi alone and do not really care about the Schwarzenegger element . As a PS , I would like to add that the Special Edition DVD version of this movie is much more enjoyable with advanced digital sound , remastered Widescreen visuals and a commentary with AS and the director Paul Verhoeven . There is also a behind the scenes special that shows you why this movie won the Academy Awards for special achievement in visual effects . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Neo-classic creature feature	While there is very little science in this science fiction / action / horror flick , it is one of the better monster / alien movies out there . As a neo-classic , it is a classic out of the " classic " period , which generates the same kind of loyalty as does a " true " classic . Riveting portrayals , realistic enactments within the most suspenseful setting I've ever experienced , and cast perfectly , this is one for the collection , regardless of your tastes . This movie relies heavily on the unknown . It leads you down a jungle-dark path into oblivion . It shoves you , step by step , into the awaiting maw of the enemy and only slowly begins to let you see what you are up against . Excellent direction which makes you live the experience of being hunted , marks and colors this production in such a way as to endear it to the audiences for all time . It keeps you glued to the screen until the final sequences play themselves through . I rate it a rousing . the Fiend : .
Awesome Goldblum ! Great Finished Product ! Whack Storyline !	Let me start by saying that this story line is completely insane ! It is not unbelievable , nor is it immature . It is temporarily insane . Suffering OCD from a trauma , John ( Goldblum ) begins demonstrating classic " searching " behavior . He investigates and finally insinuates himself into a situation which is absurd , in a vainglorious attempt to atone for a wrong which he did not commit . Honestly , while the story itself was oddly compelling , the key element this work features is the versatility of Goldblum as an actor . He shows a depth and range here which his characters are not usually afforded . I felt that this was one of the best performances of his career ! I cannot wait to see what he does next ! It rates a on the " B Scale " from . . . the Fiend : .
Horror hits the mainstream ! !	This movie has every known ingredient for a long-running , well-loved , top money-making cinematic success : a deeply developed , lovable cast of characters ; a creatively written and very well developed script ; sound , believable dialog ; totally realistic , imaginative effects ; an awe-inspiring soundtrack ; superb direction ; good , solid , workable CGI creations ; wonderful sets which inspire the imagination ; and an excellent group of professional , lovable actors . The first time I saw this movie , I was in absolute awe of the dinosaurs . I could not believe how well they were done . I felt like I was right there , in that clearing with Alan Grant and Ellie Sattler , seeing them live , for the first time . I was actually . . . moved . I must admit that I have not always loved everything Spielberg has directed , but this is definitely one of my all-time favorites . It inspires the imagination , boggles the mind , and teases the child in all of us with the wonderful creation of these magnificent creatures . In this Fiend's opinion , ILM is the very best effects company there is . I admire their founder , and the visual images they create , and these creations were certainly no exception . Plot : InGen has created clones of many species of extinct dinosaurs in an attempt to engineer the world's first dinosaur theme park ergo the movie's title , " Jurassic Park . " In order to obtain approval from the investors for the park's opening , Hammond , the CEO , has to solicit the nod from a diverse team of outside experts . Dr . Ellie Sattler ( Laura Dern ) , Dr . Alan Grant ( Sam Neill ) , Dr . Ian Malcolm ( Jeff Goldblum ) , accompanied by the " blood-sucking " lawyer representing the board of investigators and Hammond's own grandchildren , take the official " tour " of Jurassic Park , but nothing seems to go right . " So . . . eventually you're going to have DINOSAURS on your dinosaur tour ? Right ? Yes ? Hello ? " Ian Malcolm . " I do HATE that man ! " John Hammond . Then , something goes decidedly wrong ! Sabotaged by one of his own family , Hammond's security is down , and the electrified fences containing these creations is turned off . Before anyone can get them back online , chaos commences . But the party of experts , Hammond's grandchildren and the lawyer are caught behind enemy lines . The question now , is no longer will they endorse it , but will they survive Jurassic Park ? I absolutely LOVE this movie . The close-ups of the details created by ILM on the dinosaurs were absolutely wonderful , believable and outright realistic . As far as adaptations go Michael Crichton wrote the screenplay himself , so regardless of my personal feelings , I accept the story to be as close as was workable to the original literary work , though it felt heavily like a " Westworld " remake . . . with dinosaurs . It earns a for actually making it feel real , from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the best .	This is one of the Fiend's favorite movies . It has all the elements of a great fantasy , love story , action / comedy and rolls them all together with care , love , and talent . This was my introduction to Cary Elwess , and the shining star in Andre the Giant's life . I had occasion to meet Andre after his making of this film and before his death , and he literally carried a copy of this movie with him every where he went . This movie , to him , was more worthy of pride than his entire life's career as a pro-wrestler . Billy Crystal , who also starred in this production , became his closest friend , and later dedicated " My Giant , " to his pal Andre . Just a little history from a buff . This movie contains swash-buckling action and sword play , strong-man elements , pirates , princesses , castles , revenge , and true love . For what more , could you ask . An all-star cast gives us all star performances . If you are a fan of fantasy , this is a definite must-see . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
This Is Awesome ! ! ! Do NOT Listen To The Naysayers Who Can't Understand This Film !	I'll start this review by saying that this work will NOT be everyone's cup of tea . It is what my good friend DragonChylde calls a " niche film , " and that analogy fits as good as any . What that means is that there is a small corner of the audience-mill who will love and appreciate it for what it is . Only those in a " niche " audience will " get " this film . If you are into science fiction , political thrillers , pseudo-sciences , or paranormal studies , then you will more than likely highly enjoy this work . Otherwise , the plot twists , the time shifts , and the story itself may be a bit too much for you to take in all at once . On average , it takes the casual viewer two viewings to understand the plot , so if you did not " get " this movie , give it a second viewing . You may come out a fan of this work . Cage portrays a man who can see two minutes into the future except where one strange woman is concerned . Two minutes may not seem like a long time , but if you've ever instantly regretted a decision , two minutes is more than ample time to have taken it back , acted differently , or saved the situation . I've been working with temporal theory for years , so of course I was highly interested in this work . I find the descriptions used herein , the portrayals , and demonstrations of how things work , to be en par with many of the higher theories I work with . Cage's performance is exemplary ( as usual ) , and while I have never considered Jessica Biel a serious actress , I may , if she continues contributing performances such as the one exhibited herein . I am withholding my judgment until I see where she goes after this . All in all , if you are a fan of the genres / areas listed at the beginning of this review , you will most likely find this work highly intriguing and vastly entertaining . If not , you probably won't " get it . " Most did not , or this work would have a much higher score than it does . I loved it , and can't WAIT to own it on DVD . I'm sure this review will not be found " helpful , " as most people couldn't understand it and will not like being told they lack the intelligence to do so . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Better than the movie	The third installment is the weakest link of the Jurassic chain . This documentary goes a long way toward explaining what happened with this installment , but did nothing in the way of changing my opinion of the movie . It explains everything from concept to post production , but fails to inspire even the smallest vein of dedication to this chapter . Let's compare . This documentary receives a 6 . 4 from regular users here at IMDb , while the movie it documents earns a 5 . 6 . ( blank stare ) However , I shall attempt to not throw the downfalls of Jurassic Park 3 onto this " making of " documentary . It explains that the " spinosaurus " was ( in its largest specimen ) 57 feet tall and the largest carnivorous dinosaur ever found , while the T-Rex was 45 feet tall . It does show that the movie was done with as many models and latex effects as it was CG . Full sized animatronics , and amazing attention to detail . I hate that it did not pay off on film , and do sincerely hope it does not impact on the upcoming JP4 . I give it a Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Lovable , sweet and intelligently witty .	I love almost everything Steve Martin has done . There are a few exceptions , like Novocaine , The Man with Two Brains being among them . But most everything else he has done has captured some part of my heart . " Roxanne " is a shining example of that . " Roxanne , " a modernized romantic comedy centered around a modern-day Cyrano de Bergerac starring Steve Martin , Darryl Hannah , and Shellye Duvall , breathes new life into this old beloved tale . The performances are purely professional , the scenes and setting all lend to the believability of the production and the final product is amazingly intelligent , witty and sweet . Martin's character has an edge that he normally just does not attempt to attain . The dialog is a bit trite at times , but standing in Charlie Bales's shoes may make anyone a little tense . This is by far one of Martin's best performances , and in my opinion , his best work thus far . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
AKA : The Protectors . . . Forget the Complainers ! Tony Jaa is Like A God !	This is a " B " quality production , but this Tony Jaa is far superior to the vehicle which displays his talents . Tony bears a strong resemblance to Jai of Ron Ely / Tarzan fame ( Manuel Padilla Jr . ) , and is noted at least once as being " pretty . " He definitely carries a fantastic on-screen presence , although he doesn't seem to have a singular style , but rather demonstrates proficiency in a myriad of techniques and martial arts styles . Muay Thai seems to be his base , but I believe it is more Bokutor , mixed with Prodalserey ( a more modern form of the ancient Muay Boran or Bokutor ) . From that ancient and diverse base , he draws from Jeet-kun-do , Ninjitsu , Jujitsu , Judo , and a plethora of other styles , including full on Akido at the end ! This kid looks like Jackie Chan one minute , Bruce Lee the next , and then Stephen Seagal back when he was young and still rock and rolled ! You see a strong Jet Li-esquire style , with Chow Yun Fat undertones , with the mastery of fury of Bolo Yeung . He demonstrates some amazing skill ! It's like he ( Jaa ) has studied every possible style and has mastered each one ! Aside from giving the viewer a total appreciation for this " new " talent ( Jaa ) , this film an emotionally strong , well-developed story involving the Protectors who train and then protect the Imperial Elephants of Thai Royalty . All in all ? If you are a fan of the martial arts venue , I would highly recommend this film , though it is a " B " flick , with a " C " budget and film quality . Tony Jaa is a name to remember ! We were highly entertained , and look forward to great things from this young Master . It rates a on the " B " Scale . That should equate somewhere around a on the " A " Scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Slightly better than No , And often cited as " The Best . "	Well , it's started already . Many have , over the years , declared Connery as their " favorite Bond , " because of a lack of gadgets and a presence of better plots and story . From Russia with Love belies that declaration , however , as this gives us our first genuine introduction to " Q , " ( Desmond Llewelyn ) although we don't really get to know him ( get to see the Bond version of Muppet Labs ) until Goldfinger . The plot is solid , so I won't say it was contrived to make use of Bond's new gadgets , but I will say it's convenient that he works in every little nuance of each feature of that wonderful briefcase . Actually , I won't be too hard on FRwL , as it IS only the second Bond film , and the small amount of gadgetry used is nice . The question posed surrounds the determination which villains are THE villains ? Our choices this time involve the Soviets , the Bulgars , the Gypsies , and SPECTRE . While we know SPECTRE is involved from the very beginning , it's fun trying to guess who ELSE is involved , and how Tania will act when it's all said and done . Does she really love James , or is she very good at what she does ? This installment is where most of the base Austin Powers elements come from . The villains are numbered ( # 1 , # 2 , # 3 , etc . ) , the kitty is introduced , Frau's counterpart is brought to the fore , and we see those diabolical buttons which control everyone's fate , and so on . Connery's Bond attempts to demonstrate early in the franchise that Bond does possess ingenuity , and the gadgets are just tools for a professional . All in all , this one is a lot of fun , and we are beginning to see the Bond most Baby Boomers remember fondly from childhood , but it won't be until Goldfinger that we get the over-done title song and near-nude dancers in the intro . Probably the best , but not my very favorite . It rates a from . . . the fiend : .
Quirky , witty rom-com fully entertains	Wonderful romantic comedy with two of our brightest comedic stars . Newton Davis ( Steve Martin ) is a bored , jilted architect who has little to no zest for life left in him . Gwen ( Goldie Hawn ) is a beautiful waitress with a checkered , ambiguous past who manages to catch the fringes of Davis's imagination by flaunting her various and sundry eccentricities and hinting just the tiniest bit , to the true person beneath the visage she has assumed . Through a series of strange , fantastical , desperate decisions Gwen and Newton find themselves in a very precarious situation . It is not long before Gwen becomes the very cynosure of Newton's life , and before he knows it , he's tasting the worm and wriggling helpless upon the hook that is Gwen . I love this movie and watch it often . It is uplifting and creative . It has been called " campy " by some , but I find no camp in it . I have known people very much like Gwen's character , and realize the reality she portrays in this production . It reminds me of many beloved people from my past . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Puissant	This is a moving , yet disturbing tale of a mother whose son is lost , and the search to find him . The story walks you down the darkened aisle of racial strife , drug abuse , suspense , and the sad and frightening places the human mind can go . The performances herein are quite realistic , grand kudos go out to Julianne Moore for her contribution . Her portrayal of a mother in shock and denial is one of the best and most realistic depictions of that state I've ever seen . Samuel L . Jackson is perfection as the detective Lorenzo Council ; a conflicted police officer who genuinely cares about the people and the area he was assigned to protect . The direction contributed by Joe Roth is knowledgeable and creative , with beautiful visuals and sequences which were darkly conceived , and richly executed . The story was a good one , well told , nicely enacted , and thoughtfully executed , without too much preponderance , thereby contributing to nice even pacing throughout . All in all , while the subject matter here is very dark , I found it entertaining , and potent . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Crime / Cop Vehicle That's A Bit Underrated	What do you say about a great script and inspired direction , which brings DeNiro and Pacino together on the same screen ? It's every bit as great as it sounds like it would be . Directed by Michael Mann , this actioner carries a heavy story , along with fantastic action sequences , while building great suspense through marvellous direction and believable dialog , not to mention a great score by Elliot Goldenthal . All in all ? I found this highly enjoyable , and can't wait to add it to my collection . I don't know how I missed this one , but I did . While this isn't a great big block-bustery KABOOM pic , it's close enough for a Friday night viewing , if cop / crime actioners are your thing . This would make great viewing anytime . I loved it and think it deserves better than the 8 . 1 it currently enjoys here at IMDb . COM . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sappy but satisfying Dickens retelling	The Night The Reindeer Died ! ! They should MAKE that movie . Of course . . . without Lee Majors . lol . Among the many wonderful comedies starring Bill Murray , this one has to be one of my favorites . It's a rather irreverent remaking of the Dickinsian classic , " A Christmas Carol , " and is one of the best of Bill Murray's portrayals , in my opinion . This quirky , funny , and sometimes melancholy movie is quite entertaining , intelligently funny , and a must see for any fan of the original work which this movie parodies . Murray is a classic megalomaniac ; a sycophantic , narcissistic , egocentric fool who manages , through his bastardization of the human condition , to rate the " ghost of xmas past , present , and future " treatment from the Powers That Be . Don't miss this wonderfully funny movie , especially around xmas time . It's an endearing , heart-warming and hilarious production which is horribly under-rated . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Revolutionary cinema !	Given that this movie is , at this writing , over twenty years old , I must say it has well withstood the tests of time . Every summer action " blockbuster " thereafter has reached for the star that is " Indiana Jones , " and for the most part , fallen flat . Harrison Ford , fresh out of the " Star Wars " franchise , has done himself proud with the three Indiana Jones installments ; each a bit better than the one before it . He is the embodiment of realistic acting . His character would have been completely unbelievable had it been played by anyone else , but Ford lends to it a certain quality of honesty and reality ; the same admired traits he contributed to the Star Wars sagas . I feel safe in saying that had anyone else been cast as Indiana Jones , the franchise would not have been as successful as it was . . . and is . With the new release of the Indiana Jones Boxed Set on DVD , the popularity of this series has been rekindled . Collectors and fans alike are flocking to the video stores to stock up on the latest release of their best and dearest favorites . According to Yahoo . com , it is the second-highest top selling DVD collection in the Action / Adventure genre as of right now , what with having all three movies and an additional DVD full of extras . ( / 04 ) The Raiders of the Lost Ark is all about the Ark of the Covenant , a religious artifact which is written a lot about in the old testament . It was reported to lay waste to vast armies and bring sure victory to any army which marched into war bearing this relic . It was old , even in the days of the Bible . What was built , was an elaborate case in which to house and carry it , fashioned by one of the twelve tribes of Israel and fought over every since . The infamous German dictator is in search of the ark , which puts the American Government into the holy relic business . They enlist Dr . Indiana Jones , famed archaeologist , to find the ark and bring it back to safety before Hitler's men can get their hands upon it . Not a bad premise , actually , and the Spielberg / Lucas team bring it to life for us . The story was fresh and edgy , with a wonderful cast and crew . Every aspect of this movie was action , fantasy , and an awe-inspiring creativity . While I did find Karen Allen a bit whiny , and wanted to see her beheaded by the fifth scene , she finally pulled through and delivered a stellar performance by the end of the movie . By any standards , this movie is still a huge success , and a goal for any aspiring actor / director / screenwriter / cinematographer to shoot for . What I liked most about this movie , was the feeling bestowed by Ford's character that you actually knew him . The character development was wonderful , but without Ford's down-to-earth performance , that character development would not have been nearly as effective . So honestly , what I liked best about this production was Harrison Ford . He does not play his character like he knows everything , has no flaws , and is the perfect . . . anything . He is honest , in his portrayal , about his shortcomings , lack of knowledge in certain areas , and his physical vulnerabilities . Excellent performance . Simply excellent . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
THE BEST of the Earlier Bond Flicks	George Lazenby , sans Bond's plethora of gadgets , is a most gallant figure striking a pose against the backdrop of more suave men in the role . Connery's Bond is arrogant and his Bond character relies too heavily on the gadgets . Lazenby's Bond is a beautiful action figure , but his romantic lead quality is not quite par with Connery's . Go figure . Unfortunately , Lazenby never received the opportunity to reprise his role . Connery returns in the very next film installment , " Diamonds Are Forever , " as a means of giving the studios a quick substitute for Lazenby , but his return was only temporary , as Roger Moore followed immediately after . Telly Savallas makes for an excellent villain as easily as Diana Riggs makes for a beautiful blushing bride-to-be . This is the most faithful adaptation of any Ian Flemming Bond novel , and is definitely the most poignant . Lazenby is a fantastic action hero and a believable spy , but the world just could not see him in the romantic lead ; although , in the one scene requiring depth and emotion , he totally delivers . This rates an on the Bond Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
AKA KILL BILL VOL 2 . . . One of the few worthy sequels	This chapter of the " Bride's " story picks up precisely where it left us , at the end of Kill Bill , Vol . 1 , and seamlessly carries us forward through the second half of Tarantino's dark and twisted saga . This chapter was not nearly as sanguineous as the first , but was more treacherously deranged ( if you can believe it ) . The execution of this screen play and the filming styles are inspired and simply breathtaking . As the stakes mount in the Bride's game of cat and mouse , the players find they must stop at nothing , in order to survive her rampage of unrelenting revenge . Tarantino took out all the stops and directed one of the most disturbing and dastardly sinister enterprises I've seen . I can't think of a single film which compares to the atmosphere and story , the depth of these characters , and the overall enjoyability of the work that is Kill Bill , Vol . 2 . I wholeheartedly recommend this run to anyone who has a love of revenge movies , action flicks , and splatter fans ( though splatter fans may prefer Kill Bill , Vol . 1 , now that I think about it ) . It rates the exact same rating as the first at an from . . . the Fiend : .
Almost as much fun as the movie	James Earl Jones narrates what is , in my opinion , a very informative and entertaining documentary surrounding the events leading up to , and the making of , the modern screen classic Jurassic Park . Unlike many of these documentaries , you actually get good screen time with Spielberg as he explains the many components which make up the much loved fantasy world of Jurassic Park . Interestingly enough , Jurassic Park and Jackson's Lord of the Rings saga have something uniquely key in common ; they were both inspired by King Kong . Had it not been for wanting to make King Kong , Jackson would not have tackled the LotR movies , and by Spielberg's own words , had it not been for the inspiration brought him by King Kong , Jurassic Park may never have been put to film ( by him , at any rate ) . This , again unlike many filmography documentaries , is quite informative and rich with information demonstrating to the ardent fan ( and the casual viewer ) " how they did it . " As far as documentaries go , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Calculated treachery	Generations . For me , this is a sad movie . The movie itself was excellently done , and just as good as all the others , but the content just . . . saddens me . With Sulu's daughter at the helm of the Enterprise-B , the crew of " living legends " accompanies a skeleton crew of trainees on a press blow out of a short jaunt , which turns into a distress call / rescue mission which morphs into something very serious . Meet the Nexus ; a ribbon of the time / space continuum which has the ability to create and destroy anything in its path ; to take it / them to different " whens " and " wheres . " This is the unfortunate end of Kirk's reign as Captain of the Enterprise . He disappears into the Nexus and into an eternity of peace on his old Iowa farm . Or so it seems . I wanted him to die in battle . Be assassinated in his sleep . Anything noble . But instead , he was given a peaceful eternity . OK , fine . I have no choice but to deal with it . While I respect Piccard as Captain of the Enterprise , he will never be James Tiberius Kirk . But this is the end of the old series and the beginning of the new ; hence the name " Generations . " If you are a fan of these movies , a collector of anything Star Trek , this is a definite needful addition to the set . This is the movie which ties the two series together . Meet Captain Piccard and crew . I'll assume you're already familiar with them and I won't bore you with the details . Over the years , I have developed ( if somewhat begrudgingly ) an appreciation for this new crew and cast of players . . . and , while I still mourn the loss of the legends I loved , I look upon them as new neighbors , of sorts ; with a certain measured withdrawn fondness . With the addition of an " Emotion Chip , " DATA is now an emotion-ridden , diseased AI personage , but in light of his not being able to grasp the concept of humor , he is willing to stake it all in his attempt to be more human . Also , this is the movie that first realized the potential we all knew was in the Enterprise , to separate into a " saucer section " and the remaining half of the ship . You could always look at the Enterprise and just knew that , " Hey , there's kinda like a flying saucer on the top front half ! " But this movie actually did it . It marks a milestone in the series and in this line of movies . I also must say that the way they brought Kirk and Piccard together was sloppy and puerile . They both deserved better treatment and so did we , as fans . They did the best they could , I suppose , but in ignoring Nimoy's suggestions to counter the plot misconfigurations and obvious premise problems , I can honestly understand why Nimoy backed out of the director's chair and left it to someone else . Had they listened to him , this would have been a much better enterprise . . . pun intended . I love the movie , and enjoy it . . . now . But when I first saw it , it infuriated me with the off-handed disposal of Kirk and his illustrious career . Kirk is dead . Long live Captain James Tiberius Kirk ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Some good science fiction / fantasy .	This movie totally inspired my imagination . Action , science , Ancient Egypt , and romance . How wonderful ! This movie is one of my very favorites . Early on in college , my thirst for ancient Egypt was stoked . My studies of ancient religions , beliefs , and rites combined with my love of archeology , sociology , anthropology , and science fiction literally came to life with this movie . I loved every aspect of this work . This movie had enough imagination to inspire Disney writers , so it would seem . The opening of their " Atlantis , " was very similar to the opening scenes of " Stargate . " At least , I found them to be nearly identical in feel , and very much alike in content . The entire concept concerning the origins of our civilization were reminiscent of Erik von Dankien's " Chariots of the Gods , " creatively presented , and stunningly executed . The pace was good without being plodding . The story line was beautiful and the dialog was natural . Wonderful CG-Eye-Candy , beautiful sets , designs , and wonderful story more than entertain you . I highly recommend the 2 disk Ultimate Edition with added scenes , featurettes , and a beautiful presentation . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Convincing low budget thriller	One of the best low budget psychological horrors ever made . Edward Furlong plays Michael , a teen-aged boy who lost his mother at a young age . As a result , he has lost his zest for life , and his respect for all things . He has ONE friend , and a healthy teen-aged fantasy life centered around the girl next door with whom he would love to enter into a relationship , but he lacks the courage and fortitude to even attempt it . Because of his loathing for his present life , like many of America's youth , he retreats into the world of video games as an escape . Enters BRAINSCAN , the newest innovation in VR video games . Michael has played everything on the market , so there is little chance of this one being any better . Wrong ! This one , I think it's safe to say , completely alters his perspective on life , love , and death . It changes his life . Excellent cinematography , adequate direction , and weak performances from Frank Langella as the local homicide detective ( why was he even IN this movie ? ! ) ; James Marsh as Kyle , Michael's only friend ; and Amy Hargreaves as the girl next door tend to drag down the decent performance given by Edward Furlong and the excellent and compelling talents of T . Ryder Smith as Trickster . That character was an odd combination of Keith Richards , Mick Jagger , and Hannibal Lecter , portrayed beautifully by Smith . While this movie is far below its possibilities , it still is a top notch mind twister of a thriller . There are no scary moments , however . It is not that kind of movie . This movie was more of a psychological mind twist than anything else . SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT . Michael was forced by Trickster ( and ultimately the game ) to kill Kyle to show him that things DO matter ; friends matter . And then later encouraged to do in the little cutie next door for the same reason ; to show him that love also matters . And in discovering these truths , he came to understand that he , himself , mattered ; a condition which he had never considered to be true . This movie has many holes in the plot , some serious acting flaws , and tends to be a bit immature . BUT , it's still a very entertaining enterprise , and well worth a good viewing or two . And lastly , some critics have labeled the ending as " stupid . " If you have the mentality to comprehend the element of a twist , you'll get the ending of this movie . Was it all in his head . . . or wasn't it ? Was any single element of the game , reality ? Or was it reality which is the game ? Definitely worth watching . I rate this high on my list of mind twists along with " Fallen , " " Identity , " and " The Game . " It rates an on the " B " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
VanHelsing ; a Universal pleaser	VanHelsing is a lovely , dark , atmospheric , action-packed , well written , brilliantly conceived , effects-tacular homage to Universal's classic Monsters of the 30's and the 40's . Now , this was definitely NOT high art , that's for sure . And it strayed from what I had expected , considering it was Universal . You would expect the characters to be based on the older Universal monsters ; or at least . . . I did . The one thing which made me like this work so much was the treatment of the vampyres in flight . That was magnificent . I was so excited to see that on the big screen . . . and I liked the treatment of Frankenstein's monster . He was much more like Shelly wrote him than Universal's first reincarnation of him . He was insightful , intelligent , and quoting Paradise Lost . He was brilliantly done . Popcorn flicks are seriously underrated , though . I love the big effects and the big , epic feeling of those blockbuster-y KABOOM pics . I'm an Eye Candy whore , yes , but that's not all I look for . I thought there WAS a nice story here . It was really rather sweet . Dracula wanted his children to live . Okay , yes , he also wanted to use them to dominate the world and destroy ( or enslave ) mankind , but other than that , it was quite sentimental . I was a bit disappointed , however , that we were not given the Gabriel / Abraham back-story . That is aggravating . Gabriel is called the " right hand of God " in the movie . Does that mean that Gabriel VanHelsing is somehow the archangel Gabriel ? I dunno . It left a lot of questions for me . The homagic sequences at the beginning , those filmed in an almost film noir style in the opening , did let me know right there at the door of this thing , that Sommers had tampered with the Universal formula . But even with the changes to the feel and the base story lines , I found this endeavor highly enjoyable . They cannot explain it away by saying that THIS Frankenstein's monster was another one , and not the first , because they have Frankenstein there , screaming , " It's alive ! " and not something else like , " It's alive , again ! " or " GO ME ! " Dracula clearly was not there in the original Universal installments to which this was supposed to be a continuation . However , as was pointed out by My mate , Dracula could have been there in the originals , but " dimly present , " or downright invisible . He IS a master Vampyre , after all . But in this version , he was neither dim , invisible , nor absent . So . . . that leads us back to the beginning . Sommers tampered with the formula very deeply ; I feel that's why this work struck such an errant note with most viewers . It just didn't feel quite right to the purists . But for me , Van Helsing was a very different experience from that . From time to time , there comes along a cinematic work which fills you with a sense of wonder and awe . For me , Van Helsing was the first one since the LotR trilogy to touch that place in my mind's eye . For open-minded fans of the old Universal classics , the use of black and white at the beginning gave a feeling of connection with the movie from the onset . Familiar characters , familiar settings , familiar stories ; all with a fresh , new spin while maintaining the old familiarities . The audience is treated to the best eye candy while making the attempt to maintain the integrity of the classics . You get to see vampyres in flight , the caring ( and loving ) conceptual makeup of Frankenstein's Monster , and a delightfully fresh treatment of VanHelsing combined with stellar performances , painstaking direction , and brilliant post-production work make this one of my new absolute favorites . The werewolves were quite good . Of course , this work was also a Universal production , so they were able to use the Wolf Man words , " Even a man who is good at heart and says his prayers by night . . . " We were in the theater and my love said to me ( quietly of course ) , " They can't use that ! " " Ah , but they can , " I answered . " This is Universal , too . " " No wonder it's so good , " was my love's only response . I really enjoyed the dialog . It was cleverly witty and delightfully fresh . As was the take on the whole enterprise . It was beautiful and dark , yet full of hope . I thoroughly enjoyed this attempt and hope they are amply successful with this work to warrant a sequel . On a final note : while I thoroughly enjoyed the theatrical DVD release ( " making of " featurette , director's commentary and tons of extras for a theatrical version ) , I strongly suggest you get the Ultimate Edition available at amazon . com . It rates just beneath Underworld at a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sweetly Endearing	Gene Wilder is the epitome of perfect casting in his role as Willy Wonka . His sincerity , coupled with the character's profound sadness , and Wilder's innate quirkiness mark this as an all time classic children's movie . Chocked full of zany goodness , sprinkled with intricate quirkiness , endearingly odd characters , and some great stories carefully woven together to craft a lasting memory , what is now known as " Wilder's Wonka " is among the most beautiful of all children's tales . This is a timeless classic , which still holds up to today's scrutiny . This is among my all time favorites , and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
A timeless classic .	Most people my age either love it or hate it . Those are the Star Wars fans , who are divided up thusly . Then there is the general public , who couldn't care less . Unfortunately for the numbers concerning this work , there are more in the general populous than there are Star Wars fans . Most of the latter generations after mine just do not understand what is the big deal concerning Star Wars , and for that confusion , pay no attention to a parody of that movie . What many of them do not understand is that it not only parodies Star Wars , but Star Wars 4 , 5 , & 6 , Star Trek , Planet of the Apes , Dune , Space 1999 , Alien , Aliens , and a plethora of other science fiction movies . This is a medieval ( - esquire ) story , set in space , populated with a star-studded cast , and punctuated by some inspired writing . Now , I'm not saying that this is Oscar-winning material or anything , but I found an even wit throughout this work . " Why didn't somebody TELL me my @ $$ was so big ? ! " If you're a fan of Mel Brooks ' work , Star Wars , or just a casual sci-fi fan , the jokes still work today , just as they did when this was new . The story follows a nice line , and flows very well . Just sit back and enjoy this timeless space parody . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Charming , Endearing , and Under-Appreciated Tale of Three Heinous Practitioners of the Dark Arts .	This is the story of three nefarious practitioners of Darkly-aligned Magick and the mark they left on the town which sentenced them to death . Disney is known to openly endorse and promote the use of the Old Ways . Whether a good Witch ( Bedknobs and Broomsticks ) or a bad Witch ( Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs ) , Disney loves Magick and those who use it . These Witches , however , are the worst kind of rabble , and while we attempt to defeat them , character development occurs . This movie is quite entertaining , however it is too dark and scary for younger audiences , and may be considered too juvenile for adults , but the older children and tweens seem to love it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Modern remake surpasses original	This is one of the few movies which has the ability to really deeply disturb me . It contains every principal elemental ingredient of a good horror film : magick , intriguing characters , superb acting and direction and a truly creatively unique plot . The suspense factor is VERY high , and the ghosts are so well done , you can believe , if only for a moment , that they are real . Cyrus Kriticos , played by F . Murray Abraham , is a very wealthy man who has a unique obsession : he collects ghosts . But the spirits he enslaves aren't your run of the mill variety . What he collects are the most malevolent spirits imaginable . Driven by the " Black Zodiac , " and guided by a book most dire known as the " Arcanum , " Cyrus Kriticos endeavors to seal his fortune with the blood of his nephew and his family , but something goes wrong . " We are in the middle of a machine , designed by the Devil , and powered by the dead . " Kalina Oretzia , convincingly portrayed by Embeth Davidtz . After Cyrus's death , the Kriticos nephew , Authur , and his family move into the extraordinary house of glass designed by Cyrus , complete with ancient containment spells etched into the walls , ceilings and floors to keep his " collection " where it belongs . Ah , the plans of mice and men . But somewhere in this house , the spells are breached and the angry , murderous spirits are loosed upon the inhabitants of this magnificent house of alchemy and magick . Also trapped within the glass fortress is Dennis Rafkin ( Matthew Lillard ) , Cyrus's unwitting assistant who , thankfully , at least knows what in the HECK is going on . " Somehow . . . we got behind enemy lines . " Dennis Rafkin I found the part of Dennis Rafkin , in particular , to be portrayed extremely well . His abilities as a psychic are extraordinary and successfully portrayed by Lillard . He even demonstrated the headaches often associated with the extraordinary talents such as those with which his character is gifted . A most impressive portrayal by Lillard , which I found surprising as I have never really been impressed with his abilities until this movie . Which means the directing was inspired . The sets and scenery were astounding and to crowbar such an outstanding performance from Lillard , Steve Beck shows promise . Unfortunately , I did not find his next endeavor , entitled " Ghost Ship , " to be much of anything . So this was , sadly , a fluke . Beginner's luck , as it were . The voices of the ghosts were wonderfully done , and the soundtrack lent highly to the suspense of the movie . The artwork , glyphs , and runic symbols used in the ancient tome of Cyrus's and all throughout the house were extremely creative and so very well done as to inspire me . The housing cells of the ghosts and the mechanisms which triggered them were truly inspired . I found the whole movie to be extraordinarily creative and unique . I've never seen anything even remotely this creative , and in my opinion , it has earned its place in the Horror Hall of Fame . This movie has twists and turns , humor among the horror and LOTS of " scare-you ! ! ! " moments ! This plot , the sets and scenery , the performances by all involved are ingenious . A total creative masterpiece of horror and magick . I love this movie ! It was 3 times scarier on the big screen , but it still possesses the same ability to scare you , on the small screen . It is one of the best horror movies ever made , regardless of the " Hollywood " effects . These effects were so well done that they did not appear to BE effects at all . They did nothing but render the movie believable . You could actually believe these horrors exist . The use of silver flares against the spirits is also quite ingenious . Silver , one of the sacred metals , is effective against many forms of malevolent entities . Silver crucifixes and bullets and the like have been utilized devices for decades , centuries even , against these forms of Beings . A wonderful movie of love and life ; a fine testimony of family and faith in yourself . This is one of the Fiend's favorite horror movies . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Bedevils you	She-Devil bedevils you ! ! Roseanne Barr is not one of my favorite thespians , but this under-rated little movie simply RAWKS ! ! Roseanne Barr is married to Bob Pratchett . He is a hard-working accountant who is skimming the little gratuities from his clients ; the newest of which is Mary Fischer . With a huge " MF " on her front gate , she is the top fantasy / romance novelist in the country . With Ms . Fischer's mother in a " retirement home , " and Bob spending all his time with his new lover , Mary , Ruth Pratchett has a lot of time on her hands . She has vowed to take care of their children , their home , and do her best to hold her head up in the community . When Bob's parents come to dinner , and it turns into a total disaster , Bob begins to berate his loving and faithful wife , who slowly begins to unravel at the seams , right there before our eyes . During his tirade , Bob makes the fatal mistake of listing his life's assets . 1 . home2 . family3 . career4 . freedomHe walks out on his loving wife , and moves in with Mary Fischer . Ruth , in a state of shock , then sets out upon her plot . She blows up their home , takes the kids to Bob , obtains employment in the retirement home where Mary Fischer's mother resides , and begins giving her vitamins instead of sedatives . She then helps Mrs . Fischer to the bus for a surprise visit with her daughter , and arranges things so that the elderly Fischer is unable to return to the retirement home . So Bob is now deprived of his house , has an over-abundance of family and his career and freedom are next on the agenda . This is a wonderful " getting even " movie for all those of you who have been there ; done that . While Roseanne is not exactly the shining star of stage and screen , she is more than adequate in her role as Ruth Pratchett , wife and mother ; and in her title role as " She-Devil , " the personification of a marriage gone wrong . Maria Pitillo is delightful as the naively sweet but ruthlessly ambitious Olivia Honey . Olivia is Bob's new lover . And nothing cools the flames of passion like a mistress who behaves like a wife . So Bob , while still very hungry for Mary's money , is now on to bustier things . But he neglects to tell Ms . Honey of his relationship with Mary , and when they find out about one another , all bets are off . If you liked her as Audrey Timmonds in " Godzilla , " 1998 , you will thoroughly enjoy her performance in this zany vehicle . I love this quirky little " B " movie , and watch it often . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wow ! was this ever raw !	This is actually a phenomenal movie . They manage to turn up all the lovely violence and beautiful action of the original ( Death Race 2000 ) , and renew the story so that it actually HAS a story woven throughout the beautiful display of gratuitous violence and corporate greed . At least , on the surface , that is how it seems , but once one has achieved immersion , the core emerges from within the story . It is one of taking risks in order to further one's better interests , of finding cooperation in a seemingly friendless environment , and redemption even when no redemption is necessary . But this is a big , block-bustery KABOOM flick seemingly designed to showcase Jason Statham's physique , talents , and on-screen presence - a job it does well . I have to say that , as usual , I seem to be in the minority , however , in that I cannot see why this performed so miserably at the box office , and failed to generate the appropriate level of interest . This is exciting , well-written , and exhibits a fine slick production style which flows succinctly throughout the entire execution , lending an epic feeling to the work , overall . All in all ? I love it ! Although , it's far too graphic and visceral for the kiddies , and possibly some adults will have problems with the unrated version's graphic qualities . WOW ! was this ever raw ! It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
Not smacking of proselytization , as the Title and Synopsis would imply . This is one of my Favorites !	I was reluctant to see this one . As a non-Christian , I had a problem with the whole " Quest for God " premise , but upon watching this movie , I was absolutely delighted . While Star Trek oftentimes addresses political and religious issues , it was always done under the guise of another society , unlike this one . This movie directly asks , " Is there a God ? " The answer is in the viewing of the movie . I won't spoil it , regardless of the warning . I always say SPOILERS , just in case I do say too much . But this movie was classic Star Trek fare , with great effects , a wonderful story line , and a coherent , easily followed plot . The sub-plots were very well done , and brilliantly worked into the story . I found this movie to be highly entertaining and extremely enjoyable . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Runs a Close Second With The Great Muppet Caper	As others have noted ad nauseum , this is a Muppet retelling of the Charles Dickens classic A Christmas Carol . As such , it is my personal favorite of the entire line for its reformation of classic characters , innovative casting choices ( in reference to which Muppet landed which role ) , and heartwarming Yule time cheer . Yule is my favorite time of the year , my favorite celebration , and contains my favorite sentiments . . . give to others , help your fellow man ( dog , frog , pig , or whatever ) , and love both yourself and life . This Muppet production embodies those sentiments and makes them an integral part of the overall feeling of the work , without being preachy , or mentioning any one religion even once . It's heartwarming and genuinely sweet . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Rousing patriotism at its best	Even though it is almost thirty years old , this is still the lovable movie I remember . Let's face it , folks . For millions upon millions of fans , there simply IS no Superman , other than Christopher Reeve . He is the epitome of this modern day hero . In the shadow of the genuine tragedy which has befallen Mr . Reeve , the entire world grieved for his loss , and even today , we applaud his accomplishments . In the wake of the upcoming new remake of this movie , I am simply stunned at the news of this project . While a bit dated , this movie was not poorly done , as to deserve a remake . Move ON to Superman 5 , for in the continuation of this series and ONLY in its continuation , will the majority of fans accept another actor wearing those tights ! Yes , I am irate about this , and rightfully so . This movie is an icon for truth , justice and , although Superman belongs to the world , he also stands for the American way of life . What about it , exactly , needs to be retold ? Why waste the time and resources remaking a lovable classic , when they should be working on a continuation of the line ? This movie was the very best attempt , and the most successful , in capturing the spirit of the comic book character . And while some may not care about the comic book character , this movie is BASED on the comic book character , so to not care if it was like the original work , is like not caring that Adam Sandler is cast as the lead in " The Godfather . " The direction was wonderful , the filmography was insightful , the dialog was campy , entertaining and witty ( as it was meant to be ) , and the portrayals were dead on for the comic book characters . The scenery and sets were professional , innovative , and added greatly to the enjoyment of this production . The very IDEA of a remake is downright offensive and a slap in the face to the true-to-life hero who made this original . I am offended . Do they think by remaking this original , that they can start a whole new line ? I say , " H3LL NO ! " At least , they will not get a dime of MY money for a ticket purchase , DVD rental , or pay per view fee . Not one dime . While I would be all for a continuation of this series , I am steadfastly against the remaking of it . They will not remake 2 , 3 , or 4 , either . They will pretend as though they were never made . While in the case of 4 , that would be a good thing , as I like to pretend they never made that one , as well , how do you just forget about an entire run of successful , universally loved movies ? It's an affront to my senses , and to the senses of any real fan of Reeve or these movies . It's an outright insult . I've always loved these movies , and I highly and strenuously object to its being remade . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Toned Down and Cranked Up Rethinking of Sybil .	I'll warn you right now , I'm telling the whole story , so if you don't want to know the ending , the twist and the inside details , then don't read this ! ! ! I normally don't tell the whole story like this , but this movie is such a psychological mind game that I have total respect for it , and feel the need to share . Malcolm Rivers has been convicted of six murders . They show you the details and give you the basic information via news clippings and the like in the very beginning of the movie during the opening credits , so pay attention . He is clinically insane , and only twenty-four hours from his execution . The governor's office has granted him a last minute hearing by a judge who is none too happy to have been called out of bed in the middle of the night to hear a case upon which he has already ruled . Meanwhile , the cast of characters is introduced . It is pouring down rain , the phones are down , a prisoner in transport has escaped and a woman lies dying in the room off the motel office . There is friction from the very beginning , as one character causes an accident while another character runs over the wife of yet another character . And this is only the beginning . As the characters develop , you begin to get a feel for who they are and what they have been through ; the development is really quite good . One by one , the motel visitors are found dead and one by one , your list of suspects begins to narrow . Jake Busey ( the escaped prisoner ) runs and runs away from the hotel , but when he spies a structure lying off in the distance , he crashes in to discover he's BACK at the hotel ! A metaphor for John Lennon's " Nothing is Real " theory . Jack Busey is really very good . They don't give him near enough work , in my opinion . He's every bit as good as his daddy . The survivors must determine the common factor which has led them all to the hotel . Amanda Peet begins this process , and it takes a while before the others join in . Meanwhile , they are trying as hard as they can to determine what is happening and why ; who is killing these people off . As the guests realize that they all have the same birth day , you pan to Malcolm Rivers's hearing where you discover that he is a multiple personality with several distinct personalities . His personalities ARE the guests of the hotel . As each personality is exposed to Rivers's base identity , the alternate personality is " murdered " in his own mind . The whole movie is a working metaphor for what is going on in Malcolm's mind . This part is presented as a " twist , " and it definitely takes you by surprise . The writing and direction are absolutely brilliant . Awesomely presented and believably portrayed by all involved . This is a genuine work of art . But as everything seems to be winding down and the sidewalks are rolling up , you discover that the personality who committed the murders has indeed NOT been " killed . " You don't discover until the end of the movie , what is going on or why . It was possibly one of the best psychological thrillers I have ever seen . It rates up there with " The Game , " and " Fallen . " I can't bring myself to tell you which personality is the murderer . But it will blow you away ! This was a total masterpiece of psychology , horror and suspense . I give it an from . . . The Fiend : .
Astounding .	When King hits a home run , he knocks that ball outta da PARK ! And that's what he's done with The Mist . Frank Darabont really knows his stuff , and after this work , I can't help but wonder if George Luca$ and Spielberg are regretting their earlier decisions regarding Darabont's script for IJ4 ? But , that not withstanding , this is one compelling piece of film . It teaches many lessons , should the movie-goer care to hear ; lessons like : Don't cling to dogmatic prattlings out of desperation , Don't allow your government to conduct experiments that we , the people , are not aware of ( it's OUR MONEY ! ) , Don't go through life believing that friends are failed enemies , and Don't give up without a fight . . . we will endure if only we demonstrate positive resolve . This film demonstrates just what happens when we possess a firm dose of negative resolve . EEE GADS ! All in all ? This was dark , and wonderful . It runs a bit like Storm of the Century and Maximum Overdrive in the scenario , but does NOT end like either . This ending is fantastic . It shows us what Stephen King adaptations SHOULD be . . . and CAN be , with the right director and dramaturgist . This is suitable for Friday / Saturday night viewing , but NOT for the kiddies ! OY Vey ! It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving and Disturbing Sequel but NOT the Conclusion of a Trilogy	We saw this at our local hometown theater , Movies on the Parkway in Sevierville , TN . I have to start this by saying that this installment is a bit reminiscent of George A . Romero's 1985 cult classic , " Day of the Dead , " in one major plot element . I won't give it away , but if you're a Romero fan , you'll see it for yourself when you view this film . This work is wholly entertaining , whether you are a fan of the games , or not . There are new elements , old friends , and a plethora of great innovations - some of which I've never seen present anywhere , and a few which were reminders of former masterpieces . I would name them , but to do that would spoil these innovations for those of you who have yet to experience them . The acting , direction , and quality were above par , while the style was more that of the action flick with horror elements . The predecessors were horror movies with great action . The suspense , the intrigue , the atmosphere were all horror-oriented . This time , the horror elements were minimized and the action reigned . This is not a bad thing , fans . Without some change like this , the franchise will suffer franchise sickness ! As it stands , there is no danger of that happening . All in all ? We were totally entertained , enjoyed our movie experience , and were blown away by the wrap-up . See it for yourself to understand what I mean . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Pixar Is Pure Magick ! Who Would Have Believed It ? 7 Smashes In A Row !	This movie is pure enchantment . It features amazing animation , a good old-fashioned story , endearing characters , and a bit of American nostalgia for NASCAR , without alienating those who aren't into the race car scene . Baby Boomers , especially , will love this , but so will the general audience members . The most impressive aspects of this film are the stunning vistas , the perfectly synchronized mouth / lip movements with the voices , and the innovative substitutional elements in the world of Cars . I won't spoil anything , like so many others , so I won't detail any of these individual elements . This film is actually one of my favorite Pixar animations . They just keep getting better and better , sporting wholesome family fun everyone can enjoy . It almost feels like Pixar IS the new Disney . I can't WAIT to see what they come out with next . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Better and even Better !	Well , with the stolen Enterprise destroyed and Kirk and crew in a Klingon bird of prey , they face the court martial of which I spoke in my review of " Search for Spock . " The Klingon President is going ballistic over the theft of the bird of prey and the death of its crew . Instead of being handed over to the Klingons for their version of " justice , " Kirk faces charges of 9 violations of Star Fleet Regulations , which further enrages the Klingon President . With the return of Spock to his native planet , and the restoring of his soul to his body at the end of Star Trek 3 , Spock now trains to regain his knowledge and makes an asserted effort to regain his memories of those who love him so much . The Enterprise crew must now return to Earth to face the music , as it were , but the music that greets them belongs to the sea . A probe , sent to Earth to make contact with an ancient and now extinct race of beings , drains and disables everything in its path , in an attempt to establish communication with their target race . It is up to our favorite Captain and his loyal crew to save the planet by returning to Earth with the extinct race for which the device probes , or all will be lost . While this installment has the highest " popcorn " factor , this is the most entertaining of the series as it is by far the most fun . While there are no battles in space , and no serious alien drama , this return to 20th century Earth ( the ' 1980's of course ) , is an absolute fun-fest in the series of Star Trek movies . Grab the kids , the tub of popcorn , sit back and just . . . enjoy . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wes Craven Does It Again ! Only BETTER ! ! !	The movie " Stab " has just been released . Based on the actual events in Woodsboro , and the national best-selling book by Gail Weathers , the publicity and following of the movie are astounding . The movie-goers don the the costume distributed by the studio , and everyone looks like the killer . When a movie-goer is killed , no one knows who the actual killer is , as they are all dressed alike . Back with the original cast ( YAY ! ) , director ( BIGGER YAY ! ) , and complete with the same respect given to other horror films of our time , this movie even surpasses the original . The edge was still there , the suspense was brilliantly recaptured and the humor was dark and witty ; clever and intelligent . All the successful key elements were present from the first installment of this series : the acknowledgment by the characters that they are still in a horror movie ; the use and discussion of other real movies thereby perpetuating the homage factor of thees movies ; and the well developed , believable , lovable characters . " You think someone is trying to make a real-life sequel ? " dramaprofessor . PLOT : The killings have begun again . With the arrest ( s ) made in Woodsboro from the last rash of tragedies , everyone thought it was over . But Sidney's life just is not built that way . " To think this fuss is all because of you . I mean , not directly , but in some ' Six-Degrees-of-Kevin-Bacon ' way . " With the return of Gail Weathers and Dewey Riley , it hits both Sidney and Randy that this is really happening , again . " Wow . Nothing like a funeral to bring the family together . " Randy . At the release of Cotton Weary from prison , Sidney is confronted with him face-to-face without warning or preparation . Needless to say , it doesn't go very well , and leaves Cotton standing there with his face hanging out , still waiting for his " 10 minutes of fame . " Meanwhile , Gail's book has defamed Dewey and he is none too happy about it . His pride is wounded and he has an axe to grind ; primarily over Gail's head . His role is expanded and he gets far more screen time in this installment , which I found refreshing and his character to be delightful . As hard as it is to make a good sequel , incredibly Wes Craven manages to surpass the original and manages to truly SCARE us without being repetitive , redundant , predictable or boring . Amazingly well done , highly entertaining and a classic in the genre of horror . The suspense element is never cheapened , the element of surprise is always present and the performances by all involved is completely professional , believable and creatively presented . This production has well earned its reputation as a masterpiece in the horror field . The first installment of this series got an . This one rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Tragically Lovely	The tale of Beowulf was told in an epic poem by an unknown 8th-11th century author . It tells of Beowulf , a Geat ( Goth ) hero of what is now known as Sweden , and his three equally epic battles with Grendel , Grendel's mother ( known here and there as the Black Queen of Midguard ) , and an unnamed Dragon ( thought by some to be the Midguard Serpent ) . While this film tells the tale somewhat differently than the author's original interpretation ( the author , for instance , lays the hero to rest beneath a sacred mound ) , it tells Beowulf's story in a way never before told . . . with an obvious love of the tale itself , a love of the medium in which it is delivered , and a love of the artistry herein employed . This is a lovely Friday / Saturday night's viewing , as there is something for everyone : While some scenes are not suitable for children , they will be drawn by the awesome animation quality , men will ( no doubt ) enjoy the raucous behavior of the men and the monsters , and women should identify with the plight and innate dignity ( even in the face of what some would consider shame ) of the Queen . There is ample action herein to keep most fan-boys happy , and enough story to make what CAN be dry reading , a great adventure . It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
More fun than the movie	While very short , this documentary covers all the new dinosaurs created for the third installment of the Jurassic Park line . It dwells heavily on the pterodons and the spinosaurus egypticus , but also details the changes to the velocoraptors . They have feathers along their spines , so the talk on the message boards concerning the addition of the feathers for JP4's being ridiculous , is a moot point , as they've already added all that . It also details the intelligence of the raptors , and introduces all the newer creatures never before seen . It extols the virtues of crossing theatrical entertainment with a " museum ? quality education " concerning these ancient and extinct creatures . I have to say the pterodons are my favorites , and I was very happy to see them added , finally , to the franchise's beasties . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Alarming realism	Regardless of who actually directed this movie , I have to say it's one of the best true horror movies out there . Other people have mentioned being disappointed in the DVD and I must admit that I , too , was disappointed that they used the last , bad cut of the movie to transfer this one to DVD . The scene change between the kitchen scene and where Diane and Steve ( JoBeth Williams and Craig T . Nelson ) are standing on the neighbors ' front porch , is deplorable . I GOT the DVD version in the hopes of ridding my collection of what I consider a botched dubbing job , and ended up punctuating it with ineptitude , instead . That set aside , the DVD quality itself is horrendous . The film is grainy , you can see dust all over it and the sound fades in and out . I do not suggest you buy the DVD until they come out with a ( hopefully ) special edition / director's cut . There are no extras on the DVD . Just the movie . ( Note : there IS a recent re-release of Poltergeist 2 & 3 on the same DVD . . . of course the only way to GET you to buy 3 was to give it away with 2 . . . who would want to actually pay for it ? There are no extras on that DVD , either . There is one disk , with 2 on one side and 3 on the other and that's it . ) While both Hooper and Spielberg are now credited as the directors , it's Spielberg who wrote the original work , the screenplay and is credited alongside Hooper as the director . They say this movie is a product of Tobe Hooper's direction , but I have to wonder about that , myself . If you ask me , it's classic Spielberg , through and through . It feels like Spielberg was sick and laid out a week of production and Hooper got credit because he was just . . . there . Compared to modern-day epics ( the Mummy , Mummy Returns , Jurassic Park , et al , etc ) , this movie pales . But in its class , there are few out there who can best it for true horror . The effects are good , if perhaps a tad unbelievable ( only just a tad ) and the story is a great story . Zelda Rubenstein and Beatrice Straight are wonderful as mediums / clairvoyants and this movie is where I first saw and came to love Zelda Rubenstein . She's marvelous ! " This house is clear , " is HER line ! This movie has earned its place in the Horror Hall of Fame , so I won't bother with the storyline or plot synopsis here . But I must say that the direction , whom ever's credit is deserved , is absolutely magical , the acting is some of the best , most believable acting I've seen in a long time ( and possibly the best of JoBeth William's career ) , and the settings and props were very well done . I would've liked to have seen the " Other Side , " but it's almost better that they didn't muck around with that and left it to your imagination . The message of this movie , they all have them , don't they ? is that love and family are stronger than any other force there is . Another one of my favorite movies . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Surprising	I was reluctant to embrace a remake of Halloween . There , I've said it . I could not imagine anything that could effectively endear itself to me without changing my love of the original . Also , I must say I am a fan of neither The Devil's Rejects , nor House of 1000 Corpses , as I found them both to be too close to another beloved franchise : The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . And , while I loved Grindhouse , the only portion he was responsible for is the Werewolf Women of the SS segment . This film is startling - much more so than the original . It is NOT for the feint of heart , nor for the kiddies . This is more for die-hard Halloween fans , as it does not attempt to retell the same story , but instead , delivers a whole new perspective to the Halloween franchise . In telling the story of Michael Meyers , rather than rehashing the story we already knew , Rob Zombie has allowed himself to become elevated in the annals of movie-making , especially among horror fans . This isn't your standard horror movie fare , and while it won't endear itself to people living in the shadow of an abusive alcoholic , it effectively demonstrates the making of a monster in a graphic and extraordinary way . Now , will I say this bests the original ? No , I can't say that . But what I CAN say is that this is a definite must have for horror fans who love the Halloween franchise , as this movie fits snugly as a prequel , at the beginning of your set . Outstanding job , Rob Zombie ! I hope to see more of your work , especially if you can maintain the higher quality achieved here . All in all ? This is a GREAT Friday / Saturday night flick , but NOT for the kiddies or the easily queased . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Harry Potter's faerie godmother	While I'm no fan of the TV series , I've always loved this movie . It teaches younger people to keep trying , no matter who says what . It teaches them that perseverance is more important than talent . Work at it , and keep working at it , and eventually , you'll get it right . Years after , when I was first exposed to Harry Potter , I couldn't help but think , " rip off . " There are SO many common points and characters that it seems blatantly obvious . But so many people don't seem to realize that all the key players of this work eventually made it into the HP cast of characters . Their sex may have changed , or the beautifully rich characters here may have been split into two less complex characters in the later work , but they're all there . Professor Snape and Professor McGonagal are obviously different sides / aspects of Diana Rigg's Hardbroom . Professor Dumbledore , an obvious male version of Miss Cackle . Harry is Mildred , and Ronald Weasley is Maud . Furthermore , Draco Malfoy can be found here , in the form of Ethel Hallow . Hardbroom gives Mildred nothing but a hard time in potions class , Miss Spellbinder ( Madam Hooch to the HP fans ) is trying to teach the first years how to fly , and they're all getting ready for a visit from Tim Curry's Grand Wizard ( the HP's Minister of Magic ) . While this group of young witches play terror tag rather than Quittich , and it is an all girl school instead of going co-ed , the obvious comparisons are staggering . Watch the Worst Witch for the movie , which started the whole visual magic revival . It rates an for being ORIGINAL from . . . the Fiend : .
Darker story delivers a superior adventure . . .	In reading the reviews written by the " professional " critics prior to my initial viewing of this work , I entered the theater with greatly lessened expectations . I must say that I owe those naysayers a vote of thanks , as I was so anticipating this work , that it had no way of fulfilling my hopes . Thanks to their dire condemnations and overly enthusiastic tongue-clicking , I had a marvelous and unexpectedly thrilling movie-going experience . The best most well-done element of this movie ? The WHOLE movie ! I'm serious . There wasn't a moment of wasted film , there wasn't even one time when I was wondering what time it was , and there wasn't a single performance which was found lacking in any way . This was a 3 hour film which felt like it was over too soon . And , if you've been one of the millions of fans who have kept up with this work through its production , then you also know the original cast is back , including the nefarious Barbossa ( NOT a spoiler , he's listed in the credits ) , in addition to an entire cast of new characters , thrilling action , mahogany storyline , superior sound , and stellar awards-quality effects . The Verbinski / Bruckheimer marriage seems to be a good one ; a profitable one , but more importantly , a creative one . The story incorporates each and every element of a successful well-loved classic . There is romance , action , adventure , horror , fantasy , monsters , pirates , chases , betrayals , escapes , treacheries and deceits , honesty , and love . All set before breathtaking vistas , and finished with completely realistic , top quality effects . With the benefit of virtually no time taken to redevelop the principal characters , the story kicks in from the beginning , and the character development is devoted to the new cast of characters . What a twisted darkling lot they are ! Make sure you stay for the bonus scene after end credits ! I was most impressed with this work , and rate it slightly above the original for its story and a slightly superior adventure experience , at an from . . . the Fiend : .
Metaphoric suspense chills	Wonderful metaphor , dramatic suspense , better than average in the genre of the werewolf . As a metaphor for the " inner animal " in us all , and a rant condemning the ethics of corporate America , this movie makes its point in a most entertaining and creative way . As a Michelle Pfeiffer movie , this is about the best thing she's ever done . But we love her movies , anyway . At some point during the movie , someone in my house said , " Better not mess with her ! That's CATwoman ! " Although this is not the part for which she is best known , it is perhaps her best portrayal to date . Nicholson . Jack Nicholson is perfectly cast as the lead wolf . I have always considered him to be rather wolfish , so when I saw this production for the first time , I was delighted to see him so brilliantly placed . The director here intended this movie to be a socio-political statement concerning the publishing industry's habits of publishing what sells , over what is intelligent , well written or even literate . It was also a rant against the ethics of corporate America ; how easily one's livelihood is snatched from beneath them . But most of all , it was a strong comment concerning the need to tap into your inner animal and be aggressive in times of trial and / or tribulation . He was saying , " Don't turn to a God and let it all fall away ! Stand UP and take control ! Take what you need from your life , rather than taking what comes ! " And he makes that statement in a most creative and intelligent manner . All that having been said , on the surface , this is a most excellent werewolf movie . It sticks to the rules , thrills , and entertains its audience . James Spader was quite good as the bad guy ; a role in which I never considered I would like him . I won't go into the story line , but if you are a fan of the werewolf genre , you will enjoy this movie . At least , we did . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Above Average	1971 . Gene Hackman , Fernando Rey , Roy Scheider . New York Detective " Popeye " Doyle and his partner chase a French heroin smuggler . Well , the plot is more involved than all that , but not so much as to lose its way in the telling of it . Hackman's performance is one of the grittiest performances I had ever seen , at the time of my first viewing of this film , and it still resonates , today , as a truly intense performance . The action is sufficient to entertain the mindless , and the performances are professional enough to soothe the critical evaluation . The story is involving enough to entertain throughout , and the cohesion of the finished product is complete . I have seen much worse , but in the annals of cop movies , I've rarely seen better . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Nearly As Good As Murder By Death	With an all star cast , amusingly witty dialog , and the added lure of being the first movie based on a board game , this film really delivers a stellar mystery . Chocked full of red herrings , sub-plots , twists , and turns , the plot takes you through the set up of the game , through the detecting of the clues , and to a satisfactory ending . . . regardless of where you live . This one had an interesting gimmick . Depending on where in the US you live , you got a different theatrical ending ! The DVD , however , gives you all the endings , or will play one at random , depending on your choice . This is a fine mystery , and great fun to watch . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Above average for the slasher sub-genre	This is NOT your average , mindless slasher flick . Scream : a real psychological breakthrough in the genre of slasher movies . This movie demonstrates a most excellent advancement in the genre of slasher flicks . Let me begin by saying this is NOT a flick ; a flick being a fluffy little piece of nothing designed to make money and nothing more , OR a movie which is so low budget ( or the acting is so bad ) that it can't do anything but make you laugh , regardless of the subject matter . This is a quality production . The direction was wonderful and the acting was believable . The key to this movie , in my opinion , is three-fold . ( 1 ) The characters seem to realize they are in a horror movie . They quote movies , site movies and refer to movies all throughout the dialog . This , to me , adds to this production , and establishes it as an homage to the horror genre in general . This is a serious parody ; not meant to be amusing , but rather , thought-provoking . Randy points out to his friends ( and the audience ) all the basic rules of surviving a horror movie , as if he knows the now-famous quote by John Lennon that " Nothing is Real . " Randy's rules for Surviving a Horror Movie . 1 . You can never have sex . 2 . You can neither drink nor do drugs . It's a sin ; an extension of Rule # 1 . 3 . Never EVER under any circumstances say , " I'll be right back , " because you won't be back . You'll be dead . ( 2 ) The citing of actual movies and events by the characters lends a total reality to this production that lacks in others where they actually make UP movies to site and critique rather than being bold enough to work real movies into the script . ( " You can only hear that Richard Gere / gerbil story so many times before you start to believe it . " Tatum ) Perhaps they are afraid of being accused of endorsing certain movies , while slighting other directors ' / actors ' work . Regardless of the reasoning behind it , this movie grabs the bull by the horns and makes you believe the characters are real . You have the uncanny feeling that you are watching actual live footage of these people , rather than characters on a screen , that's how realistically these characters are portrayed . ( 3 ) The characters are SENTIENT . They realize there are consequences . They aren't mindless victims / killers . In a very poignant scene , the killer asks of the victim , " Did you really call the police ? My mom and dad are gonna be so mad at me ! " in a tear-filled , pathetically whiny voice . It lends to the scene a certain reality that it would have otherwise lacked . The whole movie is blessed with these " reality checks , " helping to make it more and more believable . Neve Campbell is completely believable ; her character ( Sidney Prescott ) seems real and is so beautifully portrayed by Ms . Campbell that she has fully established her gift as a thespian . I do sincerely hope that she is not type-cast in horror movies for the duration of her career . Her talents could well be used in any leading role , in any genre . Her list of credits is already quite impressive , all things considered . Her character is not one of those horror movie heroines who falls down while running from the killer , who can't keep her head straight in a real crisis , or who proves inept and incapable of fending off an attacker . Her character is brave , and strong , and capable . I LOVE that ! ! The character development was so rich and deep , further lending credibility and reality to this production . Above the feeling of watching live footage , you feel as if you personally know the characters and care about what happens to them . This is key in ANY good movie . Henry Winkler was amazing in his role as the principal of Woodsboro high school . This is the first serious role in which I have admired his abilities . I hope it is not the last . He demonstrated a quality in this movie that I have never before seen in his performances . Even Wes Craven makes an appearance as " Fred the Janitor " in Winkler's most poignant scenes . As this story unfolds , you will be blown away . This is one of the best movies of the genre of " slasher , " and also rates with " The Game , " " Fallen , " " Psycho , " and a much later movie , " Identity , " in the psychological thriller Hall of Fame . A most excellent movie ; totally awe-inspiring soundtrack that works with the movie SO WELL . It is endearing to see a director take so much care with every little detail of a work ; so much so that this is a true work of art . It is believable , watchable ( if from behind a pillow , your half-closed hands , or your knees ) , and downright SCARY . Truly , I find those movies which tap into the category of " that which could actually happen " to be the scariest . This is definitely one of those movies . I have the whole trilogy right next to " Halloween , " " Halloween 2 , " and " Halloween H20 " in my collection . I honestly think this movie tops " Halloween , " if only by a small bit . The twists are so amazing they will leave you sitting there with your mouth wide open . It gets a full from . . . the Fiend : .
Well-written , almost Tolkien tale .	While the story line is a bit complex for younger children , this movie is quite well done ; well written , beautifully animated , and is far greater than the sum of its parts . The story surrounds a small group of experimental lab rats who were treated in NIMH ( National Institute for Mental Health ) for intelligence . They did such a good job , that the rats soon plotted and executed their escape , found a nice , desolate farmhouse from which to steal electricity , and begin their lives anew . As with many other socially responsive movies , the Secret of NIMH appears to have been centered around WWII , with the animals classed in castes representative of the groups within the nationalities involved . The scientists performing the experiments were those German scientists responsible for the most heinous atrocities . The rats themselves can be compared to the Boys of Brazil types churned out by the Third Reich , and so on , all the way down to the smallest creatures of the field fleeing for their lives , as did anyone with any sense or opportunity fled from Germany during those dark times . Hence My comparison to Tolkien's works . That not withstanding , this is still a very entertaining endeavor , and the kiddies need never know , until they are older , the implications of such events in this classic adaptation by Bluth . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Awesome Late Night Television	As the host trained by Carson , Letterman should have inherited the Tonight Show . He was groomed for it , and CBS was darned lucky to get him . David Letterman's charm and style is both unique and legendary . His gimmicks are creative , and his presentation is stylish , but as a host , he knows how to make the guest comfortable enough to annihilate those uncomfortably silent moments so prevalent on other shows . Letterman is the new Carson . America tunes in to him as they close their day and begin to wind down for the night . His name and the prestige he bears draws a great many big named stars , while he touches on all the current issues of our world . Letterman is a special person , and deserves all the success in the world . His show rates a on the TV Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Film !	I have to start this review by saying if you want a slasher flick , this isn't it . This is more a light dramatization of the events surrounding the Zodiac slayings , and is not intended to satisfy your splatter needs . Additionally ( and surprisingly ) a survivor of a Zodiac attack , when interviewed on CNN live , proclaimed this movie to be " chillingly accurate " in its depiction of his encounter with the Zodiac . With a real documentary-like feel , in an entertaining fashion , this story unfolds in a timely manner , and really delivers . As a docu-drama , it is surprisingly entertaining . If forensics , criminal histories , journalistic intrigues , or serial killers are of an interest to you , this movie will hold you in thrall . I thoroughly enjoyed this work , and can't wait to include it into my DVD collection . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Love it ! Love it ! Love it !	This movie held me absolutely spellbound in my youth . This is one of the best , most under-rated love stories ever made . I've never heard of anyone in real life who's seen this work . Every time I ask is anyone's seen Sandcastles , they always respond with , " You mean Ice Castles , don't you ? " LOL-No ! This film was my sole entertainment on a rainy winter Saturday . It held such enchantment that I've never forgotten it . The tenderness exhibited here is the thing of childhood fantasy . The truly sweet encounter shown in this movie was portrayed so well that I believed it was real . If you're into love stories with a small twist of intrigue ; if you liked Ghost , then , check out the movie from which it spawned . Jan Michael Vincent is completely top row ( believe it . . . or not ! ) in this all but forgotten , Made for TV film . It earns a on the " TV " scale , from . . . the Fiend : .
Shameless Plug For The Muppet Movie , But It Works !	This was all about the release of the Muppet Movie , a big screen venue critics claimed would " never work . " Jim Henson was no one's fool , though , so he threw a M4TV disco party to hype ( celebrate ) the release of this movie , and he invited the whole of Hollywood ! Many huge stars turned out , to dance ( disco ! ) with the Muppets , and get their mugs on the small screen and usher in a new big screen age of the Muppetverse . This was fun , and commercially very savvy . Henson was a God . Long Live Jim Henson ! This rates an easy on the M4TV Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Phenomenal Screen Writing , Phenomenal BBThornton Performance .	This is , by far , Billy Bob Thornton's best performance to date ( 2007 ) . Sling Blade absolutely defines the epitome of what a brilliant screenplay plays like , what a perfect performance feels like , what some of the most inspired direction looks like , and what a beautiful and creative dramatic product sings like . Is this a masterpiece ? Well , to be painfully honest . . . cinematically speaking ? Yes . However , the subject matter itself ( much like Depp's Libertine ) may throw some people off watching it . This accurately depicts life in a small southern burg , demonstrates both the mind-set and the attitudes of the majority of the male population in those areas , and goes a long way towards explaining that fear is " whut makes ' em thataway . . . mmhmm " If you're in the mood for a good drama that doesn't really involve any kind of love story , grand adventure , or super heroes , this is more than worth the 2 hours it takes to view it . This is a fine demonstration of dramatic achievement , and rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Treacherously Beautiful	I don't know why this movie hasn't fared better . It features top notch performances , a compellingly active and beautifully flowing story , and some brilliant direction . I have to say the direction was the biggest surprise . Joe Johnston ( currently slated to direct Jurassic Park 4 ) of Jumanji and JP3 . I was not very impressed with either , but frankly , Hidalgo gives me hope for JP4 . Maybe he's grown as a director . Hidalgo is a beautiful tale of a washed up cowboy and his beautiful pony braving the Arabian desert and all its treacheries . Stunning visuals , uplift this beautiful work and deliver a fine finished product . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Clever , Brave Wit .	Delightful Comedic Parodic Romp Through A Classic Who-Done-It ! Cleverly Witty ! I'm not saying this movie is for intellectuals . It's for anyone who loves the old 30's - 60's Mystery Theater-type movies . Neil Simon hits another home run with this genuinely clever parody of the Thin Man mysteries , Charlie Chan , Sam Spade of the Maltese Falcon and Jessica Marples and Sidney Parole of Agatha Christie creation . With Sir Alec Guiness as the blind butler and Nancy Walker as the deaf cook / mannequin , it starts out making you laugh and certainly doesn't stop there . " You mean suicide ? " " Oh no . Mrs . Twain hated herself . It was murder , alright . " Jamesir Bensonmum . With this star-studded production , this movie delivers a solid performance from the entire cast . Definitely not the least of which is Elsa Lanchester ( Queenie of Bell Book and Candle , 1958 ) as Jane Marbles . The jokes , even when obvious , still make you smile and the wit is truly ageless . As you greet the guests , five of the world's most famous detectives each with an assistant or companion , who have been invited to a mysterious mansion for a weekend of murder , you are introduced to each of the characters and each actor's marvelous ability to parody the original personality after which they have been modeled . The approach of Sidney Wang and his # 3 son ( Why did I have to drive the car , Pop ? . . . " Because I smart enough to get out first ! " Sidney Wang ) is hilarious and makes me laugh every time I watch it . Eileen Brennan as Sam Diamond ( Peter Falk ) ' s " personal secretary " just shines . She shows how marvelously diverse are her talents as an actress , in going from submissive , to highbrow to seductive in her performance and in the end , shows the pluck to save Sam's life while he stands there and cries . The direction is wonderful , the cast is the BEST , the script is classic Neil Simon and the production as a whole is very Mel Brooks-ish with its clever wit and adorable innuendo . Wonderful comedy . The twists and turns are clever , the dialog is witty and entertaining and the sets were lovely . I often comment on the setting of a movie . I find the background sets and props very enriching in a movie , when there is even the slightest attention to detail . The house they used or created in the making of this movie was beautiful ; artistically furnished / decorated and beautifully architected . The cornices and moldings are classic post WW2 architecture exhibiting an almost lost art in this , the post-modern United States . You just don't see that kind of lavish woodwork anymore . Quite lovely . " The Haunting " quality . Rent It , Watch It , Buy It . If you like this movie , you may also like Death on the Nile , Murder On The Orient Express , Private Detective , Ten Little Indians , the Pink Panther movie series , or Clue . One of the Fiend's favorite movies . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Now THIS Is A Drama !	Scott Caan , Jeff Goldblum , Shawn Hatosy , Kelly Lynch . Two friends ramble aimlessly through life , while one plots a scheme and the other searches diligently for a way into a better life , while he obtains therapy from his mother's lover , unbeknownst to the patient . This sounded like a convoluted mess , but I'm a Goldblum fan , so I decided to give this a shot , anyway . Goldblum's part is not as prominent as I would have liked , but he is a constant , and prominent enough for his fans to be able to appreciate his talents herein . The story here is quite gritty , emotionally soliciting , and interesting . There are some dull moments , yes , but for the most part , this film completely engrosses , draws you into an emotional investment in the lead characters , and waltzes you through the manly maturation hazing to the bitter end . I liked this mainly due to the follow your dream message , Goldblum , and exemplary performances by the main four cast members . This is gritty , and gives a moral lesson , without preaching , or selling itself too hard . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Brooks's Best	Mel Brooks is a man of great intellect . His writing is phenomenal , and his works are all amusing in one way or another . He has turned out some absolute classics throughout his time with us , and this is one of them . Among his works are Spaceballs , a parody of Star Wars ; Young Frankenstein , a parody of the entire run of the Universal Frankenstein line ; High Anxiety , a parody of Hitchcock's Vertigo with some zany BDSM play thrown in for good measure ; and History of the World , Part 1 , a parody of just about everything that was BCE . This work is hugely funny , with some great one-liners , and a running gag throughout . I love this for its zany antics and a really fine cast who contributes their all . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Intense .	A Few Good Men features a wonderful story , a fantastic cast and crew , and pivotal portrayals . It is gritty , edgy , and tense . It generates suspense , gives you a moment or two of righteous indignation , and leaves you feeling triumphant . All in all , I found it wonderful entertainment in spite of Cruise's involvement . For some reason I've enjoyed most of his movies right down to Legend and Risky Business , but I've never been fond of HIM . Honestly , his parts ( all of them ) could have been portrayed by anyone and ( if given the same budget , direction and treatment as with Cruise ) would have been just as enjoyable . He has been pretty lucky so far with his decisions . Of course , regardless of which studio , producer , or director with the name Tom Cruise attached to a work , the budget flows a bit more freely than with . . . well . . . say Viggo Mortensen . ( Sorry , Viggo , but it's the truth . ) In spite of these facts , this is a GREAT movie primarily due to Jack Nicholson and his brilliant performance . Wow ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Atmospherically suspenseful Universal Classic " creature feature . "	I am still amazed with the level of fright conveyed by this production . The " gill man " was created by the effects department with a care and a creativity seldom seen in these older productions . They have always tried , but this time , they actually perpetuated a beautiful darksome myth with effects which were good enough to withstand the rigid tests of time . Even now , looking at the Creature , you can believe he was real ; a living myth caught on film . If you are a fan of the 30's Universal films , definitely give this one a watch . Although it was made in the 50's , it bears the same darkling feel as the other originals produced some twenty years before , and a creative feel which belies its age of almost sixty years . This is a definite classic in the genre of horror and required viewing for those who wish to claim the status as " fan " of the genre . It is ripe for a modern remake . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Bogey was perfect for his era .	Let's face it . No one cares that this remake was too close to the 1931 original . No one cares that Bogey did better movies . No one cares what the box office performance was , or how long the movie is , or how YOU define film noir , or how YOU differentiate film noir from detective noir . This is the quintessential Bogart performance , hammered home by a similar performance in Casablanca . This is how we all ( the baby-boomers ) remember Bogey , and THIS is the Bogey we love . Did we love him as much as the submissive and sometimes mousy boat captain in " African Queen ? " Well , of course we did . Did we love him as the gritty adventure-seeker in " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre ? " Well , of course we did . But we love him best while he's wearing the hat belonging to Sam Spade . I love this , even today , and watch it often . It rates a on the Black and White scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior , Atmospheric , Twisted Little Creepfest	The Ring did three things no film of late has done . It took the genre of Horror seriously without going over the top . It is derived from a superior story and translated to American film superbly , regardless of what the naysayers say . And , while it starts off typically , it ascends into a beautiful , darkling , twisted , genuinely creepy story , which holds you through to the end . Gore Verbinski's style is unmistakable . He has left this work well marked with his stylistic shots , and suspenseful progression . Actually , I found this far superior to most horrors done in the last thirty years or so . A lot has been said about Ringu , the work from which this was adapted for American cinema , and inevitable subsequent comparisons made , however , that is certainly NOT the case . That argument is moot , as this work was based on the novel , " The Ring " by Koji Suzuki , so if you want something to which an honest comparison may be made , I would suggest you read the book , and leave Ringu where it belongs . Personally , I found the American adaptation much more to my liking than Ringu . This is one twisted little creep-fest ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
This movie is pure joy .	Harvey is a pookha who has befriended Elwood P . Dowd . Now according to legend , Pookhas are legendary celtic creatures . Yes , it can be found spelled differently . Not as well known as the miserly leprechaun . . but , of more generous and mischievous of heart . Jimmy Stewart's tall white hare friend in this movie was a pookha ( spelled in the movie poohka ) Poohkas are nearer to the Brownie or Hobgoblin . Pooka have a reputation for tomfoolery and hijinks . Their playful natures make them both beloved and hated among the other fae . Somewhat childlike throughout their lives , the pooka never outgrow their penchant for pranks . However , despite the outward playfulness of the pooka , they hide a lingering sadness deep within . The clown of the changelings , pooka laugh on the outside to hide their suffering on the inside . At times , pooka fall into wrenching periods of depression that last for weeks on end . Whenever this happens , they tend to disappear , returning once their spirits have lifted . Most other changelings do not understand this dual nature of the pooka , and few ever take them seriously . This stems perhaps from the fact that every pooka has an animal affinity that effects his looks as well as his personality . Most pooka tend toward the terminally cute , with fuzzy ears and big eyes . Most have tails similar to those of their animal cousins . Elwood takes you throughout the movie , on this wonderful roller-coaster ride of sanity and insanity . Is Elwood insane , or is his Poohka real ? Well , at the end of the movie , you see ( finally ) what Elwood sees . His Poohka has had a slip of the veil , and you realize that Elwood is not just an insane little spreader of joy who was " pixilated " by a fairy , but the harbinger of a greater entity ; that of the Poohka . Lovely , sweet , and melancholy story , and one of my 2 favorite Jimmy Stewart movies . This is also the last in which he played simple benign parts . After this his roles become much more complicated and dark . In case you are interested , my other favorite movie of his is " Bell , Book and Candle . " It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Mysteriously entertaining Rom-Com	I was impressed with Cyndi's portrayal here . She handled herself like a real star . Like your comedy to have a little history about ancient civilizations ? Ever wanted to see the Yucatan ? Ever wanted to be in an exotic jungle hotel with Cyndi Lauper or Jeff Goldblum ? Ever wanted to see a really good comedic venture ? Then " Vibes " is your movie . It has all that , a fun comedy / adventure plot , witty and clever dialog , good direction , wonderful scenic shots of South America and convincing portrayals , all rolled into a high hairdo and deep , soulful brown eyes . Nice portrayals by Julian Sands and Peter Falk are also featured here . Jeff Goldblum and Cyndi Lauper portray psychics hired by a man of questionable motivations to find his son who disappeared while looking for an ancient Incan city . At least , that's how it begins . Where it goes from there will lead you on a grand adventure fraught with magicks more ancient than mankind itself , and treachery . This is one of those movies I can ( and do ) watch all the time . It's one of my absolute favorites , and rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Original premise and stellar performances	Do not believe the reviews ! This is an excellent addition to any horror collection ! This is a dark , well-blended horror / thriller / suspense . The use of religiochristian dogma and theologies throughout the horror genre is common and proliferate , and surely nothing new . neochristians will , for the most part , hate this movie , as it shows the darker side of the catholic church . Pagans will also dog this movie due to its erroneous use of the title " pagan " to one who is viewed as a sinner by the catholic church . So either way , there is not going to be a strong fan base for this movie . Not even a strong percentage of horror fans ( those for whom this movie was created ) , are pagan or eclectic enough to fully understand the implications given here , or educated enough to " get " the symbolism . If you fall into the select few who can truly appreciate this movie , then by all means , DO SO ! It is a beautifully written , well enacted tale . The Order , boasting the " Knight's Tale " cast ( for the most part ) , carries a natural camaraderie which stems from their having worked together previously . The story is an old one , quite creatively selected , and seldom used . This movie has elements which were expertly utilized such as the sparrows as the harbingers of the souls of the demons ; sparrows are known to be escorts of departed souls to whatever afterlife they belong . The concept of demons taking the form of children is also quite good . I realize this is not a new idea , and has been used heavily , but here , it was done WELL . The use of nightingales ' song as a signature for death , as the nightingales sang over the grave of Orpheus as in no where else in the world , was inspired and a knowledgeable touch . There are many more elements such as these , but you will have to watch the movie for yourself to find out what they are . The designs of the sets and the architecture are done with a specialized style . The dialog is articulate , witty and well delivered . I honestly have not enjoyed a judeochristian-oriented horror as much as this one , since my first viewing of the Exorcist . This was extremely well written , professionally portrayed , lovingly assembled and expertly presented . While it is nowhere nearly as horrific as the Exorcist , and indeed , the story line has nothing to do with that movie , the tale is quite well told , compelling , and very thought-provoking . There have been many films , literary works , etc . which have eluded to the idea that the catholic church has , hidden within its many orders , specialists as it were , in the fields of exorcism , ancient mysteries , holy relics / magickal items , and the like . Anne Rice , for example , has used a " fictitious " organization known as the Talimasca in her Witching Hour series which kept track of magickal bloodlines , most people are aware of the true nature of the Masons , the Knights of the Columbus , the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn , the Illuminati , and countless others . It is practically common knowledge that the Vatican warehouses thousands of magickal texts , items , relics , and keeps the human population of sheep " safe from their own devices . " " The Order " is a most excellent example of that premise , along with the moral that it is no sin to love , and if it is , screw it because love is your key to emotional freedom . It was a darkly sinister almost-Gothic tale which I found to be highly enjoyable . If you liked this movie you may also enjoy " Revelations . " It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Even better . Different , but better	( This is concerning Aliens : Alien 2 , Special Edition version from the Alien Quadrilogy Collector Set ) Some 57 years later , Ripley is discovered on a deep salvage expedition . She is in stasis , but is alive , rescued , and brought back to Earth to face an inquiry as to what happened to her $42 . 5M M-class freighter and cargo , her crew , and her mission . James Cameron was one brave soul to attempt a follow up to Scott's horror classic . There were so many ways he could have screwed this up , and been loathed by literally millions of fans . It's been said that it's easy to take someone else's good idea and improve upon it , but were that the case , there would be loads of superior sequels out there , and very few of the quality we actually do have . What Cameron's done with Scott's vision is to expand upon it in such a way that the original is surpassed in almost every way . Understanding all too well that action is his best venue ( Escape from New York , Rambo 2 , The Terminator , etc ) , he chose in sheer wisdom , to stick with his forte rather than attempt to copy Scott's . Very shrewd of Mr . Cameron . So while the first chapter of the Alien saga is very much a science-fiction / horror , this second installment is just as much a science-fiction / action which expounds on Scott's story and ideas in such a way as to render this attempt superior to its forbearer . A rarity in cinematic attempts . The story is rich in detail and depth . Written by Cameron , it flows rather fluidly from the end of Alien , right on into the Aliens plot line with only a small seam ( Ripley's inquest and subsequent time on Earth ) interrupting the two separate pages of encounter . Once the action begins , it is not non-stop , but it is fluent in its execution . The non-action sequences are rich in character development and deepening the base story and sub-plots . The camaraderie of the military characters was beautifully realistic , giving us a sense of knowing them , caring about what happens to them , and having empathy for their plight . The - only - element in the entire endeavor I had any problem with whatsoever was the addition of the character Rebecca " Newt " Jorden , brilliantly portrayed by Carrie Henn . While she was a delight , and a very capable actress at this age , she also felt like a token ; a wild card character through which they hoped to endear a younger audience . But with an " R " rating , that ploy did not necessarily fulfill their goal , and had the adverse effect of making some parents wonder how anyone could allow a child of that age to take part in a movie so gruesome . This is , after all , the stuff of nightmares . I , however , was not one of those people . I loved Newt and found her presence in this work necessary and desirable . Henn was nothing but professional in her portrayal , giving us an open and honest portrayal of real terror . This chapter of the Alien story gives you more Aliens , more gore , more action , more characters , more story , and more enjoyment . It is the best of the Quad , and that's saying a lot . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Reminiscent of the old Disney family classics !	What a GREAT movie ! This is so reminiscent of the wonderful Disney classic family movies of the 60's and the 70's . I was so pleasantly surprised , after the past 20 years of absolute detritus Disney's live productions crews have churned out . This movie is an absolute joy . The child stars were just that ; professional , quality actors . I am most impressed with the quality of this movie . Sigourney Weaver was a total sycophantic insert hyperbole here running a prison camp for wayward boys . Siobhan Fallon was wonderful as the star's mother . I won't recant the story here as there is little point in doing that yet again , but the story is wonderful , the direction was extraordinary and the acting quality was superb ! This work reminds you what it's like to be a child , without going all sugary or being too grim . The deleted scenes featured on the DVD version were truly best left deleted . They were too harsh for this movie and would have taken so much from it . While the abuse was hinted in the finished product , it was not outright shown beyond a certain extent . It was best that way . This was an absolutely delightful movie to watch . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
I Hope This Show Runs For Years !	Alec Baldwin is hilarious , and dramatically witty . I was surprised with the superior story lines , dialog , and outstandingly idiosyncratic characters . This is a great show , and I hope it runs for years . However . Tina Fey is a pure delight . I am personally very gratified to see her in the lime light . I am also happy to see that Lorne Michaels is producing this show . I think it bodes well for future episodic successes . I'm hoping it runs like the SNL skit that never ends , generates some serious ad dollars , and launches Tina Fey into Superstardom . I don't think that's too much to ask . ; ) So far , this SitCom rates an on the TV Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Great Family Film	Okay , by now , it's unanimous that Pixar's " The Incredibles " is a great family film . So why add another review ? It's not because I think I'll say anything that a plethora of other reviewers hasn't already said , but because I feel the - need - to say that this is a great family film . Too many movies barely pass for family films these days . They oftentimes contain elements and themes to which we do not wish to have our children exposed . They even , more often than not , contain messages or morals with which we do not agree and find awkward or inappropriate to explain to our children . They even promote lifestyle choices , hereditary and / or cultural differences , or unfortunate wardrobe malfunctions and still pass for family films . This is not one of those movies . The Incredibles is wholesome , witty , and clever , while appealing to all ages . You can't say that about many movies , especially today . All in all ? This is a great movie , anytime you want a movie you don't mind your grandparents or young children watching . Plus , it's fun and does not fail to entertain . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Magical journey to our most famous lost city .	It is written in stone that Disney animations simply - must - be musicals . Right ? Where ? Show me . Because I found this attempt to be much more enjoyable for - not - containing the hokey made-for-five-year-old standard Disney musical fare . While the story was not as enthralling as it could have been , it was still quite good , enjoyable , and adventurous . I had hoped for a bit more , yes , considering the subject matter , but this movie is - not - the bitter disappointment or utter failure it has been billed to be . The animation quality is average , but the dialog is quite compelling , as is the story line , plot , sub-plot , and amazing creativity I found within this production . I will refrain from outlining the plot , as it has been done and done , but this movie is well worth a view if you are a fan of fantasy . This is , in my opinion , THE BEST Disney Animated Feature Length Film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Possibly The Best Performance of Travolta's Career	I say , " possibly , " because I will most likely always hold Staying Alive as the best Travolta work in the darkest part of my Baby Boomer heart , until the man dies . But were it not for my relentless love of Disco and that era , Phenomenon would undoubtedly take that spot . John Travolta , Kyra Sedgwick . An amiable , small town Joe is inexplicably transformed into a genius with telekinetic powers after seeing a bright light . The simplicity of the synopsis would belie the complexity of this sociological examination of the fight or flight instinct coupled with the dynamics of the mob mentality . People fear what they cannot understand , and they hate what they fear . This work is an expose of that phenomenon . But aside from all that , this is highly enjoyable , as you walk along with Travolta's character through the progression of his new-found talents . His performance here is beautiful . He fully embraces this character like he seldom has any other . He typically does well , but this was a total integration , which was wonderful to watch . All in all , I found this film enlightened , even when the supporting characters were not . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkly delightful	It seems to me that once a film of a specific genre / subject hits , the rights of every like-minded literary work on the book shelves of Books-A-Million ( in this case , the children's section ) is snapped up in a whirl-wind of studio shopping sprees . One such series was the enigmatic Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events . The books are easily and quickly read , but they are not your customary children's books with the average children's story . These are much darker , and do not provide the happy ending most children's books insist upon . Having lost their parents in a horrible fire , the Baudelaire orphans must fend for their lives when sent to live with the nefarious Count Olaf , their murderous uncle . Olaf is a cold , calculating , quirky would-be actor who will stop at nothing to seize the Baudelaire fortune but he discovers he can not touch it until the oldest of the orphans turns 18 . Olaf is over the top in the books , and is not above murdering the orphans to achieve his goal . This movie confused some movie goers as it was not based on one book alone , but rather the first three of the run . This film succeeds where some other recent children's book adaptations have failed . It is portrayed exactly as the author intended , thanks to dream casting , and solid adaptational screen writing . These literary works are very descriptive from scene to scene , and it transferred perfectly to the screen , thereby surpassing the aforementioned " other children's book adaptations " we have seen lately . Barry Sonnenfield brought the beautifully Gothic comedy " The Addams Family " with him as he created the look for the sets and homes which the Baudelaire children would visit , thereby giving it that same numinous feel we all loved so much . It is as if this film were exorcised straight from the Lemony Snicket literary works themselves . As I have already mentioned , this movie was an exhibition of dream casting . The Baudelaire children were perfectly cast and portrayed . Meryl Streep is beautiful and tragic as a Baudelaire relative , and Billy Connelly is a delight . Some critics have said that Jim Carrey was " over the top . " I agree . He was as over the top as was the character he portrayed . Count Olaf , if you dare read the actual literary work , was as much an over the top character as anyone could imagine . Jim Carrey was perfect as the vituperative Count Olaf and is just as he is in the books . All this dark and lovely perfect casting and performances , direction , and writing , is encased in a gossamer but nebulous cloak which conceals the enigmatic Lemony Snicket who tells us of these Unfortunate Events , by way of Jude Law . He cautions us time and time again to leave , if we have come for a happy story with a happy ending , thereby making us want to stay all the more . Nice device which works well . Another such device which is developed from the series is providing a dialog for the baby Sunny by way of subtitles . That was brought straight from the books , as Sunny's occasional outbursts of a language only babies understand , often prompts Snicket to offer translations . I've enjoyed the books over the years , and although the story is a bit out of sequence and order , this film was absolutely 100 % successful in capturing the feel and the pace of the books it attempts to document to film . Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events is every bit as quirky and beautifully dark as the Addams Family movies . I found this completely delightful and far superior to most works of this genre . I'm a die-hard Harry Potter fan , so it almost hurts my feelings to rate this where it deserves . But in all honesty , it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Compelling performances driven by original screen writing	This star-studded cast turns in gold star performances ! ! I saw this in the theater , and now years later , I own it . Let me start by saying that Cher , Susan Sarandon and Michelle Pfieffer were absolutely marvelous in this movie . Their characters perfectly complemented one another , lending their own individual strengths to one another's weaknesses . Cher's total down to earth wit ( and her brutally honest assessment of Darryl while he's lying on the bed attempting to " not " seduce her loved loved loved that exchange ) , Sarandon's driven desire to succeed , and Pfieffer's ( almost ) desperate attempts to bring her life together with some form of cohesion and meaning , were all portrayed with dramatic genius . Their mutual desire to no longer be alone causes these three small-town women to invent the " perfect " guy . As they creatively begin to " dream him up , " they have no idea that they are casting a very powerful summoning spell . Jack Nicholson was extraordinary as the Darryll " Devil " VanHorn - the result of the women's summoning ; an obvious and well written metaphorical personification of the old adage , " Be careful what you wish for . " His performance was top row , rather than over the top . He IS an avatar of " the Devil . " How would you EXPECT him to act ? This movie is fun , highly entertaining , funny , quirky and warm ( though it does trigger the gag reflex WAY more than once ) . Its sentiments are genuine and the star-studded performances are brilliant . It's one of my favorite movies . I must also say that I loved the three women's use of sympathetic magick against Darryl the " Devil . " It was beautifully done in that it showed the true power of Sympathetic Magicks to those of us who cared to look . Of course things don't work on this plane as it does in the movie , but since Darryl was from the ethereal plane of Shadow , I think even the fantastic affects the girls ' magick had upon him were very well portrayed . This movie gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Brilliant and Bold	Okay , so maybe this isn't Star Wars , Casablanca , or the Lord of the Rings , but this is a definitive film in Cage's career . I can't and won't say THE definitive film , but A definitive film . It is fearless in nits attempt to document the downward spiral of a man with a heart in a heartless world . His realization that he is about the only person left with a heart , was enough to invoke his humanity in the attempt to humanize both himself , and the world around him . This is mildly about redemption , but more about the way one perceives the world and those around them . Cage's character cares , and in his caring finds himself in a position to have to perform one feat after the other in order to avoid an exotic collision within himself between his conscience and his consciousness . This is possibly one of Cage's better performances due to the range and depth of the character's dysfunction . All in all , NOT a Friday / Saturday night movie . This is NOT fun , it is deep , dark , and heavy . . . but entertainingly so if you can prevent yourself being dragged down with the character . It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
Redemption .	Hayden Christensen surpasses my early predictions surrounding the caliber of his expected performance . His performance wasn't the " stuff of legends , " but , and face it , folks , that's exactly what it will become ; however inferior . He DID ; however , deliver JUST ENOUGH to pull this off . The story was what was expected , but the story telling itself was greatly contrived . I couldn't wholly buy what Luca$ was selling in this work . The reasons behind the transformation did not ring true , nor did it feel right . Skywalker must have been a seriously weak person to have turned to " The Dark Side " that easily . Palpatine's seduction of Skywalker ( what with his being a " virgin birth " and all ) was just a little too shallow for this Star Wars fan . Ani was Palpatine's puppet rather than the headstrong but capable child he was just a few short years ago . It seemed to me that Skywalker was portrayed as much stronger in his early youth than he was as a Jedi and at the peak of his power . SPOILERS FROM HERE ON OUT ! ! ! Palpatine's face was disfigured during his battle with Mace Windu in order to make it match the wizened old troll we knew only as " the Emperor " in 4 , 5 , & 6 . Princess Leia , when remembering her mother in Episode V , speaks of her as being beautiful and very sad . We have always wondered how that was possible , and now we know she was speaking of Bail Organa's wife as her mother . Anakin Skywalker was a short little thing to properly and believably portray Darth Vader . I mean , let's face it . . . Vader was 6 ' 7 " tall , while Christensen has only just made it to 6 ' 1 " . We now know that he was extensively rebuilt by Emperor Palpatine , including metal extensions for both lower legs . eye rollsWe now also understand R2D2's total dedication to Obi Wan and the Rebellion , more clearly . The Millennium Falcon is visible as Obi Wan and Anakin are just landing outside the Jedi Temple at the beginning of the movie . It can be seen in the lower right of the screen . The TIE Fighters are introduced here in their first incarnation . Padm's body was made to appear still pregnant for her funeral in order to deceive those on the Dark Side into believing the babies had died with her . This action would prevent Vader from seeking out his child / ren . Obi Wan knew how to project himself to Luke and Yoda from beyond the grave due to Yoda asking Qui-Gon Jinn to return and teach Obi Wan the secret higher Jedi arts . But all in all , and I'm not speaking for everyone here , as a Fan , I really hoped for more . I did not EXPECT more , but I dared hope for it . We got Chewbacca YAY ! , but we got him for a second . We got Wookie soldiers and a Wookie battle , but not the huge effectstravaganza-filled Wookie War we were promised . We got Yoda in battle , but this time he looked more like a spider monkey on crack than ever before . We see Anakin changing into Vader , but the reasons were just stupid . We got Padme in childbirth , but she delivered 3 month old at least babies ! Those were SO NOT newborns ! C3P0 is full gold . His silver right front bottom leg piece is gold in this Episode . I'm sure that will be rectified with the DVD release . Also , no attempt is made to explain Obi Wan's aging 30 years in the 20 years it took Luke to take us to meet back up with him . Further , it takes no notice that Leia appears 10 years older than Luke in Episodes 4 , 5 , & 6 . I'll also assume that this work was meant to indicate that Wookies live for an extraordinarily long period of time , as no attempt was made to make Chewbacca appear any younger than he did in Episodes 4 , 5 , & 6 . The volcano planet where Vader literally becomes Vader and is confronted by Obi Wan was very reminiscent of Mordor . That whole scene bore some interesting parallels : Obi Wan was betrayed by someone he thought would help the Jedi cause , they fight , one is destroyed by fire while reveling in his moment , one way or the other , and both heroes in both situations were accompanied by trusted loved ones who could not help then in their moment of need . One had a magickal ring , the other had a wedding ring . I was happy , I must say , to see that there were no nipples on Bail Organa's Batman armor and that they chose to show the annihilation of the younglings on camera , rather than off . It made for a much more poignant moment that way . The crop circles in fire on the planet's surface in the opening scenes and shots were amusing to me in that they were so prominent yet placed in the background so as to attract the subliminal mind to think , " Oh yeah , this is an alien space-scape , alright . " And R2D2 has some new tricks ! He can jump , shoot laser fire , squirt out an oil slick , and he now has turbo fire rockets on the bottoms of his rolling casters . He can also laugh . ( Check out the scene where Bail Organa orders C3P0's mind to be wiped ! ) For now , Star Wars , Episode III : Revenge of the Sith rates an . the Fiend : .
Bittersweet Masterpiece In An Authentic Southern Setting .	Born and raised in lower Alabama , I found this work thoroughly enchanting . It truly depicts the life in thousands of little nowhere towns peppering the deep southern US from Georgia through Alabama , Mississippi , and select areas of Louisiana . But beyond that , this movie does more than enchant you with its whimsical Southern tones , and Georgia notes . It weaves a spell about you and transports you to 1930's Alabama , where it holds you in thrall until the bittersweet end . This is not a " feel-good " movie . It is not there for mere entertainment . It sits , and waits , for those who need its powers to heal the inner self , or who need guidance in the quest for a higher self . If you're able to understand its lessons , you will love this work as much as I do . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Film Noir Meets the Bayou	Every now and then , a fantastic thriller / horror comes along , and catches everyone by surprise . I could go into a diatribe / editorial concerning what makes good horror , but I'll save that for the message boards . What makes THIS a good horror is a mixture of the classic Noir style , Mickey Rourke's charisma , an awesome screenplay , good direction , some decent effects , and Lisa Bonet . Yes , that's what I said : Lisa Bonet of the Cosby Show . She is an absolute delight in this production , centered around the Louisiana Bayou , ancient religions ( though muddled heavily by an injection of Christian myth ) , intrigue , suspense , and some heavy ( but great ) atmosphere . If you are a horror fan , this is a must see . Angelheart is both classy AND smart . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Bell Book & Candle ; a fun , sweet love story for all ages !	As a Pagan , I must say this movie has little if any Magickal significance . It's a " fun " witchcraft movie and not meant to teach us anything except that love is the strongest Magick of all , and never to use it in a controlling or vengeful way . That's a lesson everyone needs to learn , not just Pagans . That having been said , this movie is wonderfully written and sweetly executed by Kim Novak and the venerable Jimmy Stewart . Hermione Gingold delivers a stellar performance as Bianca , Elsa Lanchester ( with too many movie credits to mention except as Ms . Jane Marbles of " Murder By Death " ) was wonderful as Ms . Novak's absent-minded-yet-capable upstairs neighbor Queenie . Also starring Jack Lemmon ( wonderful performance ) and Jim Kovacs ( brilliantly witty ) . " Witches can't cry . Why , they can't shed a single tear because their heart is full of Magick . They don't have time for silly things such as love . " Queenie . Gillian Holroyd ( Novak ) and her brother Nicky ( Jack Lemmon ) are Manhattan witches . Cloaked deeply within the secret underworld of those of the Craft , they live among other New Yorkers as one of them , without so much as causing a raised eyebrow . But then , along comes Shepherd " Shep " Henderson ( Stewart ) , a steadfast , no-nonsense , dedicated businessman who is engaged to be married to Gillian's old college rival . By a quirky mishap of chance , he finds himself moving into Gillian's building and is instantly " bewitched " by her charm and grace . By the use of Magick , with a little help from Pyewacket ( Gillian's familiar , trained by Robert E . Blair ) and Queenie , Gillian begins to work on this handsome new dream man to get back at her old enemy . But Magick should never be used to control , nor to hurt , and Gillian learns that the hard way in the most bittersweet way . Not only does she have to face what she's done , but she has to face Shep in her guilt . From the critical perspective ; however , the movie takes a serious turn : The effects are very dated to the point of being pure camp . Some of the scenery was seemingly shot in the basement of someone's small home , but at least the characters were quirky and fun . On a personal note , Pyewacket steals the show . Great cat ! Great training by Robert E . Blair . As a Note of Trivia , this is the roots for the beloved Bewitched television sitcom . This introduces the original Samantha and Darrin . All the characters of note are present and accounted for . You have but to look , to see it for yourself . This is one of my favorites , and I watch it often . This movie gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
VERY well done ! This is even GRITTY ! Wow !	I have to ask . . . Who better to play a middle-aged , wrung-out , loser than Robert Downey , Jr . ? I say that with the utmost fondness , however , as I loved the IronMan comics as a kid , and I've never minded Robert Downey , Jr . as an actor . But in this role , he seems to have found his niche . I hope this run lasts for YEARS and gives Downey the inner Zen he needs to finish out his career with some pride . Going back to the origins , as in " Batman Begins , " and a plethora of other comic book-to-movie lines ( Check out upcoming X-Men " Origins " movies , " Wolverine , " and " Magneto . " ) , seems to be the best formula for launching a new franchise , or breathing new life into a dead one . It certainly worked for Batman and Spiderman , and I'm sure it will work with audiences this time , even though IronMan is a " lesser " character who usually stands in the background vying for his 15 seconds of screen time . I am happy to say that Downey and a respectable budget resolves that condition and elevates this franchise to something more desirable and far more reverent than many other comic book attempts on film . Downey really seems to connect with this character , and Gwyneth Paltrow is so funny as Pepper Potts . Yes , she's sexy , too , but she's FUNNY and so is Downey . I do believe audiences the world over will subscribe to this newly resurrected Marvel superhero in that he is completely human . You get Tony Stark , warts and all , and Downey plays him that way . He comes off so at ease in this part that it seems he was engineered specifically for this role . All in all ? It may be a little too risqu ( in places ) and violent ( in others ) for the kiddies , but the rest of humanity should LOVE it . It is gritty and holds some thread of reality , which weaves itself throughout , although I must say that the finale is a bit tepid . It left something to be desired in the big finish and felt a tad anticlimactic . Still awesome , though . And the toys . . . there are loads of gadgets , toys , and comfortably spun one-liners . This is a story-driven , blockbuster-y , KABOOM flick with very little popcorn-ery to be had , although this IS an effects BLOW OUT of a comic book flick ! It features a slick production style , top notch film quality , and a superb screen play . This superhero endeavor seems to be the birth of a new ( and great ) franchise , and I certainly hope it will not be the last . Indeed , there are hints as to another story line for a possible sequel . Did you notice ? It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Woods at his absolute best . Carpenter's still got " it . "	PREMISEThe quest for the black cross is on . When the Vatican learns that a nest of vampires is after this holy relic , they send Jack Crow ( Woods ) and his team of expert vampire hunters out to find it first . If the vampires get their hands on it , they can then do a rite which will enable them to walk in sunlight and go virtually undetected . END PREMISEWhile this movie received horrible ratings among fans of the vampire genre , it is a clever twist on the old story with enough variations to make it great . I have not always liked Carpenter's work , but this one is up there with his older classics , in my opinion . I think the reason it was not well received is that movie audiences of today , especially American movie audiences , have become more jaded and desensitized to the effects of horror . After all , what makes horror , true horror , to you ? Is it more blood ? More graphic scenes showing disemboweled corpses in detail ? The true psychological mind game ? Ghosts ? Monsters ? What ? That question is answered differently by every person you ask . Therefore no horror movie , especially a specific genre of horror movie , will satisfy every fan of that genre . Vampire fans , in particular , are discriminating creatures who demand a certain level of story quality , effects quality , and believability . Otherwise , they will turn on the makers like a pack of rabid wolves . There are rules which must be followed , or the movie loses its flavor for these discriminating and sometimes sophisticated palettes . Carpenter broke the rules in this endeavor , and the lack of its success embodies the fans ' contempt for his lack of respect for the main principles of vampirism . Guns were far too widely used here . They were much better utilized in Len Wiseman's " Underworld , " in which unique bullets were used . I won't go into the details so as not to spoil that movie for anyone who has yet to see that pure work of art . Click my name to see my review of it . I liked the plot , and I found this movie very enjoyable . I , however , am not the discriminating vampire fan . I highly enjoyed " Lost Boys , " although , I would not recommend it to another fan of that specific genre due to its mainstream-ality . Honestly , there are very few vampire movies out there which live up the the rigid expectations of the true vampire fan . This movie is one of those movies I would recommend , merely because , while it violates some of the basic rules behind vampirism and is not what I would classify as an intelligent vampire film , it still has a few redeeming qualities . These vampires have an agenda . They are on a mission . They do not simply kill to feed . They are after the " black cross " in order to liberate their species from the prison of darkness , and will kill anyone in their way . There are some suspenseful scenes , and this movie does carry a degree of intensity , but it was otherwise a bit disappointing for the true vampire fan . While the Master Vampire in this endeavor is purported to be the original vampire , his demonstrations of vampire craft are not very impressive . According to legend ( those rules I mentioned earlier ) , older vampires are accorded specific powers which young vampires are not . While he does demonstrate the legendary feats of strength , that is where it stops . That in itself , was quite disappointing . The potential was here , and as I said , there are some great elements , but this movie fails miserably to live up to its expectations and potential . My honest recommendations for good vampire movies would be " Underworld , " " Dusk Til Dawn , " " Salem's Lot " ( the made for TV movie , and not the butchered video release . . . beware ! ) , and " Near Dark , " one of the best , in my opinion . I ( being a romantic ) loved " Interview with a Vampire , " regardless of the hidden subtext and omitted story lines , but that is my personal choice . Fans of Anne Rice's " Vampire Chronicles " for the most part hated that movie , for those reasons , and others , I'm sure , and her " Queen of the Damned " was completely bastardized on film , so I'll stand by the movies I've already named here , with " Underworld at the top of the list . I found that movie to be - extremely - good . I judged " Underworld " harder than most , because of the high expectations I had for that movie . I was not disappointed . If you are a fan of horror and / or vampire / werewolf lore , check it out . It's going to be a classic , one day . This movie rates a with few slow spots and lots of heavy , fast-paced action . the Fiend : .
This was the first High Dollar Disney Live Action to Really Pull it Off .	In later years , Disney has managed a wild success with the Pirates of the Caribbean run , and most people think this is the first non-animated Disney full-length feature to really achieve the height of story or accomplish the epic filming of the aforementioned franchise . Unfortunately , that is not the case . Disney's family adventures were fine stories , well done family films , which entertain and teach the appropriate Disney-centric moral lessons . The Three Musketeers fully delivers the story . It IS Disney-ized , of course , but it still tells the full and embellished story of the Three Muskateers in a fun , family-oriented kind of way . Watch the Man in the Iron Mask with DiCapprio for the REST of the Musketeer Story . I found this to be fine Disney fare-one of the best , in fact . I love this one . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Above Par Creature Feature	Jaws is legendary , as the epitome of classic-modern horror . It is so wildly popular , as to have thoroughly permeated into the heart of American pop-culture . And while it wasn't his first , it was certainly Steven Spielberg's first large budget , and his first hit , propelling his career into the mega-success he is today . . . and with good reason . This work captured the fear of every movie goer for a decade . The atmosphere generated herein is downright Hitchcockian in essence , while the story is compellingly dead on for how a small business-minded town would handle this situation . The dialog is superb , and the performances are above par for this type of movie . This work went a long way towards re-legitimizing the horror genre among the average movie-goer and critics , alike . Although it IS a bit dated now , it still ranks up there in the highest echelon of creature features , right alongside Alien , Predator , and the old Universal Horrors . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Highly superior underdog	Excellent , creative use of the 104M budget here . This is the supreme example of Mother Nature when She has totally gone awry . Beautifully written , realistically executed , and professionally presented , this movie could not have delivered more bang for the buck . Released this same year , was Volcano . It featured a better known , more dynamic cast ; more eye candy ; and just a tiny bit smaller budget . However , if you're looking for realism , action , and fast-paced well written story , Dante's Peak is the movie for you ! Linda Hamilton and Pierce Brosnan deliver excellent top row performances here . The scenery is beautiful , the effects are stunningly believable , the direction was astounding , and the whole production is even better than the sum of its parts . Dante's Peak is far better than the sum of its wonderful parts ; it is a riveting visual experience and a compellingly executed premise . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
I Liked It !	As usual , I'm in the minority . This film was very compelling ! It bears intrigue , suspense , and a high level of atmosphere ! Gary Oldman ( who is VERY young here ) is a defense attorney in a crisis . His client , it seems , should have been convicted for the crime for which Oldman has successfully defended him . That's not a spoiler , by the way , the discovery is made just inside the first act . The rest of the film involves Oldman's character going through all he can in order to get the facts against his client . In the real world , Oldman's character would face being disbarred if his actions were discovered , while the DA and ADA who were involved with that little operation , would face , at the least , disciplinary action . Now , that's not to say that no defense attorney has ever committed the actions Oldman's character commits , however , the consequences are quite clear . Attorney / client privilege is sacred . Violations of that contractual agreement are severe , and should be ; therefore , the suspension of belief required herein is a bit high , but since no one who will assist in prosecuting the defense attorney understands to what extent Oldman's character betrays his client , it isn't so great as to break that spell . All in all , I found the performances herein highly entertaining , and the atmospheric drama quite enjoyable . This is one I will watch again . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Clearly Carrey's Best	Jim Carrey's style is considered by most fans to be over the top . So how do you cast a man like that ? You give him a script like the Mask , that's how . This is by far Jim Carrey's best work . There are some that are AMONG his best , but this is THE best I've seen him do . A Cheezy but highly amusing storyline , great dialog , innovative dance routines , and great characters dominate this work , and Jim Carrey purely DELIVERS ! You could do a LOT worse with 2 hours of your life . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Some of Steve Martin's best work .	First , this review is for Father of the Bride 1 AND 2 . If run back to back , they run like one beautiful story . This production is great from start to finish . Everything about it is wonderful , including the story , the acting performances and the direction . This is the best example of Martin's versatility as an actor . His comedic style is rather straight with zany insertions to highlight the otherwise serious atmosphere of his performances . He plays a wonderful straight man-turned-comic-turned straight man . This movie is no exception . His performance is comedic , yet startlingly genuine . Martin Short is hilarious and Diane Keaton is just as genuine in her portrayal of Steve Martin's wife as is Martin's . I love this movie . I love its ability to make you commiserate with Martin's character ; with how he feels , and what he's going through . This one brings up every emotion in the spectrum , and I love it . It's less about family , and more about life's curves ; the every-day things that make us crazy , happy , sad , and ultimately stronger . It's entertaining and at the same time makes you think , consider , ponder the events which have led us to where we are now . Combined , they rate from . . . the Fiend : .
Brazenly Inspirational	This is far above average for the dramatic " feel-good " subgenre . This work shows a creativity and sense of what should be right with this world and society , which lends a credibility to the work , itself . The performances , direction , story , and execution were all exemplary . I have no complaints , whatsoever . The header is about Haley , a street-toughened and disillusioned young starlet who has made some tough decisions in her life , being sentenced to a gymnastics camp as punishment for a crime . When I first read that , I was in no hurry to see this film , but what the description doesn't tell you is that the backstory , and subplots are so compelling , they draw you in and hold you there , if you have half a heart , that is . These performances and dialog are utterly engrossing . I think this movie shines ! It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
WAY Better Than The " Professional " Critics Led Me To Expect !	Being the third installment in a hugely successful franchise , this is usually where a run begins to show real franchise sickness . That , coupled with the horrid reviews submitted by the " professional " critics , I really expected something so convoluted and largely unfunny , as to make this nigh unwatchable . What I got , was a beautiful story , charming characters , top notch animation , chases , escapes , announcements , voyages , captures , deceits , death , birth , King Arthur , the second ugly stepsister ( of Cinderella ) , true love ( of course ) , and a wonderful execution of the story . I was quite surprised , actually , with the high level of comedic and animation quality and large level of entertainment derived from this work . This was a genuinely GOOD film ! Don't listen to those other guys . If you love Shrek , you will love him even more when this is over . In fact , this is SO well done , that it continues the progression of better films . The first rated an , the second rated an . This one rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Origins	To say this is one of my favorite Bond films would become boring after a while of reading my reviews . I love all the Bond films , so I can't say I love this one , and have that serve as any form of distinction from the rest of the long-time run . What I WILL say is that this is probably one of the best of the Bond films , regardless of its age . At the very least , this film serves to provide the foundation for the remainder of the franchise . Anytime a director or the screenwriter comes to a point at which they do not know how to proceed , all they have to do is look back at this ONE film to regain their sense of purpose . THIS is what they are endeavoring to make : A James Bond film people will remember . This is a tall order , and they realized that once Dr . No hit the theaters . The phenomenal success of it just cemented audience expectations , pushing each film to be better than the last . Unfortunately , for many that meant gadgets instead of rich dialog , deeper intrigues instead of more realistic plots , and more Bond Girls . Of all the Bond Girls , I think Ursula Andress is possibly the most memorable ; although I do tend to like Maud Adams ' three Bond appearances better . All in all , this is a classic , and belongs in the collection of any aficionado . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Cinema rarely gets any better than this !	I found this movie moving , exciting , rousing , and imaginative . This is , in my opinion , the best modern western ever . The research done into the Wild , Wild Western days of the old United States simply blows One away . This was by far the best western of the " Western Revival " era . Historically and on the level of the saga , this was the superior film . There are no better performances , anywhere . The direction is superb , the action is perfectly choreographed , the script is gritty yet touching , and the dialog demonstrates some of the best talent in Hollywood . There is something for everyone . If you're after pure action ; however , this is not the movie for you . This is an action / drama ; which documents love , life , friendship , and death . If you've come for nothing but the " shoot-em-up factor , " then move on down to " Young Guns , " which features loads of action and very little else . If you're after excellent cinema ; wonderful direction , inspired performances , genuine costumes and creative set designs , then by all means . . . grab a smoke and pull up a Tombstone ; have a seat and prepare to be entertained . Cinema rarely gets any better than this ! It rates a hard from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the Greatest Horrors Ever Made	This work is definitive in that it is a shining demonstration of what TO do with a camera . THIS is one fine work , cinematically speaking . The story is compelling , and the performances are striking as they move through the well written story , however , the photography is the uppermost attribute of this work . Although , the most beautiful aspect of this work is the relationship the story shares with its wonderful characters . The screenplay keeps the ending close to its chest and , through generously mysterious sub-plots , really delivers . There are more glitzy movies out there , but this one could well be the best executed of them all . It rates a on the Oldies Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Fun , Summer Fare with a Message .	This movie starts out much like many 80's generated mid-life-crisis flicks , particularly , " City Slickers . " However , once it gets going ( and it does so quite quickly ) , the differences are quite glaring . . . in a good way . Having been involved in the world demonstrated here , I have to say that I began this movie with little expectations of anything learned , and anticipated nothing but entertainment . Fluff . And , for the most part , that's what I got-top notch entertainments , and true heart-felt belly laughs . I was happy with that . But the ending of this movie , with an appearance of Peter Fonda and the words uttered by this icon , were beautiful . They reminded me of the credo I was taught at the knees of Tiny and Gangrene from Phoenix , AZ . They reminded me that there is a VAST difference between a Scooter Tramp and Scooter Trash . They reminded me that unity and a sense of family were always more important than the gang-like mentalities demonstrated by many trash groups who never actually rode anywhere beyond the local bar . The older " long-hairs " are mainly the ones who will best remember the ideologies about which I am speaking , and I must say that this movie actually touched many of them with pride , as I was looking around the darkened theater . I left the theater feeling oddly uplifted , and realized that word of mouth is what drew all those older bikers into a crowded small town theater on a Tuesday night ( definitely NOT the norm for our home town theater ) . Even if you're not of the lifestyle featured in this work , if you life your life in a responsible manner , you will still find these performances hilarious , while slickly identifying with the characters involved . The visuals are wonderful , and the camera angles were totally creative . I thoroughly enjoyed this " surprise hit , " and recommend anyone looking for a few good laughs to give it a chance . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
The funniest rom-com ever	Four jewel thieves pull off the heist of a lifetime , and immediately begin screwing each other over for the loot . Full of twists and turns and some of truly wonderful performances combine to create one of the funniest farces to be put on screen . This movie won Kevin Kline the best supporting actor Oscar . It also enjoyed 6 other wins and 15 nominations , and deservedly so ! This is the funniest rom-com ever made . Totally wonderful performances from a star-studded comedic cast showcase this huge hit from 1988 . The sheer class of this production was perpetuated by the seeming comfort with one another exhibited by these actors . It appeared as though they really were fast friends , lovers , would-be lovers , and has-been lovers . While the production itself was suspenseful and witty , the relationships were relaxed and easy and played out just as if they were real . Kevin Kline was delightful as the psychotic , sex-crazed , boot-sniffing , insanely jealous lover . He was completely believable in this inventive role as Jamie Lee Curtis ' diabolical lover , pretending to be her brother , pretending to be interested in Ken . John Cleese's character was soft and sweet , and totally endearing , while Jamie Lee Curtis ( AKA : Wanda ) demonstrated pure talent as the obvious , borderline Machiavellian seductress . There wasn't one moment of wasted film , one mis-timed scene , or one lapse in performance quality . Every comedy should aim for the standards set in this work . These types of movies either have it , or they don't . There are no effects behind which to hide poor performances . There is no glitz to disguise a lack of talent or comedic timing . There is simply the actor and the camera . Nothing to color the performances but the director and the score . These types of vehicles are where you discover the true talent of the ages . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
O'Toole : Still the Master of his Art .	Venus is a loving ( albeit irreverent ) look into a May / December romance involving Maurice and " Venus , " the ne'er-do-well grandniece of Maurice's best friend , Ian . Maurice's latent submissive personality results in a volatile end when he continues the slow and nearly-successful seduction of his precious Venus in spite of the fact that she's found herself a beau . . . a younger , angry , bruiser of a beau . This character study culminates a beautiful comedy drama wherein Sir Peter O'Toole rediscovers his inner lad , in the eyes of a ( very ) young girl who openly does not love him . The audience sees , from the very beginning that this girl will use him , abuse him , and leave him to die a slow , painful , miserably lonely death . But Venus surprises us by accepting responsibility for her treachery . I have to say that this is possibly the best performance of Sir Peter O'Toole's career . He is brilliant . THIS was an Oscar-worthy performance , and the Academy made a large mistake , by not bestowing the coveted award to Sir Peter . " Venus , " as you may know , is the eighth nomination for Sir O'Toole , who has unfortunately never been awarded a competitive Oscar . Instead , the Academy slipped an " honorary " award upon the veteran actor , although he has earned many . It is my opinion that Sir Peter O'Toole far out-shined not only Whitaker ( the Oscar-winner ) , but Smith , DiCapprio , AND Gosling ( his fellow nominees ) ! All in all ? This is a rather serious comedy / drama with some bracing language and liberal ideas , which some may find offensive . It serves to remind us that one man's perversion is another man's lifestyle , while also allowing for the beauty of love , at any age . The love is demonstrated not only between the characters of Maurice and Venus , but also between Maurice and Ian , though not romantically between the latter . This is not what most would wish for a Friday / Saturday night's viewing , but I did find it delightful , nonetheless . There are no explosions , no escapes , no pirates , no swashbuckling , no chases , no effects , no bank robberies , terrorists , or spies . . . the are only great characters , an awesomely progressive and entertaining screenplay , and quite possibly the best performance of O'Toole's illustrious career . Shame most people will never see it . I love it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Frighteningly realistic portrayal of industrial revenge	The all star cast delivers all star performances in this first rate drama . I won't alliterate the story line , anymore than I have in the Summary , but this work was very compelling , demonstrating a realism seldom found in these types of works . Do not be surprised to find yourself emotionally invested in these characters and their plight . While I do not watch it often as the subject matter is quite serious , I do consider it one of my favorites of this genre . The story is great , sadly so , but great . And as I said before , the performances are about the best to be found . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Martin's Version is LIGHTYEARS ahead of the original !	Steve Martin has walked in the Valley of the Kings . He has faced some pretty amazing obstacles , and he has stood in some pretty big shadows . Let's face it . Although his rendition of , " The Out-of-Towners , " was amusing , he's no Jack Lemmon . While I LOVE his Sgt . Bilko portrayal , he's not Phil Silvers . Cheaper by the Dozen wasn't horrible , but he's not Clifton Webb , either . He's Steve Martin . You may not appreciate his style of comedy , but the Peter Sellers-venerated character of Inspector Jacques Clouseau made for the best use of Martin's prolific use of pratfalls , ironic wit , and in your face sarcasm than any other character he has tackled previously . I went into the theater thinking this was going to stink . I didn't WANT it to , mind you . I am a life-long fan of Mr . Martin's . But I was sure it would . You can't top Peter Sellers in the role of Inspector Jacques Clouseau . That's it and that's all . I'm glad I was wrong . Martin did not attempt the characterization of Clouseau from a " Martin Does Sellers " perspective . He approached this role as a fresh character which had never been done before . He was simply . . . Martin . And he was simply spectacular . this work basically took the first three Pink Panther movies and combined the peripheral and supporting characters , and generated a new storyline . Simply Wonderful ! I'm sure there will be haters merely because he is not Sellers , but I fail to care about them . This was a brilliant performance and a highly amusing work which bested the original . I loved it , and cannot wait to add it to my Pink Panther DVD collection . POSTSCRIPT : My little hometown theater is not populated with demonstrative people . Rarely do the audiences applaud , or walk out of a movie . It happens , but the last time I saw anyone walk out of a movie was during AVP , and the last time I was present at a movie where the hometown audience cheered was Return of the King . They applauded Star Wars III , but that's not the same thing . When this movie was done and the credits began to roll , this audience rose to its feet , and gave a hearty round of applause . Well deserved applause . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Instant Disney Classic	Gods I love this movie ! The soundtrack is exemplary as is every element of this beautiful Disney masterpiece . The Baboon , affectionately dubbed " Bruce-Monkey " after Bruce Lee , is a scream ! Jeremy Irons ' voice as Scar is absolutely Shakesperean in its darkling malevolence . James Earl Jones's voice is a perfect Mufassa ; it's commanding and brooding , just as it should be , turning playful when the mood arises . The graphics and artistry are some of the best ever produced by Disney , in this Fiend's opinion , and the eclectic spirituality of the movie ; the circle of life , the wheel of the year , birth and rebirth , are moving and inspiring . As with all Disney movies , the movie has a message : make responsible choices and be responsible for the choices you make . I highly recommend the 2-disk Special Edition with added footage and an entire disk of extras . It gets a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
One of Disney's Best Animated Features .	I'll have to say that , although this work features lovingly created and developed characters , an excellent score with Disney music I actually didn't hate , and a prolific use of vivid colors , which I loved , the one factor that made this totally work for Disney was Robin Williams . I won't spoil this for you if you haven't seen it , but I will say that this is one GOOD Disney movie . It rates up there with the Lion King , Finding Nemo , Atlantis , Snow White , and Cinderella . If you are a fan of Disney's animated features , and haven't seen this one , you are missing out . This is one of Disney's best , and as such , rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
It's better than the other 2 ! !	I adore Richard Pryor . While I'm not as fond of his raunchier performances , he is very endearing , otherwise , and this movie is no exception . While some have expressed dismay at his participation in this endeavor , I found his performance very refreshing as the comedic involvement , rather than Ned Beaty's whiny , unintelligible gibberings . The plot is much better than the first two installments , and actually raises this endeavor above the originals . Also , the part of Jimmy Olsen was expanded , giving Marc McClure a chance to better demonstrate his talents . Unfortunately , no one seemed to be noticing , as his movie credits are few and the parts rather obscure . And while Annette O'Toole's list of credits is much longer , her career has also been riddled with obscure , little-known parts . That is truly unfortunate , as she is a very talented and much under-rated actress . You may remember her from Stephen King's TV movie " IT ; " she portrayed the adult character of Beverly Marsh . While this is by far my favorite of the " Superman " series , I am of a split mind about this movie in that the idea of a " bad " Superman just does not " do it " for me . Premise : The bad guy has created a synthetic form of kryptonite , but has replaced the " unknown " element in the chemical make-up with tobacco tar . Okay , fine . Tobacco's bad . Got it . But it causes a " split " between the Lighter side of Kent and the Dark half / Steely side of Superman and the steely side has no conscience , morals , nor empathy for anyone but himself . I found that whole episode to be rather distasteful . Yes , I understand the situation is a metaphor for the blackness / sickness of cancer caused by tobacco , but it was still distasteful , and I was very unhappy with the whole idea . But in support of the premise , it was not exactly the fake kryptonite which split him into two distinct halves . It changed him , but it was not what divided him . That , too was a metaphor for the battle raging inside him ; his better side trying to " exorcise " the evil side brought to light by the kryptonite . Quite intelligent , actually . I just hated seeing Christopher Reeve's character being drug through the mud like that . Aaaaand , the battle between the two was quite lame , but effective in ridding him of the dark half of himself . Meanwhile , Gus ( Pryor ) and the bad guy are creating a super computer in order to better utilize Gus's computer skills , to assure Ross Webster's ( the bad guy's-Robert Vaughn's ) success in his financial domination of the world . What ? You didn't expect a world domination ploy ? It's Superman ! Of course there is a world domination ploy ! " Why , the same thing we do every day , Pinky ! Try to take over the world ! " the Brain . I even loved the " Demon Seed " homage factor towards the end of the movie involving Webster's sister . Absolutely wonderful . The effects of this production are at least decent enough . This movie is a fun movie . Take off your thinking cap and just enjoy it . Fortunately , the evil twin part is over soon enough , and there are enough of the better parts of the movie to lift it above the sub-plot ; ie : Reeve , Kidder , and Pryor . In my opinion , this was the best Superman yet , for the inclusion of Richard Pryor ! I didn't get enough of Margot , though . But in all fairness , she was also filming " Trenchcoat " and " Pygmalion " at the same time . There just was not enough of her to go around , it seems . Luckily , she is back full steam in Superman IV , and is one of the few bright spots in that installment of this series . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Fiendishly Lovely	Honestly , aside from the story itself , the greatest element of this movie is Cary Grant . He is delightfully whimsical , and rather sweet as the nephew of a couple of serial murderers who feel the need to alleviate the suffering of lonely older gentlemen via good company , a home cooked meal , and poisoned wine in the parlor . Nothing including his own marriage to the girl next door could stop his caring for the old gals in a time of great need . Even the return of his psychopathic brother did not alter his caring for the old girls . While the delivery is tongue in cheek , the story is quite intense at times , generating some palatable suspense , even while it makes fun of itself . Oddly enough , that fact does not break or lessen the suspenseful feel , where appropriate . The relationship the Aunts enjoy both with one another and with everyone else in their sphere , is quite lovely in a Fiendish sort of way . They reserve the " special " wine for " special " company , excluding the police officers , neighbors , and mail carriers who stop by to pay their respects . No one knows . No one suspects . I like Cary Grant , and unlike a myriad of other reviewers , I like him well in this . He plays the comedic aspects off with a frantic dignity and grace . This is one of my all time favorites . It rates a from . . . . . . the Fiend : .
Surprisingly enjoyable creature feature	I was hesitant to see this movie because of the subject matter and Bridget Fonda being a major cast member . I had seen her performances in " Godfather III " and " Army of Darkness , " and frankly I wasn't the least bit impressed by her abilities . The video store I used when this movie was released offered free viewings of movies which were guaranteed to be in stock , and weren't . So when I received the voucher for a free rental of this movie , I decided what the heck , and got it . I was very pleasantly surprised . The major players of this movie are Bill Pullman as Jack Wells ( Department of Fish and Game ) , Bridget Fonda is Kelly Scott ( Museum of Natural History , New York ) , Oliver Platt as Hector Cyr ( wealthy , eccentric " dragon hunter " ) and Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank KeoughSomething has killed a man in Lake Placid . It bit his body completely in half . This movie isn't for the feint of heart . It is graphic and gritty and has a very dark humor blended in with the breath-stopping encounters and the gruesome details of the murders . Four people are drawn together to solve the mystery of who or what is killing in the Lake . It's not easy to blend comedy with horror without falling into that dark and career-deadly pit of " camp , " but Steve Miner ( Warlock 1 and Halloween H20 among many others ) succeeds with full marks . The effects of the " creature " are realistically believable . It's hard to do a movie like this without totally going astray with the comedic aspect or the creature effects , but both are right on target in this production . You will laugh one moment and be screwed up in your chair with your knees to your chest the next . I love movies based on something which can actually happen . Those to me are the scariest . And this one has some VERY tense moments . " Oh , she's whole sentence sarcastic ! You two should get along ! " Brendan Gleeson as Sheriff Hank Keough . This production was a complete surprise . I thoroughly enjoy it , every time I watch it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Compelling and Gritty Realism . Jose Pablo Cantillo Is Awesome !	This was so tense and realistic , that I was glued to my seat . Jose Pablo Cantillo is an awesome talent , with a strong presence on the big screen . He made this work seem so real . His performance was not just a performance ; he made this feel like he WAS the character . This little-known work is far above any drama of this type I have ever seen . There are hundreds of dramas concerning prison life and interaction with those who live on the inside . And this one is the most shocking , while touching your heart in a way that stays with you for some time after watching it . This film is dark , but beautiful in its style and execution . I was moved by the characters , whose exposition is worthy of the audience's emotional investment , while delivering top notch dramatic fare . " When you look into the Abyss , the Abyss also looks back at you . " This is amazing , and it rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Works Less , But Gives The Audience More Than The Original	This was a stylish production back in the 1970's . The cast was cleverly chosen , and the production itself bore a slick style , an atmospheric execution , and a compelling story . The cast was well chosen ; so well chosen , in fact , as to assist this now-dated remake in besting the original film . This film has become an icon of popular culture , prompting millions of married individuals to state the intent to " go look for pods " whenever their spouse behaves abnormally . Besides the vast popularity of this work , it also features phenomenal performances , and some of our favorite stars : Jeff Goldblum , Donald Sutherland , Leonard Nimoy , Brooke Adams , and Veronica Cartwright , with cameos by Robert Duvall and director Philip Kaufman ( The Outlaw Josey Wales , and writer of Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark ) . I love this film , and watch it often ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Genuinely Good	Beatty's choice of color and light , style , and awesome casting all come together with a compelling mob script to make one heck of a movie . This was a real surprise , as I had personally never thrilled in the Dick Tracy line , but this film is top row ! The all-star cast comes together in a startling way to present this well-written script in such a way as to thoroughly entertain . The resulting final product is s solidly executed , vividly presented , well written , brilliantly directed retro-actioner , which is both story AND character driven . Frankly , there wasn't anything NOT to like about this one . I do speak , however , as a non-fan of the original source . I've read Dick Tracy throughout my life , here and there , but I've never really liked the work . THIS , I liked . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Good , But Not As Good As The First Two	This time , directed by Richard Marquand with Lawrence Kasdan writing the screenplay once more based on Luca$'s original work . Well here we are . I must say that this is my least favorite of the Original Trilogy . It is a wonderful story , the great original cast from the first two ( Episodes 4 & 5 ) , and the story is excellent . The execution is superb , and the entertainment value is every bit as good as those before it . That having been said , I'll also say from the start , that the reason I like this installment much less was the addition of the child-friendly Ewoks and their subsequent marketability . It was a cheap and obvious ploy to market yet another Star Wars toy . It worked , but it was still cheap and common . I am very dissatisfied with this practice . If a character " sells , " then fine . But do NOT create a character , or as in this case , a group of characters merely to up-sell the merchandise . Okay , I'm done with that . This third installment ( which works out to be the sixth of the series ) was fun , and spirited . The dark and suspenseful atmosphere built by the story is negated by too many " light " and warm , fuzzy moments , thereby lessening the worth of this attempt . It was not the deeply pondering , mystically oriented , action-fest as were the previous two blockbusters . It was still fun , however . Enjoyable and entertaining , it was . In the 2004 DVD edition , there are superfluous additional scenes designed to distract you from the realization that there was a blatant waste of film time present , but that ploy fails to work if you are like me , and own the original original on VHS . That smoke screen is not evident , and these contrivances are thereby more obvious . This installment is colored with beautiful vistas , rousing action , and a quiet sentimentality which permeates all . Yoda is old , and he is sick . Skywalker is done with his training as a Jedi , save for one small final test : He must face Vader once and for all . There are some added scenes and characters in the background of this installment ; edited in no doubt for the DVD release of the 2004 box set . These were undoubtedly designed to lead us into the third trilogy which Luca$ now says will never happen . If watching through that media , you will doubtless see clandestine meetings and furtive exchanges which lead no where in this work , leading one to only suppose that Luca$ intended something , we just were not supposed to know what . And yet , Luca$ neither directed , nor wrote this work , so we can only assume the writer was going off of the fact that there were three more Episodes for which to write tie ? ins . As much as I disliked the Ewoks , I must say that I was delighted to discover that Warwick Davis , beloved Willow , was Wicket the Ewok . That makes them almost bearable . " Ewoks . They blow . " Scream 2 While this chapter does have a satisfying ending , it is obvious that it is not THE end . At least Howard the Duck was honest in its attempt . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Nice , dark twisted tale of terror .	Frederick Lauren has rented the house for a party for his wife . He is offering a staggering amount of money ( for 1959 ) to anyone who could last the night . It was his wife's idea that the guests arrive in funeral cars . This was a low budget thriller produced and directed by William Castle back in the late 1950's . This shows not only what an inspired and talented team can do on a low budget , but it demonstrates some real talent as well . The house featured in this endeavor is the Ennis-Brown House in the prestigious Los Feliz area of Los Angeles . Other films featuring this house are " Black Rain , 1989 ; Blade Runner , 1982 ; Grand Canyon , 1991 and the Rocketeer , 1991 . I will digress a moment or three to give a brief description of this house for you . Set up the atmosphere , as it will . If you know Me at all , you know that I appreciate a well-designed set . Not to mention a well designed house . This house has a history . Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright , this was a masterpiece of architectural genius . Visited by architects from around the world , this house is a National Landmark house which enjoys constant restoration efforts . Mr . Wright used 16 " stone blocks to construct the home , Mayan designs throughout and fixed the window glasses , doors and framing work to be lighter at the bottom and darker at the top to invite a feeling of warmth and light to the occupants of every room . But now , back to the movie . This story was clever and full of intrigue . As a suspense , this is one of the greats . This is the movie which fathered the haunted house sub-genre , and boy , was it good . There are some scenes in this movie which still get my blood pumping . LOL The performances are never over the top , always professional , totally believable and extremely enjoyable and in my opinion , this is one of Price's best . When a scene hits a slow spot you can count on the character interaction between Price and Omhart to darkly lighten the mood . Their banter seems to be the comedic relief element , although the humor is dry , dark and deadly . As you watch this brilliant endeavor , you will recognize scenes , characters , even lines from the more recent renditions of this story , regardless of the title . Everything from Amityville to Stephen King's Rose Red seems to have taken a bit from this landmark horror , and it seems to have been beautifully parodied ( along with about 10 other films ) in Neil Simon's " Murder By Death " in the late 70's . As with all of Price's work , there are plot twists and elements which require thought . Those are what I love most about his movies . And as with all low budget endeavors , there are some plot holes , but rather than listing those here , I'll just let you enjoy the movie for yourself . It rates an easy from . . . the Fiend : .
Even better than the original ! !	Another box office smash hit by Salkind ! Reeve is the shining star as Superman in this above-average sequel . Although great in the first installment , his performance far outshines that of the original Superman production . I remember seeing this movie in the theaters with my mom . She was the avid movie - and sci / fi lover in my family and thankfully passed her passions on to me . Before seeing this production , we found a theater which played nothing but retro movies and took in a shared viewing of the original " Superman . " Black and white and hokey as all get-out . Superman was some bald guy with bad teeth and a beer-gut hanging over his tights . Being forced to view that movie did one sure thing ; it made me view Christopher Reeve and the wonderful effects , story and sets in these newer productions with a far greater appreciation . This time , the three who are banished from Krypton in the original , are loose and terrorizing the city of Metropolis while Superman has shelved his cape in exchange for a love interest with Lois Lane . Of course , he has no idea what is happening to his beloved city , and the Daily Planet and when he does get wind of it , he does what a hero has to do . All in all , a very entertaining , enjoyable , lovable ( if sometimes unevenly alternating between melancholy and campy ) movie . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
Totally FREAKS you !	If you are into the sub-genre of psychological horror / thrillers , this movie is a definite must-see . While I have never been wholly impressed by Michael Douglas's performances ( he is most certainly NOT his father ) , this was , by far , the exception to that rule . I won't ruin any aspect of this movie by detailing the plot , but as I already said , if you are a fan of the genre , if you liked Identity , Phone Booth , Brainscan or just a good mind twister , see this movie ! ! I was completely impressed with the performances , the sets & designs , the story line , the quality of production , the marvelous suspense generated , and the direction . This was by far , one of the superior endeavors in this genre . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
I had issues . . . but most of them were resolved with the UNRATED EDITION's release .	I went into the theater with little in the way of expectations . I love both franchises and I frankly did not believe they could do this one properly . The performances were quite good , the effects were great ( although they did something weird to the mandibles on the Predators that I found to be a poor incarnative device ) , and the sets and story were quite well done . The story . That's what blows you away in AvP . SPOILERS . This movie was rich in story without going back and explaining all the redundant boring trivial little details from both franchises . It depends on your subscribing to the theories of each franchise and is more a " carrying on " endeavor than a " win new viewers " one . I found that to be endearing in these days of repetition . Considering that this was an extension of two successful franchise components , why compound the repetition factor . The premise of ice after having said the Predators only come when it is unseasonably hot left me feeling a bit disturbed as to why they chose Antarctica . However . Given the theories concerning the shifting of the poles , the Ice Age theorems , and so on , I have accepted that the pyramid was built when what is now the North Pole / Antarctica , was in the deserts of what was the Old World's " middle east . " I was disturbed that the Predators were less . . . predatory , and more " touchy-feely " this time around . I seriously missed the action ! Action ! ACTION ! of these franchises . So if it is action you are after , this movie is - not - the first choice . There were practically no hand-to-hand episodes , and what you did get was a bit weak probably due to the PG-13 component . Bah ! Hopefully there will be an American " R " release in the next year or so . I think I'll hold off on buying the " theatrical release " when it comes out and wait a bit to see . I can't imagine there weren't more fight scenes shot and then extracted as a marketing ploy for later use . By " touchy-feely , " I mean the love / team interest forged between Sanaa Lathan's character Alexa Woods and the surviving underground Predator . That was completely out of character for the Predators , in my opinion . Okay , I realize it is a carry-over from Predator 2 where the Predators acquire a respect for Danny Glover's character in the end . However , to quote " Howard the Duck " . . . " This relationship defies all the laws of Nature ! " Though it's hardly a romance , there are far too many cutesy moments in this endeavor to suit my Predator / Alien tastes . In fact , this feature alone lent a feeling of " this is stupid " to this whole movie ; a thought I had to keep pushing back during my theatrical viewing and detracted immensely from the final product . The premise , however , was quite well done , in spite of the obvious flaws . In Bishop's endeavor to live what is left of his extended " life " to the fullest , he embarks upon this journey in the hopes of surviving one last grand adventure . Not a new element to the cinematic world , but still effective . I - wanted - him to go , and I - wanted - him to succeed . Perhaps , that is only because he was the only character from the original franchise to make this attempt . This attempt bore no other original members from either franchise , by the way . The idea of the pyramid bearing the three types of ancient civilizational writings , thoughts and designs was outstanding . Quite clever interpretation of the placement of the great pyramids on the Earth , and the origins of the Gods of mankind . Perhaps it was a Predator bomb that caused the Tunguska blast of 1908 . The effects were well done , and the makeup artists surrendered their best , as expected . As I said before , the mandible adjustments on the Predator were a bit off-putting , but then again , they were never beautiful creatures to begin with . The pyramid was well done , the glyphs were realistic , the adornments were creatively and historically presented , and the aliens were expertly done . Just another small question . . . In all the years the Predators have been fighting the Aliens , - why - is their armor not acid-proofed ? Just a thought . In an attempt to make this more attractive to " arthouse " fans rather than fans of the original franchises , the story line was given more screen time than the action one would expect from a movie which carries these two franchises . Even with this distraction AVP was very watchable . The Unrated Director's Cut ( which Anderson promised fans from the beginning , IF you will remember ) , is as the movie should have been . You are given eight more minutes . Now , I can already hear the cries of malcontent . " Eight MINUTES ? ! " But I can tell you that 8 seconds added here , and 5 seconds added there , really do serve well to flesh out the story , give you the details previously missed , and extend the Alien / Predator fight adequately enough so that fans are , at last , appeased . The story is in the UNRATED EDITION . The action is in the UNRATED EDITION . The version which makes sense is the UNRATED EDITION . The PG-13 edition is the chopped up , convoluted crap-fest we saw at the theaters . Thanks to the studio for letting Anderson have this UNRATED EDITION . It goes a long way towards salvaging what we KNEW was NOT an inferior film . The PG-13 version just made it seem inferior . The Theatrical Version rates a . The UNRATED EDITION rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful , dark rendition of the Dark Knight vein .	Directed by darkling master Tim Burton , this dark , Gothic / punk action adventure is absolutely wonderful entertainment . Jack Nicholson was perfectly cast as Batman's nemesis , the Joker . His performance alone would have made this movie the hit that it is ; no one does crazy like Nicholson . No one . " Winged Freak . . . terrorizes ? . . . Wait'll they get a load of ME . " Joker . But Burton did not rely solely on Nicholson's abilities as a crowd-pleaser . Michael Keaton is another truly talented star who was expertly cast . His portrayal of the Marvel Comics ' character , Batman , was flawless . Michael Gough was awesome as Alfred Pennyworth , Bruce Wayne's loyal and ever-diligent man-servant . Alfred , to me , has always been the epitome of breeding , tact and dignity , and Michael Gough portrayed his character to the utmost degree . Well-trained British butlers are usually more sophisticated and better educated than those they serve , yet the better of their breed would never be so gauche as to point that out . While he is not in that situation , Alfred is no exception . His character is extremely well developed and Mr . Gough's portrayal is flawless . Gotham City was designed with the theme of the " Dark Knight " uppermost in mind ; the architecture and atmosphere created was done with total expertise and a professional quality that still amazes me . Kim Basinger was quite convincing as Vicki Vale , Bruce Wayne's love interest . and professional photo-journalist and did a wonderful job in this role . The Gothic architecture throughout is breathtaking ; Wayne Manor , in particular , is stunningly designed and constructed . The moldings , cornices and dormants are absolutely beautiful . Rich details like that add so much to a production . The furnishings are appropriately ornate and lavish ; much unlike the Manor exhibited in the 60's series . But it does not stop there . Every scene is rich in architecture and creative design ; so much so that it is implemental in setting the atmosphere of each scene . Burton's direction and foresight is brilliantly displayed in this production , rendering a professionally dark , witty and highly imaginative final product . The " gadgets " used by Batman were creatively implemented and highly imaginative . His utility belt was extremely well designed and equipped . Also , the design of his body armor was extraordinary . True creativity never ceases to inspire me , as this movie has . The museum scene with the Joker is classic , and possibly the most memorable scene of the entire modern-day " Batman " series . It is darkly hilarious and disturbing , and a definite " must-see . " In my opinion , this is the best representation of the spirit and character of the " Dark Knight " ever produced . This is a truly inspired adaptation of Bob Kane's creation . SPOILERBut there IS one problem . In this version of " Batman , " they have the Joker as the murderer of Bruce Wayne's parents . If you're a fan of the comic book , you know that is simply incorrect . END SPOILERIt gets an from . . . the Fiend : .
Stunningly visual , and beautifully dark .	I love this movie . I don't understand why this one didn't fare well in the box offices . It didn't score half its budget back in its take , so far , and I don't see it doing much more , at this juncture , which is a real shame . This production is magnificent . It retells the familiar story with stunning visuals , beautiful child performances , and a gritty edge . Perhaps the edge was the problem for the box office numbers . Many parents may not have felt this was appropriate . I would disagree . The only way this was more gritty than the Disney version is that it's live action , rather than a cartoon , but that was part of the lure for me . I really enjoy it . It rates an from . . . the Fiend : .
It Changed My LIfe	This film not only looks at a mentally disturbed youth on the streets of America , it also looks at intelligence , sensitivity , articulation , and heart . This is not the best role Will Smith has ever taken , and it is not his best performance , but I do have to say that it is by far his most human one . This is truly interesting , but beyond that , it , without effects , CGI monsters , or multi-million dollar explosions , completely entertains . More importantly , it teaches tolerance , eloquence , and how to obtain the ability to love . This film introduced the Six Degrees of Separation theory which haunted Kevin Bacon so completely until he realized it was a form of adoration rather than belittlement . Channing , Sutherland , and Smith are excellent herein , and it is their performances which rise to the top like the best cream . This is extraordinary in its lessons , lovingly taught in such a way as to disallow your knowledge that you have learned anything until it's too late . This is still surprising . It rates a on the Drama Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Star Trek power and style return	Now more comfortable on the big screen , the tongue-in-cheek humor is back , the edge has returned , and the wardrobe has had a much-needed face-lift . Spock's phantom voice coming from Bones's mouth . . . words Bones would never utter stream from his lips . . . Is our favorite doctor suffering some kind of breakdown ? In the wake of the Genesis Project , the planet is now closed to all but the science teams which are studying the Genesis Effect on what is now termed the Genesis Planet . They've decommissioned the Enterprise and Kirk can't get an answer as to whether the crew will get another ship , or be split up and reassigned . Meanwhile , Sarik , Spock's father , shows up for a personal visit with Kirk , concerning the condition of Spock's soul . He is certain that Spock would have housed his soul with Kirk , but upon a mind-meld , Sarik determines that Spock is not present within Kirk . And such is the loss to Sarik . He will be unable to resurrect his son , or to properly salvage his living soul since Spock was not in a position to touch Kirk at his time of death . Back on the Genesis Planet , the science team has discovered Spock's burial tube which soft-landed on the planet's surface . And there is an unidentifiable animal life form present nearby . There should not be any life , animal or otherwise , since Genesis destroys all life forms wherever it is targeted , therefore this is of key concern to the science team , who sends down an investigative crew immediately . Kirk and Sarik determine that Spock melded with McCoy before he died , and in order for McCoy to be well again , and Spock's soul to be saved from oblivion , Kirk has to break McCoy out of the psychiatric unit where he is recovering from " exhaustion , " steal a star ship , get McCoy to Mt . Selia on Vulcan for a Vulcan religious magickal rite which will separate the two souls from one another , and thereby save them both ; face a court martial for stealing a star ship , disobeying direct orders and possibly treason against Star Fleet . Ah , but I haven't told half the story , nor spoiled anything but the first 10 or so minutes of the movie . This is a fantastic installment ! and I won't spoil anymore of it for you . The effects are even better than those in the Wrath of Khan , as there are some excellent elements here and the story picks up right where the Wrath of Khan left off . This is a brilliant continuation with some fantastic visuals worthy of the name " Star Trek . " They just get better and better ! It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Deserving concluding trilogy chapter	While fully exploited and mimicked by every hack writer / director throughout the movie industry , this is series stands alone . . . without peer . This last installment of the " Scream " trilogy perpetuates the wonderfully creative job Wes Craven did in the first two . I expected the typical campy , slip-shod third installment that we usually get from Hollywood . Typically , the third ones are the worst . ( Halloween 3 , for example , Batman 3 , Indiana Jones 3 , Jurassic Park 3 all fell short of the first two installments of their series . ) Again , the original cast is back . I admire that tremendously in any series , but in this one especially , as the acting quality and chemistry between these thespians is absolute magic . Randy ( Jamie Kennedy ) explains to his friends , his extended family , what a trilogy is all about . In doing so , he points out that this movie that is their life , is the " concluding chapter of . . . ( their ) . . . trilogy . " This touch added immensely to the understanding of the facts . This movie brings together the first two movies and effectively illuminates all the evidential pieces , drawing them into a solid , cohesive story . While this last installment was a bit less shocking and scary than the first two , it was only by an infinitesimal amount . Randy's explanation is one of the key factors in the " drawing together " process around which this movie centers . " If you find yourself dealing with an unexpected back-story and a preponderance of exposition , then the sequel rules do NOT apply . Because you are not dealing with the sequel . You are dealing with the concluding chapter of a trilogy . . . true trilogies are all about going back to the beginning , and discovering something that wasn't true from the get-go . Godfather , Jedi all revealed something that we thought was true , that wasn't true . So if it is a trilogy you are dealing with , here are some super trilogy rules . ( 1 ) You've got a killer who's going to be superhuman . Stabbing him won't work , shooting him won't work , basically you've got to cryogenically freeze his head , decapitate him , or blow him up . ( 2 ) Anyone , including the main character , can die . This means you , Sid . I'm sorry . It's the final chapter . It could be fkin ' Reservoir dogs by the time this thing is through . ( 3 ) The past will come back to bite you in the @ ss . Whatever you think you know about the past , forget it . The past is not at rest ! Any sins you think were committed in the past are about to break out and destroy you . " Randy . The new characters are just as well-developed as the originals , the plot is extremely well written and hugely effective in promoting the central purpose of this final film ; that of explaining everything and bringing all thoughts , ideas and facts together . In the beginning , I thought that the character of Jennifer Jolie , portrayed by Parker Posey , was hollow , shallow and ineffective . But upon further contemplation , I realized that was true only when she was in her role as Gale Weathers . Her interpretation of Gale's personality was that GALE was hollow , shallow and unprofessional . When she is out of that character , and in her own as Jennifer , her performance is extremely good . That original thought , alone , made me dislike the entire movie . Wes Craven's characters up until that point were all very professionally developed and portrayed . I could not understand his allowing a horrid performance to grace these movies . But in retrospect , it was not like that at all . The characters portraying actors , when in the roles the actors portray , all seem lacking , but I think perhaps that may be Craven's personal comment concerning the recent run of massively ill-done rip-off's of the " Scream " masterpieces , and not poor performances by these actors . The rip-off's , such as " Cut " and " Urban Legend : Final Cut , " are horrid , obvious attempts to mimic the brilliance Craven presents to us . I don't blame him one bit . I would have written in a few snide comments , myself . Probably quite a bit more bold than this . The guest star appearances of Jay and Silent Bob was a lovely touch , by the way . PLOT : Sidney is " living in the mountains like the UniBomber , " in an attempt to have some vestige of a life . " Killers can't kill what they can't find . " Sidney . She works as a counselor for a crisis call center , and can do this out of her home . Meanwhile , back in the city , the killings have resumed , and the case has been given to Det . Mark Kincaid of the LAPD ( Patrick Dempsey ) , a detective interested in Hollywood and its many celebrities . Dewey works for Jennifer as security and her personal adviser , confidante and friend . He also coaches her to help her more effectively portray her character's role as Gale Weathers . Who better for the job than Gale's ex-lover ? Pictures of Sidney's mother begin to turn up at each murder site ; a perplexing fact which keeps Dewey's mouth tightly shut concerning Sidney's location . But when Sidney's security is unquestioningly breached , she reaches out to Dewey for that sense of connection and the security that only Dewey can give her . Gale and Dewey begin to puzzle out the mystery of Maurine Prescott's pictures , and slowly begin to put the pieces of the final puzzle together . If you liked Scream and Scream 2 , this movie is a must see . It answers all the questions and throws you for a final spin that was never eluded to in the first two . Wonderful , triumphant , wildly successful conclusion to this trilogy . I highly recommend all three installments of " Scream . " It gets a full from . . . the Fiend : .
Chillingly realistic	For character development of Hannibal Lecter , please view Red Dragon , first . It is the prequel to this movie , and bestows the viewer with much needed information not gleaned from this production . The end of " Red Dragon " tells us that Hannibal has an upcoming visit from another FBI agent to look forward to ; a female agent . He asks for her name but due to the nature of prequels , we already have that information : Clarice Starling . This is one of those Oscars-dominating movies whose name was on the tip of everyone's tongue for a while . From time to time , a movie comes along which is so annoyingly popular as to make me wish to never see it . Mainstream popularity is not wholly attractive to me , and I tend to avoid it at all costs . However , I was forced to view this film as a class requirement in college . So I rented it , determined to hate it . First of all , the whole movie , although released in the early 90's , appears to be obsessed with the 1980's . The clothing , the hair styles , the clichs , the soundtrack , and the atmosphere seems to be wrapped in a time warp . Starling's ( Jodie Foster ) character in particular , seems to be a walking clich . She is a hapless hick ; an unfortunate who is , as Lecter put it , " . . . one generation away from poor white trash . " Secondly . I was born in the south , and I can tell you that her accent , though sometimes a decent reminiscing of poor West Virginia , is horrible . It comes and goes seemingly at whim . Third . The training and knowledge Starling exhibits , combined with the fact that she grew up poor , in a home where sewing was almost a certain necessity , the fact that she missed the obvious sewing patterns of skin removed from the victims just does not work for me . I grew up upper middle class , and I knew in the first 30 minutes what Buffalo Bill was up to . Her character should have been written to be more intelligent . She was able to puzzle out Lecter's riddles , but not see what was staring her right in the face ? And lastly . While the film quality is horrible ; grainy and low quality , the cinematography itself is startlingly good . All that having been said , the psychological aspects of this film are above reproach . Dr . Lecter's character , portrayed brilliantly by Anthony Hopkins , is the perfect portrayal of a psychopathic sycophant with a " taste " for high society . As a slave to his own superiority , he is a thousand times more dangerous than those psychopaths who believe they are on a holy mission , or at the head of some spiritual metamorphosis into a higher state of being . Lecter is under no such delusion . He is the brilliant sociopath who can blend into society without casting even the briefest hesitation in our acceptance of his social graces and high society politeness . He does as he does , merely as a means to humor himself , and for no other reason . There are no outward clues or appearances of anything gone wrong within and therefore , is all the more deadly for it . He simply . . . is . His manipulation of Starling is on a high intellectual level . He is a sage of such devious management of others ' minds . His knowledge of Buffalo Bill , the newest personification of sickness , brings Starling to his cell . As a brilliant psychiatrist turned " Chesapeake Slasher , " Lecter has had the opportunity to touch many lives ; to shape , mold , and guide others less fortunate than he . Indeed , his influence may very well have assisted Buffalo Bill in his crossing the stream between being a confused and needy individual , to that of a homicidal psychopath . Many researchers have agreed that offender profiling can be a useful tool in solving serial homicides ( Egger , 1998 ; Stevens , 1997 ; Holmes , 1998 ; Canter , 1994 ; Douglas and Olshaker , 1995 ) . However , the question remains as to whether the lack of ability the modern police department has in dealing with serial homicide has created a real need for this type of investigative practice . A lack of psychological training , limited resources , and an apparent rise in serial homicide rates may be creating the appearance that police need new investigative techniques , when in reality what may be more appropriate is a higher standard of psychological training among police investigators . The number of serial killers presently active in the United States has been estimated to be between 30 and 500 , depending on the source ( O'Reilly-Fleming , 1996 ) . Just think . With the possibility of 500 serial killers who are " active " in the US , how many of them are as educated and intelligent as the character of Hannibal Lecter ? The statistics are chilling at an estimation of 80 % ( O'Reilly-Fleming , 1996 ) . Many serial killers are professionals ; doctors , lawyers , even law enforcement personnel or city employees . People who have passed the civil service tests , psychological evaluations , and thorough screenings . Sociopaths are such due to their ability to " blend in " with our society without any obvious dysfunctions . How many people do you know who are a little " quirky , " eccentric , or just plain freaky ? Chances are , they are not the homicidal maniacs in your lives . Chances are , they are the very polite , nice , friendly and helpful person at the drug store where you go ; the empathetic lab tech who is drawing your blood ; the family physician with the terminal smile . . . think about this , and these movies , next time you encounter an overly-polite stranger . Just a thought . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Political spade drama entertains	The Undiscovered Country is just that . . . the Klingons are on the verge of annihilation from their own greed and warmongering and it's up to Kirk and his crew to save them . Boy , are they in trouble . This movie is absolutely one of the best . It has every element which makes a good movie into a successful movie , and all the classic Star Trek elements . Intrigue and suspense abound in this installment of the line . Jim Kirk is back with his suave , devil-may-care attitude and his loyal crew just can't get any better than this . It has action , suspense , intrigue , excellent space battles , excellent hand-to-hand battles , and much more . I'm not going to spoil any part of this movie . It is far too good for me to do that to it . A most excellent movie ! This is a definite must-see for all Star Trek fans ! ! It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Solid , faithful adaptation , which presents some beautiful portrayals , a little gritty action , and a compelling story .	WARNING : SPOILERS AT THE BOTTOM ! First off , this review is concerning the movie , not the book itself . I will begin with the casting . There has been a lot said over the past year or so since the casting list was unveiled , expressing misgivings concerning what has been called the " miscasting " of Tom Hanks in the role as Robert Langdon . I am happy to report that earlier misgivings were completely unfounded . Tom Hanks delivers a performance reminiscent of his earlier days when he was more relaxed in his execution , and seems to have rediscovered his remarkable talents . Ian McKellen contributes a believability to his performance , which is so strong , as to make you consider ( if only for a brief while ) whether or not he has personal interest in the Grail . He was remarkable as Leigh Teabing , but would you really expect anything less of him ? Certainly not ! Audrey Tautou gave a refreshingly capable performance as Agent Sophie Neveu . She portrayed her character with a polished professionalism one might not expect from a relative newcomer to the world of American films . Of course , people who think like that are in for a rude awakening , and Audrey Tautou is just the one to give it to them . Jean Reno enacted a character which goes through some heart-felt changes . He does so with a style and grace amid the action sequences involving French Police Captain Fache in a portrayal which is reminiscent of his riveting spot lit performance as the Professional . The principle difference between the two characters , and Reno's enactment of them , is that there is much more time for character development in the Professional wherein the audience may get to " know " the character . In the DaVinci Code , Fache's ( pronounced Fash , by the way ) character was one of peripheral standing and , therefore , there was very little in the way of opening character development where his character was concerned . He manages quite succinctly , however , to give you enough of the back-story of his motivations and motives to allow you a brief window into the many-faceted man who is Captain Fache . His performance was possibly one of his best , to date . And that leaves Paul Bettany . I was concerned , never having seen him portray such a complex character as Silas . I am here to apologize for my earlier misgivings . He portrayed Silas dead on . The raw ( and sometimes confused and clouded ) emotion he exhibited was spot on and we , the audience , found a certain reality in his portrayal . He was brilliant . And after all that , I still feel the need to say that Ron Howard was the real star of this work . His choices of camera angles , filming techniques , effects , and overall direction shine through it all in such a way as to solidly cement his name into the list of top directors . Some would argue that he was already there , and he was . But he is affirmed , confirmed , and reaffirmed as one of the best directors in the world . The work itself was an extremely faithful adaptation . It was gritty , and had us completely involved in the story , even though we were all fans of the book , and already knew what to expect . The execution of the action was shockingly realistic . I would not take children under 16 to see this , personally , and would have to think a bit before subjecting a 16-year-old to it . Silas's use of the cilice ( which , according to my dictionary , is a hair-coat much like Robbie Coltrane wears while filming Harry Potter ) and self flagellation is quite graphic . However , if they have seen the Passion of the Christ , then they can most definitely handle this . As far as the subject matter goes , this is neither the time , nor the place for that discussion . I will say that this work of fiction fully utilizes the potential presented by the prior historical research upon which it was based ; namely , " Holy Blood , Holy Grail . " It is a work of fiction lovingly interwoven throughout some compelling historical hypotheses presented by Michael Baigent , Richard Leigh , and Henry Lincoln in their aforementioned published historical work . The Catholic Church has issued condemnation after condemnation of this work . They should know better than to condemn a movie , by now . All it does is raise the box office sales , by piquing the interest in people who normally would have no desire to see the work . It bestowed such a high level of exposure that many people who never would have even heard of it , are now going to see it . Opus Dei has also wrongly condemned the movie for portraying them in a less than favorable light . That is not the case . It is made quite clear that Silas's mental stability is not only in question , but is doubtful . I was obviously just an opportunistic grab for their fifteen minutes of fame , than any true objection they may have had to the film at large . SPOILERSBook fans may be interested in knowing that there were four scenes omitted from the cinematic version . These scenes had no determination or bearing to the outcome of the story , and were therefore not missed . . . merely noticed . Namely , Sophie never puts it together that her grandmother was the woman who was with her grandfather during the rite . And she is not told ( at least not in our presence ) that the gap-toothed boy who attends Roslyn Chapel is her brother . You are shown the photo of the boy as a child , and you realize ( if you've read the book ) that it is her brother , but they never say it . The Madonna on the Rocks sequences were omitted for time . The ending is different than the novelized version , but more enjoyable . END SPOILERS ! ! That not withstanding , The DaVinci Code is highly enjoyable , regardless of your religious views . It is a work of FICTION , and as such , was entertainingly engrossing . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Karloff's most memorable	Even though in 1931 this movie was already a remake , this is an age-old classic . Done in 1931 , fully black and white , this amazingly creepy tale still bears the marks of a genuine masterpiece . Having withstood the tests of time , I find this brilliantly directed portrayal just as darkly enchanting as I did 30 years ago . It is hard to believe that it has been over 70 years since this wonderful production was first released , but that not withstanding , it is a hauntingly beautiful , disturbingly tragic work of pure genius which is still just as compelling today as it was when it was made . In my opinion , this is also Karloff's best work . In this desensitized society , I feel honored and humbled to be able to view a movie of this caliber . When it was released , it was the scariest thing to be put on film . Today , there are gore effects , CGI , and a plethora of other mediums with which to shock and amaze us . Soon , the makeup artists of old will be wholly lost to the industry . If for no other reason , we should cherish these classics . Witness the industry when true artisans plied their crafts . The casting of Karloff in this part was the epitome of ideal casting . There was no other actor at that time , who could have contributed to this role , the darkling charm which Karloff demonstrated through this character . Of all the remakes done of this classic , I still favor the original work . The only remake which contains even the smallest degree of the magic of this original was the 1974 Mel Brooks parody , " Young Frankenstein . " I love this movie , and even by today's standards , it still rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Inspiring , Amusing , and Enriching	I am usually one who loves effects and huge KABOOM flix . Gimme Eye Candy , or get off my screen ! But once in a great while , someone will bring out an Indy ( May , Ginger Snaps , Brotherhood of the Wolf ) which grabs me and won't let go . This is one of those jewels . Based on small town life in Texas , this wonderful story rings true all across the Deep South of the US . If you're not from the US ( at least ) , you probably won't understand the truthfulness of this work ; how true to life these characters are . I honestly felt like I was down home , visiting my family . No other movie ( Sweet Home Alabama , Under Siege , Stone Cold , Forrest Gump ) has made me feel more like I was sitting in Aunt Mary's parlor , enduring another day in the life , than this production . They wanted to catch the feel of the moment . They wanted to expose the way life really IS in the Deep South . They succeeded on a level I have never before experienced . It was brilliantly witty and heart touching . The story itself was wonderful , the dialog was brilliant , the sets and costuming were inspired , accents were beautiful and not forced ( Jessica Simpson's Daisy Duke ) , and the thespians submit dead on portrayals . This one is not for the kiddies ( unless they are FROM the Deep South in which case they've probably heard and seen worse ) , but is wonderful inspiration for anyone who is homesick . This movie will either break you down and make you buy that ticket home , or will give you the resolve to stay put by reminding you why you don't live there anymore ! I give it on the Indy Scale . That's a solid on the A Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
A Masterpiece !	The epic saga continues , picking up right where the first left off , complete with hand sewn banners hung throughout the Golden Hall of Rohan , hand-fashioned armor and elves ! These works are perhaps the best I have ever seen . In the genre of fantasy , this series is seriously in danger of having replaced Star Wars as my all-time favorite movies . The direction was of the very best quality . The sets , designs , props and backdrops were realistic and without flaw . I highly recommend the extended edition , released in November 2003 . The scenes fully restored to their original glory before having some of the detail and story line left on the cutting room floor , this production is as " epic " as they come ; far larger than life . A task this formidable requires dedication , staying focused - both on the task at hand and in the creativity department . Neither were lacking here . I honestly found not one moment of wasted film , not one single element which should have been edited out or omitted , not one performance which was lacking in any way . While there WERE adaptations made to Tolkien's original literary work , I stand behind the creative decisions made , allowing that there were contractual obligations to be met , and fully and thoroughly enjoyed this darkling fantasy-filled adventure . This work , with its story set at the edge of the fall of Man , was dark and twisted , yet leaving us with hope for Mankind's future . I thought Jackson's work to be frightfully clever and wholly engrossing . This movie ( especially the extended version ) is absolutely wonderful ; a true credit to the whole industry . Too bad for us that Hollywood is not as bold . As did the Fellowship of the Ring , the Two Towers rates a full from . . . the Fiend : .
A Masterpiece !	This movie brought together everything the first two laid out , tied them into nice , neat little bundles , and concluded the whole trilogy just as it should . It does not conclude as you wish it to , but rather as Tolkien intended . The battle scenes were simply awesome this time around . With Helm's Deep , we were amazed , but Pelennor fields and Minas Tirith will leave you absolutely stunned ; truly in awe of the mastery involved . " Mastery . " That is a good word , and very aptly describes this production ; Masterful . The sets and props were again pure perfection . The performances were of the very best , most deliberate and heart-wrenching , uplifting realistic performances on film to date . The changes made in the story were small changes and not even note-worthy ; the direction staff did a marvelous job rewriting this beloved classic with all the creativity , care and love they had to offer . LotR is now my favorite movie series to date . Star Wars held that position in my heart since its release , followed by the subsequent two installments , but this , the " Return of the King , " is the most imaginatively creative work I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing . I simply cannot wait to own the third Extended Edition Gift Set featuring this masterpiece . I will not give away the details , as many here have ( and without SPOILER warnings , I might add ) . I will leave that for someone else . EDIT : This was literally the very best movie I've ever seen ! I cannot recommend the 4-disk Extended Collector's Edition Gift Set ENOUGH ! Wow ! There is SO much more movie here than there was in the theatrical version ! As did the first two installments , this movie rates a full from the Fiend . Would that I could , it would receive 5 extra bonus points for pure creativity . the Fiend : .
Vastly Underrated and Generally Misunderstood	This work seeks to explain why Magick and the powers of Creation are real and linked to our daily reality by way of quantum mechanics , neurobiology and the power of human consciousness . So there IS a lot to understand . Personally , I can understand why the rating here is so low . If the common man cannot understand it , he seeks to remove it from his realm . Most of the common clay won't be able to understand this information , and those who do may find it difficult to assimilate it into their belief system , as it proves that most of what we do and who we are is affected by our own thoughts . That doesn't hold well with most non-Pagans , and therefore , this work did not do well . We live in a superstitious age where the dogma of religion outweighs the fact of science . And you thought we were no longer primitive ? Think again . If you seek enlightenment , wish to arm yourself with the scientific explanation as to how and why Magick works , or need to know how to affect a change in your world , this is a lovely place to start , but bear in mind it IS scientific in nature and will require at least a small degree of intelligence to understand . Of course those who do not and cannot will vehemently decry the value of such a work , as they cannot begin to value that which they cannot fathom . It rates a for being the first of its kind released to the masses , from . . . the Fiend : .
A Masterpiece !	I wasn't going to review this movie . There are hundreds of reviews on it and I frankly wasn't going to waste my time repeating the same words of praise . When I first learned that they were doing these movies , I thought , " Great ! Another series of movies I'll hate , modeled after a trilogy of books that I love . " Stephen King's work , being a prime example . I love the literary works , and the movies all just die on the screen ; be it big or little . Then I learned that Peter Jackson was directing it and I was even less eager to see the movies . I never liked the Frighteners and Meet the Feebles ? ! Wow , did that movie stink UP the place ! And then I discovered they had no plans of making the prequel ; " The Hobbit , " and that was that . I wasn't going to like the movie , and I refused to be excited about it . Any of it . But then , I was GIVEN tickets as an early Yule present and so I begrudgingly attended its premier here in the Smokies . I was very pleasantly surprised . I ended up seeing this movie twice in the theaters , and have since bought the extended edition gift set of this work . The opening sequence was so well done , that I couldn't find any reason at all to not accept it . They didn't do " The Hobbit , " true enough , but they filled in that time and gave the viewers enough of the beginning that I could thoroughly subscribe to the movie . Many critics have literally bashed Peter Jackson's omission of one of the characters in Frodo's party , but the character was hardly relevant to the plot , the storyline , or the story itself and was best left out . I didn't even miss old Tom " what'shisname , " to tell you the truth . I do have a problem with Aragorn's character's emotionality in the movie . His character in the book was a seasoned Ranger . His emotional instability ; ie : his crying openly scene after scene , is completely out of character . It lends to the storyline with Arwen , and furthers the movie along , true enough , and personally , I didn't mind it . It was just out of character . He's rough , he's tough ; a seasoned ranger . He shouldn't have been as emotionally portrayed as Jackson did him , although the reasons are clearly due to time constraints . It would have taken forever to develop Aragorn properly , and they frankly did not have enough time , even with the three-plus hours of screen time . BUT , Jackson's characters were very well developed , the story was very well told . There was a LOT of dialog , but there was a lot of detail that would've been left out ; many , many finer details that never would've been able to be expressed without the richness of dialogue and Jackson and his company saw that , thankfully . All in all , as a Tolkien fan from WAY back , I feel that Peter Jackson did a marvelous job with this , the opening edition of the Lord of the Rings trilogy . It rates so far above , " The Godfather " trilogy ( to which it has been compared ) , that there IS no comparison . The acting is exemplary . There is no stiffness , no badly delivered lines , no hesitation in performance . Sean Astin truly and greatly surprised me with his brilliant performance as SamWise . The scenery and cinematography is brilliant . The sets and scenes are so well done , I only spied a single flaw . . . and I was looking ! There was a car in the background of one shot ! But the car will be missing from the DVD release , I'm sure . The wardrobing and costumes were finely hand-made ; treated to look worn and imperfect , as they should and the Shire was so well done , I was as delighted as any child on Yule morning . But the thing which captured me the most and held me spellbound was the casting . They put just the right people into just the right roles . I simply loved the characters . . Each and every one of them felt just like the book ( except for the deviation I already mentioned about Aragorn's emotional state ) . First we had " The Godfather , " then we were given the " Star Wars " trilogy and now , we have the Lord of the Rings to love . I look forward with great anticipation to the rest of this series . Thank you , Peter Jackson , for giving of yourself to this extent . It is above and beyond all for which I could have hoped . This first installment rates a full from . . . the Fiend : .
Jim Henson's Masterpiece .	This has all the elements of brilliant horror / fantasy : an ancient evil , a damaged holy relic , a clan of wizards , a hero , and a prophecy . Additionally , it has elements so far above and beyond the " norm , " that I am simply amazed that this movie does not have a stronger following . These elements include a conceptual design by Brian Froud ( ! ) , a renowned fantasy artist , and the costume designer from " Labyrinth ; " the story , direction , and production of Jim Henson , himself ! ; a musical score by Trevor Jones , the composer who lovingly uplifted the beautiful movie , " Excalibur " so high above the other Arthurian productions ; and Muppet Show screenwriter David O'Dell . ( Yes , he also wrote the " Masters of the Universe " screenplay , but we will forgive him that transgression . ) The effects were done by our favorite Star Wars effects people at ILM , and while the characters were done by the puppeteers at Henson's Workshop , this is far from a Muppet Movie , believe Me . The story itself is creative , inspiring , and amazing , yet darkly sinister in its beauty in such a way as to completely hold you to it . If you share a love of fantasy , then you will surely love " The Dark Crystal . " I am wholly amazed with this production , even now , some 22 years after its release . The flora and fauna , the textures , the set designs , and costumes , the creature designs and distinction one from the other are all impeccably done , with full attention paid to the very last minor detail . The designs on the floors , walls , and trappings are meticulously designed , created , and manufactured , and this story was so wonderfully done that I am in absolute thrall with this movie , as if I have never seen it before ; indeed , this is My first viewing as an adult . This is a beautiful , darkling , compelling , and sinister tale , so professionally executed that it is , without question , the most creative and lovely fantasy I have ever seen . The narrative is compelling , and inspires a suspenseful beauty which begins with the opening scenes and continues throughout the Gelfling's quest for the crystal shard which is missing from the Dark Crystal , but once he has it , he realizes that no one has told him what he must do with it . Without his giving his all , making the hard choices and sacrifices , their lives will cease to exist . Will Jen the Gelfling save their world ? or will the evil Urskeks win dominion ? Watch this breathtakingly beautiful production , ride the spiral of Fate and Magick , and find out for yourself . IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE , DO NOT READ PAST THIS POINT ! ! SPOILERS ABOUND ! ! But there is also another perspective on this film . . . The " evil " Urskeks and the " Wise Ones " are , of course , one and the same . This is highly symbolic of the world's leaders . We are all human beings , we all have the same emotions and we share the same capacity for caring as we do war . We all have wisdom and a " darker ' " side . This movie is a sub-promotion of the One-World Government ; the New World Order , mentioned in countless literary works across the globe . The Gelflings , who are creatures very reminiscent of elves , are those small people ; the common clay of the world's diverse societies - the survivors of the many man-made , world-wide holocausts which have been committed upon nearly every social group on the planet , at one time or another . The Dark Crystal itself is representative of many things : hope , greed , love . . . all those things which are the driving forces of those in power . The missing shard shows that when motivated by the wrong cause , part of the equation is missing , thereby leaving the person only partially filled , constantly needing more and more , never to be fully filled , nor their hunger for the power sated . This movie is also a caution against siding with one or the other of the forces , as they will one day come together in a kind of peace with which no one will be satisfied , due to their disliking and strong dissatisfaction with the other side . It shows us that homes can be confiscated by governments , land can be taken away , as can life , liberty , and all pursuit of happiness , at the whim of the governments . The most precious freedom we have , as humans , is the element of Free Will , which the Urskeks did remove from the Podlings by way of the darkest use of the Dark Crystal . Free Will can be removed , even if only in the mind . Brainwashing does occur , and it takes three times the amount of time and work to deprogram , than it does to set the brainwashing into place . This is a very deep , sociologically and psychologically thought-provoking endeavor , which I also found charming , brilliant , and lovely . . . on the surface . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : . Every fear has a wish behind it , don't you think ?
As Good As The Original , But For Different Reasons .	The house itself is absolutely breathtaking , the cast of characters is completely wonderful and the performances are purely professional . The effects are superb and the finished product is way more than the sum of its mere parts . In this jaded , desensitized society in which we live , it is growing harder and harder to find a movie which can really make you JUMP . . . rare indeed are the moments when you actually utter a small shriek and snuggle down beneath a blanket . . . from a movie . This movie is one of those rare gems of the horror genre . The house itself is the most beautiful example of late Gothic design I've ever seen . This movie is an absolute masterpiece of scenery , settings , dialog and effects . The story line moves smoothly and the characters were perfectly cast in this shining example of superb directing . I have watched this movie many times and have never found it wanting in any area . Since the death of her mother after a long illness , and a harsh betrayal by her sister , Nel's life has taken a sudden turn . Understandably , Eleanor , " Nel , " is having trouble sleeping . Upon receiving a phone call from a leading psychiatrist , directing her to a newspaper ad calling for volunteer insomniacs , Nel finds herself homelessly standing at the gates of Hill House , bags in hand . She has come to participate in the psychiatrist's psychological study centered around sleeplessness . The cast members are then brought into the plot one by one , as the psychiatrist introduces the " experimental story " concerning the past history of the house , and the story line begins to move . The visual effects here are far more than mindless " industrial " eye candy . These effects are absolutely stunning . You have to SEE the movie in order to appreciate how beautiful the house and how breathtaking are the effects . " I can be a victim , or I can be a volunteer . I'll be a volunteer . " Nel . As events begin to occur and Nel begins to puzzle out the reasons for them , the pieces begin to fall seamlessly into their appropriate places . This movie contains a certain . . . Agatha Christieesque . . plot , in that you can figure it out with Nel . You are given all the information you need in order to make the determination for yourself as to why the house is haunted and why Nel was . . . " invited . " I know I've gone on and on about the house , but I can't accurately describe the beauty and grandeur of it . It's one of those things you simply HAVE to see for yourself . It's absolutely breathtaking , and so is the plot to this wonderfully SCARY movie . - I - wouldn't want to live there , even for a night . As the plot unfolds , so will your wits . This is one of those movies that still gets my blood pumping , no matter how many times I've seen it . Every scene is a veritable feast of visual effects and psychological stimulation . If you liked the " Amityville Horror , " or " House on Haunted Hill , " you will absolutely LOVE this movie . There are no hokey effects , no trite dialog , no sloppily delivered lines and no failures in setting , scenery or prop detail . This movie delivers a solid , professional and delightfully scary end product which will make an excellent addition to ANY movie library . If you've enjoyed this movie , I highly recommend House on Haunted Hill , Poltergeist 1 and 2 , Disney's Haunted Mansion , The Entity , The Bat , and the original The Haunting . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
All around , an excellent production .	his movie is a 10 from the very beginning . The casting is brilliant , the story is hauntingly beautiful , the performances are the best of what Hollywood once was , and the sets are of quality design and architecture . The direction is awesome , but it's Hitchcock , and I expect nothing less from his productions . Rebecca is a glamorous , beautiful socialite who has won the hearts of all who knew her . Well , almost all . But a year after her untimely death , her grieving husband near his wit's end , has grown seemingly suicidal and aloof . He engages his grief while on a trip to Monte Carlo , and meets the beautiful personal secretary and maid of a long-time friend , Mrs . Edythe Van Hopper . She is young , naive , and completely unprepared for the life which is awaiting her ; all qualities which George Fortescu Maximillian ' Maxim ' de Winter finds endearing . I won't detail the events in this movie , as the story itself is quite haunting , with surprises around every turn . This is a definite " must have " in any suspense / horror / Hitchcock / classics movie collection , and a mandatory must see for all fans of all movies . It rates a for its absolute perfection , from . . . the Fiend : .
Preferred rendition of the Cinderella Story .	Regardless of how closely this follows the original telling , this is a lovely , endearing , and compelling tale , told as the " real " story of Cinderella . It does not matter whose version was original , from which country it was told , or who the players were ( Prince Henry of France in fact married Catherine de Medici , a member of the Italian nobility , not Drew Barrymore's character . ) , this movie is pure magic . In this reviewer's opinion , this is the very best of Drew Barrymore's work . This is her greatest role , her greatest portrayal , her best movie . Period . For that fact alone , you should see this attempt , but let me continue . The acting is spot on , the sets and costumes were meticulously designed , the writing involved here was flawless , the directing was pure professionalism , the flow was smooth , the tale was the best-told tale I've seen in years , and the finished product was a masterpiece . I was , and am , enchanted by this film , in every way . This is the " adult version " of this work , but I also still admire ( greatly ) the Disney collector's edition gift set of Cinderella . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
THE definitive behind-the-scenes look at " Alien "	This most comprehensive documentary takes you from the very seed of conceptional idea to the finished product of the Director's Cut DVD Alien Quadrilogy Collector's Set . It is longer in duration than the film itself , and documents every detail of pre-production , production , filming , post-production , marketing , and design . I found it interesting that Alien was conceived and molded into the movie it is , with Total Recall springing from it , as well as several other movies which would come onto the scene a few years later . I had never realized the relationship between Alien and Total Recall , before this documentary . I highly recommend this , which I found as " Disk 2 " of the Alien Quadrilogy 9-disk Collector's Set , to any fan of the series . It is highly informative and extremely entertaining , complete with original pages of the script , some great conceptual shots , and the total Alien design . It rates a on the Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Wolfgang Petersen Meets American McGee , Powered By The Henson Workshop . Beautiful !	This darkling adventure is completely unique in its execution . The story is a common-place tale of a girl , coming to terms with her mother's illness , her father's obsession with business , and her own mortality ; all while on the verge of womanhood . What makes this so unique are the visual details , which made up the largest component of this film . The visuals are decidedly American McGee-ish , with aspects of Terry Gilliam ( of Monty Python ) and Tim Burton , but with Wolfgang Petersen influences on the story itself . You are in an alternate universe , wherein the dark queen is rising in power . The white queen , on this realm , is dying . Helena , our heroine , has been taken into the realm of the Dark Queen , and must solve the puzzle in order to get back home all while the Darkness approaches , and the Dark Princess systematically dismantles Helena's life , back on Helena's own realm . If it sounds familiar , that's because it closely resembles the Wizard of Oz story line in which Dorothy had to get home to save Aunty Em , and the Neverending Story wherein Atrayu has to solve the riddle as to why the " Nothing " is consuming his world , in order to save the White Queen who is dying . The dark queen and princess , and the white counterparts , along with the alternate universe factor , give this an Alice in Wonderland spin , which is exacerbated by the otherworldly versions of many of the Wonderland characters , while maintaining a fresh feeling and offering characters that the makers of the Harry Potter line were not able ( or willing ) to give us . Namely , sphinxes . There is also a bit of Romeo and Juliet , along with somewhat of an homagic feeling towards the Dark Crystal , but I think that is to be expected , all things considered . Nevertheless , this work has an utterly unique feel , and one of the most stylistically dark overall visual feelings of anything I've ever seen . That , partnered with compelling performances , and well-delivered dialog , weaves this beautiful visual experience into a totally dynamic piece of film art . I think Jim Henson is very proud of his daughter's involvement with this work , watching over her from wherever he may be . While the credit cannot go solely to the Henson Workshop , this is most definitely another Henson masterpiece . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
AS Good ! !	Is it possible that this is even better than Star Wars : Episode IV ? This chapter of the Star Wars saga is unique in that it is neither directed , nor written by Luca$ . Irvin Kershner directs and Leigh Brackett & Lawrence Kasdan are the credited writers of this screenplay . I consider that is why it is widely thought of as the best of the OT : Luca$ neither directed , nor wrote it . This is perhaps one of the most successful sequels of all time . While it rates an at the Internet Movie Database , and IV rated an , there is a large school of thought whereby the idea is expressed that this installment of the Luca$ Money Machine is superior to the original . I must say that I subscribe to this notion . The story featured is darker , while maintaining the same charm and enjoyability as Episode IV . There is less action and more story , and that is fine by me . I was as enchanted by the plot as I was roused by the action . There are no obvious plot holes ( at least , not yet . Episode III has not yet been released ) ; no contrivances . Everything fits nicely into its place and feels properly nestled within . There has been much speculation as to the meaning of Yoda's words to Obi-Wan concerning " the other . " " That boy is our last hope . " Obi-Wan " No . There is another . " Yoda Most casual fans of this franchise , affectionately known as the Luca$ $tar War$ $aga or the Luca$ Money Machine , tend to believe that Yoda refers to Leia in that statement , and indeed , Obi-Wan does confirm that it was Leia about whom Yoda spoke . But I have always had another thought about that . Since there are further Star Wars stories , not to mention countless novels produced in the genre of " fan fiction , " and an enormous Expanded Universe , I am a bit timid to discuss my feelings here , but will force myself to expound upon my thoughts as a means of catharsis , if for no other reason . I believe Yoda referred to Han Solo . I have two reasons . There are more , to be sure , but I will detail only two ; the most poignant , in my opinion . First , to activate the light saber , one must possess the proper mindset ; that of a Jedi . Whether it is because of metichlorine-filled blood , a state of heart , or a Gods-given gift , that ability belongs to a Jedi alone . Joe-Blow from down the road couldn't activate a light saber . But Han did , in this Episode , when cutting open the Ton-Ton to save Captain Solo's life in the frozen wastelands of Hoth . Second . Han Solo has the ability to navigate a rather large freighter through an asteroid belt , with the controls set to " manual . " This type of ability was demonstrated in Episode IV to effectively demonstrate Luke's growing abilities as a Jedi . Han and Leia's relationship deepens , Chewy has a few pivotal scenes ( his part is much more vocal and present in this chapter ) , and our favorite Droids are given the full star treatment . As I mentioned earlier , the theme here is much darker than was Episode IV . Lord Vader's copious presence goes a long way towards furthering that goal , as does the lighting , tone and mood of the musical score . The stormtroopers somehow seem more menacing , and Carrie Fisher's performance abilities seem to have doubled from her first Star Wars attempt . Mark Hamill's Luke Skywalker finally earns that battle scene with Vader which was promised in the first installment ( or fourth , whatever ) , and we see the return of Obi-Wan ( kind of ) . It is amusing to see Yoda play the part of a troublesome creature while testing Skywalker's demeanor and potential . Once he makes his determinations surrounding Skywlaker's training , his changes in tone and behavior back to that of the Jedi Master he is , were obvious . It was quite endearing to see him that way : Apparently made feral by the wild swampy jungle in which he dwells . And then to discover it was all just an act . Beautifully done . While this chapter appears at first viewing to depend completely upon the fourth and sixth Episodes for support , Episode V does have a noticeable beginning , climax , and ending . The elements of that beginning , climax , and ending ; however , do depend upon those other Episodes to explain it and uplift it . You must subscribe to the mindset of the fourth chapter in order to comprehend the subtle meanings of what takes place . Without knowledge of Episode IV , this is just another popcorn movie . An incredibly done popcorn movie , but a popcorn movie , nonetheless . But with that knowledge , this movie is instantly elevated to that of the " Superior Sequel " in that the story is far richer , the execution feels much more natural , and the conclusion is an excellent cliffhanger even though there is an obvious end . While it is superior , it lacks the level of newness the original possessed . It receives a well-earned from . . . the Fiend : .
A Masterpiece .	Monty Python takes a bit of getting used to , as their comedy company is somewhat of an acquired taste for most Americans who aren't accustomed to the dry British wit featured in these movies . However , they are absolute geniuses of comedy , as is demonstrated here in their first full-length feature film , " Monty Python and the Holy Grail . " There are excellent and memorable lines , hilarious dialog , and intentionally cheesy acting , combined to give you the laugh of the Dark Ages . King Arthur and his lowest-budgeted knights set off on their legendary quest for the Holy Grail . What they find , instead , is series of mishaps , antics , and outright hilariously idiotic stumbling-blocks . I highly suggest seeing this on the Special Edition DVD ( KILLER RABBIT-ON ! ) . There are added features you will undoubtedly enjoy . " I . . . fart in your general direction ! Your mother was a hamster and your father . . . smelt . . . of . . . ELDERBERRIES - ! Now go away , or I shall taunt you a second time ! " ( John Cleese as the French Taunter . ) It rates a smooth from . . . the Fiend : .
Stunning in conception and execution	Alien Evolution is a documentary-maker's dream . It gives you everything you could possibly want to know about your favorite creature feature franchise . It is a 64 . 21 minute long inside look into the minds of the writers , giving you the story behind the story . Many critics have dogged this work since its release saying it spent to much time with the writers , when in fact , many millions of fans were clamoring for more back story and conceptual histories of these wonderfully Machiavellian Aliens . There are also interviews with the Producers , special effects departments , actors , directors , and more , more , more . I thoroughly enjoyed this comprehensive and inspired Supplement which was Disk 9 of the Alien Quadrilogy Collector's Set . Fantastic . It rates a Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the most successful movies of all time ( and I'm not talking about the Box Office take )	What made this the hugely successful triumph it was ? Was it casting , music , imagination , ingenuity , or luck ? I remember opening day at the theaters . I was old enough to remember every scene , every character , every nuance of this film ; having committed it to memory forever , as if I would never again be able to see this beloved , instantly loved masterpiece . I also remember that the HIT factor of this movie was so unexpected that you had to wait literal MONTHS to get the action figures promised on the cereal boxes . The pieces were still in the manufacturing process and we had to settle for coupons promising our toys in a few months . I wound up seeing this in the theaters a grand total of 36 times ; much to my mother's dismay . She loved the movie as I did , but felt I was obsessed . Today , thirty years later , sitting here writing this review , I realize how right she was . I'm still obsessed with this movie , and with the subsequent movies which followed . I wait in great anticipation for Episode 3 . I'm a fan , and I don't care what other people say about Episodes 1 & 2 . I don't even mind the " prequel " factor , as the situation at the time , dictated to Lucas which movies he would do first . See , I remember the studios saying to him that he had to choose from the three central climactic books , and trash the rest , or just trash the whole idea . He didn't exactly " sell out , " he did what he had to do to get his movie . . . his vision . . . out there for us to see and experience . I admired his decision then , and I admire it now . Episodes 1-3 are being filmed now , because Lucas had the clout , the money , and the patience to give us his vision . . . his complete vision and not just the three center books of a 9-book series . I realize that now , there are dozens of books , but at the time , there were nine . And while most of us were happy with Episodes 4-6 and would not have missed 1-3 and 7-9 , I personally am so very glad he has taken it upon himself to give us his full vision . I have enjoyed each and every installment with the same sense of awe and joy as I did this one . The casting was the first triumph for this cinematic milestone . Ford is a charismatic and magnetic personality and portrayed Han with a professionalism that you'd expect from more seasoned actors . Sir Alec Guiness is an absolute joy as Obi Wan . His casting was precise and excellent in that part . Carrie Fisher portrayed Leia in a way that , up until then , had never been experienced . Most " princess " types before her were whining , whimpering , little snots who were incapable of anything beyond tripping and twisting their ankle in times of peril , while Fisher portrayed her character as a bold , brazen , yet sophisticated and educated woman who was aware of her surroundings and capable of defending herself and her realm with the utmost authority . And Mark Hamil . He was perfectly cast as the whining little boy who wanted more , but was afraid to reach for it . He grows up quite well on film in these three installments , and endears himself to the audience so much the more for it . But a cast member who is almost always left out of these reviews is Peter Mayhew . Chewbacca . His character , as a supporting character to Han's , was exemplary . It's not easy portraying a walking carpet , yet holding the attention , admiration , and love of virtual millions . I am VERY happy about his being cast as Chewy in Episode 3 . Couldn't happen to a more deserving . . . or capable . . . fellow . Bravo ! And James Earl Jones's voice being used as the voice of Darth Vader , was pure genius . His commanding voice haunted the dreams of countless thousands of star-struck children for generations to come . I also have to say that this movie would not have had the charm it does had it not been for Anthony Daniels ' C3P0 . He is a gift and a joy . The musical score by John Williams featured in this masterpiece was one of the contributing factors . But honestly , this movie's success was such a total surprise to everyone , including Lucas , that nothing could prepare the world for the aftermath of having witnessed this bona fide legend , first hand . The story itself ; replete with sub-plot after sub-plot , rich in dialog and detail , was beyond anyone's greatest expectations . Everyone , including Lucas , expected this movie to fail . It is a timeless classic , which I will not repeat here . There are too many movie reviews giving full details of the plot , and I won't be redundant beyond what I have already said . However , that being said , there are a few points I would like to make concerning the symbolism of this endeavor . The Force is a metaphor for the psychic abilities with which we are all born . It was also a metaphor for hope and faith , dedication and commitment to the greater state of being . The Empire is said to have been a metaphor for the Germanic Nazi " storm troopers . " While the Rebellion is said to have been symbolic of ( what would later become ) the NATO forces who defeated them . And then there are the effects . The effects were , in 1977 , so awesome ; so creative ; so ahead of their time , as to ensure this movie's vast success for the next forty years . George Lucas enjoys an almost god-like status among sci-fi / fantasy fans worldwide . This movie does not rate a rating . Usually , when I say that , it is because the movie is so bad , or disappointing that I don't have the heart to rate it . But in this case , it far surpasses any rating I could give it . The Fiend : .
Spielberg forges a diamond	Starting with Kubrick's genius should have made this work a " snap . " Upon Kubrick's death Spielberg picked up the project begun by Kubrick , and proceeded as planned . I must say that like the rest of the mainstream world , I love Haley Joel Osment's younger performances . He has never let me down , as a movie goer . If he is in a production , I can rest assured that his performance , if nothing else , will redeem the money spent . Haley Joel Osment is , in fact , a bright and shining NOVA in his portrayal of the futuristic Peter Pan ; the little boy who could never grow up . It is a whimsical , beautiful , tragic masterpiece of a performance to match the same qualities in this production . Whimsical . Tragic . Beautiful . A Masterpiece . No spoilers , nothing else about the movie itself . I bought it before I'd seen it because of the wonderful review it got from my love , and I watched it . It's been on the shelf ever since . I don't ever want to see it again . It broke my heart so thoroughly that I don't ever need to see it again . I will never forget it . This is a definite must see for anyone with a heart . It's worth a from . . . the Fiend : .
This is NOT the Transformers of your childhood !	As a member of the group bearing the dubious distinction of the title , " Baby Boomers , " I caught the animated Transformers series at the end of what I call " My Belated Youth . " I was a fan . When I got to know the story line and the characters , I was hooked . Now , I'm not here to tell you that the old animated Transformers series was the best thing on television , because it clearly wasn't . But what I AM here to tell you is that it was ONE of the best things on television . . . at least as far as the story went . I tend to hold the Transformers in the same light as " V " , Battlestar Galactica , Dune , the Thundercats , Flight of the Navigator , the Last Starfighter , and the Masters of the Universe , all of vaguely the same period . These were the " greats , " and still collectively hold a special place in my heart . There were other , larger , more successful events such as Star Wars , Close Encounters of the Third Kind , ET , and the X-Men animated series , the Dark Knight animated series , and the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle phenomenon . And while these were hugely popular and imminently successful , the previously mentioned works are superior , in my opinion . They feature some of the same heart and some of the same style ( s ) but there is some element present , which connects to the humanity of me . . . oh , inimitable me . . . which none of the aforementioned works possess . Transformers carries with it the same hope for salvation most religions offer to us as a people . These are characters with a solid moral center , an other-worldly understanding of the cosmos and its implications / impact on the various life forms inhabiting it , and a sense of the greater good - salvation through redemption , redemption through action and personal responsibility . It carries non-human biological machines , which demonstrate individuality and presence of heart and such a strong moral center , as to render the mechanalities of their beings almost superfluous ; cool , but unnecessary to the story . The present blockbuster counters that condition with even more humanity within the technological characters , which assists in creating more admirable characters , lends to the story a fluidity it may have otherwise lacked , and generates an appropriate level of suspense that was missing from the animated series . The visual effects are absolutely stupefying ( that's a good thing ) but of course they were . . . Spielberg knows how to put together some stunning visuals , which complement ( rather than negate ) the story itself . He is a Master of . . . Illusion ( ? ) . The pacing is great - we were never bored , even for a moment - and the story is richly executed . This is NOT the Transformers of my childhood . This is better - vastly better , and not due to the almost ethereal visuals , but because of the moral strength , the state of heart , and the gripping story to be found herein . Watch it . It will enamor you . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Aggressive plot carries excessive and realistic gore-fest	Wonderful , seriously campy , fast-paced action flick ! Great effects and a creative plot ! Excellent direction ! I love this story , and this film . It has been rated ( though I honestly can not remember by whom , at this writing ) as the most graphic movie ever made for the amount of gore and bloodshed contained therein . When I am feeling aggressive , or feel the need to BE aggressive , this movie definitely helps set that mood within me . But there is much more to this production than aggression , blood , gore and violence ( though there is an extreme amount of violence ) . The plot is quite absorbing . While the acting quality does leave a bit to be desired at times , the plot and the action more than make up for it . You can't help but notice it , but the point becomes moot as the story progresses and the bloodshed commences . Set in a futuristic world , and adapted from Robert A . Heinlein's book of the same title , this production presents you with a World War 2-type environment , with characters of the same caliber . It definitely demonstrates much more than your average slasher-style violence and gore . It is so much more graphic than any slasher flick could ever be . Definitely NOT for young audiences . If you like sci-fi / action , or just lots of action and gore , this is the movie for you . This one was billed the goriest movie ever made ! It rates a for the gore factor , from . . . the Fiend : .
Wonderful , fun , clever mystery .	Brilliantly clever " Who-Done-It " closely adapted to Agatha Christie's literary work . Wonderful , fun , clever mystery . The direction of this movie was exemplary , the acting of all involved was dead on ; and the scenery , settings , props and trappings were magnificent . Michael York , whose role is quite small , delivers a quite extraordinary performance . Sean Connery comes across as an indignant jilted husband beautifully . Star-studded performances deliver a masterpiece as an end product . The mystery begins quickly and never stops rolling . There is a clue in each and every scene , as there isn't one single inch of wasted film in this wonderful testing of the " old gray Delco . " ( quote from Warlock I ) Every little segment is deliberately placed , meticulously shot and chosen for inclusion , to deliver some of the most intricate details of the plot . It's a shining tribute to Agatha Christie and her life's work . While Albert Finney , in my opinion , is the closest physical and manneristic match for Christie's Hercule Poirot , Ustinov is still my favorite . Finney pulls the character off in a marvelously witty , dramatic and intelligent way ; however , and is a shining star in this production . Lauren Bacall , Ingrid Bergman , Sir John Gielgood , Sean Connery , Jacqueline Bisset , Vanessa Redgrave and even Rachel Roberts ( who also played a pivotal part in Chevy Chase's and Goldie Hawn's Foul Play , 1979 , and died in 1980 of barbiturate poisoning ) all delivered convincing , cultured and believable performances . What else would you expect from a cast like this . However , as we have seen in the past , an actor's performance is only as good as the director running the show . Hats off to Sidney Lumet for his directing , and to Paul Dehn who lovingly slaved over the screenplay adaptation of Ms . Christie's novel . ( Dehn also wrote screenplays for the Planet of the Apes movies , The Deadly Affair , the Spy Who Came In From The Cold , Goldfinger , Orders To Kill and On Such A Night 1956-among others ) Great screenplays for great movies . Salute ! to Paul Dehn , gone since 1976 . This seems to have been his last and greatest achievement . Too bad he isn't still with us to help us translate the Stephen King screenplays into enjoyable movies rather than . . . what they are . Wonderful , brilliant sleuthing movie . I won't bother with the storyline . If you read any of the other reviews , you already got that , and I figure , why be redundant ? Rent it , Watch it , Buy it . Excellent movie which receives the very first from . . . the Fiend : .
Underworld . A new legend is born .	Let me start this review by saying that , while this work is NOT scary , it was not MEANT to be scary . This production was classed into the genre of " Horror , " strictly due to the " monster " factor . There are " tense " moments , to be sure , but this is not a " boo ! " kind of movie . There is ; however , plenty of action , lots of well enacted drama and wonderful realistic effects . I was actually amazed with the apparent lack of high-dollar effects , the almost Rice-ian Vampire clans lounging in the well designed lush and lavish " mansion , " the gritty tension held throughout the movie , and the stunningly clever costume designs . But what held me mostly in thrall were the effects . The effects were so well done , they were believable . They explain that the older Lycan can change at will , regardless of the moon's cycle . . . with that in mind , the way the werewolves ' mandible bones FORCED themselves out and into place was dead ON . Changing at will would BE like that , especially in times of anger or great stress . Someone ( possibly Wiseman ? ) had heard ( and correctly believed ) that " less is more , " because the effects were done in such a way as to appear REAL and not . . . simply more Hollywood " Matrix " flash . These scenes were so well done ; so well directed , filmed and portrayed that we could , even if for a short time , believe the things we were watching . . . were possible . The wonderfully unique bullets used by both sides are absolutely brilliant . It reminded me if the horribly campy western / vampire movie made about 10 or 15 years ago entitled , " Sundown , " where the vampire hunters used wooden bullets . I am simply stunned to discover that this is Len Wiseman's first attempt in the field as Director . I eagerly look forward to more brilliance from this man . ( He was also one of the writers of the original literary work . ) If this is his first attempt , we may have just been introduced to the next Spielberg . Personally , I'm hoping he leans more towards being the next Hitchcock . The weaponry Selene ( Kate Beckinsale ) utilized was quite unique and completely interested the small audience in my hometown theater . When she drew her stars and threw them simultaneously at the Lycan ; when the scene slowed to an almost stop just long enough to allow you to SEE the throwing stars as they CHANGED into much more deadly projectiles , was absolutely excellent . AND was also the ONLY scene in this entire movie which even remotely reminded me of " The Matrix . " The other critics keep droning on and on with comparisons between these two movies , and frankly , I just don't see it . Also , " Blade " has been used as a source of comparison . The only similarities between " Blade " and " Underworld " are that Viktor , the oldest and strongest of the Vampiric race of " Pure Bloods , " uses a sword . Oh , and there are Vampires . Those were the ONLY common points , as far as I could tell . This is an original work ; not a petty rip-off or a " jumble of other movies . " This is a very creative and unique attempt ; a successful one , if you ask me . While guns were used more than I would have liked , the additional weaponry chosen for this endeavor was not your standard action-flick fare . One of the vampire " Death Dealers " uses a pair of 10 ' whips quite well . And don't forget about the bullets I mentioned . . . what an extraordinary intellectual and creative power . The costumes were kept simple , yet served the purpose of helping to set the mood . Two words . . . understated elegance . Absolutely brilliant . Some have said that the story line is hard to follow , or that there is no discernible plot . Let me be frank . This is not a movie for the squeamish , nor is it a movie for those who like to be able to NOT concentrate on the plot . Sure , there is enough visual eye candy to keep most casual fans of the genre entertained , but there is also a very complicated and beautifully sinister plot and subplots going on beneath the flying bullets and shots of Kate Beckinsale's butt in latex and leather . The Shakespearean relationship between Selene and Michael ( Scott Speedman ) is well written and pleasantly portrayed , in the midst of all that darkness and drama . A bit of candle-light to shine hope into the darkness of despair , as it were . The story is an upgraded spin on a timeless classic , with enough additional plot and sub-plot to keep even the most common movie-goer interested . The war between the Vampires and the Lycan has raged for more than a thousand years . The Lycan , once the serving class to the Vampire , had risen against their masters and won their freedom . But was that the real story ? Was their freedom truly the motivating force which stoked the fires of this war for this long ? In the center of this war are Selene ( Vampire ) and Michael ( Lycan ) . Their love of one another is forbidden by every Vampire Covenant written , but will that be enough to stop them from falling in love ? As one of the chosen " Death Dealers , " an organization within the Vampire Clans trained and equipped to hunt and kill Lycans , Selene is faced with a decision most dire : sell out and live ? or be true to herself and die ? Will her loyalty to her ancient maker keep her from making the right choice ? And that is where the sub-plot kicks into overdrive and makes you sit back and say , " Oh wow ! No kidding ? ! " at the darkling twists in the plot . I was thoroughly entertained by this work , and cannot wait to add the DVD to the Vampire section of my horror collection . Superb acting ; rich depth of character ; talented , creative directing ; and realistic effects put this movie at the top of all other Vampyre movies , for me . It earns an ambitious from . . . the Fiend : .
Awesome	For a documentary short , this is quite informative . We are given quality screen time ( as in the Making of Jurassic Park ) with Steven Spielberg , explaining the conception , the inspirations , the designs , and the execution of these concepts . Crichton speaks up , and we are treated with some behind the scenes levity featuring Richard Attenborough , and a total and complete documentation of every aspect of the Lost World . I found this documentary particularly enjoyable in that it explains how American audiences became jaded . We went from , " Can they do the dinosaurs ? " to " Yeah , sure you can do dinosaurs . But what can you do - with - them ? " I found that attitude very refreshing . While most people found this the weakest installment of this line , this second installment is , by far , my favorite of the run . I , therefore , found this authoritative work to be highly informative and entertaining . My only gripe ? It could've ( should've ) been longer . 53 minutes just wasn't enough . It rates a Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
A Visually Stunning , Beautifully Written Bloodbath .	I found 300 to be startling in its graphic portrayal of a battle of 300 against thousands . While it was reminiscent of both Helm's Deep and the battle on Pelennor Plains , it still retained a feeling all its own . Some critics have compared this work against Jackson's , but I don't think that's appropriate . This film stood alone and stood without assistance . I don't see any reason to make the comparison . This was a brilliant work of cinematic art . . . it was a visually stunning , beautifully written bloodbath . If you like loads of brilliant action , good writing , beautiful acting , and lots of gore , you not only could do worse than 300 , but you probably already have , and loved it . But beneath all that , the timing for this movie seems political . Here , you have 300 Spartans standing against hundreds of thousands of terrifying invaders led by Xerxes who believes himself a God , while the Spartan senate refuses to send in the Spartan army to assist these brave warriors in their stand to defend all of Sparta . This clearly parallels the current Congressional position wherein they refuse to send in more troops or allocate appropriate funding to assist our soldiers already in the field . I think this is the most compelling draw this work has for American audiences , today . I also admire the marketing of this work , as a fine example of marketing genius . 300 is a must see . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior to the first in every way !	This installment was far superior to the first in every way ! It was better in story line , direction , acting quality , dialog , and intent . This was the perfect addition to the Addams Family franchise . Unfortunately , it's also the last . Raul Julia has passed on , and Christina Ricci is frankly too old to be doing Wednesday Addams anymore . Their next attempt with Tim Curry as Gomez Addams , and Darryl Hannah as Morticia , was appalling , atrocious , and puerile . I HATED . . . LoAThED . . . dEtESTeD that movie with a PASSION ! I left it out of my Addams Family collection ; acted like it never existed . While I love Tim Curry , he is NOT Gomez Addams ! The nerve ! But I digress . Wednesday and Pugsley are sent away by their new nanny to allow her adequate time to " vamp " Fester . Why ? Because he's rich . Why else ? Now , Wednesday and Pugsley have to contend with the preppy bratlings at summer camp , while Morticia and Gomez must deal with the new gold-digger in the family . Grand Mamma has been replaced by Carol Kane . . . I hate it when they change players like that . But I'm torn between hating the change , and liking Carol Kane better . They should have cast her in the part in the first movie and I would not be IN this quandary . But that not withstanding , this is a far superior effort to the first , which was perfect to begin with . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Answers abound	" I think that they knew that I had given my blood and my every milliliter of my sweat trying to make it work , but I guess that I just wasn't clever enough to come up with something that would really blow everybody away and be something completely different . " " It was just set up wrong to begin with . It was a very sort of bad period for us , in this film , because we were fighting a losing battle all the time . " This is how this documentary starts out ; an honest and painful admission of failure . I found it thoroughly refreshing , and it went a long way towards endearing the third film which this documents , to the Fiend . This Making Of documentary is every bit as informative and inclusive as are the first two ; more so , even , in that it goes to great pains to explain exactly . . . what went wrong . By the time it was done , I was in a much better frame of mind , where Alien 3 is concerned , because when I started this run of reviews , I seriously hated this installment , where now , I give it a . That's a good three point jump from where I initially had it rated . This is a wonderful experience which I highly recommend to anyone who loves this franchise . It rates a on the Documentary Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Timeless ? Classic .	While this work is incredible and does still stand up to scrutiny ( especially with the upcoming digital transfer DVD release from Disney ) , I can't say that it's timeless . In viewing , it is very much a retrospect , considering the setting , scene , backgrounds , costumes , etc . Does that lessen the effectiveness of this work ? Absolutely not . This is NOT one of those Disney classics , which would benefit from a remake ! Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs definitely belongs in your Disney collection , is suitable for all ages , and has some of the most endearing characters of any Disney movie , ever , while featuring some of the best animation in Disney's repertoire . This also features one of the best villains in the Disneyverse ! This is my absolute favorite Disney Animated Classic . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Hundreds of Children Found Because of Nancy Grace !	Nancy Grace comes off as a cajones-busting blood-sucking ogre , and if you are hurting innocents , breaking the law , or lying to the world , she will be your worst nightmare , should you cross her radar . However , this woman CARES . I love her show , her mission , and her ferocity in pursuing the truths of the cases before her . I would have LOVED to watch her as a criminal prosecutor ! or a defense attorney . She is so passionate that I can't wait to watch her every night to see who she's championing next . Chances are , it will be a child , a victim who can no longer speak for him / herself . Nancy Grace has saved and found hundreds of Children via her show . I don't care who doesn't like this review , or her show . She is a heroine . She deserves the respect of us all . The Nancy Grace Show rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
A true work of art .	This is my absolute favorite Disney animated feature length film . This Disney classic animation feature concerns a cursed princess , a handsome prince , three good faeries who use Nature Magicks , and one of the best Disney villains of all time ; evil personified is Maleficent . I must say that the 2-disk Special Edition is well worth the price if you can locate it . This went out of production and was pulled from shelves in January of 2004 , so it may occupy a bit of your time to find it for sale . Upon viewing this as a child , I remember loving the story , but hating that the colors were all faded . It was as if the film it was on had grown thin . I was delighted to find a fully digitally remastered , Dolby digital 5 . 1 Surround Sound , THX edition with loads and loads of extras and the colors have all been restored ! Maleficent having cursed the baby Aurora , our three heroines must find a way to reverse the curse . This movie has a little bit of everything including a fantastic dragon . This is one of the most beautiful Disney treasures within the Disney vaults . I highly recommend its viewing . It's one of the best full length Disney animated features . In its restored state , this movie receives a rousing from . . . the Fiend : .
Simply Stunning .	Again , as usual actually , I am in the minority . Johnny Depp is this generation's most talented character actor . Rather than portraying roles as himself in different situations ( Tom Cruise , Will Smith , Russell Crowe ) , he molds himself into the role and BECOMES the character he portrays . To illustrate this point , let me point out that he had his own teeth removed and replaced with silver / gold ones to assume the role of Captain Jack ! If that isn't dedication to one's career , I don't know what is . Depp assumes roles which will challenge him as an actor . Some of his performances could be considered " arthouse , " while others have been categorized as pop-culture icons . This role is that of Lord Rochester , Earl of Wilmot , an English Restorative , but historically ambiguous character , at best . The tale itself is also ambiguous in its listlessness , and in the end , although he cautioned us in the beginning that there was nothing to love in him , he reaches for love , even as his every action strives to make him utterly unlovable . The one redeeming trait about Rochester is his glorious verse , that dream-weaving prose which exists only within his mind , and never truly reaches his heart . There is , therefore , one thing to love in what he DOES , but reinforces there is nothing to love in what he IS . This play-based work is interesting and entertaining , but only mildly so . Depp's performance is the greatest redeeming factor . He is magnificent , reaching deeply inside himself to generate the greatest performance of his career . Unfortunately , few will see it , as this work is rather emotionally dark , leaving only Depp's die hard fans and history majors to seek it out . It rates a for Depp's work from . . . the Fiend : .
A true documentary work of art	Before this documentary , I truly detested this installment . I couldn't stand it , and refused to accept it under any circumstances . However , this Making of documentary truly gives you all the answers to everything from the big problems to your most trivial questions in such a way as to help you understand why each decision was made , how it was expected to affect the work , whether it did bring about the desired result , and what they had as a back-up plan . In fact , it completely changed my opinion concerning the value of the film . I highly recommend this documentary to anyone who has issues with Alien : Resurrection ( Alien 4 ) , as a means of understanding the issues behind the scenes which effected and affected this installment of the Alien Quadrilogy . Completely inclusive and definitive , this is truly a documentary work of art . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Wow ! What A Story !	The potential of this work holds so much for a fan of martial arts and the practitioners of such arts , that there is little room for the director and the screenwriters to go where they will . Many fans have put much stock and faith in this work , and have anticipated its coming with such great relish , as to leave themselves open to disappointment . I am happy to report that " The Forbidden Kingdom , " does not fail to satisfy even the most ardent of those anticipatory people , and those who are disappointed by this work may have had no idea concerning the elements of the legend of the Monkey King , or may have had unreasonable or impractical ideas concerning the forefront leaders of the Martial Arts entertainment world . We expected ( or wanted , at any rate ) a face-off . Jet vs . Jackie . Jackie vs . Jet . The fans are given that for which they have so vociferously insisted . The work never once fails to deliver . In spite of the predictability of the plot , there are a few twists most movie goers will not be expecting , and the predictability lends nothing negative . In fact , it lends comfort by giving its viewers an almost-familiar story , even if the story is completely new to audiences . The one negative aspect of this work is that it does lean over the line of clich in utilizing a young boy who must mature quickly , learn great lessons , face loads of hardships , and save the world . It's been done . . . and done , and done . But the vehicle whereby he accomplishes all this is fresh , edgy , and fun to watch . I must admit that this is the first time the " kid must grow to be a warrior " bit got on my nerves . Also , this isn't like some of the 80's wushu where they train for 60 minutes of the movie and fight for 13 . It also isn't like the 1970's flicks where the wire work is so sloppy you can SEE the wires , and the guy doesn't just fly on a wire , but he kind of SWINGS there in place because they didn't have the proper funding for good editors . Don't get me wrong , there IS wire work , and in the beginning I couldn't help but sigh , and hope fervently it would get better . The wire work in the opening sequences had me worried . Homage to the old wushu movies , or not , I was worried . But it cleans up , and all wire work after is nearly flawless , so there is no room for concern . This movie took Jackie Chan back to his ( 1970's ) " Drunken Fists " days , by allowing him to reposition himself as a Drunken Fists Master , and an immortal , while simultaneously doing the same for Jet Li in taking him back to his roots , as well . It has been some time since we have seen Jet Li as a monk / priest . Indeed , this takes us back to his early 1980's " Shaolin " movies . Yet he assumes the mantle beautifully , and transitions himself into the setting and media as if he has been there all along . I must say their performances were in unison to one another , synchronized to one another , and complemented while highlighting the differences in one another's style . The backgrounds , props , and sets were epic and detailed , so much so that they became intricately interwoven into the fabric of the story , itself . The Jade Army bore full 3-D Celestial Dragons on either shoulder of their armor , Sparrow's jade sparrow , the ornately and closely detailed Golden Staff , the Jade Warlord's throne was so beautifully designed , the bridge abutment which connected the Jade Palace to the rest of the mountain chain was designed with an artful creativity . The set design paired with every shot bearing majestic views of ancient China ( the entire film was shot there ) , designed by those who love Her and want Her to be seen in the best possible light , contribute to an overall feeling of adventure . . . and wealth beyond the dreams of avarice . All in all , this film is wholly engaging , and the 113 minutes were over before I knew it . This is perfect viewing for Friday / Saturday night , or anytime you want a GOOD movie . There is enough of a feminine element herein that the girlfriends shouldn't lose interest or have any reason to have hated it . And for those of you with children , this movie is PG-13 for sequences of martial arts action and some violence . One last thing . . . I want you to know just how GOOD this story is , and how WELL it is told . This rivals any installment of Star Wars , or the Lord of the Rings ( just pick one ) , in my book . The CG is masterful , the story is rich , the acting , dialog , and delivery of said dialog are beautiful ( almost lyrical ) . This is one GOOD movie . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
The Show That Changed The World	I love the original Star Trek . I'm a fan of the whole Star Trek Universe , but there isn't anything like the original series . Gene Roddenberry was a man with a vision . In spite of what were cheap sets , uncomfortable uniforms , ridiculously low budgets , and backdrops which were used and reused so often that the audience became intimately familiar with them , the performances were brilliant television fare , the characters were cleverly and lovingly developed , and the stories were socially aware , cutting edge content . There has never been another show like Star Trek . They have tried , and some have come close , but nothing has ever replaced Star Trek in my heart . Star Trek gave us everything . In that one , low budget television show , we got a hero , a sraight-shooting friend , a lady's role model . We learned honesty , integrity , intelligence , and friendship . No other show has ever done that for an entire generation , like Star Trek has . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Tragically Beautiful . . . Visceral .	Tim Burton's " Sweeney Todd The Demon Barber of Fleet Street " encourages its viewers to lick their lips at the prospect of this work as the ideal treat , and perhaps we should . In the remaking of this story , going half way will bring nothing to the work ; nothing to the world , and Burton seems to realize this , as he goes nowhere if not all the way . He not only walks up to the theoretical bell , but he rings it , unabashedly . Hailed as the bloodiest musical in the history of the stage , it now becomes the bloodiest adaptation of a musical to film in history , and it isn't a joyful gambol . This is a dark telling of deeds driven by heartbreak , filled with a desperate chaos and ( pardon the awful and probably often-used pun ) bloody good meat pies . But fans of the work know all this from the start , and we feel endeared that Burton keeps the story close to the source ; a fact which , for those hapless members of the viewing audience who have no prior exposure to this twisted historical story , promises no happy ending for our characters . In all actuality , the audience receives a much better ending than a mere banal happiness could convey ; no cavorting romps through fields of wildflowers for them ! It receives the only ending possible because Burton does not attempt to rewrite history in his telling . Contributing along this twisted Memory Lane are beautiful darkling performances by Johnny Depp , Helena Bonham Carter , Ed Sanders , and Alan Rickman , with the demented silhouettes of Dariusz Wolski's cinematography , and a diabolical ( and slick ) production style by Dante Ferretti . Each of these lovely elements comes together to allow Burton to conjure the visceral essence of a 19th century London reflected so aptly by Henry Mayhew's " Labour and the London Poor , " a serious influence over famous Dickensian works , which assumed the sad and often disgusting job of reporting on London's more seedy " Cheep Side . " The heart-beat of the story itself is so strong as to lend a palpable pulse to this work . The ( anti - ) heroes are forged of the heartbreak of life itself ; its villains are made villainous by life itself , and they all waltz to the Death March played wistfully on the flute of that same life , which has forged their very beings . The acting is so poignant that it enrolls us as subscribers to this diabolical tale . And even as we gasp and cover our mouths in shock , there is the hint of a sardonic smile at the corner of our mouths , as the dark humor does not escape its target . Burton lovingly creates this musical with a near lover's touch , with vocal performances which are intimately offered , softly whispered , lovingly delivered . These darkly delicious Sondheims are filled with despair paired with a desperate longing for a world untouched by the evils of man . They are plot-driven and carry the story , rather than interrupting it . In reality , this film works as pseudo-history . It is not meant that we should take it as fact , but that it delivers the story without resorting to tongue-in-cheek camp . This is a completely beautiful balance ; delicate and even fragrant , and Burton never fails to stop to point out its beauty in an incongruous way . This is a tragedy , in which Johnny Depp delivers a near-Biblical performance . The surprise is that instead of taking Helena Bonham Carter with him , she walks along beside him on her own tragic , but capable path . All in all ? I loved this work . It is darkly wonderful , and our two stars never missed a mark . This is suitable for watching on Friday / Saturday nights , but NOT by an audience any younger than 18 without fear of mandatory life-long therapy . But I love it . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Sinister concluding Generations chapter	SO much better than I expected . This is a much darker , sinister . . . enterprise , than the other installments . When I discovered this movie was written by John Logan , that he got the job only because he was a friend of Brent Spiner's , and that he also wrote " Bats , " and " The Time Machine , " I really did not expect anything even remotely salvageable from this movie . But then I learned that Stuart Baird would direct , so I looked him up here at IMDb and was pleasantly surprised . He also directed " U . S . Marshals , " a movie I greatly enjoyed , and " Executive Decision , " a movie which was very well directed , I just thought the script was offbeat and out of step with the premise . So I went to the theaters with an open mind , and I was not disappointed . I was actually a bit surprised . In my honest opinion , this is the best one since " Star Trek 6 : The Undiscovered Country . " I found the endeavor to be darkly entertaining and well directed . The acting was ( of course ) professional and the main characters were , as always , lovable , strong , and capable . In the midst of peace talks , ( the Remans have apparently overthrown the Romulan government and initiated peace with the Federation ) Piccard and Co . discover a plot to destroy Earth . In the meantime , Shinzon , the apparent new Praetor ( leader ) of the Remans , has a personal surprise for Piccard . With a cameo by Janeway , the Captain of the Voyager , I can see a blending of the various and sundry television series ' coming in the near futureThis is a much darker , sinister . . . enterprise , than the other installments . It's more like Ridley Scott meets Tim Burton , and I LOVED it ! If THIS is what Star Trek is headed for , then where do I get my ticket ? I do not miss the tongue-in-cheek Star Trek presentation any longer . While there are still many elements of humor , I did not find this production to be campy in any way . I absolutely loved this installment , and do fervently hope that this is the beginning of a new trend for Star Trek . This latest installment gives me hope for the future of this franchise ; a hope which , frankly , I was afraid died with Kirk . But with the production levels of Next Generation and its countless children , so high , I was delightfully surprised to see those expectations leveled to the movie line . With the release of Insurrection , I was completely downhearted at the prospects of yet another full-length feature film . I fully expected this production to run like an episode of the series , such as did Insurrection , but as I said in the beginning , I was delightfully surprised . I loved the Scimitar ; the Reman WarBird which Piccard labeled in an awe-filled voice , " . . . a Predator . " That ship was awesomely created ; a true inspiration . Just wonderful . Also , the Shinzon / Piccard drama was truly creative . I realize such a premise is not a new idea , but I felt that Baird's treatment of it was above reproach . Further , I've never said this , since the induction of the Next Generation crew , but the use of an empath is highly creative , and brilliantly done throughout this series . Very well utilized in this installment , Baird . Bravo ! I am looking forward with strong expectation to the next installment of this majestic franchise . This movie greatly exceeded my expectations and was thoroughly riveting , entertaining , and enjoyable . I've seen it about 20 times now , and have not yet lost my love of it . Even with DATA's calling it a " floton " torpedo this rates a full from . . . the Fiend : .
Darkling thriller entertains .	Factual , informative prequel to one of the best psychological thrillers ever made . This prequel sets you up for the original installment of what I like to think of as the " Lecter Chronicles . " These movies are all so intelligent , suspenseful and creative . I thoroughly enjoy the psychological aspects of all three . Dr . Hannibal Lecter is a renown criminal psychiatrist and well published master of said field , who is incidentally a convicted cannibal with a taste for high society . Will Graham ( Edward Norton , Jr . ) is the FBI agent who captured Dr . Lecter , at great personal cost to himself and his family . He has a new case these days ; that of the notorious " Tooth Fairy , " and only Dr . Lecter can give Will the assistance he needs to nab this dodgy serial murderer , thus sending Will into the face of his most primal fear : Dr . Lecter . From behind glass and steel , Lecter digs and probes into Will's mind as easily as a hot knife slices through warm butter . As he delivers small , measured tidbits of information and insight into the " Tooth Fairy " to Agent Graham , he also gets his maniacal jollies from messing around in Will's personal life , his heart , and his mind . The games we play . The horror is purely psychological . While there are some visuals , the best feature of these films is the psychological aspect . If you are even remotely interested in that field , love a really good suspense drama , horror , or just a good mind game , then these movies are definitely worth having a look-see . When I watch them , I watch " Red Dragon , " " Silence of the Lambs , " and then " Hannibal . " In that order . I normally detest prequels , and resent being dragged back to the beginning of a series to catch up on things which were only eluded to in the original , but this is the exception . I thoroughly enjoyed every aspect of this production , its execution and the presentational marketing it experienced . Edward Norton Jr exhibits high talent in this attempt ; far more talent than we were shown in Robin Williams's " Death to Smoochy , " in which he was stiff and appeared to be a pure novice . I must also comment on his striking physical resemblance to Haley Joel Osment . He would be exquisitely cast as the child's father in some future endeavor . Just a note . If you work in casting and are reading this , perhaps you should file that away for later . These movies , this one in particular , are far darker than to be described as merely " disturbing . " The fact that the " dragon " chooses a blind woman as his love interest demonstrates the deep psychological research done on the part of Thomas Harris , the original author of this work . Someone with the deep-seeded self-hatred his character exhibits would be romantically comfortable only with a woman who cannot see him , his deformity , what he considers his monstrosity . His murders are not monstrosities to him . They are the epitome of his superiority ; his intelligence ; his power . But , Lecter being Lecter , as he " helps " Agent Graham develop the true profile of the " dragon , " he also feeds the " dragon " with personal information concerning Graham's family ; their whereabouts and their lives . Burning the proverbial candle at both ends , in an attempt to create his own game of cat and mouse , wherein he is the eternal voyeur , rather than an actual participant . He is the maestro of the orchestra of mayhem which he conjures and creates . Through careful and skilled manipulation , he cultivates and shapes the " Tooth Fairy , " lends him direction and guidance along his path . Lecter refers to him at one point as his " pilgrim , " meaning one who is on a religious journey to enlightenment . But he does not realize just how clever is Agent Graham . " Our scars have the power to remind us that our past was real . " Hannibal Lecter . This movie rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
Delightful addition to any fantasy collection ! !	I literally waited three years to see this movie . I couldn't afford the theater at the time , and I do not have cable ( I refuse to pay to watch TV ) , so I had to wait for it to come out on video . It was well worth the wait . I own it on DVD now , and I must say the DVD version is outstanding ! ( but I'm still spun out on how much clarity and quality of sound you get with DVD ) This movie captured my heart and never fails to make me laugh , and make me smile . I loved the movie . The direction and acting were wonderful , the scenery was dead on and the costuming and props were top row . I also loved the subsequent books by George Lucas and Claremont . Forgive me , but I can't remember Claremont's first name . Shadow Moon Shadow Dawn and Shadow Star . Excellent trilogy based on the introductory " Willow . " Kind of like Lucas's Lord of the Rings starting his the Hobbit , which is Willow . Excellent movie , excellent books which I would pay to see on screen . It's one of the Fiend's many favorites and gets a sure-footed from . . . the Fiend : .
A Man With A Vision	I know that I'll be in the minority with this review , as I so often am , but I care not . Glenn Beck is a passionate , thinking , feeling individual with an articulate mind , who relays his thoughts and feelings succinctly to his ( rather huge ) audience , both on Radio and on CNN Headline News . This gentleman presents many theories concerning Government conspiracies , International conspiracies , Global manipulations of the world populous , etc . Most people ignore him , but I think perhaps , to their detriment . I don't know ( or care ) if he is right . I have to say that he CARES , and in his caring , has earned the respect of those of us who also care ; right or wrong . He is more than worth your time . He is worth your mind . The Glenn Beck Show rates a for heart and presentation from . . . the Fiend : .
Beautiful .	The problem with the 1985 version of this movie is simple ; Indiana Jones was so closely modeled after Alan Quartermain ( or at least is an Alan Quartermain TYPE of character ) , that the ' 85 director made the mistake of plundering the IJ movies for dialog and story far too deeply . What you got as a finished product was a jumbled mess of the name Alan Quartermain , in an uneven hodge podge of a cheaply imitated IJ saga ( with a touch of Austin Powers-esquire cheese here and there ) . It was labeled by many critics to have been a " great parody , " or " unintentional comedy . " Unintentional is the word . This movie was never intended to be humorous ; witty , yes , but not humorous . Unfortunately , it's witless rather than witty . With this new M4TV mini-series , you get much more story , character development of your lead , solid portrayals , and a fine , even , entertaining blend . This story is a bit long ; much longer than its predecessors , but deservedly so as this version carries a real storyline and not just action and Eye Candy . While it features both action and Eye Candy , it also corrects the mistake made in the 1985 version by forgetting IJ all together and going back to the source materials for AQ , making for a fine , well - thought - out plot , and some nice complementing sub-plots . Now this attempt is not the all out action-extravaganza that is Indiana Jones . Nor is it a poor attempt to be so . This vehicle is plot and character driven and is a beautiful rendition of the AQ / KSM saga . Filmed on location in South Africa , the audience is granted beautiful ( if desolate ) vistas , SA aboriginal cultures , and some nice wildlife footage to blend smoothly with the performances and storyline here . Steve Boyum totally surprised me with this one , as I have never been one to subscribe to his vision . In fact , I have disliked most of his work as a director , until this attempt . I hope this is more a new vein of talent and less the fluke that it seems to be . This version rates a on the " TV " scale from . . . the Fiend : .
Excellent !	Since the days of Tenspeed and Brownshoe , I've looked forward to another hit Goldblum TV Series . I'm thoroughly enjoying this foray into the world of the paranormal via Goldblum , and I'll tell you why . Goldblum himself exhibits some quirky mannerisms , which lends something tangible and pro-active to the venue . So far the show is just getting started , and I'm not looking forward to a Summer hiatus , but I'm excited as to where this show will go in the future . So far every episode I've seen has been highly entertaining , exuding the Goldblum charm and mystique , leading me to look forward to the next installment . The show is worthy of a better time slot , but I'm willing to stick with it while it pays its dues . Frankly , the quality of performances , writing , and direction have already elevated this work , in my opinion . Hopefully soon the execs will realize this , too . This is totally entertaining and very enjoyable . I highly recommend it to anyone interested in Goldblum , psychics , New Age , clairvoyance , or just being completely entertained . It rates a on the TV Scale from . . . the Fiend : .
They just don't make movies like this anymore .	Angela Lansbury at 17 ! and Ingrid Bergman's first Academy Award . What more could you ask for ? Very little in the way of effects means that there is nothing here to entertain you but pure talented thespianism . These performances fully demonstrate what acting should be . I bill this timeless production right up there with Hitchcock's " Rebecca . " This is a beautiful , atmospheric , epic-quality suspense , and is one of My absolute favorites . Paula , a haunted , timeless lovely , has found peace in loving her man . Or has she ? This is one of the choice classic thrillers which deserves the status of " Classic . " A real masterpiece . This is a thinking movie rather than the popcorn fare of late . But if you've ever had a bad relationship , then you will find the humor in this attempt . At least . . . I did . It was a very enjoyable 80 or so minutes which builds a good level of suspense . It rates a solid from . . . the Fiend : .
Undeniably inspired	Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow is a visual feast and an excellent finished product which the nay-sayers cannot negate no matter how hard they try . The dialog was a demonstration of clever and witty repart in pure tongue-in-cheek style and never once took itself too seriously as its darkling mysteries unfold . Kerry Conran is Lucas-like in that he has the visual film making gift . I can see him as one of the leaders of the new digital film making revolutionary age . He's already proved himself in that venue . It has been said that his story telling skills need work , and perhaps they do . Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow appears to this critic to be shaky in that area only . His direction is quite superb . After seeing how this film was made , I have no doubts that his talent is genuine and his work in this property is highly underrated . Underrated to the point of being insulting . Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow captured the magic of the imagination and held it within its grasp . This superb work has shown everyone in the world how far we've come in the last twenty years . A scant twenty years ago , we packed the theaters and marveled at James Cameron's genius that was Terminator 2 . Ten years before that , we packed some of those same theaters to delight in Lucas's first and most successful attempt to date , to inspire us and uplift our imaginations out of the mire . Fifteen years later , Conran has realized for us that sets may no longer be a necessity in film making . Since their conception , movie-making techniques have been constantly evolving . First they pioneered sound , then color , then motion control . With Jurassic Park , we demonstrated basic digital capabilities and showed the world then where it was headed . Now , because of Conran's vision , the sky is the limit . Who knows what will happen tomorrow . Overall , I highly enjoyed this movie . The cinematography was dark and atmospheric , and it was true to the story style . The images that were created were awe inspiring and the magic that has been woven has extended everyone's vision into this new century . This was a cinematic and visual feast , if not a masterpiece in story-telling . Once he hones his skills in the area of superior story-telling , I have no doubts that Conran will take us boldly into the World of Tomorrow . It rates a for what it is , rather than what other critics think it should be , from . . . the Fiend : .
Dated , atmospheric shocker still inspires	Gruesome and not all together accurate , depiction of the Old Pagan Ways , but beautiful in some ways , nonetheless . As a Pagan , I must say that I was not surprised to find that Pagans were depicted as the villains here . Such is the way of man , to fear what he does not understand , and to seek to destroy that which he fears . Other than that one gripe , I found the whole human sacrifice ploy to be indicative of the condition about which I first spoke . All religions of old practiced human sacrifice at one time or another , including the religion of choice of mainstream America ; Christianity . I found it a convenient and contrived device to use here , after such beauty was displayed . But perhaps that was the intent of the director ; to lull us with the wonders of Pagan revelry and then murder that lulled sense of placation with the horrors that follow . Whichever the case , it worked . This movie is a beautiful glimpse into the world which was , and then you are plunged into the darker side of that same world . As Satanists / Luciferians are considered to be a Christian heresy , so is the type of rite featured at the end of this movie , to the Pagan community at large . The burning of the " stuffy guy , " " corn man , " " wicker man , " or " John Barleycorn " is a beautiful and sacred tradition among many in the Pagan fold , as there are as many denominations of Paganism as there are in Christianity . The corn man was filled with animals raised as sacrament to the God of the Hunt . Fresh fruits and grains ( the best of the previous year's harvest ) were placed into the corn man's extremities , he was erected and burned as a burnt offering to the Goddess as a wedding present . She marries the God on Beltane , or May Day if you prefer . Macy's still has a beautiful May Day parade , and many schools still celebrate May Day with festivals ; some still featuring the May Pole . Just as there are fall festivals , there are still spring festivals the world over . Most do not remember why , but some of us do . I found the duplicity of this particular group of Pagans to be delightfully dark and highly enjoyable ; sneaky , underhanded and just wrong , but enjoyable to watch . But if you are not of the Pagan Folds , never fear . This movie does not glamorize Paganism . To the contrary , it drags us back to the Dark Ages when human sacrifice was an acceptable means of offering , and human life was not yet considered sacred . So it will sit well with your fine sensibilities and not compromise your self-righteous indignations . Watch it for yourself to witness one of the most beautifully dark movies to ever be committed to film . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
One of the best !	Peter Ustinov portrays Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot , traveling on board a steamer ship down the Nile on an interrupted vacation via the murder of a socialite who has offended the entire world it seems , and has been deemed a " leach on the edges of society , " to quote one of the characters in the movie . Assisted by David Niven , he must sleuth out the instigator of this interruption before all the ship's passengers end up dead . One by one , they are being knocked off to cover the evidences of the original murder . Fine performances by all involved , but hats off to Mia Farrow ! Possibly the most brilliant performance of her career . Stunning . Absolutely stunning . An all-star cast delivers an all-star performance in this top row production . The scenes were deliberate and well planned , the scripting was marvelous , the dialog was funny where it should be and intense where intended , the costuming was marvelously period , and the direction was without peer . But it was the scenery , the settings , the sets and the props that made me love this film . Set in Egypt of the 70's , you can see the Sphinx before it was blasted by 30 more years of sand , bombs and fighting . You get to climb to the top of the pyramid of Khufu in Giza , see the Karnak Temple in Luxor , the Dendara Temple is featured in the background shots of several scenes . You are shown parts of the Philae Temple ( temple of Isis ) , and the Abu Simbel near Aswan ( built by Ramses the Great to celebrate his victories and his beloved wife , Nefetari . Lovely images of the Nile , its people and the surrounding areas . Ustinov being one of my favorite Poirot's over the years , I rank this movie at least equal with the Murder On The Orient Express , though I think more money and time were wrongly dedicated to MotOE . Had Ustinov portrayed Poirot in MotOE , it would have been my favorite . There isn't a moment of wasted film in this movie . Every scene gives you some insight into these well-developed characters . Watch for the scene where Bette Davis is " mooned " by the local children ! The scene towards the very beginning of the movie , between Maggie Smith and her " Lady , " is hilarious . Absolutely side stitching , if you can appreciate the dry , British sense of humor . Top row movie , with top row casting , direction , screenplay and SCENERY . Take an Egyptian vacation in your living room . This masterpiece gets a solid ( a rarity ) from . . . the Fiend .
Lovable	This is a masterpiece of graphics , textures and plots . Very very nice . I've grown up with Disney , as have most of us . And I've seen many of the Masterpiece collection , first hand on the big screen . I am also a fan of Disney's non-Christian views and presentations of the world . They make you use that imagination , whether you want to , or not . They have a way of making a person face the harsh realities of life , and realize that life will go on ; regardless . They transport you , if only for a few moments , into another world , another place and / or another time . Not many movies really do that for you , but for me , Disney animations do . The good ones , that is . I've yet to see a sequel of a Disney movie that was worth a penny of my money or a moment of my time . But in all fairness , I have yet to see Cinderella 2 and Lion King 2 . The graphics in this instant classic are absolutely beautiful , as are the textures and color blends . As someone who does computer graphics for my own site , I am truly in awe of the Disney animators who did Lilo and Stitch and dozens of other Disney animations . I have one question though . Where the heck were they when the sequel was being made ? Stitch is beautifully expressive both in animation and in voice . That's something you totally lose in the sequel . Lilo's face is also expressively drawn and animated , something else totally obliterated in the sequel . Also , I was very pleased that there were no " Disney originals " in the soundtrack . This soundtrack was dead ON for the movie . Thankfully , they didn't use the " Beach Boys . " Wow ! What a difference THAT would've made ! ( and for the worse , I do believe . ) This movie is wonderful entertainment , and instills a feeling of family , even when that family is self-made ; self - " adopted " people you just find and take into your life . Wonderful message . Wonderful movie . It gets a from . . . the Fiend : .
Superior film documentary	Every bit as informative and comprehensive as " The Beast Within : The Making of Alien . " As does the first , this continuation of the Making Of history of the Alien Quadrilogy takes you from conception to post production and marketing . This work is extremely well put together , completely inclusive , and very entertaining for fans of this venue . I especially enjoyed pre-production featurette , " Preparing for Battle , " and the production featurettes in particular . They show you the weapons designs , and detail every aspect of that portion of the prop elements involved . Every chapter of this documentary is inclusively in ? depth . Each portion carrying itself as a stand alone featurette , as if there are no more chapters , so they had best tell you all they know . I was quite impressed with every aspect of this documentary work . It is just amazing to me that every part , from the information included to the quality of the film upon which it is presented was just perfect . Every little piece ; every little detail . This is a fan-boy's dream come true . from . . . the Fiend : .
Simply Magickal	I saw this movie in the theater 127 times . Paid for it 127 times . It was a very moving piece of cinema . Well told , beautifully portrayed and brilliantly captured . While it is beginning to show signs of wear about the edges , this movie is the epitome of the King Aurhur legend . It has every element , every character , every nuance one would expect to find . But it also has some beneficial extras which allow you to become involved in this beautiful , treacherous web of intrigue , magick , love , and death . Each scene was shot with a creative eye and love for the craft of film making . The set designs were awesomely executed , leaving one with a rock-solid sense of realism . The symbolism used is astounding considering the amount of research which had to have been done . The Quest for the Holy Grail within this telling is metaphorically representative of each man's search for immortality , a sense of self , and inner enlightenment . It shows we must go on our own journeys , make our own mistakes , and pass our own tests in order to gain the insights one needs to feel whole and complete as an adult and a person . This work bears some of the best musical score I've ever heard . Trevor Jones ' score set the entire mood of this film , carried it through the few spots , and uplifted it to a level it otherwise may not have found . While the various versions of Arthur were excellently portrayed and artfully executed , Nicol Williamson's portrayal of Merlin was pure silk . The beautiful cinematography and Nicol Williamson's performance allow you to believe you are a part of the actual events surrounding the King Arthur legend . Nicol Williamson was the shining star of this work . He made it real , for me . It rates a from . . . the Fiend : .
