" " Perhaps you're right , this waiting makes me goose pimply all over . "	Don't be misled by Scotland Yard in the title of this movie , the only mystery here is how this film could ever be made . It starts out reasonably well , with the surreptitious passing of a coin from one shady character to another with instructions about a secret meeting . Apparently , a gang led by The Scorpion is after a death ray device unveiled by inventor Jerry Sheehan ( Ralph Byrd ) and his fiancée Hope Mason ( Joan Barclay ) . The death ray knocks out an abandoned ship at sea at a range of 190 miles , and it's awesome power is seen as a deterrent to war for the civilized nations of the world . With that interesting premise , the movie quickly spirals out of control and into a never never land highlighted by a lot of activity with no purpose . Good guys and bad guys spend a lot of time slinking down alley ways , up and down stairs , back and forth through underground passages and in and out of a French cabaret . Heroes and villains are often disclosed no more than ten feet away from each other , each oblivious as to the presence of their foes . The only redeeming feature worth noting in this entire debacle is the actual demonstration of the death ray gizmo in an inspired moment of 1930's technical wizardry ; you can turn off the film right there . And what's with the goofy Black Scorpion ? This notorious villain slinks around entirely hunched over in a comical crouching position , with a lobster claw hand across his masked face . A feared denizen of the London underworld he is not , I'm at a loss as to how he put together a band of criminals . So what does the title have to do with the picture ? Sir James Blake ( Herbert Rawlinson ) is a retired detective of Scotland Yard , and Uncle Jimmy to Hope Mason and her young brother Bobby . Odd that his character's name is in the title , while Byrd's performance receives top billing . The most intriguing thing about the movie for me was seeing a very young Dickie Jones in the role of Bobby Mason . He would grow up to be the Range Rider's sidekick in the early 1950's TV Western ; for my money the best stunt rider ever . " Blake of Scotland Yard " receives at least one distinction from me , it's now in my Bottom Ten films of all time . Those who may be tempted to give it a try , I'll quote a character from the film - " I advise you not to follow " .
" Prepare yourself for a big surprise . "	My summary line above is an actual quote from the movie . The surprise of course is whether you ever make it through the entire flick . Let's see - 1977 , " Star Wars " , and 1977 , " Cosmos : War of the Planets " . One is a landmark movie that took sci-fi film making into the twenty first century , the other set back the progress of civilization for time immemorial . My question is - Is this movie about anything at all ? It's virtually an endless stream of darkened scenes where crew members of a space ship called ' MK 31 ' attempt to defeat an alien intelligence that threatens Earth . The alien intelligence actually states to Captain Hamilton ( John Richardson ) that it will conquer the galaxy when he repairs a bad circuit board . So what does he do - he repairs the bad circuit board ! ! ! ! The only redeeming factor for this mess is the go-go style space suits , all white with a red skull cap and trim that look particularly fine on the good looking female crew members . Other than that , this film goes where no film has gone before , and will stay there by the look of the comments already posted . Fortunately or not as the case may be , this was the last movie left to view of my fifty DVD sci-fi collection from Mill Creek / Tree Line Films . A bargain at about twenty five bucks , this is the kind of movie that demands a refund , even if it's only fifty cents .
" Man choked to death , a woman's purse , and footprints on the wasteland . "	Make no mistake , I've seen hundreds of movies , and this is far and away the worst I've ever forced myself to sit through , and at fifty four minutes , the best part of the film was minute # 54 where the screen lit up with " THE END " . Afficionados of terrible films can at least speak with some degree of favor for stuff like " Plan 9 From Outer Space " or " Attack of the Killer Tomatoes " , but " Beast " cannot even attain the rank of cult favorite . The movie fortunately preserves the anonymity of it's players , I've never heard of any of them , save for star Tor Johnson , who appeared in many of these schlock " B " grade and lesser films of the era . The lack of any meaningful dialog is surpassed only by the insipid , lifeless and senseless narration of director Coleman Francis who , if he was trying to create the worst movie ever made , at least attained his life's ambition here . The film's only redemptive quality - it led to some genuinely laugh out loud commentary from IMDb reviewers who went before . Read them first , you'll know more about the film than you need to , and it will be just as if you saw the film yourself , while saving the fifty four minutes of your life that can't be reclaimed . UPDATE : / 2007 - Without changing my original posting , but in fairness to the film in question , I can no longer consider it the worst film ever . It's dropped to fourth place on my list behind " Voyage To The Prehistoric Planet " , " The Incredible Petrified World " , and " She Gods Of Shark Reef " . Try watching them all in a row without medication .
" You've misled them about us , so how can we know you're not misleading us about them ? "	The quote above just about says it all for " Slipstream " . I should have bailed out of this film after the first half hour , but decided I ought to be fair and give it a chance . I won't watch it again , so if anyone with the temerity to do so can get back to me with the number of clichéd lines in the movie , I'm sure it will set a record . Some otherwise fine and talented actors got mixed up with this clunker ; Mark Hamill portrays a futuristic bounty hunter and Bill Paxton is his quarry . Paxton's character has hijacked Hamill's prisoner , an android taking his name from the poet Byron ( Bob Peck ) . Tasker ( Hamill ) shoots Owens ( Paxton ) with a dart containing a tracking device so he and his companion Belitski ( Kitty Aldridge ) can keep tabs on the pair . The real question though is why didn't he just fire the device at Byron thereby cutting out the middleman . If you enjoy scene after disjointed scene with tedious characterization and artsy fartsy pretense , then I suppose you'll find something of interest here . But you can't convince me that the film makes sense on any level . Scenes of a futuristic Stone Age make way for high society snobbery , but the pinnacle of poor taste is reached when Paxton's character is displayed following a night of revelry with hickeys all over his torso . If anyone thinks there's some hidden meaning here , you're really stretching . Patiently waiting for the frame proclaiming " The End " to come into view , alas , even that was denied . If beauty is in the eye of the beholder , then so is understanding ; this movie had neither . Yet there was a single redeeming feature as the closing credits began their run - an awesome view of a half dozen hot air balloons . Apparently the film was keeping them afloat .
" Well what are we waiting for , let's check out of here . "	The summary above is an actual quote from a character in the movie , and if I had to guess , it had to do with the film , and not to any precarious situation the four underwater explorers found themselves in . The best this flick has to offer is the science lesson on deep sea life offered at the beginning , preceded briefly by an amazing life and death battle between a shark and an octopus . However that was stock footage , probably the only time in screen history where such a sequence was better than the actual movie . As for the story , it's almost not worth getting into , but just for the record , two men and two women descend into the Caribbean in an experimental diving bell developed by Professor Wyman ( John Carradine ) . The bell snaps it's cable at seventeen hundred feet , and miraculously lands near a vast network of caverns , that even though submerged under the ocean is dry as a bone . They encounter in order , a large lizard resembling a gila monster , a human skeleton , and a caveman who's been there for fourteen years - how exactly did he manage to mark time ? If you've read this far , then believe me when I tell you that that's all you need to know about this film . Just re-read the paragraph above and you're home free , no wasted energy or time lost watching this soggy turkey . I'm almost tempted to say that the one redeeming feature of the film is the casting of Phyllis Coates , who was Lois Lane in the first season of " The Adventures of Superman " . However she spends most of her time in a sour mood trading barbs with her female counterpart , Sheila Noonan . Not pretty . To sum up , " The Incredible Petrified World " . . . . . is not .
" An amateur investigator like myself can't have too many facts of a case to work on . "	I always go into a Sherlock Holmes film expecting the best , but fearing the worst . With " The Sign of Four " , my fears for the worst were unfortunately realized . Poor production values and a largely unintelligible sound quality contributed to my difficulty in following the story . But where I really lost it was when Sherlock Holmes ( Arthur Wontner ) was able to determine that a note sent to florist Mary Morstan ( Isla Bevan ) was written by an amputee , because the letters STAND UP on their own legs ! With that line , the film immediately made it to my Top Ten Worst list without Passing Go , with the dubious distinction of joining my previously worst ever film - " The Beast of Yucca Flats " . At least with The Beast , there's a lot to ridicule . Here , one doesn't know what's to be taken seriously and what's to be taken in good clean fun . With " The Sign of Four " , nothing is " Elementary My Dear Watson " , especially in Ian Hunter's portrayal of the acclaimed detective's accomplice . Watson fancies himself a romantic , and quite literally gets the girl at the end of the film . By that time my interest in the movie was gone , although I was jolted at inopportune moments by the appearance of a tattooed man and a black man with a snake around his neck . By the time they got to the speedboat chase , I was glad I had a bottle of brandy beside me . I'll admit the mystery started reasonably enough before getting bogged down in unbearable boredom . To be fair , I probably should give the film a second viewing , but it will be a long while before it comes to that . Until then , " The Sign of Four " doesn't even hit that numerical equivalent on my radar screen , and they don't allow negatives here . So for now , it's just a + .
" Shark gods angry long time now . . . "	There are bad movies and there are worse movies . Then if given the choice between watching THIS movie for sixty three minutes or watching grass grow , just wait for a nice day to sit outside . Highlight of the film - after Chris and Lee subdue Queen Pua , Chris stands up quickly as the boom mic tries to get out of sight range . That's it , really ! I've got to hand it to Roger Corman , this film survives even if it has no right to . I can't imagine what the principal players of this flick could possibly have been thinking of before , during and after . Among the reviews of the movie on this site , one is purportedly from Bill Cord who played Chris in the film . See what it did to him ? At least Don Durant survived this mess to star in his own TV Western - " Johnny Ringo " . Not only that , but he composed that series ' theme song . So there was life after " She Gods " . As for this viewer , I managed to force myself through it's entire run . There's a name for that , just call me hammerhead .
" Now listen sister , don't try any of your funny business , or someone's liable to get hurt . "	Oh boy , this one is truly pathetic , and not even in a Mystery Science Theater kind of way . I had some hopes with the appearance of the spooky Dr . Jackson ( Laura Bowman ) ; she reveals an enigmatic back story of running off to Africa after Eleanor Lindsay's parents died in a tornado when she was only ten months old . She returned home twenty years later to work on her reputation as the neighborhood curmudgeon , an enterprise that seemed to have been effective . However she shows her appreciation for being invited to the Lindsay's wedding by leaving her home and possessions to them in her will . The thing is , one of those possessions is an ape man named Ingeena , living in the basement which is accessed through a secret panel by sounding a Chinese gong . When Ingeena gulps down Dr . Jackson's greatest discovery in medicine since Louis Pasteur , he goes , well , ape . From there on out he goes on a murder rampage that eventually leaves three people dead ( Dr . Jackson , Attorney Bradshaw , and Jackson's brother ) . It's all about as exciting as the paragraph you just read , because there is no suspense in the entire proceedings to make any of it remotely interesting to watch . There's an entirely laughable scene when Dr . Jackson's brother shoots the creature . When he empties the gun of bullets , he throws it at the ape man , and misses him from five feet away ! Even Superman's TV villains were more accurate than that . Perhaps the most interesting part of the story had nothing at all to do with horror or mystery elements . The newlywed Lindsay's are entertained in their home on the evening of their wedding by the Four Toppers in a couple of lively numbers . One might question why the new couple is spending the night at home , though husband Bob offered an explanation that it was a wedding surprise . Shortly later they abandon it when they inherit the Jackson house . There seemed to be a likable chemistry between the Lindsay's , though it probably wasn't helped by sleeping in separate beds . " Son of Ingagi " is probably best approached as a curiosity piece , billed as one of , if not THE first film with an all black cast . Even that seemed dubious by the appearance of Dr . Jackson and her brother . Some attempt at humor is made with the presence of inept Detective Nelson , as alert in his sleep as he is awake , that is to say , entirely oblivious of what's going on . Even so , you knew he wasn't meant to go out in a blaze of glory , nor for that matter , did the film . Update - / 07 : Today I managed to come across an all black cowboy Western starring Herb Jeffries and Mantan Moreland called " Two Gun Man From Harlem " . It was from 1938 , preceding this one by two years .
" . . . and then it happened , I gave myself to him . "	The severely dated production values and stiff performances by the actors immediately calls to mind another ' educational ' gem of the era - " Reefer Madness " . In the name of sex education and the eradication of the evils of socially transmitted disease , the film begins with the earnest entreaty that " Ignorance Must Be Abolished " . But actually , if the presentation wasn't so corny and outmoded , one would be hard pressed to consider whether anything's been learned since the film was made , as the toll in human lives to STD's worldwide is at epidemic proportions . I guess you'd really have to be a viewer back in the 1930's to get the full impact of how titillating a lot of the film was . The burlesque sequence offered a lot more tease than the actual dance show , with a lesbian pursuing a hot conquest and a dirty old man type getting worked up enough to attack the first young lady he sees after the show . The main story involves a would be actress falling victim to an unscrupulous director only to find herself at the mercy of the dreaded syphilis , ultimately infecting her new husband and baby . Not entirely unimaginable , but confounded by the unsavory practices of medical quacks who take advantage of the uneducated and uninformed . As a period piece , this is another example of sensationalist film making and worth a look to see how far we've come as a society and a nation . It's unlikely that anyone reading this was even alive seventy years ago when the film was made , and that in itself is a remarkable testament to the staying power of a cult classic from a bygone era .
" Just you try that baby cakes . "	Had Roger Corman's name been attached to this picture , I wouldn't have been surprised . It's like " Swamp Women " times two set in a more idyllic tropical locale , whose creatures of the title make only an intermittent appearance just to remind us it's supposed to be their story . But it never is , the very few times anything resembling a spider shows up it's heralded by goofy metallic outer space sci-fi music , and then . . . . nothing ! The central plot involving an agent , his girlfriend and seven would be dancers winds up with a Clipper 247 crashing into the ocean on the way to Singapore . From there the film makes it's way into soft porn territory as one by one , the girls shed their clothes and cavort on their island paradise , unfazed by the occasional dead body among them that under normal circumstances might raise an eyebrow or two . The film is a mess , and couldn't have done worse if each player was given carte blanch to make up their own story as they went along . Come to think of it , maybe they were . Hard to believe that as late as 1960 , films were still being made where story continuity took place seamlessly with scenes alternating between day and night . It's the only movie I've ever seen where two guys go inside to have a fight , with the expected result of cracking up over how ridiculous that was . In the end , you'll shout , you'll scream , you'll wonder how you ever made it to the end . Fortunately , there was still room in my Top Ten list of all time worst movies for this bomb , if only Spider Island can stay afloat .
" A government agent lives in constant peril . "	It would be hard to imagine this film being anything more than a parody of the sci-fi , horror and mystery genres . It's got a government secret agent more inept than Maxwell Smart keeping tabs on mobster Renzo Capetto ( Antony Carbone ) who's a Humphrey Bogart wanna-be , and a crew member who can mimic any animal he's ever heard perfectly . This he does rather often , though no purpose is served other than to provide comic relief in a film that relies heavily on it . Throw in attractive Betsy Jones-Moreland as a love interest for both Agent XK 150 ( Robert Towne ) and Renzo , and you've got the makings for about as much nonsense as can be packed into a seventy minute film , if you can stand it for that long . As Renzo places his services at the hands of Cuban refugees and a strongbox filled with gold , he intends to kill off members of the exiled group while filling their heads with tales of a mythic sea monster . This story of robbery , double cross and murder is interrupted by the appearance of a real creature , looking very much like Cookie Monster on steroids . Meanwhile agent XK occasionally reports in to Washington with his observations , usually stating that the case is about to break wide open . Roger Corman whipped this gem out on the shoestring that followed " The Last Woman on Earth " , filmed in the same location and with the key players appearing in both films ( Towne , Carbone and Moreland ) . One can only imagine the state of mind of the actors coming out of these two rather inane offerings . Roger Corman has certainly done better , and these two could have been phoned in more effectively . As another reviewer pointed out , these pictures would best be viewed in the company of some wacky friends with just enough attention span to pan the living daylights out of them .
" You know , there's somethin ' strange going on around here " .	Why do I constantly do this to myself ? I mean , really , it's right there in the title - " The Incredible Melting Man " . What else would I expect ? I have to admit , I'm a sucker for just about anything I come across on the Monster HD channel , but the only redeeming feature of this picture would be that truly grotesque makeup job by the legendary Rick Baker . As for creepy , I'll give the nod to that horny old geezer couple sucking on lemons just before lights out . Now they were truly scary . Something I could never figure out in horror flicks was why a monster's victims wouldn't simply just run away when faced with virtual annihilation . Like the chick in the cabin . You know , there was a door completely visible right there in the kitchen that she could have run right out of at any time . Incredible Steve-O couldn't muster much more than a brisk walk , so why not just blow right by him ? I don't know , maybe I'm missing something . This flick had some of the feel of a ' Tales From The Crypt ' episode , but ' Tales ' usually had a cool or grotesque twist which often times you didn't see coming . This was one picture that you couldn't quite get a handle on coming OR going . For example , in an early scene , you can clearly make out that Melting Man's eyeball fell out of his head , so how did he manage to get around for the rest of the story ? I guess we're not supposed to ask . At eighty four minutes , this picture was about an hour and a half too long . When it was all over , I was ready to take up General Perry on his earlier suggestion - " I could really use a drink about now " .
" In the continuing war for survival between man and the hexapod , only another fool would bet against the insect . "	" Mesa of Lost Women " has two early hooks that make it seem that the movie is actually going somewhere . Even before any opening credits roll , there's the seductive scene with Tarantella ( Tandra Quinn ) using her nine inch nails on a hapless victim . The nails are never seen again . While in a mountaintop surrounded by desolation , Dr . Arana ( Jackie Coogan ) explains he's isolated the growth hormone of the anterior pituitary , the substance that controls the growth pattern of humans . The writers must have been so impressed with this line that they used it practically verbatim twice . You can turn off your player right there . The rest of the film implodes in a veritable nightmare of nonsense and head scratching goofiness . With monotone voice over narration complemented by inane dialog , and a soundtrack composed of an incessantly strumming Mexican guitar , the viewer is challenged beyond physical endurance . Hey , here's an idea . Maybe someone could develop a video game based on the concept of the dwarf heads that pop into view every few minutes to eyeball the stranded group on the mesa . At least Dr . Arana had the right idea . His experiments were successful in staffing the mesa laboratory with a bevy of Miss Universe contestants . Wow , didn't Tarantella's anterior pituitary go into overdrive during that dance at the Mexican cantina ? I was mesmerized until the guy on the phone says - " Sheriff , the body just got up and walked out of here . " Contrary to all leading indicators however , this movie does NOT make my Worst Ten list . For that , a film has to be so egregiously bad that you can't even make fun of it . " Mesa of Lost Women " at least qualifies as feature of the week at the Muerto State Asylum .
" I've been hunting the sacred monkey for a year and I don't intend to lose her now . "	If the handful of postings from prior reviewers haven't been enough , let me chime in with my two cents for " Kong Island " . In the tradition of hundreds of ' B ' Westerns of the Thirties and Forties , the story has absolutely nothing to do with the title , which on the surface , looks to be cashing in on the gorilla frenzy of those prior eras . To be sure , there are men in monkey suits , but there is nothing of King Kong stature in size or excitement to hold this turkey together . Brad Harris portrays adventurer Burt Dawson , on the trail of the man who crossed him in an East African payroll robbery . So just for the record , the lead character is really no better than the goon he sets out after . Allowing for the redemption factor , a mission to rescue the kidnapped daughter ( Ursula Davis ) of a wealthy financier , Dawson sets out to confront the guy who double crossed him . Harris , a veteran of several Hercules movies , gets to do the obligatory shirtless scene about halfway through in a jungle pool . He's observed by Eva of the Italian title for this gorilla trek , who's long flowing hair is strategically aligned to cover her , well shall we say coconuts . Mark Lawrence , who appeared in well over two hundred films primarily as a heavy , is the lead villain in this piece . He's the mastermind behind a scheme to control gorillas with implants that receive their instruction from a transmitter housed in a giant brain . You can see where this is going can't you ? It will be up to anti-hero Dawson to foil Albert Munier's ( Lawrence ) plans , through plot twists that pile up along the way involving his benefactor Theodore ( Aldo Cecconi ) and wife Ursula ( Adriana Alben ) . Since I'm on the subject , why are there so many Theodore's and Ursula's involved with this project ? " Kong Island " is beset by poor lighting , uneven and shaky camera work , and distracting color rendition . Depending on your point of view , this actually might add to the unique character of the film , not to mention the soundtrack that's keenly out of sync with events on screen . But who am I to tell you to stay away from this atrocity ? Probably the best recommendation for the monkey shines here is an actual quote from Burt Dawson early in the movie - " It's hard to believe a story like that " .
" You can't stay here , it isn't the way I planned it . "	With one viewing , this movie crashes into my Top 10 Worst Films of All Time , and not without good reason . The dialog , if you can pay attention that long , is absolutely the worst from a cast of characters that obviously must not have known what they were getting into . Sadly , there's not one redeeming feature to the film , unless you consider the almost sensible explanation why a mountaintop home ringed on three sides by lead bearing ore cliffs might protect it's inhabitants from the effects of a nuclear war that's destroyed the rest of the world . Updrafts of air from the warm lake nearby carries radiation fallout away from the area , so stunning a concept that it's mentioned at least three times . Captain John Ramsey ( Neil Fletcher ) is the self appointed survivalist calling the shots for the entire human race , as he and daughter Joanna ( Charla Doherty ) reluctantly open their home to a weird mix of guests who come calling in the wake of Armageddon . Among them are a pair of brothers , a lounge dancer and her manager , and a hillbilly neighbor from over the hill . Pretty well thought out , I'd say . It gets genuinely surreal when Jada ( Quinn O'Hara ) just about gets going with her strip tease act before killjoy Cap steps in . Oh , and before I forget , there's a mutant in a business suit stalking the woods for food , who's terrified of plain old non toxic rain water . A million years of evolution from one bomb definitely took this guy in the wrong direction . And at what point one might ask , is how a thousand years of evolution brought us right back to fashion of the 1960's . This is one movie you won't have to waste your time on , IF you heed the advice of other reviewers on this site . Consider us guinea pigs for your eclectic taste in low budget film , this is one that's so bad , it's bad .
" You are not familiar with the focus and disintegrator ray ? "	OH . . . MY . . . GOD ! ! ! " Teenagers From Outer Space " actually exists and I just finished watching it ! Now don't get me wrong , it's not a worst movie ever candidate , it's too campy and oddly entertaining for that . This is " Father Knows Best " meets " The Outer Limits " with no pretense to be anything other than 1950's grade " Z " sci-fi . In fact , there are times when it's played just a bit too straight and could have used a bit more tongue in cheek , but the goofy dialog in the second half manages to pick up the pace . Alien beings from another planet land on Earth in search of a world on which their Gargon livestock can graze . That the Gargons resemble lobsters is no surprise , since the aliens look just like human beings with perfect command of the English language . Fortunately , no pseudo scientific jargon is offered to explain how this could be , a welcome relief from more " sophisticated " science fiction . Alien Derek ( David Love , short for C . R . Kaltenthaler ) tries to save Earth from lobster fest and divert the ship to another planet , but his peers will have none of that . While Thor ( Bryan Grant ) attempts to track him down , the viewer is treated to just a sampling of the invaders ' awesome power ; their ray guns reduce living beings to mere skeletal remains . So devastating is the effect that newspaper reporter Joe Rogers ' ( Tom Graeff ) response to seeing teenager Alice's skeleton at the bottom of a pool is - " Holy Mackerel " ! ! ! I was impressed by the advanced design of the alien aircraft , when the hatch opens one is visually graced with the futuristic technology of space age hammer and nails . NASA could take a lesson here , since they had to rely on duct tape on their last space mission . The hit of the film though has to be Grandpa Morgan ( Harvey B . Dunn ) . With alien murder and mayhem abounding , Grandpa's afternoon nap won't be denied ! Awakened by reporter Rogers ' arrival , he surmises that granddaughter Betty ( Dawn Bender ) and Derek must be off to the cave of the captive Gargon - " . . . that's where they must have gone , those crazy kids ! " " Teenagers From Outer Space " is no " War of the Worlds " , but that doesn't mean I wouldn't recommend it . At the very least , " surface readings register above minimum requirements " . What truly moves the film into science fiction territory though is Dr . Brandt's first appearance on screen - he's about to make a house call !
" This is no real doctor , this is a Sumerian mutant ! "	Keep in mind that the last movie I saw and reviewed just before this one was " Gone With The Wind " . I can't really say why I watch stuff like " Evil Brain From Outer Space " , I guess it's a need to achieve some kind of balance . What surprised me right off the bat was that this was a Japanese monster movie , but without your traditional Godzilla , Gamera or Rodan . It features a Japanese super-hero named Starman sent to Earth to defeat a horde of multiplying Sumerian mutations from the planet Zimar , whose leader Balazar was assassinated by a de-controlled robot . Balazar's brain lives on and plans to conquer Earth via nuclear war . Whew ! Can you keep up with that ? You know , if all the characters in this flick weren't Japanese , I could almost swear it was a sample of Mexican lucha libre , as Starman battles a couple of nasty spandex suited mutants in choreographed martial arts dance routines . It's all fairly well suited for the pre teen-ager , just like most of the Japanese monster films of the same era . I did get a kick out of one scene when the civilian Kuwota opens a book and runs his finger left to right over a line of Japanese writing . Even this novice knows that Japanese is read right to left ! At least the movie gets as much mileage as it can from ' one of the most ingenious devices ever invented ' . With the help of the globe meter , a wristwatch with five dials , one can fly through space , detect radioactivity , and speak and understand all the known languages on Earth . I'll have to get me one of those !
" And now last of Man , your journey will begin . "	I put together my Top Ten Worst Movie List some time ago , and find that it's going to be difficult for newcomers to bump any of those titles for the privilege . But " Doomsday Machine " looks like a definite contender , to the extent of making even " The Beast of Yucca Flats " look pretty good by comparison . I've read most of the other reviews on this board to know that I'm not alone on this , in fact it's pretty much an entirely one sided view that this groaner sets the standard for space junk in a vacuum . Interestingly , the only other place I've ever heard the word ' azimuth ' was in another sci-fi space turkey , and wouldn't you know it , it popped up here in an early conversation aboard the Astra . Keep your eye on the clock that records the elapsed time following blast off , you'll note that it goes , 2 : 58 , 2 : 59 , and then 2 : 60 instead of 3 : 00 , which makes perfect sense considering all the other goofy stuff that was going on . Like the selection of astronauts for the mission . Wouldn't you think that the men selected for this flight would have been among the most highly disciplined and talented that NASA had to offer ? So how does a guy like Major Mason ( Grant Williams ) go from seasoned professional to a raving sex maniac ? Not a whole lot of thought was put into this . No sense belaboring the point , this was one sad effort in the name of science and cinema . While I'm trying to make up my mind about that aforementioned Worst List , I'll have to reconsider another flick with the same destination . Up till now , I thought " First Spaceship on Venus " had a lock on interplanetary travesties , but now I know better .
" It only looks like a monster , but it's really cute . "	I haven't seen a lot of Japanese monster movies myself , basically just the original king daddy " Godzilla " , and a handful of knockoffs with creatures like Gamera and Rodan . However I don't think I'd be wrong in stating that " Monster From a Prehistoric Planet " must certainly be near the bottom of the pile in terms of story line and quality . A South Seas expedition financed by " Playmate Magazine " comes upon a volcanic island with large stone statues from a lost civilization ; their mission is to locate and capture exotic animals for a tropical resort where the creatures roam freely with the guests . Following the discovery of a giant egg in an underground cave , an earthquake erupts hatching the young " gappa " , a birdlike reptile . Mom and Pop Gappa are profoundly PO'ed , and make the trek to the Japanese mainland to recover Junior , and in one of the more humorous translations of the film , make their way along Route 11 from Nikko to Tokyo in the process . Picture a pair of giant scaly walking parrots , and you have an idea of of what the Gappas look like . I was rather surprised to hear an exchange between expedition leader Kurosaki and female newspaper reporter Koyanagi . When Koyanagi expresses reservation about proceeding into the gappa's lair , she's admonished by Kurosaki - " Then go back to Tokyo and learn to cook , marry some little office worker , have babies , stay home and wash diapers " . Apparently she took that advice , for at the end of the film she quits her job , as Kurosaki chases her down to complete his own personal mission . OK , this may not be the worst movie I have ever seen , but right now it ranks second from the bottom , right behind " The Beast From Yucca Flats " . Save yourself the agony and just watch " Godzilla " one more time if you need a Japanese monster fix ; for maximum effect , play it in slow motion to match " Monster's . . . " pacing .
" Well I don't know about you fellas , but I'd like to see Venus . "	The voice over narration at the start of the film describes itself as a ' fantasy of the future ' . In this case , it was a future three years beyond the 1965 version of basically the same movie - " Voyage to The Prehistoric Planet " . Minor alterations are merely cosmetic , this space mission takes place in 1998 , while the prior film occurs in 2020 ; none of it makes any difference , and if you can hold on long enough , any sense . The science employed is utterly ridiculous as well . For one , the rescue team that follows the first mission decides on it's own that they're going to blast off for Venus . Considering that the flight itself probably would have taken months , the stranded team is shown pretty much just hanging out waiting for something to happen . Curious though why the second trip to Venus was named Flight # 87 . Maybe it was the Venusian atmosphere , but the prehistoric women seemed pretty listless as well . Beach bathing on those rocks must have been rather tedious . I wonder how the screen test for this one might have gone - try on these sea shells and look bored . You're hired . Since the earlier film is already on my Top 10 Worst list , I can honestly catch this flick a break and rate it twice as high as it's predecessor , so it's a two . Credit the extra points for the telepathic Venusian blonds led by Mamie Van Doren . Oh , and a neat touch for naming their pterodactyl ' Terra ' , a little more creative than John the Robot .
" Stranger , you're in the Queendom of the Amazons . "	It would be hard to imagine this film as anything more than a parody of the Hercules / gladiator genre , but it fails miserably even at that . I can't believe that the film makers had anything remotely sensible in mind when they patched this thing together , or if they even had an overall working outline of what they were trying to do . The result is a poorly executed picture that meanders between action and comedy , but the outcome is simply embarrassing . At least if you have to watch this to complete the fifty movie DVD set from Mill Creek / Tree Line Films , the lead characters are pleasing on the eyes . Ed Fury is the main muscle man named Glauco , who has an eye for Antiope , the would be queen who wants to replace La Regina ( Gianna Maria Canale ) . Glauco's sidekick Pirro ( Rod Taylor ) is busy chasing down Melitta ( Daniella Rocca ) , as the two women engage in a contest for the ' sacred girdle ' . A band of pirates and a wrestling bear also make appearances for reasons that seem entirely irrelevant . The other point has to do with the musical score , it really had no connection to the events happening on screen ; most of the time it had a ' Gilligan's Island ' feel to it . The thought just occurred to me that watching the picture in reverse probably would make just as much sense as watching it normally . However I use the term figuratively , there's no way to watch this film normally .
" OK , see you day before yesterday . "	It's hard to believe that movies as bad as this were being made as late as 1967 . It's about as technologically advanced as any " B " grade film from the ' 40's , but done in color . However the garish orange of the lab setting and time capsule is so bright it will make you grab for a pair of sunglasses . So much for the high points . " Journey to the Center of Time " would be an embarrassment for a fledgling film student , that it was made at all with real money is to be questioned as much as the film's star Scott Brady questions his company's funding of research in the science of time travel . For two years , Doc Gordon ( Abraham Sofaer ) , Mark Manning ( Anthony Eisley ) and Karen White ( Gigi Perreau ) have only managed to navigate twenty four hours into the past . That's all about to change , as the trio , along with owner Stanton ( Brady ) kick start their time travel gizmo five thousand years into the future for a rendezvous with aspiring screen star Poupee Gamin , surely you recognize her name . One of her futuristic aides is Lyle Waggoner , who fortunately managed to survive this mess to earn a spot on the Carol Burnett Show and later , " Wonder Woman " . The time lab can best be compared to a time travel boomerang ; from the future the gang whips back to one million years B . C . to pick a nice round number , where the greedy Stanton grabs a jewel and takes off in the lab once again , stranding Manning and White in the past . In a series of frenetic flashbacks and flash forwards , the entire movie is relived for those of you who dozed off the first time . Getting beyond the embarrassment , you can have a fun time with this one as long as it's with a bunch of friends and the right mix of refreshments . The film can be enjoyed on many levels ; I know because it made as much sense played in reverse as it did played forward .
" Anything you might say or do here carries about as much weight as the howl of a hound dog . "	As a collector of old time Western movie posters , I'm compelled to get my hands on a copy of the film corresponding to the titles I've gotten . My Monte Hale poster comes from " Ranger of Cherokee Strip " , so therein lies my motivation to see this film . Believe me when I tell you , the poster is better than the movie . Hale portrays ranger Steve Howard , on the trail of Joe Bearclaws ( Douglas Kennedy ) , recently escaped from the Kansas Penitentiary and heading for Oklahoma's Cherokee Indian Territory . Bearclaws maintains his innocence , and is intent on reaching Chief Hunter ( Monte Blue ) , before the chief agrees to sign a lease agreement giving local cattlemen the right to cross Indian territory with their herds . Bearclaws is aided along the way by friend and sheriff Jugs Mason ( Paul Hurst ) , who believes in his innocence . The writers of the story obviously took great liberty in overlooking basic human emotion in their development of the characters . For example , when ranger Howard first catches up with Bearclaws , they duke it out in wild fashion . Feigning a knockout , Bearclaws lies motionless on the ground , and as Howard checks his condition , the Indian knocks him out with a good sized rock . The fact that he didn't crack the ranger's skull open is one thing , but in their very next scene together , Howard more or less just brushes it off . He arrests the Indian again , but doesn't restrict him in any way , or even take away his gun ! After riding a sufficient distance , Bearclaws and the sheriff simply turn the tables on Howard once again . This kind of nonsense goes back and forth for most of the film . When it comes to Bearclaws ' meeting with Chief Hunter , Howard okays a delay in the Chief's signing extradition papers for Joe , and actually lets him leave to meet with his fiancée Mary Bluebird ( Alice Tilton ) at the Eagle Junction Cherokee school . While he's gone , the local heavies under the direction of main bad guy McKinnon ( Frank Fenton ) frame Joe for the murder of Chief Hunter . This time though , ranger Howard along with Sheriff Jugs hatch a plan to exonerate him and bring the villains to justice . Don't get me wrong now , I'm a major fan of the " B " Western genre , but this movie is pretty much a mess and seriously defies credibility . There isn't much believable here , not the least of which is an Irishman portraying an Indian - major casting faux pas ! I recommend the poster .
" Prepare the brain control device for firing ! "	" Destroy All Planets " winds up settling for ' destroy all Tokyo ' by film's end , as a space monster resembling a giant squid falls to the reptilian furnace known as Gamera . Actually , Gamera is saving Earth right from the get go , knocking out Varian Space Ship # 1 even before the first set of film credits roll . The scene switches to a Japanese scout camp where we meet a pair of meddlesome young heroes , Jim and Masao , who take part in Gamera's exploits after being kidnapped by the aliens and beamed aboard their ship in an electrified bubble shield . It's pretty startling to see the boys convince a scientist to let them operate a newly invented submarine that might be defective . Previously boy genius Masao had wired the unit to run in reverse direction of it's controls , but Dr . Dobie didn't think about checking that out as a possibility . At least that prepared the boys for interfering with the alien space ship's controls by playing switcheroo with a bunch of triangular blocks . When boss alien Viras says ' Activate the Videotron ' , hang on to your seats for rehashed footage from earlier Gamera movies where he battles Barugon and Gyaos . These take up quite a bit of screen time , but are no match for the fast forward button if you want to get on with it . For the longest time Viras addressed an invisible crew , and when they finally appeared , they were Orientals who could fly - imagine that ! Seeing as how these movies were made for a juvenile audience , it's surprising to see how gruesome some of the scenes are . Gamera drawing blood comes to mind , and how about the pair of space crew members being decapitated . When squid tentacles started emerging from the headless bodies I made a connection to the ' Alien ' films ; having the individual units merge to form the giant Viras was a neat device . I guess the appeal for young kids might reside in identifying with the two young heroes who make friends with a giant monster , move around pretty freely on an alien space ship , and get to have whatever they want with the help of alien telepathy technology . Seeing as how the movie was presumably made by adults , it could have been a simple case of wish fulfillment .
" He still smells Earthy . "	Had the film maker taken a lighter approach , this picture might have had more of a chance . At what I don't know , but given the monotone personality of every cast member aboard Bravo Zulu 88 , this is a movie that takes itself way too seriously . By the time Commander George ( David Montresor ) laments the human condition of making so much progress that we have lost ourselves , I knew it was time to hit the space warp button . I'm always amazed at the way these era sci-fi flicks allow whoever's in charge to just make decisions without checking in with anyone . References to a High Command aside , when a rogue space body threatens to destroy Earth , it's up to George to change course from Mars to Venus because of course , it's on the closest elliptical path to Alpha 2 . Here's my question - when reporter Ray Peterson ( Rik Von Nutter ) makes his way aboard the Alpha 2 , how could he tell that the pilot in the hibernation cell was dead ? Couldn't he have just been asleep ? Searching restlessly for even a minor break in the monotony , closeups of the instrument panel on BZ88 focused for a brief second on the term ' Peak Wow ' . That was probably a defining moment , either that or George's command to black crew member Al X15 ( Archie Savage ) to retreat from his suicide mission . Al must have thought he had to stick around till the end of the movie , because in a valiant voice he proclaims - " I'm sorry Sir , but I'm not taking orders anymore . "
" This is the only hope you have , keep that in mind always . "	" Atom Age Vampire " makes use of a lot of pseudo scientific jargon to make the most of " restoring normal growth of abnormal cells " and " spontaneous reproduction of living cells " . Professor Alberto Levin ( Alberto Lupo ) isn't sure of his Derma 28 invention , but able assistant Monique ( Franca Parisi ) convinces him to use the serum on the facially disfigured Jeanette Moreneau , a jilted lover whose out of control car dives over a cliff with the obligatory burst into flames aftermath . Roberto Bertea portrays the loyal lab assistant Sacha , whose presence doesn't do much to add or subtract from the film's proceedings . What's not explained very well is Levin's own mutation back and forth into a hideously disfigured wolfman with a complexion problem . The film's English title holds out possibilities , but it's more in the realm of suggestion than delivery ; not a vampire in the lot either , pseudo or otherwise . You can do worse than " Atom Age Vampire " , but then you'd be in " Beast of Yucca Flats " territory , hardly a worthwhile way to spend an hour . Unless you're like me and just have to sample every imaginable movie with a cool sounding title , you can let this one pass into modern age oblivion .
" Tex , you're just one of those guys that don't know when he's well off . "	" Arizona Days " opens with a snappy song on horseback by cowboy star Tex Ritter , but truthfully , that's about as entertaining as this film gets in it's fifty seven minute run . However the DVD print I viewed had a rather disjointed cut following a scene where Tex offers to help a minstrel show owner by paying off a thirty one dollar debt in exchange for a singing gig in the show . It quickly jumps to a ten pace gunfight between Tex and villain Harry Price ( Forrest Taylor ) . Another review of the film states that Price was behind the burning of the minstrel show wagons , so with this scene missing , the movie's continuity suffers in the print I saw . Syd Saylor is Tex's sidekick , and provides a bit of comic relief with a running gag where he attempts to play a trombone to poor effect . Saylor's film history includes an astounding 360 movies in which he appeared , though uncredited in many of them . My first intro to Saylor's work was as John Wayne's sidekick Dink Hooley in " Born to the West " , also known as " Helltown " , where he gets a few laughs trying to sell lightning rods to unsuspecting victims . When you come right down to it , there's not much of a story here , as Tex manages to get the drop on Price's gang in an attempt to secure back taxes that they owe . Tex won the right to collect when he beat bad guy Price to the draw in the aforementioned gunfight . Poor production values and a consistently dark picture often interfered with this viewer's enjoyment of the film . On the plus side were three tunes by Ritter , including " High , Wide and Handsome " , " Arizona Days " , and opening and closing renditions of " Tombstone , Arizona " . Pretty Eleanor Stewart winds up as Ritter's new bride in the closing scene , even though there was no romance to speak of during the movie , but the image you'll remember is Syd Saylor's character " Grass " Hopper wearing a " Just Married " sign around his neck as he rides the back of the buckboard heading out of town .
" Fascinating rock structure David ! "	This is just about one of the dumbest things I've ever seen . Maybe not a worst movie ever contender , but if you haven't seen that many bad ones , this could easily make your Top Ten Worst List . When you consider what was achieved in 1933 with the original " King Kong " , you've got to ask yourself why anyone would stoop so low as to produce this debacle . Then , taking it one step further and realizing that the quantum leap to " Star Wars " the following year achieved a new level in sci-fi entertainment , this offering will make you laugh and cry at the same time . Now let me ask you , what would possess the Professor ( Peter Cushing ) to bring along an umbrella as a prime piece of subterranean research equipment for the ride to the earth's core ? OK , so it was useful in fending off the parrot / tyrannosaur ( parrotosaurus ? ) in the early going , but come on . Somehow I don't think this is what Edgar Rice Burrough's had in mind when he wrote his tales of Pellucidar . He probably didn't have Caroline Munro in mind either as Princess Dia , probably the only redeeming factor to this whole escapade . At least there was one bit of pseudo-scientific explanation that I got a kick out of ; I'm always looking for one in films like this . That would have to be how the sky at the earth's core was really the underside of the earth's crust , explaining that ethereal pinkish glow . But try as it might , the story just couldn't hook me in a way to find anything at all interesting about Hoojah the Sly One or Jubal the Ugly One , much less those goofy half man , half pterodactyl creatures . To paraphrase the good professor - " You cannot mesmerize me , I'm paying attention ! "
" Ocko brings you the kill , it is good , his father will buy you tonight . "	Connoisseurs of bad movies will have a field day with this one , " Wild Women of Wongo " is a veritable treat for lovers of turkey films . I know that when I first heard of the title I couldn't rest till it was part of my library . Fortunately , a company known as Mill Creek Entertainment packages various genres into collections of fifty movies on DVD , so for about fifty cents per , you can take advantage of some of the worst films ever made . This one is part of the Sci-Fi Collection . I'm always a bit leery when the opening credits signal the use of Pathecolor , for some reason a particular range of the color spectrum will dominate . In this case , blues and greens take over , but since the action takes place on a tropical island , it generally works OK . Even the scarlet macaw looks good , complementing his role as the would be MSTK3 stand in for the length of the story . As for the King of Wongo , only his hairdresser will know for sure , but his hair sure looked bright blue to me . The movie's opening utilizes a voice over proclaiming to be that of Mother Nature , describing an " experiment " that didn't work some ten thousand years ago . Beastly men and gorgeous babes were teamed up on one side of an island , while their opposite numbers lived at the other end . The men of Goona had no strength , while the men of Wongo are hampered by poor eyesight . When the women of Wongo save a messenger named Engor from death , their punishment is exile from Wongo until their island god tastes blood . Hey , how great is that , a free pass to Goona if only the women can figure that out . Fortunately the young studs of Goona must earn their manhood by spending " the space of one moon " in the wilderness without weapons , something like the Boy Scouts and the Order of the Arrow . That's when they fall prey to the Wongo women and their snare traps . Those boys really put up a fight didn't they ? The trek from Goona to Wongo , which takes five days , is handled in just about a minute of movie time , so I guess the trip went well . With all the scantily clad women of Wongo dominating the action , don't tell me you haven't been thinking cat fight . Yes , that obligatory scene is presented when things get a little out of hand with Wana , she's the free thinker who wants to break ranks with leader Ooma . For sheer wackiness though , you have to check out the dragon dance performed by the High Priestess and her court . It's the scene where the girls earn their name . For those of you who have been to Florida's Coral Castle , you'll easily recognize the coral rock formations that make up the architecture of Wongo . Not to digress , but the massive swinging stone door that's seen a number of times actually weighs a few tons , and is so precisely engineered and balanced that it will open at the push of a fingertip - I've seen it done ! It's a fascinating place to visit . Other Florida attractions are credited as well , including Parrot Jungle , and Silver Springs . Look , if you've got about an hour to kill , there's worse things you can do than " Wild Women of Wongo " , and obviously some a lot better as well . But if you do watch it , you'll probably come away thinking what the scarlet macaw did just before the closing credits - " Well , how ' bout that ? "
" Say , I'm an expert at this getaway business . . . "	I won't say this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen , because it isn't . But boy , it sure is one of the dumbest . Though the story has a fairly good premise and an interesting hook with the ' Junius ' letters , it all crumbles under third grade level writing and if it's possible , even worse performances by the lead characters . But no sense in dwelling on the low points as if they were negatives , one of the bright spots of films like this is the ability to make fun of the genuine goofy stuff presented . Like this one - how is it that when three of Big Bill's henchmen escape from the cops with the one named Al critically shot , they make their getaway one whole city block over from where they started ? Huh ? Besides that , radio reports carry news of the escape in real time while it's happening ! Then , henchman Red admires the way Al stays one step ahead of the cops by croaking - this is truly inspired stuff ! I have to admit though , the film had me fooled with the identity of ' Junius ' , I thought it was Assistant D . A . Carter ( Robert Kent ) trying to further discredit his boss Dexter Wayne ( Charles Trowbridge ) . In the finale though , with Wayne holding the grenade about to blow when he let go , I was fully expecting Superman to bust through a wall to make the save . Instead , Carter directs his boss to throw the grenade out the window . Hey , wouldn't it have been a good idea to OPEN THE WINDOW FIRST ? ? ! ! ! Monogram Pictures was well known for it's shoestring cheap budgets and low production values , but this film makes the Charlie Chan series of the same era look like " L . A . Confidential " . Still , as I hope I've explained , you can have a good time with this one if you're in the right frame of mind . Watch especially for henchman Armstrong's ( Donald Kerr ) scene when he makes his ' confession ' to the police , it's a great preview for roles that would be made famous in the Nineties by Joe Pesci .
" Hey , I can fix that right up . I've got the grandest headache medicine in the world . "	It's true what they say - I started with " Reefer Madness " and " The Marijuana Menace " , and gradually worked up to the really hard stuff - " The Cocaine Fiends " . But I have to tell you , if you watch this film under the influence , it will make just about as much sense . I was generally able to follow what was going on in the story , but there were so many dropped frames and jump cuts I wasn't sure if anything significant might have been left out . The real head scratcher comes near the end of the picture when Dorothy Farley's father is revealed as the top kingpin in the drug rackets at the same time that he's trying to keep his daughter ' sweet and clean ' . The scene exemplifies how poorly the film was in terms of building upon earlier events to tell a coherent story . Of course that probably was not the intent ; this was one of those ' educational ' films that tried to get it's anti-drug scourge message across during a much less sophisticated era . After seeing a handful of these flicks recently , it's safe to say that on that level , they probably had no impact at all . For all it's evil connotation , the actual use of the word cocaine only occurs a few times in the story . Instead , the drug is routinely referred to as ' headache powders ' by the malevolent dope dealer as a way to hook potential victims . By the time one becomes a ' hophead ' , he's ready and willing to sell his soul for just one more shot . The film does a good job at least of showing how drug victims go downhill quickly , usurping all motivation except for getting that high just one more time . But for all that , the picture never does show anyone actually snorting the stuff , it's all done by insinuation and after the fact . Kind of ironic if the mission was to show how unglamorous taking drugs is . The hardest thing for me about the movie is trying to wrap my brain around the fact that it's OVER 70 YEARS OLD ! ! ! That , along with the perspective that's offered relative to what value things had back in the Thirties . Imagine a six dollar cover charge for the privilege of sharing two gin fizzes ( $1 . 50 ) and two highballs ( $2 . 00 ) ; with tax , a total of $9 . 79 . On Eddie's ( Dean Benton ) twenty five dollar pay week , it was unnerving to see him squirm at the prospect of forking over almost half his paycheck for a few minutes of fun at the Dead Rat Cafe . Geez , who would name their place the Dead Rat ? !
" Well , you wanted jungle , from here on you've got it . "	The fact that nothing about this movie makes any sense is what also gives it it's dubious charm . I have to say the movie's opening had a pretty decent hook with the elephant procession in Akbar , India , while a pretty but demure Indian girl held out the hope of a mysterious adventure . Once on safari though , things take a downhill turn as wildlife stock footage threatens to overtake the main story , easily eating up a third of the film . Even the movie's title , " Queen of the Amazons " turns out to be a contradiction , as the main story plays out in Africa . In retrospect , the action could have taken place in South America just as easily , but then the film would be making a concession to at least one plot point . After all the intrigue inspired by talk of bad voodoo surrounding the jungle white goddess / she devil , it's almost comical to observe the Amazon Queen Zita ( Amira Moustafa ) coochie cooing with her boyfriend Greg Jones ( Bruce Edwards ) . Greg never bothered to get in touch with his fiancée about a change in plans , so now Jean Preston ( Patricia Morison ) is leading the search to find him . Side stories abound in this clunker , as expedition guide Gary Lambert ( Robert Lowery ) has it bad for Jean after it was established that he considers women on safari a nuisance . There's also the identity of an ivory poacher to be revealed , which doesn't take too much to figure out . Hint , it's the cook spouting bad poetry ( J . Edward Bromberg ) , who could have been given any kind of name besides Gabby , because after all , Gabby belongs in a Western . By the time it's all over , you'll be pretty much standing on your head trying to sort this all out . Fearless Zita ( remember that speech to Jean ) screams in fright when Gabby throws a spear in her direction . The icing on the cake though is the double ring ceremony at the end of the film , with the Amazon leader proclaiming that she's ready to leave her paradise - huh ? It was at that point that Greg Jones ' earlier comment made a whole lot of sense to me - " Zita dear , you're quite a queen . "
" I say we should stay here and dance . "	Flame in , flame out . That seems to be Gammera in a nutshell , a prehistoric creature who can take it and dish it out with equal abandon . I'm not a fan of Japanese monster films , but wound up committed to viewing all the flicks on the fifty film DVD sci-fi collection put out by Mill Creek / Treeline Films . It's a great value at about twenty five bucks , so at fifty cents per movie , it really boils down to an investment in time to watch some of the goofy offerings . Gammera is riled from a centuries long slumber by a nuclear blast , and he's not happy . Like Godzilla , he takes it out on Tokyo , setting the United Nations into motion to try and come up with a plan to save the planet . They arrive at ' Plan Z ' , the hope of the world , and wouldn't you know it , there's a scene where a huge shed is shown that's called the ' Z Plan ' building ; that was a nice touch . By the mid 1960's , this country still wasn't quite politically correct . One of the American military scenes at the Alaskan Air Defense Sector has General Arnold asking a female sergeant to make coffee . I guess there weren't any privates around . Good old Gammera was quite the sight though , walking around on two legs and going for the flame throwing routine when challenged . That's why it surprised me how Plan Z managed to capture turtle man in the nose cone of a hidden space ship , whisking him off to Mars to save the world . High fives all around for the American and Russian team that made the save , now let's get back to the Cold War . Like Godzilla , Gammera spawned at least a good dozen films , but having seen this one pretty much satisfies my interest in flying , flaming turtles . Especially since that DVD pack I mentioned earlier has " Attack of the Monsters " with a featured guest appearance by the Big G . It took all I had to make it through to the end of both films ; it was such a relief to get to the final frame in this one that said ' Gammera , Sayonara ! "
" What type of women are these ruling wonders who attack men and live in trees ? "	While watching , my mind constantly came back to the question of what would possess someone to make a film like this . Sure , the story's opening hints of romance when the world was young , but then can't decide if it was ten or a hundred thousand years ago . Only one thing is certain with a film like this , with all the scantily clad women center stage , it's only a matter of time before the obligatory cat fight . That takes place about midway through , but you'll have to endure endless plodding narration at both ends before calling it a day . There are some interesting historical breakthroughs on display though . The male hero Engor ( Allan Nixon ) discovers fire , while his buddy Kama invents the barbecue , even if by accident . As goofy as it all looks , if you think about it , that very first piece of cooked meat had to get a start somewhere , so this is just as good a rationalization as any . Come to think of it , if the male tribe had a streak of cannibalism , old Guadi might have been on the menu when he became a crispy critter - yikes ! I'd be curious to find out how close this movie was to being the first done in color . Quite a few scenes look natural enough , but you'll have to muddle through a murky opening suggesting a soft porn ritual dance by the man-less women tribe . Then there are scenes that actually look like they're in black and white . For fans of family trees , the Smith and Jones equivalent of the dinosaur era must have been Engor . That was also the name of the main male tribesman in the 1958 flick , " Wild Women of Wongo " . That film also followed the exploits of love starved prehistoric women who set out to enslave male captives for the purpose of , well you know . Watching that film might also lead you to the same query as posited earlier , but at least WWoW had a campy flavor and didn't take itself as seriously as this one . Here however , the women used bolos and clubs to beat on the cave boys , so score one for Tigri and the girls . Nice outfits too !
" You heard what the man said baby , it came from the sky . "	What ? - that was it ? The town sheriff ( John Agar ) blows up the mutant gorilla with a stick of dynamite hidden in a mannequin ? Did I just write that ? Did I just see that ? With instrumentals by The Wildcats , " Night Fright " is one flick that never deserved to be made as late as 1967 . The heyday of the gorilla was well over , and anyone other than Ray Corrigan in an ape suit is just asking for trouble . Remake this in black and white and set the story about thirty years earlier and you'd have at least a 4 . 0 rating on the IMDb . But sadly , this one never should have stood a chance of seeing the light of day . Oops , there's another quirk - you can never tell if it's day or night in the story , since they seem interchangeable with one another . I'll give you this though , a couple of the early malt shop scenes looked like they could have gone on the air as Coke commercials . Thinking about it now , those were probably the best looking and best lit scenes of the picture ; Coca Cola must have paid for them . Had they seen the completed movie , they might have been better served to prevent it's release .
" Oh boy , science has advanced here much more than on Earth . "	Reliving my youth with collections of movies from the Fifties and Sixties has generally been a blast . However I was never really a fan of the Japanese monster genre other than Godzilla , and perhaps " Attack of the Monsters " plays a big part of the reason . For this one , you'll have to leave all common sense at the door . It will also help to try and view it with the mind of a nine year old , since that seems to have been the intended audience . That good old boy Gamera is the monster hero in this one , the retro rocket flying turtle that blasts through space with those flame jets out his leg holes . There's an upright version of Rodan named Gyaos with an oddly shaped flat head and wings seemingly fashioned from aluminum foil . But my favorite has to be that goofy Guiron , whose appearance is anything but menacing . Seeing him for the first time reminded me of the candy gram shark on those early " Saturday Night Live " bits . For sheer lunacy , there's nothing better than Gamera's defeat of Guiron as he lands nose down in the dirt . Most of the action takes place on ' Terra ' , a planet directly opposite the Earth on the other side of the sun . Terra's inhabitants have been reduced to a pair of space babes who for some reason aren't even listed in the film credits . One of their names sounded very similar to Barbarella , while the other came across as something like Ploda . At some point when I can compose myself , I might try going back to confirm those names , but it's not a high priority right now . The human heroes are Japanese boy Akio and his American friend Tom . Unfortunately , Akio's sister Tomoko was left behind as the boys commandeered the alien space ship , knowing just which buttons to push and how to maneuver their way to Terra . Of course Gamera helped them out owing to his reputation for helping children in distress . Somehow , " Attack of the Monsters " conjures up a much larger mental picture of havoc and destruction than actually presented here , with the film's feature creatures going at it one on one instead of en masse . Don't let that worry you though , in it's own way it's a fun film that attempts to , but never does answer the question , " What were they thinking ? "
" When I call a man a liar and a thief , I want to say it to his face . "	Interestingly , the synopsis for " Frontier Fury " on the Brentwood compilation of old Westerns describes the story for the 1943 film starring Charles Starrett . This movie's real title is " The Lone Rider in Frontier Fury " , and it casts George Houston as the title character , going by the name of Tom Cameron . It was the fourth in a series of eleven Lone Rider films Houston did for Producers Releasing Corporation , all with Fuzzy St . John along as Tom Cameron's sidekick . Poor production values , and especially a bad sound recording make this a largely forgettable film . The story itself has Cameron trying to clear his name of a murder committed at the beginning of the movie , when rancher Jim Bowen is shot in the back , about to reveal the identity of the man responsible for causing disagreement among his fellow ranchers . Off screen , Cameron had been tried and sent to jail after being framed . Having broken out , he's back to find the real killer . Why the law doesn't arrest him once again is never dealt with and is a major plot hole , one I wondered about throughout the film . If you need a reason to tune in , there are a few I can offer . The female lead is portrayed by Hillary Brooke who a dozen years later became a regular on " The Abbott and Costello Show " . However there's another significant female character , a rarity in ' B ' Westerns , played by Virginia Card . Her character is Midge Malone , daughter of one of the story's villains . Even rarer though is the fact that she winds up taking a bullet and dying when the good guys and bad guys mix it up . Fuzzy St . John , always good for a comic turn in his appearances doesn't have much to do in this one . He's a stand up guy for Tom Cameron and comes riding to the rescue when it's required , but otherwise has a rather nondescript role . For his part , George Houston seems rather stiff in his portrayal as The Lone Rider . In between action scenes he lends his voice to a couple of musical numbers . Once you've seen him , you won't forget that wild shirt he wears with the huge storm flap . Houston's white horse is ' Lightning ' , though I don't recall the name being used in this picture . All of Houston's Lone Rider films were made in , and when he left the series , Robert Livingston took up the reins for another six films , starting as Tom , but winding up as Rocky Cameron .
" Go get ' em boys , don't shoot unless you have to ! "	Hoot Gibson was admittedly one of the top screen cowboys of the silent era , perhaps second only to the legendary Tom Mix . So to see him in 1936's " Frontier Justice " is probably a terrible injustice to his legacy ; the picture is a veritable chore to sit through . Well past his prime as a matinée idol , Gibson comes across almost as a caricature , a practical joker who more closely resembles a comedic sidekick than a Western hero . In fact , one of the film's heavies refers to him as ' That saperoo ' , a goofy enough line by itself , but one that describes the picture and it's hero pretty well . As for the story , it's one that's been done time and again in the genre , that of feuding cattle men against sheep herders , with land and water rights hanging in the balance between the warring factions . Brent Halston's ( Gibson ) father has been committed to an insane asylum , and the man who sent him there , Gilbert Ware ( Richard Cramer ) , is in league with James Wilton ( Roger Williams ) , who conveniently frames Brent for a murder to give the edge to the sheep men . Halston works it all out of course , but watching how he gets there proves to be something of a stretch . Like the old ' drying rawhide trick ' that he uses to get Ware to confess his involvement in a land swindle against the elder Halston . You really have to suspend your disbelief to accept that a band of rawhide would crumple a hard gourd in a matter of seconds the way it did on screen . I can't even imagine that theater goers of the Thirties might have bought it , much less someone watching today . Or how about the film's use of the black character Snowflake , portrayed by Fred Toones . Probably intended as comic relief , the cook's role was embarrassingly underplayed and dull , to the point of being insipid . The few minutes it would have cut from the film , already under an hour , would have been worth it . Say , keep your eye on that scene near the end of the picture when a group of men congregate to inspect the thirty thousand dollar note that villain Wilton is looking to foreclose on . Ethel Gordon ( Jane Barnes ) simply vanishes from the screen ! ! ! She doesn't walk away or wind up missing during a scene change , she just disappears ! I replayed it a number of times to be sure I had it right , and sure enough , as in the best tradition of David Copperfield , she's just gone - amazing ! One scene that did get my attention though had to do with a rampaging buckboard that breaks apart to the point where all that's left is a chariot like remnant with a lone rider standing to guide the horses pulling it . The scenario had me looking for Yakima Canutt's name in the uncredited cast list and I couldn't find it , but boy , it sure looked like something he would come up with . I guess if you're a Hoot Gibson fan , what I've reviewed isn't good news , but I guess every actor is entitled to a clunker . That's not to say that all of his later pictures were poor - check out his 1936 film " Lucky Terror " . It will probably surprise you , as it did me , with elements you probably haven't seen in a Western before , including some incredible riding and stunt work by Gibson , showing some of the form that made him a star a couple of decades earlier .
" As you can see , this is quite a serious business . "	Major Paul Krenner ( James Griffith ) engineers a prison break for Joey Faust ( Douglas Kennedy ) , because he needs a human subject to further Dr . Peter Ulof's ( Ivan Triesault ) experiments in invisibility . Krenner's master plan is to create an invisible army to achieve world domination . He probably should have been more in tune to human behavior and psychology , because Faust sees more rewarding potential in using " transparency " to rob banks . " The Amazing Transparent Man " is one of those films that has the feel of a group of people coming together and winging it to see what comes out . Notice I said people and not actors . You know very early on what will ultimately happen when repeated references are made to a lead lined safe containing fissionable material , in near proximity to Ulof's X-13 ray . The tip off comes from criminal Faust - " That's atom bomb stuff . . . " Ulof is under a virtual house arrest , kept against his will by Kremmer , who to insure his cooperation is keeping Ulof's daughter a prisoner behind a locked door of the laboratory . One would think that the poor girl was underfed and dressed shabbily , but when she makes an appearance , she looks none the worse for wear and suitably dressed for a party . As can be expected , Faust's invisible bank job is botched when a malfunction in the experimental ray causes him to appear a body part at a time . Not only that , but there's more bad news . The X-13 ray is lethal , and will lead to Faust's funeral in just a month's time . Oh well , might as well blow up the joint in a turn of conscience ! Even the blast , that levels " half the county " , leaves a portion of Kremmer's place still standing . I got a kick out of the guards posted at the perimeter stopping civilians from entering the radioactive zone without adequate protection , while clearly visible were reporters freely roaming the blast area in their business suits . There's not one thing in this film that makes any bit of sense , which in it's own skewed way makes for an entertaining hour . You'll constantly be wondering if maybe you missed something important , but don't be fooled . Just be prepared to answer the philosophical question posed at the end of the movie - " What would you do ? "
" No one's to leave this house without permission . "	I always get a kick out of the nonsense that passes for scientific rationale in films like " The Atomic Brain " . In the early going , we're introduced to Dr . Otto Frank who's experimenting with the transplantation of animal brains into human beings . He uses atomic fission in a cyclotron to stimulate brain cells . An early attempt has yielded a werewolf without hair , a savage looking man with a pair of large canines who grunts his way through the film . Now , going for the gusto , the good doctor is ready to try moving a brain from one human to another , courtesy of Hetty March's ( Marjorie Eaton ) financial backing . She's just imported three young women on the pretense of a job offer , and her interest lies in getting a makeover for her own brain , since she's already over the hill and about to keel over . Anita Gonzalez is the first victim of the trio ; she's just not pretty enough for Hetty , so she winds up with a cat's brain . Her feline instincts come through handily when it comes to catching and eating a mouse , but she doesn't exactly land on her feet when she falls from the roof of the house - yikes ! Tall and buxom , Bea ( Judy Bamber ) from England looks like the best candidate for Hetty's brain , but she gets her eye clawed out by Anita in a cat fight . That leaves Nina ( Erika Peters ) from Austria , the only one of the three with enough sense to know that something's not right with this picture . She enlists the help of Hetty's sixty year old gigolo Victor ( Frank Fowler ) in an effort to escape , when it dawns on him with a stabbing sensation that once Hetty's young again , he'll have his marching papers . You'll have a clue as to what the eventual outcome will be when it's revealed that Dr . Frank's cyclotron gizmo is wired to a nuclear device just in case the authorities come calling . Unfortunately though , before doc goes completely mad as a hatter , he has the foresight to switch Dame Hetty's brain into the carcass of Xerxes the cat ( using his real name ) . There's no pussyfooting around with Hetty , she paws the detonation button to end this charade , the mansion and lab going out in a blaze of glory . You can have some fun with " Monstrosity " , just like the Mystery Science Theater folks have , but no one has yet been able to answer one question . During the entire time the three young women were still fresh and trying to figure out how to escape , why didn't they just head for the front door ?
" You forget Senor Sheriff , wolves run in packs , and mine is not far behind . "	Even die hard John Wayne fans will have to concede that this film is a mess . Wayne's character , John Tobin is after the gang that killed his parents , led by half Apache , half white renegade Pandro Zanti ( Earl Dwire ) , posing as a Mexican . There are almost too many silly plot points to count , but those that stand out include Sheriff Williams ( Jack Rockwell ) cuffing a captured Zanti around his boot , so all Zanti has to do to get free is remove his boot ! Tobin's friend Dusty ( George pre-Gabby Hayes ) takes a thrown knife in the back , and comes back good as new for the rest of the story . In a chase scene , Tobin rides a makeshift log flume through a drainage trough surrounded by log walls in the middle of a desert , and missing his mark , chases ( actually walks after ) Zanti on foot through the desert . Zanti seeks relief and drinks from a pool of water , but OOPS ! , he didn't see the sign above the waterhole that states " Don't Drink Poison " . As Zanti collapses dead , Tobin resumes his chase after the remainder of the gang , and captures the whole lot by blowing up a rock wall that seals a secret passage into Dusty's cabin - how convenient . In the closing scene , the new Sheriff Tobin is seen on the phone talking to the new Mrs . Tobin ( Sheila Terry ) , Dusty's daughter Ruby , who earlier in the film was a kidnap target of Zanti's gang . Apparently , the studio was intent on Wayne's getting the girl in virtually every film they made with him , as this type of ending is completely predictable for almost all of Lone Star's films .
" What kind of monster are you ? "	Early in the film , Michael Gold ( Brandon Lee ) describes his job as ' People Management and Conduct Behavior Modification ' ; good luck with that one . He didn't do a very good job of either while walking through the desert with his bimbo partner Alissa ( Debi Monahan ) . Wouldn't it have been good advice to cut off her high heels like Michael Douglas did with Kathleen Turner's shoes in " Romancing the Stone " ? She eventually figured it out though , preferring to walk barefoot awhile . You never saw her carrying her shoes , but is later seen wearing them again , just one of the many continuity straining devices to be found in the story . Another would be Gold's taking a direct rifle shot to the back creating a shirt full of blood and what would appear to be a pivotal moment in our hero's future . Not only does he shake it off , but winds up battling the bad guys like he was good as new for the rest of the story . My favorite though had to be the timer for the bomb set to blow in the desert cave . When set at ten minutes ( 10 : 00 ) , the countdown started at 9 : 99 instead of 9 : 59 like a normal clock would . Don't believe me , go back and check it out , I'll wait . In the mean time , one would have to consider why Ernest Borgnine would ever agree to making this flick . I got the impression that even he knew how bad his German accent was . Back yet ? That timer went down to 9 : 94 before going off screen , not to be seen again till it had 37 seconds to go . When it detonates , it takes out half the desert and the defiant Colonel Kalishnakov , who nevertheless comes back for more , just as Brandon Lee's character did . By that time , the silliness factor had gone into overdrive . For those uncertain about where the action takes place , as a number of posts on this site have queried , note that the name Kavango is mentioned with a supporting signpost appearing briefly in one scene . Obviously a mythical country , there's a conversation that mentions the nearby country of Namibia which does exist . With all the goofy plot points and general nonsense going on , the film struggles to provide any semblance of intrigue or suspense . For all of it's 526 carats , that diamond didn't command a lot of respect . The only thing that could have saved this turkey would have been for those two bumbling Cuban soldiers to hijack a CIA helicopter . Oh , wait . . . .
" If all of Saturn is like this , you can have it . "	The 1939 " Buck Rogers " serial clocks in at just about four hours , and though " Planet Outlaws " is just a bit over an hour itself , the repetitious nature of it's programming makes it feel almost as long as the original . I wasn't counting , but how many trips did Buck ( Buster Crabbe ) and sidekick Buddy ( Jackie Moran ) actually make between Earth and Saturn ? The film's limited budget really shows through in virtually every scene , and is never more apparent than in the shots of the space ships themselves . Keeping in mind that " King Kong " was made six years earlier in 1933 should give one a good idea of what kind of shoestring this must have been made on . In the story , Buck and Buddy go into suspended animation for a period of five hundred years after their dirigible goes down in an Arctic region in 1938 . Amazingly , a record of their original mission still exists , which helps with their credibility once they're discovered . The villain of the piece is one Killer Kane , attempting to rule the world , the universe and anything else beyond that . As Kane , Anthony Warde doesn't have that larger than life charismatic evil of say , a Darth Vader , or even a Ming the Merciless . What he does have though is the technology to render an entire ' Robot Battalion ' of captured enemies to do his bidding . Interestingly , whenever a good guy removes a helmet from one of the slaves , the mind control connection dissolves , even when the helmet is immediately put back on ! Well , I guess it doesn't have to make sense . Buck Rogers was the product of a simpler time , when forays into outer space science fiction was a wide open experiment , along with the relatively new medium of talking pictures . Viewed in that context , the film has a unique perspective to offer if one can refrain from being too critical . Have some fun with this one , space ranger .
" Sally , you sure know all the angles . "	So I'm watching the flick , and I start thinking to myself - Good grief , did people actually pay good money to watch stuff like this back in the Forties ? Yeah , I know , admission was probably only about a quarter at best , but still , you could have had a couple sodas at the malt shop . Straight out of the exploitation / educational film camp , " Delinquent Daughters " attempts to instruct and admonish parents for the ' Alarming Increase of Juvenile Delinquency ' as touted in a newspaper headline quote from J . Edgar Hoover . I have a pretty good idea that none of the genre's films had much impact regarding their intended mission , other than the covert one of titillation and cheap thrills . As far as this one goes , it's pretty uneven in both the acting and production values . The print I viewed from the Mill Creek Entertainment set of ' Cult Classics ' was of questionable quality ; it was easy to pick out the night time scenes because they all looked like they were filmed completely in the dark . The story follows the off screen set up of a high school girl suicide , and goes on to explore the antics of various teenagers , none of whom seem to feel any remorse for the dead teen , who one describes as ' a nice girl but no angel ' . It would have seemed more appropriate if the picture explored the angst these high schoolers felt over the death of a friend , but it seems she didn't have one . Hey , how about that Jerry ( Jimmy Zahner ) , all worked up over the gun point robbery he pulled at the grocery store . He got away with $2 . 80 ! ! ! Who wrote this ? And you can't beat old Rocky's ( Johnny Duncan ) logic in trying to convince June ( June Carlson ) to marry him - Martha Washington was only sixteen when she got married , and she wound up with a president ! I guess the highlight , as a number of other reviewers have pointed out , was old Judge Craig's ( Frank McGlynn ) speech to gathered teens and parents alike noting that the proper attention and discipline might have prevented all the bad things from happening in their kids ' lives . More simplistic than compelling , one comes away with a feeling of ' Yeah , right ' , just as the scene dissolves into a decade early preview of American Bandstand to provide a happy ending . Not one of the better flicks in the ' Cult Classics ' collection , you might want to check out one of their drug , sex or alcohol treatments instead .
" A lot of people aren't going to believe this giant jazz . "	" EEEEE . . . . . GAAAAA . . . . . HHHHHH . . . . . ! ! ! ! ! I'm always fascinated to discover a new film genre . File this one under soft porn caveman flicks , or alternatively , ' Mondo Bizarro ' in a dune buggy . " Eegah " is so hilariously entertaining on so many levels that it defies classification , even as one of the world's worst movies . And if you don't believe me , Tom ( Arch Hall Jr . ) will swear to it on his Elvis Presley LP . Only Tom could get away with crooning songs about ' Vicky ' and ' Valerie ' to his girlfriend named Roxy ( Marilynn Manning ) . For her part , Roxy's life experience has been permanently affected by her brief encounter in a cave with the title character . Could it be she's falling in love with Eegah ? There's no doubt that right from the outset this has to be a family affair . How else would an actor like Arch Hall Jr . ever see the light of day ? At least he provides the film's one truly scary moment - who will ever forget that hair slick on prom night at the no tell motel ? There's not a single line of dialog in this movie that makes any sense , and just to prove that point , I'll offer just one example - " Believe it or not Dad , I'm going to look at his etchings " . I made it through two thirds of this nonsense right up to the point where Eegah relates his tale of woe to his dead ancestors , but could the film have ended right there - nooooooo ! ! ! ! ! ! This film will have you saying WTF ? at least a half dozen times , and even then it doesn't know when to quit . Aided by refills of blackberry brandy , I succumbed to laugh out loud moments repeatedly as Eegah attempted reconciliation with one true love Roxy , even as the Desert Sheriff's Patrol Car signaled impending doom . I'm all for an updated remake of " Eegah " . The new version ought to be about thirty minutes shorter in black and white . Maybe Paris Hilton in the Roxy role and the WWF's Undertaker as Eegah . Maybe the sequel can answer the haunting question , " Where did that big bone come from ? " . I would only leave one scene intact , that of the horned lizards ( horny lizards ? ) getting it on . " EEEEE . . . . . GAAAAA . . . . . HHHHHH . . . . . ! ! ! ! !
" You all got a corpse around here ? "	Potential viewers be warned , the current IMDb viewer rating for " Tomorrow at Seven " is an anomaly of low voter turnout . It has an interesting premise , a killer leaves an Ace of Spades calling card at the scene of his crimes , while alerting the victim in advance . The execution falls flat however , and to say that the movie has it's share of plot holes would be to imply that there actually is a plot . Chester Morris portrays mystery writer Neil Broderick , weaving elements of actual murders by the Ace of Spades killer into his latest novel . Broderick intends to interview a wealthy businessman for his book , but first he has to get past the man's eccentric secretary - " If you line his relatives up , you'd have enough nuts to hold a Ford together " . That line unceremoniously endears him to the " nut's " daughter Martha ( Vivienne Osborne ) , who offers to make the introductions . Broderick meets Thornton Drake ( Henry Stephenson ) just as the latter is about to complete a jigsaw puzzle delivered by a courier that morning . The only remaining pieces , as we learn in the following scene , form the bold , black shape of the Ace of Spades containing the words " At Seven Tomorrow Night " . Now what person putting together a puzzle doesn't use the pieces with contrasting colors FIRST ! Initially I was intrigued by the appearance of Frank McHugh and Allen Jenkins in their roles as a pair of police detectives summoned to the Drake residence . Generally , their characters are colorful enough to offer genuine comic relief , but here they're just plain annoying . McHugh's Clancy in particular winds up shouting objections to inane comments made by his partner Dugan , and both usually head in the opposite direction when real trouble might turn up . Now here's a question - in light of the identity of the Ace killer , why would he have invited a novelist and a pair of cops that he just met , on a flight to his Louisiana plantation ? Especially when at seven o'clock , all parties would be a captive audience aboard the plane when the first murder is committed . It's not Drake however who's dead , but his secretary Austin Winters ( Grant Mitchell ) . The early suspicion falls on pilot Henderson ( Cornelius Keefe ) following a lights out scene , but Henderson still hasn't reported the murder to his supervisor until well after he arrives at Drake's plantation with everyone else . Can you imagine anyone trying to get away with that today , unless your name was Ted Kennedy ? With the cause of death yet to be determined , the local coroner is called in , but the first one that shows up ( a Broderick accomplice ) is a phony . Yet , when the real coroner shows up , he simply disappears immediately after ! In a second dark out scene , a letter from the murder victim Austin Winters is about to be read . It winds up missing when the lights return , and because it may point to the murderer , it becomes a clue that must be retrieved . So where was the letter ? Winters ' daughter Martha grabbed it and placed in on the mantle of the living room ! How much thought was put into this ? Obviously , the entire affair is so inane that Morris ' character solves the case rather easily . Even though the film comes in at just about an hour , it becomes almost a chore to watch with all the nonsense going on . There's really only one humorous moment worth repeating ; while aboard the plane , the detectives have this exchange : Dugan - " Hey Clancy , how often do these things fall ? " Clancy - " Once ! " Except for McHugh and Jenkins , I can't say I've seen any of the other players in films of the era , though I'm a fan of most " B " grade mystery movies from the ' 30's through the ' 50's . Fortunately , the pair fares much better backing up Humphrey Bogart in a goofy 1938 gem - " Swing Your Lady " , where the laughs are intentional . The best I can offer about " Tomorrow at Seven " is a quote from Martha Winters about midway though this turkey - " This is just a silly waste of time " .
" Look at that , it's another trap . "	And look at that , it's another Hercules movie , though this time it's billed as Son of Hercules . I can't imagine why film makers rallied around the original Steve Reeves " Hercules " flick to spin off nearly an additional two hundred more of these beefcake bashes . I've only seen a half dozen or so myself , but they're all starting to look pretty much the same . This one's at the low end of the scale , and let's face it , the scale is pretty low to begin with . The standard stuff seems to be here - a love interest for Argolese ( Dan Vadis ) , a wicked queen who attempts to kill him , various beasts to fight and defeat , and even a sidekick , though this time he seems more embarrassing than helpful . The casting of Babar ( John Simons ) seems to beg the question , ' What were they thinking ? ' I'm always intrigued when I see Hercules or one of his stand ins use the old speed dial to reach one of the Olympian gods . In this flick , Argolese is about to be pulled apart by elephants when he summons the heavens for help and wouldn't you know it , the chains simply break apart . I mean there wasn't even a pause to reflect on the request and build suspense . I'm sure there are better prints of the film than the one I viewed . It had some jarring jump cuts and a decidedly red hue in many scenes . It started out with a Part 1 , signaling to me that perhaps it was made in a serial style format . There were even scenes of coming attractions for Part 2 , however the film was spliced together in such a way that the action just continues , only to show those highlight scenes once again in due course . It all seemed quite annoying . There's really no reason to see this flick , and recommending it would be a disservice . My motivation rested simply in the fact that it was one of fifty movies packaged together under the ' Sci-Fi ' collection put out by Mill Creek Entertainment / Treeline Films . The only positive worth noting is the catchy little theme song - ' There Be Sons of Hercules ' . Hey , was that a real bear or a man in a bear suit ?
" She cries , she cries in the night . "	" The Screaming Skull " opens with a warning and an offer for free burial services if you should die watching it - Now there's a hook ! The story itself has a fairly interesting premise for a horror flick : scheming husband marries a wealthy woman with a history of mental illness , then attempts to convince her that she's going insane with shrill noises , mysterious knocking and skulls that turn up at inopportune times . Add to the formula a sufficiently creepy gardener who still cherishes the memory of the man's first wife who he was devoted to . Maybe it's just that the 1950's didn't have the technology to pull off some of the scare scenes needed to juice up this movie , the techniques used here seem contrived and mundane . But then again , when I first saw " House on Haunted Hill " as a nine year old , it gave me the heebie jeebies in the same way I'm sure this film did for young viewers of the same era . Don't get me wrong , the film is not terrible , it just seems to get tedious at times . But there's some great atmospheric tension in the generally huge but unfurnished Whitlock home , and the gardens and pool are a nice touch . For me the best played out scene involves Eric Whitlock ( John Hudson ) going maniacal in the pond attempting to retrieve the hidden skull , he just wades right in clothes and all , in neat contrast to the mentally challenged gardener ( director Alex Nicol in a dual role ) . It makes you wonder who the real dimwit was . In it's own good way , perhaps the most shocking thing about the film : how about that neat roadster the Whitlock's make their first appearance in - gull wing doors in 1958 ! That at least made me jump out of my seat !
" And how are you today my little anthropoid ? "	The first time I ever heard of this title I thought it was a joke ; it was in reference to a movie poster for the film . Ever since , I've been on the lookout for the movie in any form , and today was my lucky day , in a manner of speaking . Not only did I find the DVD for just a buck , but the picture quality was excellent . That's where the superlatives end however , though as other reviewers have pointed out , this one merits viewing just because it's so goofy and entertaining . The Martin and Lewis shtick gets stood on it's ear by Duke Mitchell and Sammy Petrillo , a couple of characters I've never heard of , yet they appear here using their own names . Bela Lugosi gets to use HIS own name in the title , but portrays Dr . Zabor , a mad scientist working on experiments in evolution on the Pacific Island of Cola Cola . But the best casting decision in more ways than one was the role of Charlita as Nona , reminiscent of the part played by Zulu as Kono in the Hawaii Five-O TV Series of the late 1960's . I mean , what's the point , why not let them use their own names too . Lest I forget to mention it , the plot ( if there is one ) involves the jealous Dr . Zabor injecting Duke with his monkey serum , turning him into a man in a gorilla suit . Talk about typecasting - if you needed a man in a gorilla suit in the 1940's , you called Ray " Crash " Corrigan , a veteran of a fair share of " B " Westerns who somehow wound up in such monkey shines as " The Ape " ( 1940 ) , Nabonga ( 1944 ) and " The Monster and the Ape " ( 1945 ) . As an ape , Corrigan is no Andy Serkis but he's fun to watch . I guess fun is the operative word for this film . There's nothing here to be taken seriously at all , and Bela Lugosi must have known that too because he spends a good deal of time smiling broadly in the movie . For once I didn't feel victimized by the film's ending when it's revealed that the island action was all a dream . But it could after all have actually happened , since Passaic , New Jersey isn't that far from the Bronx Zoo !
" I'm not lazy , I like the sun in my face . "	Even for a movie , this story defies credibility on so many levels that it begins to parody itself . It starts with a nice enough guy , Nick Allen ( William Hall ) looking for employment in a new town , who's suddenly caught up in a street fight and taking a bullet for a young lady accosted by a couple of thugs . His wound is treated in a ritzy apartment by a doctor making a house call at no charge . I was waiting for the moment when all the surreal events would catch up with him , but instead , Nick winds up in a getaway car when a policeman is shot chasing down mobster Capper Regan ( Dean Jagger ) and his henchmen . Not once did Nick ever question what was going on , or attempt to bail out , instead he joins the crooks as they take it on the lam . What defies reason the most though is how not one , but all three of the petty hoods wind up having a green acres moment and decide that they'd rather give up their life of crime in favor of the peace and solitude of rural life . Along the way , one might ask what ever happened to Nick's bullet wound , since he's shown going swimming without even a scratch ; and by the way , where did the spiffy swim trunks come from ? Maybe with a little more thought , something credible might have been salvaged from the concept attempted here , but as it is , it just doesn't work . Individually , each of the characters is likable enough , including bad guys Spudsy Baker ( Ward Bond ) and Red Graham ( Murray Alper ) , along with Capper's moll Jo Elliott ( Steffi Duna ) , who starts out a little rough but mellows as the story progresses ; those chicks put her over the edge . There are a couple of romances thrown in for good measure too , though the only one who makes it through the story maintaining some semblance of character integrity is Bill the German Shepherd , and he had to take a bullet too !
" Good luck Number # 1 , the fate of Paira rests with you . "	Warning from Earth - you are on a collision course with your own sanity if you proceed past the opening scene . Wow , did you get a good look at those goofy starfish pajamas ? We should be grateful that that was one Japanese import that didn't make it . " Warning From Space " requires a certain something from it's viewers , in my case it was an hour and a half of nothing better to do . I can't honestly say I'm any better off for having seen it , but then again , I'm not any worse . I'll have to wait to see if those starfish pop up in a dream tonight , or a nightmare . At least there were some novel ideas advanced in the film for it's time . Japanese rockets were dispatched into space to get a picture of the luminous bodies resembling meteors , and the shape shifting Pairan had no fingerprint pattern . I got a kick out of the admirable attempt of the Pairan Ginko to transmute into a famous Japanese entertainer in order to make contact with humans . The first batch of Earthlings that pulled her out of the pond didn't recognize her . I wonder how much money ' Mobilgas ' had to offer to get their sign in the film ? It seems to me that " Warning From Space " is largely a forgettable movie . The lack of menacing monsters and a benign association of Japanese scientists with the Pairans made for a boring picture at times . But they should have given a prize to the person who came up with that cyclops starfish design ; I don't think I'll ever be the same again .
" Get out of here , I want this thing to be legal . "	John Scott ( John Wayne ) and partner Kansas Charlie ( Eddy Chandler ) are trail buddies who make their way to the Rattlesnake Gulch rodeo . Scott is a pretty fair contestant , but finds that unless he's willing to accept twenty five cents on the dollar in prize money from a crooked promoter , he'll have to collect his winnings at gunpoint . Quite coincidentally , bandits Pete ( Al Ferguson ) and Jim ( Paul Fix ) decide they'd like the rest of the rodeo take ; they shoot promoter Farnsworth ( Henry Hall ) , and make it look like Scott and Kansas Charlie are the killers . Wayne and Chandler use a running gag in the film where they're about to go at it with their fists over various trivialities . Each time Chandler takes a wild swing , Wayne foot stomps him and knocks him silly . If you're very attentive , there's a neat Lipton's Tea ad in one of the scenes in which Scott's love interest Anne ( Mary Kornman ) appears . Later on in the film , the buddies are framed once again over a stage robbery . Having a change of heart and seeing the error of his ways , bad guy Jim wants to come clean and confess to the sheriff , but Pete shoots him down . While being patched up , Jim tells his story to the doctor and his sister Anne . In an unbelievable scene , Anne marches right into the middle of a gunfight between the good guys and the villains to confront the sheriff . " The Desert Trail " is one of the blander John Wayne Westerns from Lone Star Productions during this era . Noticeably absent are George " Gabby " Hayes and Yakima Canutt , one or both are usually to be seen in these oaters . If you're a John Wayne fan though , you'll have to see it once , but that will probably be enough .
" That's my business , taking chances . "	Here's something I've never seen before in a Western - a henchman shoots a rancher for his five thousand dollar bankroll , and in turn is shot at the same time by the hero of the story . It allows for Tom Crenshaw ( Tom Tyler ) to assume a dual identity to get the goods on town boss Stanton ( Richard Kramer ) and help the daughter of the first victim hang on to the Circle J Ranch . ' Santa Fe Bound " is actually a pretty awkward story in the way Molly Bates ( Jeanne Martel ) perceives Crenshaw ; when he's arrested for the murder of her father virtually dead to rights the typical wrongfully accused scenario never gets to play out . Molly believes he's innocent right from the get go with nothing to go on but his matinée idol good looks . Tyler even has the housekeeper hooked - " There goes a good man . " It didn't help that the DVD print I viewed had some annoying jump cuts , but it's probably the best one can expect from this all but unknown title . As an example , One Shot Morgan ( Charles Wittaker ) takes up a challenge from Crenshaw , and fires six shots at a target , but you only hear five ! There are also a lot of dropped lines from the players , but nothing that really interrupts the flow of the story . You know , there was the oddest statement made by Crenshaw after he buried the two men on the trail to Santa Fe - " Hardly fair to bury a white man and a skunk side by side " . I played it a couple of times to see if I had it right , and that's sure what it sounded like . The supporting cast in the story consists of a bunch of veteran Western character actors like Charles Whitaker , Ed Cassidy , Lafe McKee , Charles King and Earl Dwire . I swear , I can't tell these guys apart from one movie to the next , except maybe for Dwire who's tall and lanky and has a mustache , I think . See what I mean , I just saw him and I can't remember . At the time of my posting there were no other user comments or even the prerequisite five vote minimum for a rating . The movie is packaged as part of a two hundred fifty ! Western box set from Mill Creek Entertainment , a heck of a value for the price if you can find it . Hint for anyone interested - Sam's Club .
" Are you people positive you know what you're doing ? "	Interplanetary hitchhiker Zontar sets his sights on Earth , communicating with scientist Keith Ritchie ( Tony Houston ) via a home made radio set up that's actually more impressive looking than all the room size computer equipment at the " Installation " . Houston resembles Jerry Seinfeld with a hard edge , so watching the film today makes his performance doubly amusing . I just love hearing the pseudo scientific explanations offered for all the mumbo jumbo in these grade ' Z ' sci-fi flicks , and " Zontar " doesn't let you down . Starting with a brief mention of hyperspace hypnotism , the film is on it's way with tales of injector pods and biological implants . The film is at it's most surreal though when John Agar trades in his cavalry mount for a bicycle , tooling around town in a business suit . His character is Dr . Curt Taylor , who gives it his all in trying to prevent Zontar's domination of earth , eight people at a time . But do you think he really had to kill his wife when she became a Zontar zombie ? Gee , maybe he could have figured something else out before the picture ended . It's amazing how sequestered every small town is in these types of flicks , the outside world is never heard from so it can lend a hand . At least The General ( Neil Fletcher ) makes mention of a Communist conspiracy to remind today's viewer of what was on a lot of people's minds back in the ' 50's and ' 60's . Can you believe that was so long ago ? Give Zontar credit though . He combines vacation plans with thoughts of global domination , preferring a locale noted for it's hot springs , with a bit of spelunking thrown in as well in the underground caves . Seems to me though he could have been more consistent with turning mechanical devices on and off at will . I guess he just didn't see that sting gun with the plutonium ruby crystal coming - too bad . Hey , don't blink . Right in the middle of all the fun is a quick flash of a woman in a bikini for no apparent reason . It's one of the endearing scenes that make Zontar a blast , even if you don't believe in hyperspace hypnotism .
" Get on that horse and ride for your life . . . "	I don't think I've seen a ' B ' Western oater before that relied on about ten minutes of plot and forty eight minutes of aimless and endless chase scenes . All done in service to the story of course , but one almost winds up forgetting that Tom Tyler's hero character is on the trail of a bunch of crooks who want to hijack the Madison Stage and Freight Line from the daughter of it's murdered owner . Along the way , the story throws in a sub-plot regarding Tom Barton's ( Tyler ) brother who was ambushed and left for dead by the bad guys . He pops up in the middle of the picture to show he's still alive , but then disappears before the final outcome with no effect on the finale . I always get a kick out of these early Westerns that utilize the eavesdropping technique for the bad guys to learn about their intended prize . In this one , it actually happens twice , and allows for the villains to learn about expected stagecoach runs with gold aboard . Today of course , a competent hacker could learn about such things by intercepting an e-mail or some other clever trick , but I guess the resources available back in the 1930's didn't allow for much ingenuity . Oh well , you have to work with what you have . By the time it's over , hero Tyler uses the old tunnel under the cabin trick to escape his pursuers , but I had to do a quick re-wind when I saw him fall off his horse when chased by the bad guys . Why exactly did that happen ? It was presented as if he was shot by one of the bad guy posse , but he gets up and dusts himself off like nothing happened and keeps on running on foot . Very strange . And what about Tyler's ruse of ambushing the last guy that was chasing him and sending him off on his own horse . The trick was in having the rest of the villain bunch think it was Barton himself attempting to run away . So why didn't the patsy just stop and turn around to identify himself ? Not too much thought went into this as it turns out . However if you're a fan of the genre , this one blows by pretty quickly and presents Tom Tyler in a finely defined heroic role . You won't be impressed by any of the acting though , most of the credit has to go to the horses that had to race back and forth for the riders to hit their marks .
" I like you , I don't want to have to kill you . "	I've seen Westerns set in Mexico and Australia , but this is the first one I've seen set in Brazil . Which wouldn't have been so bad , but this was so far south of the border that it turned into an extended siesta . Considering the principals , especially the reliable Glenn Ford ( I'd say always reliable , but not after seeing this one ) , one would expect a far more interesting story to complement the South American geography . Much more could have been done to define the rivalry between Bento Hermany ( Frank Lovejoy ) and the opposing homestead ranchers , among them the lovely landowner Marianna ( Ursula Theiss ) . It's probably only the appearance of Manuel ' El Gato ' ( Cesar Romero ) and the shimmy shimmy Teresa ( Abbe Lane ) that gives the picture any life at all . The truly unusual touch here would have to be all the Amazonian wildlife on display - alligators , anacondas , toucans , macaws , cockatiels , even a South American tapir . The early tease with the piranhas actually gets wasted later in the film when riders are shown crossing the river without resorting to the same ruse required earlier to distract the little buggers . I'd really like to be more positive about the film , but ultimately , I don't think I've ever seen a film before where there's so much going on that when it's over , you feel like nothing happened at all .
" You have the secret of the zombies , let me have it . "	Though the title includes the word " zombies " , this film is not what you'd expect from a movie made today , though for 1936 the concept is played out about as well as would probably be expected . Dean Jagger portrays Armand Louque , an officer in the French Army of World War I , who has stumbled upon an ancient tale of soldiers turned into automatons , or " zombies " , who are impervious in battle and may hold the key to victory in the war , though on whose side is not certain . At first he has trouble convincing his superiors of this phenomenon , but eventually French General Duval ( George Cleveland ) orders a non military expedition into the ancient Cambodian city of Angkor to find the secret of the zombies and destroy it . The story is played out against the backdrop of a love triangle involving Louque , Duval's daughter Claire ( Dorothy Stone ) , and Clifford Grayson ( Robert Noland ) , all a part of the expedition . When Louque laments over his lack of forcefulness and resolve , Grayson offers him advice to go after what he wants in life with all his power . That advice begins to transform Louque , particularly after he's successful in obtaining a stone tablet resembling a photo from the ancient city . Having followed a temple priest into a swamp , Louque now appears to hold the secret he had been seeking , though it's not made clear how he has instantaneously been able to command the power of " zombiefication " . All it takes is placing his right fist to the forehead simulating a third eye , and casting his thoughts out to those he wishes to control . This comes in handy for winning back his girl , and taking Grayson's early advice as he comments to his servant , " Buna , we're learning to be ruthless " . Fans of early " B " horror flicks will recognize the use of Bela Lugosi's signature eye stare , plucked from the 1932 film " White Zombie " , also from director Victor Halperin . Of the two movies , " White Zombie " is preferably superior , both in story content and in it's depiction of the undead , where the zombies have a more sinister appearance and are more threatening . In " Revolt " , the zombies are enemy soldiers with a glazed over look that merely react to their mentor's commands . In fact , the actual revolt of the title occurs only when Louque releases the soldiers from his mental command in deference to his love for Claire ; they overrun his compound and kill him in the process . Not to be too harsh on the film , it plays out decently within the parameters of it's story outline , but if you're thinking " zombies ! ! ! " within the traditional context , you'll probably be disappointed . If you want to sample an early treatment of the subject , the aforementioned " White Zombie " with Bela Lugosi is the way to go .
" I kiss thee and I kill thee , no way but this . "	Put Jose Ferrer and James Earl Jones together in a film and you would think you'd have the ingredients for a Shakespearean drama , but what you get in " Blood Tide " might pass for a made for TV horror flick with some X rated moments . Martin Kove and Mary Louise Weller portray newlyweds Neil and Sherry Grice , on the search for Neil's sister on a Greek island where she was last heard from . Madeline ( Deborah Shelton ) drifts between lucidity and a trance like state throughout the film with no explanation , maintaining a mysterious relationship with a nun who maintains a monastery on the island . Ferrer's character Nereus is a priest like figure who has the only reasonable advice to offer , both to the Grice's and the viewer - better leave now . There are a few scenes that get your hopes up , like the underwater shots that portend Jaws like horror , but they never deliver . When one finally gets a glimpse of the creature , you better be quick about it because he's quicker than Houdini . The film probably could have gotten a bit more mileage out of the monster and the whole virgin sacrifice thing with better writing , but this was definitely a film on a budget . As for the monster , it seemed like a mutated version of the Creature From the Black Lagoon . With clichéd lines like " Time is running out for all of us " and " You have seen your death Mr . Frye " , you'll have to connect your own dots to make some sense out of the film . And am I the only one to notice , but after Neil saves Madeline from the underwater cave , wasn't that brother-sister kiss just a bit disturbing ?
" He doesn't look like a hit and run flier to me . "	You'll want to see " A Holy Terror " if you're a Humphrey Bogart fan , but it would be incorrect to consider this a Bogey film . George O'Brien stars and portrays Anthony Woodbury , the socialite son of a father who legally changed his name twenty five years ago , and at the same time had William Drew ( James Kirkwood ) placed under surveillance . Adverse to publicity and never allowing a photo , Thomas Woodbury / John Bard ( Robert Warwick ) is seen only briefly on screen when he is shown going for a hidden weapon as Drew arrives at his estate home to force a confrontation . When Tony learns of his father's hidden past , he's determined to learn more about William Drew and the circumstances of his father's death . The film's most interesting scene occurs when aviator Tony literally crash lands his plane into the home of Miss Jerry Foster ( Sally Eilers ) . She begins a cat and mouse relationship with Anthony , who begins using the name Bard once he reaches Wyoming . The plot of the movie gets muddied when William Drew asks his ranch foreman Steve Nash ( Bogart ) to bring Bard to the ranch unharmed . Nash has an underhanded side , and involves his partner Butch Morgan ( Stanley Fields ) in the endeavor . Since Anthony wants to meet with Drew , and Drew is paying Nash a thousand dollars to bring Anthony to him , there's no reason for Morgan to pistol whip Bard and carry out the request like a kidnapping . Obviously done as a dramatic element for the film , the tactic doesn't make much sense , other than to provide a reason for Anthony to arrange his escape in a dramatic ride on horseback , with a rather effective looking leap over Devil's Gulch that the baddies won't risk attempting . The astute viewer can figure out the payoff - William Drew and John Bard were once in love with the same woman , who married Bard . But Anthony's father was really William Drew , and on that note the film ends rather abruptly . " A Holy Terror " clocks in at just fifty three minutes , and that's probably a saving grace . The performances are rather stilted with not much more than the characters going through their motions . Bogart's turn as a bad guy is of some interest , building on the con man turn in his prior picture " The Bad Sister " . It would be five more years before he gets his hands on a real meaty role as the villain Duke Mantee in " The Petrified Forest " .
" Hello Kong . . . , welcome back . "	I never knew this film even existed until I ran across it in a second hand shop . With Linda Hamilton in the credits it was worth a try for the buck I laid out , even though messing with the Kong legend is always risky business . Equal parts camp and cheese , the film has it's occasional high spots amid the generally ranging low ones . I got a kick out of an early scene when Brian Kerwin's character Mitchell uses the ' Can you hear me now ' line some dozen years or so before those annoying Verizon commercials made it a household slogan . The sit up and take notice scene had to be that enormous artificial heart that was going to be placed in the chest of the Kong that survived the fall from the World Trade Center in the 1976 film . Complete with footage of Jeff Bridges and Jessica Lange from that less than successful remake , this film continues on to give new meaning to the term monkeyshines . When King and Lady Kong see each other for the first time , their exchange of glances is worthy of the most ambitious ' Saturday Night Live ' skit . So where does the King take his bride on their wedding night ? - why Honeymoon Ridge of course . How was he to know she was afraid of snakes ? The big ape certainly didn't waste any time when it came to the romance department though , here for the first time we learn about the real origin of the Son of Kong .
" Tell your children . "	If the producers of " Reefer Madness " had intended to produce a campy , neurotic cult film , they could not have succeeded better . Of course , the film had a different intent , to portray the " frightful toll of the new drug menace - Marihuana is that drug - a violent narcotic - the real Public Enemy Number One " ! The film does have it's seedy moments in capturing the smoky atmosphere of the local drug hangout , where dope pushers bring their unwary teenage victims to turn them on to marijuana's excesses . But it takes a huge leap to make the connection between it's casual use and the resulting consequences of hit and run driving , rape , and even murder . There are some memorable scenes - the frenetic piano player reminiscent of Seinfeld's Kramer , the attempted seduction scene of high schooler Mary witnessed by her boyfriend Bill , the aforementioned car accident involving Mary's brother Jimmy , and the jury room scene deciding Bill's fate where the light pull resembles a hangman's noose . The film today is an incredible period piece that makes one think about how society perceived drug use and how the government attempted to influence behavior . For that it's worth viewing , if only once to experience it's cultish appeal .
" One never knows what lies behind the curtain . "	Other than being based on a story by Earl Derr Biggers , this film offers little in the way of mainstream Charlie Chan familiarity , even down to the portrayal of the Oriental Detective by Asian actor E . L . Park in the closing minutes of the film . By then , the mystery behind the murder of Hilary Galt is no mystery at all , as one's early suspicion of Eric Durand ( Philip Strange ) behind the deed is confirmed a number of times as the movie proceeds . More so , the film involves a love triangle between Durand , his wife Eve Mannering ( Lois Moran ) , and jilted lover Colonel John Beetham ( Warner Baxter ) . Presumably , Galt had information for Eve's uncle Sir George Mannering ( Claude King ) that would threaten the marriage , so Durand enters Galt's study , murders him , and places a pair of slippers on Galt that were once connected to Beetham . However Durand was observed leaving Galt's study by night watchman Alfred Pornick ( John Rogers ) , who attempts to blackmail Durand with the information . Eve learns of her husband's involvement in the murder , and runs to Beetham for comfort and support , not to mention his help in running away from Eric . As an early talkie film , the movie suffers from it's actors trying to find their place in a new medium . The players seem to over enunciate and over emphasize their dialog , almost to the point of extreme tedium . From today's vantage point it would seem like they were purposely going for " over the top " in their performances . It's especially apparent as the movie progresses ; for example in the Persian Desert scene when Eve finally gives in to her feelings for Beetham , she drags on with a simple sentence - " Whatever . . . . happens . . . . John , . . . . remember , . . . . I . . . . love . . . you " . If you need a reason to watch the film , consider the appearance of a young Boris Karloff in a pre-Frankenstein role as Beetham's Indian servant . He's not given much to do , but his stamp on the film is undeniable , particularly in a scene when ordered by Beetham to protect his lady's secrecy . Karloff plays dumb in two different languages by saying nothing . Ultimately , the film stands as a curiosity piece for Charlie Chan fans , and for that reason should be viewed at least once . However one should not expect the usual signature items of a Chan film , such as the Chinese proverbs , the help of numbered sons , or the exposition of the crime solution by Charlie in the finale . In fact , the off screen Chan is virtually derided by Scotland Yard detective Sir Frederick Bruce who handled the case , stating that a tighter surveillance at the Cosmopolitan Club may have captured Eric Durand alive . At the same time though , his satisfaction in closing the case seems to be the over riding sentiment .
" Eternal surveillance is the price of liberty . . . "	" The Brain Machine " will at least put your own brain into overdrive trying to figure out what it's all about . Four subjects of varying backgrounds and intelligence level have been selected for an experiment described by one of the researchers as a scientific study of man and environment . Since the only common denominator among them is the fact that they each have no known family should have been a tip off - none of them will be missed . The whole affair is supervised by a mysterious creep known only as The General , but it seems he's taking his direction from a Senator who wishes to remain anonymous . Good call there on the Senator's part . There's also a shadowy guard that the camera constantly zooms in on , who later claims he doesn't take his direction from the General or ' The Project ' . Too bad he wasn't more effective , he was overpowered rather easily before the whole thing went kablooey . If nothing else , the film is a veritable treasure trove of 1970's technology featuring repeated shots of dial phones , room size computers and a teletype machine that won't quit . Perhaps that was the basis of the film's alternate title - " Time Warp " ; nothing else would make any sense . As for myself , I'd like to consider a title suggested by the murdered Dr . Krisner's experiment titled ' Group Stress Project ' . It applies to the film's actors and viewers alike . Keep an eye out just above The General's head at poolside when he asks an agent for his weapon , a boom mic is visible above his head for a number of seconds . You may want to catch this flick if you're a die hard Gerald McRaney fan , could he have ever been that young ? James Best also appears in a somewhat uncharacteristic role as a cryptic reverend , but don't call him Father . For something a little more up his alley , try to get your hands on 1959's " The Killer Shrews " . That one at least doesn't pretend to take itself so seriously .
" Something happens to me when I think of Egypt . "	If at all possible , try to view all five of the Universal " Mummy " films in order , not so much for the continuity between films , but for the very evident lack thereof . Of course it goes without saying that the original Boris Karloff classic " The Mummy " really shouldn't even be mentioned in the same breath as the so called " sequels " , all of which come off as campy or cultish . This time around , it's revealed that the mummified remains of Princess Ananka have made their way to the United States . And once again , as your eyes deceive you , Kharis the Mummy didn't really die for the second time in " The Mummy's Tomb " , but is alive and searching for his lost love Princess Ananka , with the help of the rhetorical nine tana leaves brewed during the cycle of the full moon . To complete the mythology , Kharis needs a caretaker , ably filled by a gaunt John Carradine as Yousef Bey , entrusted with the task by George Zucco's Andoheb , high priest of Arkan . Kharis and Ananka are to be returned to their final resting place in the hills of Arkan in Egypt . But as we've seen before , being entrusted with the duty of a high priest is a sure bet to end in failure , with Carradine's character falling for the reincarnation of Ananka , Amina Monsouri ( Ramsay Ames ) . It's shocking to see Yousef Bey and the PO'ed bandaged one come to blows over the gorgeous Amina . Riddle me this - in both " Tomb " and " Curse " , Lon Chaney portrays the Mummy with a limp right arm folded helplessly across his chest . When he encounters the fainted Amina , he lifts her up in both arms with no problem ; as soon as he puts her down his right arm returns to it's crippled position once again . The ending of the film is most notable - the monster gets the girl ! But it's a short lived victory , as the Mummy and his kidnapped bride succumb to a swampy grave , an ancient Egyptian curse is fulfilled - " The fate of those who defy the will of the ancient gods shall be a cruel and violent death " .
" Knowing and proving something are two very different matters Watson . . . "	An informant with a blade in his back leads Sherlock Holmes ( Christopher Lee ) and aide Doctor Watson ( Thorley Walters ) to the Hare and Eagle Pub , and on to the trail of the " Deadly Necklace " , once belonging to Cleopatra , and now in the possession of Holmes ' arch-enemy Professor Moriarty ( Hans Sohnker ) . Along the way , Holmes is admonished by Inspector Cooper ( Hans Nielsen ) of Scotland Yard not to get involved in official business of the agency . I found this to be a rather tedious film , even with the neat diversions of Christopher Lee in various disguises in his portrayal of the Holmes character . He eventually rescues the Cleopatra necklace from a glass encased mummy's coffin guarded by a snake , and delivers it just in time to an auction house , much to the chagrin of Moriarty . There's a bit of the " Italian Job " flavor to the film in a sequence where Watson bumps into the car of Moriarty's chauffeur . It's a difficult film to follow , with a dead body or two along the way . Repeat viewings are probably in order , but I found the first take to be somewhat laborious , and not interesting enough to indulge in once again . View it if you're a serious Sherlock Holmes fan , otherwise you can let this one pass .
" Very well , the corpse is yours , do what you want to do . "	Bill Cortner ( Jason Evers ) is a maverick doctor who steals limbs from amputee victims in his quest to create new life ; nurse Jan Compton ( Virginia Leith ) is his frisky fiancée who just can't wait to get married . The good doctor maintains a country home where a medical assistant keeps watch over his less than ethical experiments , and also houses a terrible secret behind a locked door . Well the door is locked , but the eye level hatch door is usually kept unlatched so Cortner's creation can have some fun every now and then . This is probably the closest I've ever seen a horror film turn into a comedy , scene for scene the action approaches comic absurdity on all levels . Heading out to the country home with his fiancée , Cortner drives so recklessly that he crashes his car , claiming Jan as a fatal victim . The doctor manages to retrieve the inexplicably dismembered head with the idea that he'll find a suitable body to replace the one left behind . This quest brings him to a number of likely places - a strip club , a makeshift beauty contest , and a private photo shoot where frantic photographers can't get enough of the " best body in the world " . Are you still with me ? About forty years ahead ( a head ? ) of it's time , I found Jason Evers ' portrayal of the leering Dr . Cortner to be particularly prophetic . He looks exactly like he's impersonating Darrell Hammond impersonating Bill Clinton , biting on his lower lip in an expression of mock sincerity - it's hysterical ! The film offers some well conceived dialog as well . In a scene where Jan in the Pan contemplates on the creature behind the door , she remarks with a straight face - " I'm only a head , you're whatever you are . " Somehow , with the help of the doctor's adreno serum , she's gained telepathic powers , and is able to communicate with Mr . Gruesome . We're finally offered a treat when the creature makes a grab for the doctor through the peep hole , he breaks the door right off it's hinges to reveal a bit of a Swedish Angel knockoff , a hideously deformed mutant who does in the doctor as the lab itself is about to go out in a blaze of glory . " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " is one of those films you have to experience at least once in a lifetime . It will also leave you with plenty of unanswered questions , like the scene in which Jan in the Pan is shown on the lab table with a completely clear view of the empty space below the table . How'd they do that ?
" I could turn your life into a nice big beautiful sleigh ride . "	This story of ' tea ' and ' tomatoes ' purports to boast an ' All Star Hollywood Cast ' , but even if you're a follower of films from the 1930's and ' 40's , I don't think you'll recognize a single name in the credits . Maybe Lyle Talbot , who's screen credits total nearly three hundred roles , but after that I think you'd be hard pressed to recognize another actor in the picture . Except for Jack Elam in one of his very first screen roles ; he actually was a rather good looking guy back then . That might have been the single treat in the film for me . It's curious how all of these exploitation films wind up with a handful of different titles . I saw this picture under the name " She Shoulda ' Said No " , and just like the classic cult film " Reefer Madness " , it tells the story of youth run wild after falling victim to the evil terrors of marihuna ( sometimes spelled marijuana as a closing segment informs us ) . It's hard to take seriously today of course , and I really wish there were some folks around from the era who could tell us first hand how these flicks were received back in the day . I have to say , I was really distracted by Alan Baxter's portrayal of the local pusher Markey . He's a dead ringer for a young Jack Nicholson , and if I didn't know better , I would have been checking the credits to see if it was him or not . Another weird thing was the use of that eerie sci-fi / Twilight Zone type music whenever folks on screen were shown puffing on the dreaded weed . You know , I had to laugh when I saw the " I'm gonna die ' guy under the influence . It reminded me of the very first and just about only time I tried pot myself . It was in an apartment that lost it's heat in the winter , and my best friend was convinced he was going to freeze to death . I wasn't as hysterical as Rita and her friends , but I thought it was all pretty funny at the time . I had a curious thought about mid-way through the picture . Wouldn't it be great if the Coen Brothers took the idea of these exploitation flicks and made one of their own ? You could really get some mileage out of characters portrayed by John Tuturro , Jon Polito , and Steve Buscemi . Jack Nicholson might be a little too old for this sort of stuff , but I think a cameo would be just the right touch . I think he would be up for it .
" There's never any warmth where the dead do not rest . "	The East Side Kids had a couple of films going by " Spooks Run Wild " and " Ghosts on the Loose " , but this one seems even better suited to a ghost story than the other two . It's got some atmospheric creepy sets , a long dungeon like room , and someone even dons the white sheets unlike the aforementioned films . What hampers the story though is some really shoddy writing and a make it up as you go sensibility that just about kills any interest in the story once it's under way . For me , this was not one of the better East Side Kids efforts . It starts out with a familiar premise ; get the boys out of the city to keep them out of trouble , under the watchful eye of Danny's ( Bobby Jordan ) big brother Knuckles ( Dave O'Brien ) . The core group this time out includes Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) and Scruno ( Sunshine Sammy Morrison ) , with a little help from Peewee ( Donald Haines ) and Skinny ( Frankie Burke ) . Burke looks every bit the young Jimmy Cagney here , maybe even more so than he did as the young Rocky Sullivan in " Angels With Dirty Faces " . If you're not used to it , the racial connotations to Scruno's character get a workout in the film to the point of embarrassment . In the bouncy car ride to the country , he complains of getting bruised ' black and blue ' ; at Briarcliff Manor , he's the only one served a huge slice of watermelon and he fairly dives right into it . Scruno takes it all in stride as in all of his appearances , also making the most of the bug eyed stereotype whenever something remotely scary might happen . The surprise of the film for me was Minerva Urecal , she's really got the sinister housekeeper act nailed in this outing . The next time you see Cloris Leachman in " Young Frankenstein " , she's doing Minerva's Agatha character from this film , I would bet on it . Once things get going , the film gets some mileage out of the old sliding bookcase trick and the occasional sound of sinister organ music . The murder mystery itself is handled a bit sloppy , especially when the unknown character under the Manor turns out to be from the District Attorney's office . The revelation that Judge Parker's bodyguard was a member of the Maury Gang who wanted him rubbed out seemed a bit curious after the fact . Didn't anyone have an idea what Maury's guys might have looked like ? Best line of the film this time around goes to Leo Gorcey - " Say , what's the Thin Man got that I ain't got ? "
" We'll go with the man who'll make us champion Chappie . "	Though this film is widely available in the public domain , I wound up catching it as a YES Network presentation under the " Yogi and a Movie " banner , hosted by Yankee great Yogi Berra with Bob Lorenz . Unfortunately I was expecting a lot more . With only a novices ' limited knowledge of the boxing great's career , I thought I would learn a lot more about the athlete and the man than was offered in the film . A major flaw I thought was the lack of historical perspective as events in Louis ' life played out . One has no clue at what points in his life and in what year key events occurred . For example , with a record of 26 wins and no losses , Louis is honored by " Ring " Magazine as Boxer of the Year , but when was that ? Similarly , his title win against James Braddock at Chicago's Comiskey Park is noted , but it would have been interesting to know what else was going on in the world at the time . Newspaper headlines were often shown offering highlights of Louis ' career progress , but they were either too small to read or flashed by too quickly to be of value . Coley Wallace is generally credited with being a solid Joe Louis look alike , and with professional boxing experience , his choice to portray the champ made sense . However Wallace , and the actors assembled around him , were as lifeless a cast as ever I've seen . If you've ever heard the term ' wooden ' applied to an actor's performance , the term was invented here . It's exemplified in a scene just prior to the first Max Schmeling fight which Louis lost . Joe hasn't been training seriously , and he's shown about to chow down on a large piece of birthday cake as his trainer Chappie Blackburn ( James Edwards ) just glares . The camera switches back and forth between the two men a number of times , with no change of expressions and no climax to the scene , other than Joe's eating the cake - a totally wasted moment . Speaking of Schmeling , it was learned during one of the film's intermissions that he and Louis actually became friends after their second bout , this time won by Joe . Now here was a great opportunity to explore how Louis confronted racism , particularly when faced with a symbol of Hitler's doctrine of white supremacy . Instead , this angle receives no build up on the way to their rematch , and the viewer is left to draw his own conclusions . Incidentally , Schmeling served as a pall bearer at Louis ' funeral . If ever a major boxing champion deserves a significant big screen treatment , a la " Raging Bull " or " Cinderella Man " , it would be the life and times of Joe Louis . Done right , it could be a thrilling and stirring film on both a human interest and sporting level ; it could be a knockout .
" As other men collect fame and riches , I collect trophies . "	With a concept borrowed from " The Most Dangerous Game " , and the future dad of " The Brady Bunch " , " Bloodlust " achieves little in the way of intrigue or suspense , and if you don't manage to break into a chuckle or two while watching it , you're taking the film way too seriously . Johnny Randall ( Robert Reed ) is the self appointed leader of two young couples who find themselves stranded on an island with a madman ( Wilton Graff ) , who plans on adding them to his trophy case , or rather his trophy cave , after giving them a chance to make a break for it from the island's center , starting at the " Tree of Death " . Dr . Balleau has wasted no time in making an example of his wife Sandra ( Lilyan Chauvin ) and her not so secret lover Dean ( Walter Brooke ) , who now share a prominent place in his den of horrors . Reed's character is terrible at making wise choices , but it's his girlfriend Betty's ( June Kenney ) job to ask rhetorical questions and utter useless clichés . She's matched by friend Jean's ( Joan Lorra ) repeated reminders of how scared they all ought to be , while her boyfriend Pete ( Eugene Persson ) tries to keep his libido in check . The question any viewer will repeatedly ask themselves is why doesn't this foursome simply jump the old codger Balleau at just about any point in the proceedings . They had him surrounded more than once , and could have knocked the bejeezus out of him at any time , but then I guess there wouldn't have been a story . Listen , if you're looking for a movie of poor saps stranded on an island with little hope of survival , go for the gusto and pick up 1959's " The Killer Shrews " . It's got a lot more stuff to make fun of , not the least of which are swarming canines with dreadlocks . With " Bloodlust " you get none of the satisfaction , either from the story , or the title . Oh , the possibilities !
" This is the land of Zom . "	Having just watched the original " Jungle Jim " movie from the prior year , I couldn't help noticing how similar the plot elements were for this follow up film , as the jungle hero agrees to help Zoron , the leader of Zom , from trespassing white men who would plunder the kingdom of it's treasure . Which wouldn't have been so enticing if Jim hadn't agreed to offer the villains a handful of diamonds each to agree to stay away . Now there's a strategy , and Jim was supposed to know the mind of greedy white men ! If you enjoy a good healthy dose of goofiness with your jungle flicks , this one will be right up your alley . Jim battles crocodiles and sharks , usually after an impressive dive into the water to keep viewers reminded of his genuine Olympic prowess . Throw in a small army of men in gorilla suits and you have the makings for a rousing finale to defeat the bad guys ; you know your main villain is truly evil when he kills his own niece early in the story . Those gorillas looked awfully similar to the ones played by Ray " Crash " Corrigan in a whole load of ape films from the 1940's and 50's , so it came as no surprise to learn that the movie itself was filmed at the Corriganville Ranch in Simi Valley , California . I didn't know Corrigan had understudies . I had to do a double take when Chot ( Paul Marion ) , son of Zoron , reminds his sister Li Wanna ( Elena Verdugo ) that it's forbidden for any white person to see the land of Zom . Hmm , and that was shortly after she led Jungle Jim to Zom to meet her father . No sense letting inconsistency in the story line stand in the way of an entertaining jungle flick . For anyone keeping track , this film's entry in the ' non African animals appearing in an African setting ' would be the quick stock shot of a South American toucan . You have to be attentive though , it's a quickie . Fortunately too , the movie itself comes in at slightly over an hour , not too strenuous for the attention span if you go for this kind of stuff like I do . But one question though , for an ancient lost city , just how many times did Chot , Li Wanna and Jim go back and forth to Zom in the course of the story - I just couldn't keep track .
" We know you're alright , but we'd like you to stay that way . "	" The Limping Man " has the makings of a fairly good mystery until the let down at the end of the film , which makes a more thorough review a moot point . Lloyd Bridges stars in this British film as former military man Franklin Prior returning to London to reunite with an old flame . However Pauline French ( Moira Lister ) may be mixed up in some kind of trouble involving the assassination of a former lover of hers . Now she's being blackmailed by , who else , the former lover , who's not really dead . So who's the limping man ? Take your pick - the stage door manager at the theater where Helene Castle ( Helene Cordet ) performs walks with a cane . Assassin target turned blackmailer Kendall Brown ( Tom Gill ) uses a rifle fashioned as a walking stick . This would have all been wonderful fun if Bridges ' character hadn't suddenly awoke from his trans-Atlantic flight to discover that he had just arrived in London , with character Brown sitting behind him on the plane . Shades of Dallas and Bobby Ewing , but at least you didn't waste an entire season of episodes to get hoodwinked . Here , it took less than an hour and a half .
" Don't you ' I love you ' me - What ? "	I could never get into the sun and surf films of the Sixties because frankly , they looked kind of dumb . However in the interest of maintaining a well rounded view of cinematic achievement , I caught this today on Turner Classic Movies . Boy , was it dumb . The host on TCM stated that each of the Frankie and Annette beach party movies were shot completely in a few hours , and then took about forty minutes to edit . It didn't sound like he was kidding about that , and judging by " Beach Blanket Bingo " , that formula is probably pretty close . In fact , I wouldn't be surprised if the film makers were working without a script too , because the situations and dialog at times appear to be completely at random , with no help from editing . For example , there's a scene where Bonehead ( Jody McCrae ) begins to pine after Lorelei ( Marta Kristen ) as she swims away in the moonlight , but instead of allowing the situation to build with emotion , the scene abruptly cuts to one of the skydiving sequences in bright daylight . It also would have helped if Dee Dee ( Annette Funicello ) and Frankie ( Frankie Avalon ) managed to stay in character from scene to scene . With Frankie scanning every babe to pass into view throughout the film , one minute Dee Dee is jealous , and the next the pair are lovey dovey . It doesn't help that Frankie epitomizes male chauvinism with his ' boys are different ' philosophy , as much as stating that Dee Dee should concentrate on staying in the kitchen instead of learning to sky dive . It would be hard to come up with the movie's low point , but the leading contenders have to include Rickels ' monologue when he tells Annette he never did like her anyway , and Zipper's ( Harvey Lembeck ) song lyric ' We'll give them the finger now " . For me personally , it would be South Dakota Slim's ( Timothy Carey ) trip to the ' booby shack ' , by that time I felt like Jack Nicholson after the lobotomy in ' Cuckoo's Nest ' . For my money , Slim is in the running for the most pathetic movie character ever . But hey , at least Linda Evans has that Lesley Gore thing going for her in a couple of singing numbers , which I would have bet were dubbed but weren't . And I did like the description of Von Zipper's ' Rats ' as Carbon Monoxide Commandos ; that was about the most thought put into this flick . But come on , you know you saw that ' fish out of water ' line coming from a mile away . I know I'm in the minority here based on some of the other posters for this film , but nostalgia only goes so far . When the final scene came down blessed by that ' Fin-ee ' , I could only scratch my head and repeat one of Frankie Avalon's lines from the picture - " You know , I just don't know " . Oh yeah , Buster Keaton is in the movie too , but I just don't believe it .
" Show business is a tough racket . . . . , look at these casualties " .	It's interesting , when Dean Martin presented his Celebrity Roast of Frank Sinatra in 1977 , he ( Sinatra ) was honored as Man of the Year . Back in 1973 , Kirk Douglas got the star treatment as Man of the Week , which is OK , but it certainly didn't have the feel of the celebrity roasts I was used to watching back in the day . This one had lesser known personalities on the dais , and the presentations seemed rushed and less than professionally produced . You didn't have headline presenters like ( George ) Burns or ( Bing ) Crosby , but instead had to rely on second stringers like Jack Burns and Norm Crosby - anyone remember them ? Even Don Rickles seemed flat with his delivery , and way too long to eat up the clock . Rich Little doing Kirk Douglas had to go a bit over the top to achieve the desired result , so again , another example of a presenter seeming forced instead of spontaneous . Not only that , but the entire show seemed to blow by in not much more than a half hour . Fortunately , this isn't one of the ' Roasts ' that I remember seeing back in the Seventies , otherwise I might have avoided some of the really great and fun ones that I can still recall with fondness - Frank Sinatra , Lucille Ball , and Muhammad Ali just to name a few .
" Just make sure that stake is good and sharp or we're all dead . "	With a title like " Crypt Of The Living Dead " I guess I was expecting a little more in the way of zombie spectacle . Not that I'm particularly a fan of that type of genre , but you have certain expectations . What the picture lacks in horror and gore is suitably replaced by creepy atmosphere , which is probably the highlight of the film . In my case , the print I viewed was quite poor in sound quality ; it was part of a twenty film DVD pack from Mill Creek Entertainment , and as one other viewer mentioned , the black and white format was certainly preferred for the subject matter . I actually learned more about the story from some of the other reviewers on this board than from watching the flick , but then again , I was able to pick up all the information I needed from a handful of scenes that moved the story along . OK , so Hannah ( Teresa Gimpera ) , 1269 is a vampire looking none the worse for wear and fresh as a daisy from a seven hundred year long dirt nap . A little weak in the knees , her transformation into a werewolf is designed to buy time by feasting on other animals while gaining strength to do in some eventual humans . Not a bad concept , and actually quite sensible when you get right down to it . What really distracted me from the story was every single appearance of Andrew Prine on screen as Chris Bolton investigating his father's death . He looked like he could be the spitting image of a guy I knew about twenty years ago who's since passed away . That just added a certain intangible creepiness to the whole story for me . Anyway , you won't miss a whole lot if you pass on this one , but at the same time it's not the worst flick to while away a quick seventy five minutes . I'm still puzzled by the idea of a guy in a caveman get-up , but there's not enough there to get hung up about .
" He don't care about the dough anymore , he wants revenge " .	I read a couple of good reviews on this board for " Mr . Scarface " , but for anyone uninitiated in the genre of Italian gangster films like myself , the picture will probably make very little sense . Indeed , after the initial setup involving the ten million lira scam , the picture devolved into a fairly routine revenge flick with a minor twist in the identity of Rick's ( Al Cliver ) character . The whole gang war plot got muddied up for me with the inclusion of Vinchenzo Napoli ( Vittorio Caprioli ) , but as most other viewers commented , he's about the only one who gave this picture any life with his often ineffective attempts at violence . I found it somewhat unbelievable that Manzari's goons who chased Tony through the streets didn't actually stroke out before Tony even laid a hand on them . For all of his buildup as the title character , Jack Palance was wasted rather unceremoniously in an anticlimactic near finale , making the U . S . working title rather moot . I've seen enough spaghetti Westerns to know that they don't all work ; I guess in this case , my first look at a spaghetti gangster flick didn't quite make it either .
" Aw , now don't tell me you fell out of that little old plane this time . "	" Robot Pilot " starts out like it might be positioning itself as an espionage thriller , but unfortunately ( or fortunately depending on your disposition ) , never even comes close . There are probably more comic elements present than might have been originally intended , so if you approach the flick as a romantic comedy , you might be more pleasantly surprised . Even so , you'll have to endure some pretty stiff acting from then newcomer Forrest Tucker in the lead role of Jerry Barton , a pilot who's half of a team that's developed a remote control device for guiding aircraft . The first attempt at showcasing the new technology for the Lambert Aircraft Company ends in a nosedive , so with Jerry and Doc Williams ( Emmett Vogan ) sent off packing , they arrive at their desert cabin to start all over again . Most of the rest of the story consists of Barton teaching the women a lesson after catching them with some gasoline taken from a government fuel shed . Make that teaching Betty Lambert ( Carol Hughes ) a lesson , as her Aunt Maude ( Evelyn Brent ) eventually learns that Barton is in cahoots with Betty's father to take the wind out of her sails . Throughout the story , it appears that Aunt Maude is having the best time of it all , while casting a romantic eye in the direction of good old Doc . The espionage angle is brought back to the forefront when a Lambert test bomber is hijacked by veteran character actor I . Stanford Jolley . That plane crashes , but it brings Jolley hobbling along until he arrives at Doc's remote cabin . Think about it for a moment , and I know these old films relied on this kind of coincidence , but how is it that Betty and Maude , and then Lambert employee Karl ( Jolley ) , make their way clear across the country from ' back East ' , and wind up virtually within a mile or two of a remote cabin in a desert , which just happens to be where former Lambert employee Barton is holed up with his partner . Sort of defies all the laws of probability , yet it happens all the time in flicks of the era . I guess that's why the presence of Billy Curtis in the finale is so surprising and bewildering . As the traveling midget circuit Judge , Curtis slaps the girls with a twenty dollar fine for ' stealing ' twenty gallons of gasoline , prompting Aunt Maude to directly deadpan the camera - " Did you see what I saw ? " I think it might have been just another way of asking the viewer what they thought of the picture .
" You don't have to know my rules to die . "	This was a tough movie to follow because the sound was so poor . It had the feel of a 1950's ' B ' Western making it hard to imagine it was made as late as 1963 . That would explain Jock Mahoney's aged appearance since his 1958 TV series " Yancy Derringer " , flourishes of which we see in the character of Don Michael O'Casey . Here he shows some of that Yancy charisma with the ladies , along with the stunt riding skills that made him a hit as Range Rider in the early Fifties . Set in 1842 California , the story revolves around the question of that territory's statehood . Don Francisco Hernandez ( Michael Pate ) has allied himself with General Miguel Torena against that prospect in the hopes of becoming it's first Mexican governor . His romantic ambitions call for a marriage to a woman who doesn't love him , Marianna De La Rosa ( Susan Seaforth ) , who in turn finds she has feelings for the handsome renegade Don Mike . There's also a woman in the middle , Carlotta Torres , who does love Francisco , but realizes that he's an evil and ambitious man . Though the viewer finds himself siding with the cause of ' Viva Hernandez ' , it's a tenuous position since the film builds little in the way of sympathy for one side or the other . Don Francisco's hopes for power are crushed when the General confesses that he's on the outs with his superiors in Mexico City , and when Irish Mexican O'Casey defeats him in a sword duel , he knows enough to call it quits . Until he makes a run for it , and is gunned down by a Hernandez loyalist . Oh yeah , Don Francisco was Michael O'Casey's uncle , but it's not that important . There's really little to recommend this film other than an offbeat treat for fans of Jacques / Jack / Jock O'Mahoney . Though as mentioned earlier , you'll be watching an older Yancy putting his spell on the ladies as he finds a way to outwit the bad guys .
" I figure I'll meet the Apache sooner or later , guess I'd rather it be later . "	I've been intrigued by the title of this 1970 Western for some time , so when I had a chance to pick it up new for just a buck , I thought I'd give it a try . I believe I'm due some change . The film offers a quartet of villainous desperadoes on the hunt for gold , who brutalize an Indian family and expect the lone surviving squaw to deliver them to the goods . It's never made clear why a fifth member of the group , portrayed by Jody McCrae , is along for the ride . He's the only one who appears to have had a bath recently , and comports himself reasonably well , though he does little to mitigate the nasty behavior of his compadres . On the flip side , as he gets cozy with Apache squaw Jemme , ( Marie Gahva ) , the boys generally give it no mind , like he wouldn't even think of double crossing them . The first half of the film plods along rather slowly ; the action what there is comes in the second half as an Apache brave picks up the trail of the evil-doers and prepares to exact revenge . His first victim gets the standard arrow in the back treatment , but then the Indian's inventiveness gets you to sit up and take notice . Benji ( Don Henley ) finds himself the subject of an upside down gravity drowning , screaming for his dying brother and his mama to help . Later , using the old snake in the bag over the head trick , another gang member meets his end . It seems to me though that " Two Card " Charlie must have died of fright ; a close up of the snake shows it to be too narrow and without the markings of a rattler . The fate of Bible quoting Deacon ( Jack Starrett ) is not dealt with on screen , but his skeleton makes a cameo at the end of the movie . One thing about the avenging Apache is intriguing ; he's usually shown tracking the gang on entirely different terrain than the bad guys are using . For the most part , it appears that a desert setting prevails , but the Indian finds himself careening down rough river rapids , and winding through rocky mountain paths . The bad guys never encountered those obstacles . You'll find veteran actor Joel McCrea's name top billed as a selling point for " Cry Blood , Apache " , but don't be fooled . He's shown at the beginning and end of the film as an older and wiser version of the " good " bad guy Pitcallin , contemplating sardonically on the events of his past life as shown in the movie . Somehow , his final wistful look seems to be saying he's glad it's over , the movie that is .
" And I'm a warnin ' ya , he's most dangerous when he's smilin ' . That's a sure sign he's riled . "	By the time it's all over , the story of the " Phantom Thunderbolt " winds up being pretty lame , but it's about as much fun as you can have with a turn of the talkie era Western . Ken Maynard provides the thrills as the Thunderbolt Kid , arriving in the town of Coyote Gulch right after partner Nevady ( Frank Rice ) heralds his arrival with six guns blazing . Thunderbolt is quick to deliver , cleaning up Miss Judy's restaurant with the carcass of One Shot Mallory ( Bob Kortman ) . Unfortunately , their mix up features an old style unrealistic fist fight marked by wild swings and push punches , but still good for a dunk in the town horse trough . At least town undertaker McTavish sees an opportunity for business with T-Bolt in town . Check out the sign in his shop window - " Our Customers Never Complain " . With a quick gun and quick fists , the town fathers look to hire Thunderbolt to rid Coyote Gulch of bad man Red Matthews ( William Gould ) before the railroad president gets to town . They're in competition with nearby Spotted Horse for a railroad depot , and that town has hired the Matthews gang to insure that Coyote Gulch doesn't get picked . The Kid agrees to the take the job for three kisses on the installment plan from pretty Miss Judy ( Frances Lee ) . Pay attention when Maynard's horse ' Tarzan ' is instructed to nudge the barrel downhill with him inside . The closed end of the barrel is facing One Shot Mallory and another henchman at the start of the run , but the next shot shows the open end going down hill with Maynard visible . Another head scratcher occurs when the bank president begins to award the railroad contract to Coyote Gulch because it looks like a lawful town . Just then Red's gang hits town with guns roaring , but instead of changing his mind , Eaton ( Wilfred Lucas ) joins in the fisticuffs himself , proclaiming it's the most fun he's had since he's been there ! Obviously story continuity wasn't uppermost in the minds of the film makers . For his part , the Thunderbolt Kid remains undecided about sticking around until Miss Judy plants a big one on the Kid's smacker . With that , he agrees to stay in Coyote Gulch , but by then he must have been as confused as bank man Eaton - he never got his third kiss !
" Let them suspect , they can prove nothing . . . , not my way . "	Creakiness and atmosphere this film has , but so unfortunately does the print I just viewed . Raymond Massey provides a laid back Sherlock Holmes , almost comically so in early scenes in his bathrobe , which he trades in for a laborer's garb to investigate the creepy mansion of Dr . Rylott ( Lyn Harding ) . What wasn't clear to me was why Rylott would have wanted his stepdaughters dead . If as in the case of Helen ( Angela Baddeley ) , he didn't want her to run off to get married , he would have accomplished the same thing by having her dispatched . Other curiosities abound as well . After setting an early wedding date with Helen , the fiancée is no longer heard from for the rest of the picture . The presence of a band of gypsies at the time of Violet Stoner's death provides merely a diversion , and what could have been an interesting murder tool , a poisonous snake , is diluted by the fact that it was not a cobra , the musical renderings of the Indian man servant notwithstanding . Athole Stewart competently portrays Holmes ' aide Dr . Watson , though he takes some getting used to if Nigel Bruce is more your cup of tea . As Rylott , Lyn Harding is sufficiently menacing , a trait that would be put to good use as Holmes ' nemesis Professor Moriarty in two later films - 1935's " The Triumph of Sherlock Holmes " and 1937's " Murder at the Baskervilles " . With repeated choppiness and an unsteady camera , it's surprising that the story line isn't more disrupted than it is . It's integrity is generally maintained , even if one stretches a bit to fill in the gaps . I guess that would be my main complaint with the film , as mentally bridging some of the jump cuts in the picture proved to be a real pain in the asp .
" Did you catch your maniac yet ? "	Ten years after ' Star Trek ' and this film features an escaped convict using the ' beam me up Scotty ' routine without a teleporter device . Roger Sands ( Frank Ashmore ) is on the hunt for celebrity starlets who remind him of his mom so that he can practice his strangle holds on them . Roger was kept in isolation by his mother growing up and never got a chance to play nice . On the hunt for the invisible killer is perennial TV movie actor Robert Foxworth , a police lieutenant teamed up with a pen clicking detective ( Mark Slade ) and a wife who only dresses her upper body ( Stefanie Powers ) . Her standard line when hubby Chuck goes off to do his police work is " Have a nice time " . In early scenes when Sands becomes invisible , he does so clothes and all . That's why it's a bit curious during a beach scene when the lieutenant finds Sands ' scuba suit discarded following an escape using his powers , an interesting lapse of continuity . The film's original release title is probably a better fit for the story than the one I saw it under - " The Astral Factor " . About midway through I began to feel just like Roger Sands commenting to his mother in a flashback scene ' " . . . I just can't do it any more " . If anyone recommends getting together to watch this flick , consider making yourself invisible .
" More trouble , more fun . "	Lone Star Productions sure churned them out in the 1930's , and " Star Packer " has the feel of one of the more rushed ones . John Wayne is U . S . Marshal John Travers , investigating a crooked hoodlum known only as " The Shadow " , responsible for stealing cattle , stage holdups and the like , and giving orders from behind the door of a phony wall safe . Yakima Canutt is Travers ' trusty Indian sidekick , appropriately named as . . . well , " Yak " . Early on , we find out that Cattlemens Union head Matt Matlock ( George pre-Gabby Hayes ) is really The Shadow ; the dead giveaway is when he offers to buy out his ( supposed ) niece Anita's half of the Matlock Ranch , since " this is no place for a girl " . As Anita , Verna Hillie doesn't have much to do in the film , although in a comic moment , she gets to use a six shooter to blast the butt of one of the villains in a night time scare raid . There are a few curiosities in the film - for one , Wayne's character alternately rides a white horse and a dark horse in the first half of the film . In what could have been a neat device , a hollowed out tree stump used by a henchman is located right in the middle of the street . And finally , the movie doesn't truly live up to it's name , as Sheriff Travers never wears a badge throughout the film , that is , a star packer without a star . The horse chases , the runaway stage scenes , the stagecoach off the cliff ( another curiosity , the horses conveniently get loose from the stage ) are all pretty standard stuff . But John Wayne fans will want to see this one for the charisma he displayed early on in his career . For those more critical , the white kerchiefs worn around the forehead by the good guy posse could only mean that they all had a headache .
" It's not difficult to tell the truth , but it's impossible to be believed . "	I guess every great actor is allowed at least one poor casting decision , and with this film , that distinction goes to Claude Rains . It's hard to believe the Professor Benson of this film is the same man who brilliantly portrayed Captain Renault in 1942's " Casablanca " . Here he's one dimensionally annoying as a bull headed scientist who's undeniably impressed with himself and isn't shy about letting you know it - " There's only one opinion that interests me , and that's my own . " Benson's mathematical calculations convince him that a body in outer space will come within ninety five thousand miles of Earth , even though colleagues and military strategists fret over it's seeming collision course with our planet . What Benson didn't count on , and by his own admission the only time he was ever wrong , is that once the asteroid reaches it's predestined location , it starts orbiting the Earth . With obvious implications that a guiding force is at the core of the mysterious body , Benson demands that Earth's ' High Command ' not destroy it , but allow him and a team of his fellow scientists investigate . I always get a kick out of the way sci-fi flicks of the era took such liberty with the vast amounts of time involved in space travel , and reduced them to mere minutes for purposes of the story . In about the time it took to count down from ten to one , blast off , Benson's team was on the asteroid , investigating a cable laden labyrinth with an ominous red glow . With a destruct sequence in effect , Benson prefers to confront the truth of the mystery of the ' Outsider ' , while everyone else with him wisely decides that maybe it's time to go . On that note , one of the team members sadly concludes that Benson had a formula where his heart should have been , as the planet goes kablooey . " Battle of the Worlds " is a gross exaggeration in selection of a title . Nothing on that vast of a scale occurs , though there are occasional skirmishes between Earth rockets and alien flying saucers . If there's a positive to be found here , at least the sci-fi elements of the picture were a notch above other films of the era , as film making technology relentlessly moved toward breakthroughs that would appear in " Star Trek " in a few more years .
" Prepare yourself for a great shock Agatha . "	When Dr . James Brewster ( Bela Lugosi ) becomes a guinea pig for his own experiments , he turns himself into a medical marvel , at least that's the contention of his partner Dr . George Randall ( Henry Hall ) . The only thing the viewer will witness is an already bearded Lugosi affecting a stooped over walking pattern and unsure whether he should be swinging his arms or not . Lugosi's introduction on screen is somewhat puzzling in that he shares a cage in his laboratory with a man in a gorilla suit , but that's the only time we'll ever see him there . If there was a point to be made , it didn't work . Jeff Carter ( Wallace Ford ) and Billie Mason ( Louise Currie ) are a newspaper reporter and photographer respectively , hot on the trail of the Brewster mystery . Pay attention when they get into Carter's car for the first time to go to Brewster's residence , Billie calls him Mr . Brisbane . Screen pairings like this usually signal a romantic angle during the course of the story , but there's no chemistry here , which is just as well because they didn't look like the type for each other . Minerva Urecal is introduced into the story as Brewster's sister Agatha , with a reputation as a ghost hunter . Since that's referenced a number of times , one would think it had some bearing on the story , but once again we have a disconnect . Her mere presence though adds a spooky menace to the film and is one of it's redeeming factors . Hey , can you picture her as the ape man , er . . , ape woman ? With no fanfare and without warning , Brewster reveals the stunning basis for his cure rests in obtaining human spinal fluid and injecting it into his own spine . With his gorilla companion , Brewster heads out into broad daylight to line up his victims , but with the police department as inept as it is , he gets as much as he wants at will . Brewster's return to the human condition consists largely of standing up straight and repeatedly checking the mirror to see if his beard has gone away . Where's a Schick disposable when you need one ? If I sound like I'm being too harsh on the film , let me switch gears and say that it's a blast watching these Poverty Row efforts and wondering what movie patrons of the era thought of these films . For Lugosi , his was not a one gorilla film career . Other brushes with apedom included " The Gorilla " ( 1939 ) , and " Bela Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla " ( 1952 ) . To pick a favorite from this trio is impossible . Lest I forget , not all the credit for this groaner belongs to the players . Director William Beaudine should at least get a share of the accolades for " The Ape Man " ; perhaps that's who Lugosi's character had in mind when early in the picture he states - " What a mess I've made of things " .
" Becaues I'm an inspector , and I can say anything I want to . "	A very young Ginger Rogers trades quick quips and one liners with rival newspaper reporter Lyle Talbot in this 1933 murder mystery from Poverty Row film maker Allied Productions . The movie opens with a wealthy businessman taking a header from the roof garden of a high rise apartment house , or was it from a lover's apartment ? Rogers actually has two identities at the film's outset , that of Miss Terry , the dead victim's secretary , along with her newspaper byline of Pat Morgan . Mistakenly phoning her story directly to Ted Rand ( Talbot ) instead of her paper's rewrite desk , she gets fired for her efforts when her boss learns he's been out scooped . Here's a puzzle - it's revealed during Police Inspector Russell's ( Purnell Pratt ) investigation of Harker's death that Terry / Morgan had been employed as his secretary for three weeks . Why exactly was that ? After the fact it would make sense that she was there for a newspaper story , but before ? Clues are dropped regarding Harker's association with a known mobster conveniently living in the same apartment building , but again , that association isn't relevant until it's all linked up to janitor Peterson ( Harvey Clark ) . And who's making up all the calling cards with the serpent effecting a HSSS , with the words " You will hear it " cut and pasted beneath ? Apparently , the hissing sound of a snake was the sound made by the apartment house's radiator system , which Peterson used to transmit a poisonous gas into the rooms of potential victims , such as Mrs . Coby in the apartment below Harker . But in answer to a question posed to Inspector Russell about Mrs . Coby's death , he replied " apparently " to the cause of strangulation . It's these rather conflicting plot points that made the movie somewhat unsatisfying for me . The revelation of janitor Peterson as the bad guy of this piece comes under somewhat gruesome circumstances as we see him stuff the unconscious body of Miss Morgan in the building's incinerator furnace ! However , and score another point against continuity , we see Miss Morgan in a huge basement room as Peterson ignites the furnace ; she made her getaway , but how ? And still pretty as a picture . And who gets to make the collar off screen if none other than milquetoast police assistant Wilfred ( Arthur Hoyt ) , who in an opening scene fell over his own feet entering a room . Sorry , but for all those reviewers who found " A Shriek in the Night " to be a satisfying whodunit , I feel that any Charlie Chan film of the same era is a veritable " The Usual Suspects " by comparison . If you need a reason to see the film , it would be Ginger Rogers , but be advised , she doesn't dance .
" It's a game they're playin ' , I'll play it . But they'll wish they never started . "	One hour , eight minutes and twelve seconds into this flick and I decided it was pretty lame . That was right after Hopalong ( Chris Lybbert ) drops on his horse from a tree to rejoin the good guy posse . I was pretty mystified by the whole Hopalong Cassidy / Great Bar 20 gimmick which didn't translate into anything at all . Obviously , the name Coppola in the credits couldn't do anything to guarantee success here , even with more than one listed . If you make it to the end of the film , you'll probably wind up asking yourself the same questions I did . What exactly was the hook with the gloves ? What's up with the rodeo scenario ? Who was The Stranger supposed to represent ? Why did they make this film ? I could probably go on but my energy's been drained . Look , there's already a Western called " The Gunfighter " from 1950 with a guy named Gregory Peck as the title character . Watching it will make you feel as good as watching this one makes you feel bad . That one I can recommend .
" Do I look pale ? . . . I feel pale . "	Bela Lugosi portrays Charles Kessler , in denial over his wife's running off with another man years ago , and now missing or presumed dead since being involved in a car crash which killed her husband . Yet she's living secretly in the basement of the gardener's shed , believing she's dead , and occasionally strolling out to the grounds of the estate in her bathrobe . Now read those two sentences once again , because if you buy it , you won't have any trouble with the rest of the film . Whenever Kessler sees his wife , he goes into a catatonic trance like state , doing a Frankenstein walk as he finds a victim to strangle within his home . It's usually one of the staff , and with good help hard to find , this could be a bit troublesome . After his daughter's boyfriend is conveniently convicted for the murder of the maid , the lookalike brother conveniently shows up with enough common sense to help the inept police department figure out what's going on . There are some redeeming qualities to the film though . There's an interesting camera technique used for parlor shots done through the flames of the fireplace framing the characters inside . It's rather well done and memory doesn't recall it's use in any other films . Additionally , the part of black Butler Evans is played straight and dignified by Clarence Muse , unusual for the era , when many black parts were either racially denigrated or played for comic relief . When Muse's character failed to slide into stereotype , especially under questioning by the police , it was a refreshing relief . " The Invisible Ghost " probably won't make anyone's top ten horror list , or even top ten Lugosi list , though some of the prior postings on this film did surprise me . Although not " must see " in the usual sense , it does merit a viewing for a well rounded appreciation of Bela Lugosi's film credits .
" You are a clever man doctor , perhaps too clever . "	Alien beings from Astron Delta form an advance guard for a billion more who want to take over the Earth , and only one man stands in their way . It appears that Peter Graves had better accept this mission , or all of Earth will fall prey to hordes of giant insects and reptiles before becoming populated by an entire race of Marty Feldman's . " Killers From Space " is a dubiously entertaining film . Yes , it's 1950's grade ' Z ' sci-fi bad , but you can't help noticing the similarities to today's stories of alien abduction and surgical procedures . The kicker was Dr . Martin ( Graves ) observing his own revived beating heart following his " death " in a plane crash , and the way those alien welding torches patched up his chest - very creatively done ! Hey , and what about that great flat panel TV the grand Tala ( John Merrick ) used to illustrate his planet's use of space ships traveling along an electron bridge . Obviously some thought was put into this . The real laugh out loud moment occurs when we see hordes of spectators seated in the middle of the desert with no more protection than darkened goggles to witness an atomic blast . I'd be curious if President Eisenhower disavowed any association with the movie , as his portrait was prominently on view a number of times throughout . To top it all off , Peter Graves maintains a straight face through the entire flick . Remember when he explains to The Tala that it will take days to analyze and compute the data from the latest atomic blast , he's handed a piece of aluminum foil with some mathematical calculations on it . He can tell just by looking at it that the Astron Deltans have it all figured out - amazing ! Tarbaby ? ? ? ? I'm starting to form my own theories about goofy sci-fi horror films , and though by no means meant to be precise , an early observation goes something like this . Any movie with the term " Prehistoric Planet " in it is among the worst films ever made . On the other hand , films that have something to do with " Space " are generally worth their weight in laughs and nonsensical fun . Getting your hands on this gem should be no Mission Impossible , it's available on any number of sci-fi compilations , including the Fifty Movie DVD Pack from Mill Creek Entertainment . Be there or be square Space Ranger .
" Never mind the monkey business Tamba ! "	The Jungle Jim series of movies starring Johnny Weissmuller came to somewhat of an ambiguous close with " Jungle Man-Eaters " , as there were none of those to be found in the entire movie , unless you consider the lion that did battle with the penned bull in the early part of the story . It was an ignominious defeat for the king of beasts , gored unremittingly by the enraged bull , only to be stabbed to death by Jim attempting to save the less than sure footed Zuwaba ( Bernie Hamilton ) who fell into the pen . Remarkably , Jim made it to the end of the series without ever shedding a drop of blood in encounters with all manner of jungle beasts and underwater denizens of the deep . The film has probably the most wild animal footage of any in the franchise , virtually all stock footage , including a quick peek at a South American aardvark who must have lost his way . Not only did this flick continue the tradition of inserting non-native African animals at least once in the picture , but there was also a major gaffe in terms of geography . At one point Jungle Jim mentions to Inspector Bernard ( Richard Wyler ) that in just a few more miles they'll hit the coast just below Nairobi . The intrepid explorer should have consulted a map this time , because Nairobi lies many miles inland , with the country of Tanzania to the south , although in the 1950's , it was called Tanganyika . The story involves a diamond smuggling operation and meanders back and forth between a warring tribe led by Zulu of the Moro's , and that of Zuwaba of the Kambazi's . The discovery of a new diamond mine threatens to flood the market , and it's incumbent upon Inspector Bernard to stop the smugglers and preserve the value of diamonds for his syndicate . It all sounds pretty impressive , but geez , can you ever have too many diamonds on the world market ? Apparently not , as one of Weissmuller's next movies also involved stolen diamonds in 1955's " Jungle Moon Men " , another film having nothing to do with the title . All of the Jungle Jim movies were pretty brainless as far as plot and story goes , but they served as entertainment for an earlier era with a great deal less sophistication . Watching them today makes for interesting curiosity pieces if only to see how far film making has come . As if to underscore that point , there's a scene in this picture when Jim guesses the identity of the white man inciting the warring Moro's . Commissioner Kingston's ( Lester Matthews ) reply says it best - " It all fits Jim " . If only that were so .
" My orders were to work alone . "	Randy Bowers ( John Wayne ) comes upon the Half Way House at just the right time to take a break from the trail , and discovers a slew of dead bodies inside , among them a man he was supposed to deliver a message to - Ed Rogers , proprietor of the establishment . He's observed by the dead man's niece Sally ( Alberta Vaughn ) , from behind a hidden room , where she remained unobserved during the carnage . " Randy Rides Alone " was directed by Harry Fraser . He uses a filming technique here as in other of his films , where he fast forwards the action from one location to another , usually involving a rider on a horse . It's pretty well done and appears quite innovative in these 1930's era Lone Star Westerns . Pre-Gabby George Hayes is on hand , sans whiskers , and this is the first time I've seen him as a villain . In fact it took a few scenes to realize it was him in a dual role , first as hunchbacked businessman " Matt the Mute " , communicating via pencil and paper , only to turn into Marvin Black , leader of a gang of outlaws . Black's gang was responsible for the murders at Half Way House , in an attempt to coerce Sally into selling out to Matt / Marvin . Another staple player is here as well , Yakima Canutt as a Black henchman named Spike . Interestingly , Yakima portrayed a villain named Sam Black in another Fraser / Wayne oater , " Neath the Arizona Skies " . There's a fair amount of time-killing horseback riding back and forth between Black's Gang and the Sheriff's posse , as John Wayne's character maneuvers to expose the bad guys . In the end , he saves the day by securing Sally Rogers ' thirty thousand dollars , at the expense of destroying the Half Way House , where he exchanges some sticks of dynamite for the loot in a safe . Greedy Marvin Black attempts to open it with his six-shooter , and the explosion is a fitting end for the villain . In his best " Aw shucks " attitude , John Wayne falls under the spell of the pretty Sally Rogers , and alas , Randy rides alone no more !
" I don't like dead men cluttering up my place . "	Oh my God , where does one even start ! This is probably the most overtly ' serious ' film that you'll ever see and die laughing in the process . Instead of celluloid , legendary director Ed Wood used cardboard to film this extravaganza , and it's my contention that anyone who's ever seen a movie MUST watch this flick ! On the surface , the plot seems reasonable enough . The adult son of a respected plastic surgeon falls into a life of crime and winds up killing a former cop while pulling off a payroll heist with his mentor , small time hood Vic Brady ( Timothy Farrell ) . Virtually everything else is window dressing for shabby sets , grammar school stage play acting and cheap dialog . But Oh , what dialog ! My favorite examples : Brady kills Don Gregor ; his girlfriend moll Loretta ( Theodora Thurman ) exclaims - " Maybe you shouldn't have done that ! " Or how about when Loretta has her moment of doubt about Brady and threatens to leave . Brady - " I didn't set you up in all this luxury just to have you walk out on me . " LUXURY ! ! ! A living room with a chair and couch ! ! The picture even takes it's name from a line from Don Gregor's sister Marilyn ( Dolores Fuller ) , admonishing her brother about his association with Brady - " You know that gun is jail bait ! " On top of that , did you ever expect to see the future Hercules in this flick ? Almost unrecognizable without a beard and loin cloth , Reeves teases the audience with a quick upper torso shot while putting on a shirt , which made me think , what was he doing with his shirt off in the police chief's office ? - he was already at work ! See what I mean ? Oh , and don't let me forget the scene where Miss Willis ID's Brady and Gregor as the two who held up the theater and killed the night watchman . Inspector Johns ( Lyle Talbot ) has only two pictures of possible suspects to show her , and they're the right ones ! ! ! Amazing ! But man oh man , you just had to see it coming ! When Brady blackmails Doc Gregor for a facial do-over , you just HAD to know how it would all come out . That ending was the ' Twilight Zone ' on acid , especially if you kept a sharp eye on Brady / Gregor's facial scars . The first time the bandages come off , the scar on his forehead runs diagonal from the top of his nose to well above the eye . However when he's shot by the pool , the scar runs laterally across the middle of his forehead . The perfect ending to an Ed Wood masterpiece ! Through it all you had just the perfect musical accompaniment , what with the strumming Mexican guitar background . You know , in thinking about it , the only thing that could have made this picture more bizarre would have been the inclusion of a night club comedy routine done in black face . Oh . . . wait a minute !
" Oregon awaits men of all sorts . . . "	First off , Fred MacMuuray is not my idea of a Western action hero , so seeing him here is more of a novelty than anything else . The picture was reminiscent of the style of a Walt Disney flick , but there again , that convention is turned on it's head when a young boy is shot and killed by an Indian arrow near the finale , a sit up and take notice moment that was more shocking than necessary , story line or otherwise . I guess the picture lost it's fascination for me by the third time the wagon train passed the same mountain on a painted background , which I found to be curious , since the rest of the story took place in the great outdoors . So why the set piece ? - I just didn't get it . As far as the story goes , there's a mid course correction regarding the destination of the disguised cavalry officers along for the ride . Initially commissioned to thwart British designs on the Oregon Territory , Captain Wayne ( William Bishop ) is dispatched to a mission on the Mexican border . At least the story managed to insert that ancient history lesson regarding ' or Fight ' , it sounded cool , but viewers today might be left scratching their heads . The film is pretty much an entirely sanitized affair , made almost laughable during the Arapaho raid on Fort Laramie , when soldiers and Indians bypass each other repeatedly without striking out at each other . To my mind , half breed Shona ( Gloria Talbott ) killing the Chief was really asking for trouble , and all it provided was a reason for Shona to renounce her Indian heritage , when renouncing her white father ( John Dierkes ) would have made a lot more sense . Sorry folks , can't go out on a short limb to recommend this one . I can't think of even a minor reason to tune in here , other than the curious casting of the principals , and the appearance of old time black and white character actors like Henry Hull and John Carradine in a color picture . Ultimately though , even that doesn't save this flick from being much more than a curiosity piece , and I'd be much more curious about something else .
" She comes from the beginning of time , huge and indestructible . "	Either something's wrong with me or I've been watching too many of these grade Z horror flicks ; I really didn't find this to be so bad . Now don't get me wrong , this clearly isn't anywhere near " Casablanca " territory , but it had all the elements of a creepy late night scare fest , especially if you're about nine or ten years old . Like Chester Morris in the lead role as the villainous Dr . Carlo Lombardi , keeping his lovely female assistant ( Marla English ) under a hypnotic spell as he regresses her into the spirit and form of a prehistoric she-creature . He calls it a ' transmigration of the soul ' , I just love it when a film utilizes that kind of pseudo-scientific babble to support it's plot . However unlike other screen villains , Lombardi is not only committed to his mission of calling forth an all powerful presence across the span of ages , he's also out to make a buck off of it . Can you imagine , Lombardi's benefactor Chappel ( Tom Conway ) turns him into a money machine with books and a lecture tour to cash in on the she-beast ; you would think it was the year 2007 instead of 1956 ! Say , remember when police Lieutenant James listens to a conversation he had with Dr . Lombardi on a tape recorder ? He actually asked for the recorder some time AFTER he spoke with Lombardi , so who recorded the conversation ? But you know what makes the picture so goofy in the final analysis ? When the she creature eventually confronts some of the principals , they never think to utilize that one single piece of useful information that would actually come in handy - JUST RUN AWAY ! Like the aforementioned James - he attempts to go one on one with the beast in hand to scale combat . And how about Chappel , when his gun runs out of bullets , he throws it at the creature in the tradition of all those classic Superman episodes . Good grief , didn't these guys ever watch any television ? In the final analysis , you have to admire the temerity of the folks who put this thing together . The film closes on the words " She'll never be back , will she ? " followed by a large question mark before the final fadeout , virtually begging the question of there being a sequel . Well I guess you can't blame them for trying .
" Hey , no crap Frank , what's the deal ? "	OK , it boils down to this - a bunch of rednecks with shotguns are on the hunt for an alien life form , a one of a kind trailer trash sci-fi flick that defies any other characterization . It's the ' Outer Limits ' buzzed on Jack Daniels , and quite coincidentally , that's the way to see this movie . The alien itself wasn't a bad piece of work . It had a look reminiscent of the Creature From the Black Lagoon with a craggier edge . Unfortunately it's weaponry consisted of a rather bland looking space gun , theoretically powered by a white globe . At least that was the theory set forth by one of the rednecks . I will say that the ' impending trouble ' music and accompanying sound effects were about the best things the movie had to offer . Opening credits list Special Effects by ' The Cracker Factory ' - of this I have no doubt . Apparently " The Galaxy Invader " was a family affair . Besides Director Don Dohler , two cast members also share the same name . For a unique fashion statement , Joe Montague ( Richard Ruxton ) can't be beat ; the tattered t-shirt says it all . A class act , don't you think ? Fortunately the movie does NOT make my ' Worst List ' . I've been thinking about this a while and am starting to develop some criteria . To make my worst list , a film must be so genuinely bad you can't even make fun of it . On that count , this film offers laughs galore , especially when viewed with several friends . One last thought . If you're a baseball fan and are having trouble hitting the ball lately , maybe you should study Ethel Montague's form near the end of the story . Would you call that a home run ?
" There was this big pink and black thing drove right in front of me . . . . "	Hot rods and gila monsters ! - now there's a mix that absolutely demands attention . " The Giant Gila Monster " opens ominously enough with sinister music but quickly turns into " At the Hop " , at a pace that is repeated enough times in the movie to keep you off balance . It's difficult to get a fix on just how monstrous our title monster is in the early going , as frequent close ups of the creature merely reveal a rather normal lizard . As the film progresses , the creature seems to grow in stature , as when he's sized up against oncoming vehicles or when he manages to destroy a railroad trestle causing a train wreck . Presumably this beast was responsible for the disappearance of two teenagers and an oil rig driver in the early going , as crack detective work by the local sheriff fails to uncover their whereabouts . The movie actually has a lot going on , the film's hero Chase Winstead ( Don Sullivan ) befriends a local disc jockey by getting his car out of a jam ; the DJ repays the favor by cutting a demo record for the would be singer . Chase's little sister needs a pair of braces in order to walk and they're provided by Chase's girlfriend Lisa ( Lisa Simone ) . Comic relief is provided by the town drunk Harris ( Shug Fisher ) , who happens to witness the creature up close and personal a couple of times , but who's buying his story ? I remember as a kid watching any number of TV shows and movies of the 1950's in which nitroglycerin was a major factor in the outcome of a story . With four quarts of nitro just hanging around , young Chase manages to steer his souped up hot rod into the path of the looming monster to insure a successful and fiery finale . Even back in 1959 , it seemed that corporate sponsors were a factor in movie production , you'll need more than one hand to count the number of times Mobil Oil gets it's message across . With all said and done , " The Giant Gila Monster " is one of those campy 1950's gems that requires at least one viewing so you could say you've been there and done that . Try to get your hands on the DVD box set of fifty sci-fi and horror films neatly packaged with a mix of downright terrible offerings like " The Beast of Yucca Flats " along with screen classics like " Nosferatu " . You'll enjoy yourself for weeks and increase your knowledge of " B " and " Z " grade films to the delight of your friends and neighbors .
" Activate the gravity field ! "	One of the first revelations that this was going to be a fun camp film was it's setting in the way distant future of 1980 , replete with space age jargon and a goal to find out what's been happening to prior lost space missions . I found myself making comparisons between " The Phantom Planet " and the TV Series " Star Trek " ; Planet had a very similar look and feel to Trek once the action moved to the planet Raton . But what a difference the ensuing five years made , as any single Trek episode blows this film away in story content and quality . Astronauts Frank Chapman ( Dean Fredericks ) and Ray Makonnen ( Richard Weber ) are sent out from Lunar Base 1 to determine what's happened to a couple of ships that simply disappeared in outer space . A meteor storm damages their propulsion system , and while making repairs , Chapman is knocked unconscious by a stray light flash , and Makonnen loses his grip on the Pegasus IV and floats away reciting the Lord's Prayer ( undeniably a prayer of thanks for getting him out of this ) . Later , while gaining his wits , one of the scenes in Chapman's delirium is seeing his partner float away in space exactly the way it happened , even though he was unconscious at the time ! With the Pegasus IV captured by a gravity ray , the ship is brought down to the living planet Raton , where miniature people marvel at the gigantic newcomer . Shortly after though , Chapman shrinks down to their size , a result of the planet's atmosphere . In retrospect , there really seems to have been no reason for this plot device , as all the remaining action doesn't rely on what size the characters are . Of course the newcomer is tested by his captors , put on trial for " harming " one of them , and is punished by allowing him freedom on Raton with his choice of two beautiful women ( Colleen Gray and Dolores Faith ) . Chapman is no Captain Kirk , and he can't be moved by the wiles of his female companions , all the while trying to figure out how to get back home . In the mean time , he must battle a jealous Ratonian ( Ratonite ? ) in hand to hand combat , and team up with him to defeat the threat of an evil Solarite ( Richard Kiel in a wild alien costume ) . " The Phantom Planet " is a blast , and you'll have fun with it as long as you have patience and a good sense of humor . I have to say the film had me right from the start . What other movie can you name that uses the word " azimuth " even once , while here it's referenced a good half dozen times !
" From this spot there's only one direction you can go , and that's South . "	I first became aware of " Santa Claus Conquers The Martians " when I saw the Dell Comic Book adaptation of the movie . That was about a dozen years ago , so when this film showed up on the Mill Creek / Tree Line compilation of fifty sci-fi classics , it was the capstone to an outrageous mix of mostly goofy flicks that every ' B ' movie fan should own . Now the thing is , despite it's poor production values and stodgy acting , there's an endearing quality to the film that comes through with it's message of joy and fun that all kids hold dear . That perspective is provided by the way Martian children are programmed from birth with adult minds , so they never have a childhood . When the children of Martian leader Kimar rebel , they're displaying the cranky behavior we all would if we didn't have anything to laugh or care about . So much for the psychoanalysis . There really are some far out story elements here that defy logic . For example , Kimar is eight hundred years old , but his kids Girmar and Bomar are eight and ten , the same as Billy and Betty Foster . They're the Earth children kidnapped by the Martians along with Santa Claus ( John Call ) . These kids seem to be pretty emotionally stable , as they never seem to miss home for a minute . All your classic stereotypes are on display here . The evil Martian villain is Voldar , with a Jamie Farr lookalike as a sidekick . The comic relief character is Dropo , who's desire to become a Martian Santa Claus earns him the job by the end of the story . The use of a giant cardboard robot named Torg to capture Santa at his toy shop was a neat touch , especially when the big guy turned the tables and rendered him harmless . Hey , how about that goofy polar bear ! Curious how all the instructions on the Martian space ship were written in English . True , one wouldn't understand them otherwise , but they could have labeled the Radar Box ' % $ @ $ ! X ^ + ' and who would have been the wiser , they still would have called it the radar box . And come on now , I know you chuckled just a bit over the Martian-mallow joke . Hey , how about if this Christmas , the programming execs at one of the cable networks replaced " A Christmas Story " with this one for it's twenty four hour holiday marathon . Can you just see it ? " Jingle Bells " has a different ring to it when sung on a Martian spaceship !
" Me heap big Indian Chief , make Pow-Wow ! "	If Richard Simmons had been part of the cast , this could have easily passed for an extended episode of ' Sergeant Preston of the Yukon ' , the Alaskan style TV Western of the late 1950's . The story dealt with a quartet of villains after a cache of valuable animal furs , but manages to sidetrack into a badly cliché ridden exercise in just about every imaginable Native American stereotype one can think of . Maintaining balance , Texas Ranger Panhandle Perkins ( Guy Wilkerson ) trades Hows ! , Ughs ! , war whoops and a smoking of the peace pipe with I . Stanford Jolley , one of the bad guy henchmen in an embarrassing display of Indian caricature , which if made today would be greeted by swarms of boycotting protesters on line at the theater . The story only gets slightly better from there , as fellow rangers Tex Ritter and Dave O'Brien keep Panhandle in line long enough to finger the bad guys and come to the aid of Miss Ellen Williams ( Lorraine Miller ) , daughter of the fur trader who meets his demise earlier in the picture . There are a few anomalies along the way ; for example , when Tex is falsely arrested , where does he get the guitar to strum a melody while stuck in the calaboose ? And say , when the phony Indian ( Jolley ) convinces Miss Williams to go out to her father's cabin , how is it they wind up back at the Bear Settlement general store ? Speaking of which , I can't think of another Western that features as many wide missing punches as thrown in the scuffle there . That this was a Public Releasing Corporation picture explains a lot as far as production values and short cuts in execution go . The Texas Rangers were PRC's answer to Republic's ' Three Mesquiteers ' series , after a six film failed attempt with a mediocre ' Frontier Marshals ' series . The original Rangers included James Newill , O'Brien and Wilkerson , with Ritter replacing Newill after fourteen pictures . Ritter had already achieved genuine stardom with pictures for Grand National , Monogram , Columbia and Universal . Tex and his trusty horse White Flash signed on for eight pictures , lending a much needed boost to the mix , but they weren't enough to compensate for the shoestring budgets and shoddy production values . It shows even more now than back in the day , but that of course , depending on your point of view , is part of the fun .
" Leisurely hunter have time to stalk prey , but hunter in haste must set trap . "	It's not clear to me what the trap is that's suggested by the title of this film , other than Charlie Chan's instruction to Sergeant Reynolds ( Kirk Alyn ) to guard the distance between a Malibu beach house and a nearby cabana . You know Charlie Chan is in for a rough investigation when it involves nine women , soon to be minus two , all members of an acting troupe on vacation in Malibu . Accompanying them are " Maestro " Cole King , press agent Rick Daniels , and physical culture therapist George Brandt . Only one thing is certain , murder victim Marcia was uniformly hated by everyone in the company . Victor Sen Young is here as Number # 2 son Jimmy , attempting to romance a cute Chinese girl named San Toy , while Chan chauffeur Birmingham Brown ( Mantan Moreland ) actually shows off his driving skill in a car chase . This is not a well regarded Charlie Chan film , for actor Sidney Toler it was his last portrayal of the Chinese detective . For me , the most interesting aspect of the film is when a former address of the killer is revealed to be 14 Rue Madeline , Paris , France . That would put it right across the street from the following year's ( 1947 ) James Cagney war and espionage film - " 13 Rue Madeleine " !
" Go , make your war . "	Right out of the gate , it probably would have been best if this film came with a warning to sit back and view it as the work of fiction that it is , rather than try to figure out which elements may or may not have been historically accurate . As it is , I'm ready to dismiss it entirely as a contrived piece of movie making that has little to recommend it . Of the figures presented , Chief Sitting Bull probably acquits himself most favorably , portrayed by veteran J . Carroll Naish . He's generally characterized as preferring peace , though from a pragmatic point of view , knowing that the next great war against the white man will probably wipe out his people , the seven great nations of the Sioux . His warrior chief Crazy Horse ( Iron Eyes Cody ) on the other hand , chomps at the bit to don the war paint and go on a tear . When a proposed meeting between Sitting Bull and President Grant ( John Hamilton ) fails to materialize , events converge to play out in a scenario that we now know as the Battle of Little Big Horn , but again , with great liberty taken with the known facts . Yes , Yellow Hair Custer ( Douglas Kennedy ) dies in battle , but this time around at least two men survive to report back to General Howell , along with the film's top billed Dale Robertson , as Captain Robert Parrish . Parrish escapes a firing squad for treason after leading the Sioux to safety after Little Big Horn ( huh ? ) , thanks to the intercession of Sitting Bull ( double huh ? ) . A lot of emphasis in the film is put on Sitting Bull's requirement that President Grant meet with him by the next full moon to consider a peace plan . As the time draws near , we see Sitting Bull on the final night looking skyward to the full moon with no word of the president . The very next moment he's walking in broad daylight to counsel with his war chiefs . I got a kick out of the opening credits , mentioning Iron Eyes Cody as " Technical Adviser and Indian Costumes " ; in brackets he's called a " Famous T . V . Star " . Speaking of costumes , both Sitting Bull and Crazy Horse are routinely shown in full regalia and war bonnet , though my limited knowledge of Indian custom tells me that full head dress was limited to rare occasions , so chalk up another one to poetic license . I guess it's fitting then that the movie humorously closes on what probably best describes it in a closing credit , though my copy may have been improperly cropped . There in big bold letters , it states " A Rank Product " , distributed by United Artists - oh , how true !
" Looks like somebody's getting rid of somebody , huh Captain ? "	After delivering supplies to a desolate but inhabited island , Captain Thorne Sherman ( James Best ) wisely decides that with a threatening hurricane about to make landfall , it would make sense to stick around at least for one night until things blow over . However Dr . Marlowe Craigis ( Baruch Lumet ) and his daughter Ann ( Ingrid Goude ) seem intent on the Captain sailing , an ominous feeling in the air punctuated by an effective musical score . It won't be long before we learn that the island is home to a science experiment gone wrong , giant mutant shrews with grisly fangs and covered with dreadlocks running amok on the island . They run free because the alcoholic assistant to the doctor left a door open by which a few of the creatures made their escape , and with their prolific reproductive prowess , have turned into a couple hundred ravenous killer shrews . This film is not so much bad as silly , almost as if the story was made up on the fly by giving each actor a piece of the puzzle and then telling them to wing it to see what happens . This is never more apparent than in the survivors ' getaway using overturned metal oil drums strapped together to shuffle their way down to the captain's boat . It struck me as quite convenient that the scientific arsenal on the island included welding equipment just when it was needed . The film overdoses on a lot of goofy close up shots of hideous fangs and eyeballs peering through holes in the wall . Speaking of which , the joint the good doctor and his staff inhabited was a venerable piece of architecture . At one point it was mentioned that the walls were made of adobe , so biting their way through at will was not really a problem for the " shrews " . The animals themselves more closely resembled African jackals to my mind , canine in appearance with the aforementioned fangs and hair gone wrong problem . To add a touch more menace , their mutation included a high degree of poison in their saliva , so the mere break of skin meant you were a goner - nice touch ! Some otherwise fairly respectable character actors got mixed up in this turkey of a movie ; James Best appeared at least once in virtually every TV Western of the 1950's and 60's . I always thought he had just the right look for beach movies as the hustling wise guy . Handling double duty as producer , Ken Curtis portrayed drunken Jerry Farrell , responsible for the escaped shrews in the first place . You just knew he was going to get his before it was all over . Funny , but he looked much more appealing as the bearded drawling deputy Festus Hagen on " Gunsmoke " . Hey , it's got excitement , it's got drama , it's got fun , it's got killer shrews ! You owe yourself a screening if for nothing more than to see how far we've come with movie making technology . In fact , treat yourself to a double feature as intended by the Texas film company that produced this saga , you can do worse than a double header of " The Killer Shrews " and " The Giant Gila Monster " !
" I'm seein ' it . and I'm feelin ' it , but I don't believe it ! "	My summary line above pretty much says it all about " Muscle Beach Party " , and quite honestly I think , for the entire beach movie genre . Not that I'm an expert , the only other one I've seen is " Beach Blanket Bingo " , but it strikes me that this is the kind of film that's fascinating in the same kind of way as a major head on collision on the interstate that you have to slow down for so you don't miss any of the details . What truly amazes me is how you can put Don Rickles , Buddy Hackett and Morey Amsterdam in the same picture and still wind up with something totally less than entertaining . I guess you had to be there , but I guess my hormones still hadn't kicked in at thirteen . Frankie and Annette of course were the only reasons to even consider catching these flicks for good money back in the day . I don't know if it happened in any of the other pictures in the series , but I was surprised to see Frankie kissing another girl ( Lucianna Paluzzi ) here ; it was a good thing he made it up to Dee Dee ( Funicello ) later with that impassioned speech at the café . However just like in ' BBB ' , Annette found it hard to stay in character , getting miffed whenever Julie ( Paluzzi ) was around , but not batting an eye when Frankie danced with the hot babe in the white shorts and red sweater while ogling her all over the place . And how about that Candy Johnson - I'd like to know if her jiggle wiggle dance numbers were sped up , but somehow I don't think they were . Have you ever seen such energy without the perpetrator just falling over from making themselves dizzy ? To give some credence to the story , there was a neat lineup of muscle men with names like Hulk , Biff , Riff , Sulk , Tug , Rock , and Clod . In another picture they might have been the seven dwarfs , but they were just a little bit over-sized here . Good old Peter Lupus did the honors as Mister Galaxy , using his sword and sandal name of Rock Stevens in the credits . I was surprised to see Larry Scott's name in the cast because I didn't recognize him , and he went on to become the first Mr . Olympia just one year later in 1965 . If I could catch his scenes without watching the whole picture again I would , but that's not likely . And say what ! - Little Stevie Wonder in his very first screen appearance , and he was still ' little ' as it were - fourteen years old ! ! ! His was about the most professional appearance in the picture , which says a lot about everybody else . And oh yes , just as I couldn't get over the fact that Charlie Chaplin did a bit in ' Bingo ' , here was the legendary Peter Lorre turning up as a character named Dr . Strangedour . He called himself the ' strongest man in the world ' , and to appear in this picture , I guess he had to be .
My gosh , he get away !	By now I've seen most of John Wayne's Westerns for Lone Star Productions , and this one so far ranks just above " The Lawless Frontier " as the poorest of the bunch . Interestingly they were made back to back in 1934 in about the middle of the run , both directed by Robert North Bradbury . Plot points and continuity didn't seem to mean much back then , but you know what , they're still pretty much fun to take a look at every now and then . The story has a Canadian setting for a change , featuring place names like Fort Minnetaki and Wabinosh , along with the prerequisite French accents of the villains . The two main heavies are LaRocque ( Robert Frazer ) and Benoit ( Earl Dwire ) , and they even have a nasty female accomplice named Marie ( Iris Lancaster ) , who might have been a red herring in Rod Drew's ( Wayne ) quest to find the missing daughter of a man who died years ago . In the movie's opening scene , the man who sets Drew on his mission surmised that his long lost niece might have been named Marie after her mother . Missing from the credits this time around are Gabby and Yak , so Noah Beery Jr . fills in as Rod Drew's buddy from college , teaming up with each other after Wabi ( Beery ) is framed for a murder aboard a train . Once on the run , the pair have everything they can do to remain on dry ground . Wayne's character winds up jumping into a river no less than three times including once on horseback . This is the only time I've seen Noah Beery Jr . and Sr . together in a film , though it happened a few times in their careers . The elder Beery runs a trading post in the story , along with his adopted daughter Felice ( Verna Hillie ) . It made me wonder why Newsome ( Beery Sr . ) offered Marie LaFleur a job to straighten out his books instead of having Felice do it . Just one of those story points that wasn't thought out too well . Another was when Drew and Wabi find the cave with the gold from the map they found in a deserted cabin ( complete with skeletons of two former partners who killed each other - nice touch ! ) . One of the dead men from the cabin was Felice's real father , brother of the man who asked Drew to look for his niece . Along with a small sack of gold the men find , there's a photo of an adult Felice just as she appears in the story . How would her father have gotten that picture if he died before she grew up ? ? ? Keep an eye on the canoe scene when Drew and Wabi leave the cabin with the rescued Mountie . When the Mountie is shot by one of the villains , he falls backwards toward Wabi , but in the very next scene he's lying in the other direction toward Drew . By the time the good guy and bad guy posses head for the finale , I wound up scratching my head as to where all those riders came from . Most of the time LaRocque had only Benoit and another henchman around , but during the shootout he had at least a half dozen . While the Mountie outpost in the middle of the Canadian wilderness only had a handful of men on hand , by the time they rode off with Drew in the lead there were probably a couple dozen riders on the chase . Well I guess that's why it's such a blast watching these early John Wayne oaters , it's fun just to catch all the goofy stuff going on , in addition to the often exciting chase scenes and horse dives off a cliff . This one also boasted some pretty impressive scenery , most notably that mountain valley view when Wabi points out the way to Wabinosh . If you stay alert , you'll also catch some pretty interesting product placement for Buffalo Lager Beer and industrial size Karo Syrup - I wonder if they had to pay for those ?
" Never mind my inefficiency , you just watch your step . "	Tom Bryant ( Johnny Mack Brown ) and his sidekick Burt Pennypacker ( Fuzzy Knight ) are headed to Bullion City to open a newspaper business , but before getting established , they find themselves up against a crooked sheriff who's been staging robberies in the territory with his outlaw deputies . When a large gold shipment is scheduled to leave town , Bryant " steals " the gold from the Express Office to measure the sheriff's reaction and set him up for a showdown . " Boss of Bullion City " is a rarity among " B " Westerns as it offers a shooting cowgirl operating as a homesteader . Martha Hadley ( Nell O'Day ) is good with a gun , however once that's established , she isn't called upon to use it again in a critical situation . So that set up seems like a wasted plot line . Pay attention as Tom and Burt enter the Bullion City saloon when they first hit town . They have an outlaw in tow , and as Tom asks for the sheriff , Burt calls out to him to watch out , looking as if he's clear across the room ; they had entered the saloon with the outlaw between them . The couple of examples offered are among a few that create a disjointed feel to the story . At least Fuzzy Knight is good for a few comedic moments . During the saloon fight he's knocked against a wall as a mounted bear head falls on top of his . Later on in the story , he tries to ride a horse without a saddle by gluing himself to the horse . By the time we get to the final bad guy roundup , he's calling Martha " Marcy " , in another head scratcher . It's no surprise that at the time of this posting , the film is still awaiting enough votes to have a rating . Many Westerns of the era are largely without an audience , with their formulaic and largely forgettable stories . But even so , it's a kick to see the old time cowboy stars in action , and with well over a hundred films to his credit , Johnny Mack Brown is worth watching at least once . So's Fuzzy .
" I want to believe that I'm out of my mind John , but I can't . "	Oh boy ! , this is one of the best bad movies you'll ever see , with elements of horror and sci-fi blending together to produce a cult classic . It's got one of those ' warning from outer space ' themes , complete with invisible aliens who make their point with Earthlings by taking over dead bodies and wreaking havoc and destruction all over the world . The influence on 1968's " Night of the Living Dead " is unmistakable , but made comical by what looks like an army of zombies fresh from a Raymond Burr look alike contest . I got a kick out of the aliens ' first warning - one of the invisible invaders takes over the corpse of a pilot that crashed into the side of a mountain ; there was a huge ' + ' target on the side of the mountain when it hit ! Apparently , the aliens had a penchant for American sporting events , as they interrupt a hockey match and an event at a large stadium to make their televised threats to mankind . Say , do you think their space ships could really have been made out of crumpled aluminum foil ? The goofy story line is remarkably enhanced by some of the best lines in a sci-fi flick ever . The one in my subject line is a favorite , and how about when Phyllis Penner ( Jean Byron ) warns Major Jay ( John Agar ) about leaving the bunker to trap an alien - " There's enough radiation out there to kill you , please be careful " . Armed with a contamination suit , a shovel and a rope , Major Jay traps an alien by luring one of those walking corpses into an acrylic pit - " Looks like we caught ourselves an invader " . ( I just write ' em , I don't explain ' em , you'll just have to see it ) . Ultimately , the ' vast scientific knowledge ' of Professors Penner ( Philip Tonge ) and Lamont ( Robert Hutton ) lead to the alien defeat , but not before their military bunker that can withstand a direct A-bomb blast is incapacitated by a smashed beaker of chemicals . This is one flick you'll be sorry to see end , believe me . The most clever bit - a newspaper front page with the caption - ' First Photo of an Invisible Invader ' - it was blank . Beautiful ! ! !
" Ace , you were cold decked by that gambler in Nevada , and he's deader now than my Aunt Emma's hopes of matrimony . "	As the film's title suggests , the famed aces and eights poker hand plays a role in the outcome of the story , but this time it's not a murder . Cowboy star Tim McCoy portrays Gentleman Tim Madigan , a card sharp who's not above a little bottom dealing himself . His reputation is so renowned that posters warn other gamblers to keep their distance from the well dressed poker player . Madigan's sidekick is a fellow named Lucky ( Jimmy Aubrey ) , who keeps a pair of dice handy to consider what the day will bring . They ride across the border to Roaring Gulch , California following the murder of a fellow gambler that's pinned on Madigan . Madigan doesn't wear a gun , relying on his wits and power ; he can tear a deck of cards into quarters . In Roaring Gulch he's befriended by Don Julio Hernandez ( Joseph Girard ) and his daughter Juanita ( Luana Walters ) , while her brother Jose mistakenly believes he's the one responsible for the murder back in Nevada . In an effort to save the Hernandez ranch from crooked saloon owner Amos Harden ( Frank Glendon ) , Madigan challenges him to a poker hand using a clean deck . Seems to me that was quite a gamble , even IF Lucky rolled a seven that day . Perhaps in the end it was Tim McCoy's steely gaze that saved the day , I've never seen it better . The Marshal ( Earl Hodgins ) tailing Madigan becomes convinced that he's innocent of the Nevada murder when Madigan pulls a slug out of a wall fired from Ace Morgan's ( Wheeler Oakman ) derringer . It matches up with the slug found near the dead body , in a logic defying exercise in ballistics , since the bullet had to go entirely through the dead man's body and then fall to his side . Not only that , but the Marshal had to find it ! I'd like to see the Warren Commission explain that one . At least one interesting custom is explained in the course of the story , though I don't know if there's any basis in fact for it . At the Hernandez ranch , a chalice of gold coins , ' La Copa D'Oro ' , is on display in one of the rooms . The custom says that the coins are for any guest who finds himself truly in need , and even a thief would not dishonor that generosity . Given the story line and the opportunities made available to tempt fate , the cup made it to the end of the tale untouched . That at least seemed a lot more credible than the exact same ' aces and eights ' poker hand showing up at different times in the story , to the point of matching the fifth card in the hand each time .
" As long as there is need , there'll be Sons of Hercules . "	I don't know about you , but the first appearance of Anthar ( Kirk Morris ) and his mute friend seemed a bit disturbing , adding fuel to the argument that the genre has a special appeal for gay audiences . Their attire , if it can be called that , looks like over-sized diapers , and speaking from a non prurient perspective , they look embarrassing as all get out . Fortunately , the rest of the adventure calls for Greek warrior wardrobe , but it's not enough to save the flick from desert boredom . The print I viewed didn't help matters any , it was almost entirely washed out with shades of red as the predominant Technicolor hue , with an annoying bar that ran up and down the picture for most of it's run . Incessant desert sequences seemed to dominate the first half , but I'll give more than a fair share of credit for impressive costume design for all the slave traders , warriors and harem girls on hand . If the movie had been more than a beefcake film , it might have been a contender for Best Costune Design , won that year by " My Fair Lady " . Hey , how about Gainor's glass cage chamber of death ? I'm a little confused about how Anthar could have gotten so close to observe it's inner workings when Gainor dispatched Akrim the slave trader . Obviously it came in handy when it was his turn , giving new meaning to the phrase - " If it ain't fixed , break it " . For his part , Kirk Morris provides one of the more agile characterizations of a Herculean namesake ; a lot of his moves look like they came off of an off screen trampoline . I wouldn't be surprised to learn if that was the case . Correct me if I'm wrong , but it also seemed like whenever Anthar appeared ready for battle , he always wound up starting a fire . Perhaps with ' Devil ' in the title , a fiery presence was deemed necessary to heat up the action .
" I know that you're strong enough to crush me , but it's worth the risk . "	There was a period of time in the 1960's when I OD'd on films in the Hercules genre , as if there even was such a thing . Steve Reeves was the best of course , and his films were fairly watchable . Reg Park was a reasonable substitute , and then you got down to all those beefcake Maciste's portrayed by guys with two first names like Gordon Scott , Brad Harris and Kirk Morris . Alan Steel does the honors in this Grecian formula romp , and truth be told , it could have been a lot worse . Steel's Hercules is rather athletic , enjoying an early workout against a gang of Queen Samara's ( Jany Clair ) best warriors . He looks a lot like Reeves , though he might be a bit shorter . Steel ( real name Sergio Ciani ) looks like he's having fun with his moment of stardom , that or his frequent grin means he realizes just what he's gotten himself into . What would a Hercules film be without feats of strength ? Steel convinces when he bends the bars of an iron gate in the underground cavern , and tosses aside a dead tree during the famous sand storm scene . Now if this were a Mensa convention , he could have simply walked between the bars sideways , and come on , why not just walk around the tree ? I guess that's just the kind of hokey adventure that makes the film campy fun . But the best was when the leader of the moon men tells the Queen how he believes she betrayed them . Suddenly , Samara finds herself between a rock and , well , another rock . ( You'll just have to watch the movie ! ) Hey , can you picture a bunch of film makers back in the Sixties discussing how they could make a movie with the goofiest title . How about " Santa Claus Conquers the Martians " ? Nope , already taken . OK , then what about " Jesse James Meets Frankenstein's Daughter " ? Wild West meets Sci-Fi , no , that concept is at least a couple years off . Hey , I've got it ! " Hercules Against the Moon Men " . We can set it in a land where desert storms , violent oceans and lava flows all exist in near proximity , and in the end , the hero gets the girl . Let's do it !
" From now on , our policy is to crusade against vice ! "	Well the title is a lot more suggestive than the story ever gets to be . The most exploitative this flick ever gets is showing a half dozen or so young girls in their undies , and they didn't seem to mind all that much . The trigger for the plot occurs right at the outset with a botched kidnap attempt ( the girl was walking home from church ! ! ! ! ) , and from then on it's about getting the goods on a traveling prostitution ring . Darn if my timing isn't just SO coincidental with the Eliot Spitzer mess , but no one here looked anything like ' Kristen ' , Ashley Alexandra Dupre , or whatever name she might be using right now . But it was made seventy years ago , so I guess we can cut it some slack . You know , I couldn't figure out why Good Looking Freddie was such a klutz - didn't he ever read the newspapers ? He would have known he was a hot commodity before Big Jim Murray ( Wheeler Oakman ) and Belle Harris ( Florence Dudley ) ever put the finger on him . And holy cow ! - what was with those two boarding house guys with the goofy acrobatics ? You would think that for an exploitation film , the principals involved could have made use of more stimulating filler related to the topic . Like a few more shots of the hookers in their underwear . It's all a stretch , I know , but there are so many good grief moments in the picture that it strains credibility on so many levels . I doubt you'll catch this one on any of your favorite cable channels , but stay alert and it will pop up as part of a four disc , twenty film DVD set from Mill Creek Entertainment , that's to be commended for putting out tons of old material like this under various headings . This set goes by the way of ' Cult Classics ' , and it's a hoot to catch a whole barrel full of 1930's era ' educational ' films related to the evils of the day , which quite coincidentally managed to make it to the present time . I guess we haven't really learned that much since , have we ?
" I'm an oceanographer , the ocean is my business , day or night . "	Released in 1956 , " The Phantom From 10 , 000 Leagues " may have been trying to capitalize on the Creature From the Black Lagoon trilogy ( 1954-1956 ) . There's no time wasted here , the " phantom " makes his first appearance within fifteen seconds of the film's beginning to claim it's first victim . Washed ashore , the corpse is eventually discovered by Dr . Ted Stevens ( Kent Taylor ) , a scientist with impressive credentials and two books under his belt . Oddly though , the victim doesn't show evidence of being attacked by a sea creature , but has severe burns over much of his body . I have to admit , when it was revealed that Stevens had developed the first workable " death ray " from hydrogen isotope in heavy water , I thought there was going to be some reasonable scientific explanation for the rest of the story . Aw come on , of course I knew better than that - this is a 1950's horror movie ! Professor King ( Michael Whalen ) has studied the works of Stevens , and has taken it a step further . Having discovered a large submerged deposit of uranium ore in the ocean , he has used his research to transform it into a beaming shaft of light emitting huge amounts of radiation . Stevens discovers the light , as well as the underwater creature , and apparently is not that stunned by what he finds . He must have known it was just a man in a sea monster costume , because he returned more than once with no more precaution than having a federal investigator ( Rodney Bell ) along for the dive with a trusty spear gun . For his part , Professor King maintains his office with the secrecy of Fort Knox , keeping multiple locks on the door and enduring a monotonous ritual of opening and locking them each time he enters from his outer office . His secretary spends most of her time trying to look busy , there are a lot of papers to shuffle and file cabinets to open and close . The professor's daughter Lois ( Cathy Downs ) becomes the romantic interest for Dr . Stevens , and the film almost enters X rated territory when she walks out of the shower not knowing he's in the house . But the weakest plot point ever has the professor's assistant George ( Philip Pine ) using a spear gun borrowed from his office wall to kill secretary Ethel , and ambush Stevens and Grant , the federal investigator . Did he think he would not get caught ? Putting his fingerprints on the spear gun and leaving it in his own car , he practically sent an invitation to the authorities to " come and get me " . The coup de grace comes near the end of the film when a large ship sails over the area where the radiation is escaping . You just know it's going to blow up , and with it any thread of sensibility that still might have been salvaged from the film . Earlier it was surmised by Dr . Stevens that the beam was dangerous only if you looked directly at it , or came in contact with it . The " phantom " of course was exempt , because his duty was to guard it . And what about the 10 , 000 leagues business ? At roughly three miles per league , that would make the ocean deeper than the earth's circumference around the equator . Come to think of it , that would put a damper on " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea " as well . When all is said and done , you owe yourself at least one viewing of this turkey of a film , but you better take it with a grain of salt , or better yet , a cup of sea salt .
An appropriate name for this film .	" The Forgotten " doesn't play fair with it's audience , it starts out as one kind of movie and ends up another . The first half treats us to what appears to be a very suspenseful mystery and psychological drama , then it spirals downhill into a sci-fi movie . Looking back on the film , we are given a hint of what's to come when Julianne Moore's character keys in on the word abduction to describe what may have happened to her son , presumed dead in a plane crash some years earlier . Ever since the X-Files , the word abduction has been associated with aliens , and having aliens connected to the disappearance of newspaper clippings , videos , and mind erasure of everyone close to the missing son Sam is nothing but a cheap way out for what could have been a gripping alternative . The ending reminded me of another film to cop out in a similar manner , 2003's " Dreamcatcher " . Don't be intrigued by the film's trailers , this is one you can let pass .
" We'll fly following a hyperbolic trajectory . "	No space monsters , no death rays , no strange alien beings . Perhaps I've been conditioned by too many cheesy sci-fi and horror films of the ' s era , but " First Spaceship on Venus " is simply so boring that it overrides the few inventive elements that it otherwise contains . There is one humorous idea though that stands out . Filmed in 1960 , the story takes place in the way distant future of 1985 , when an extraterrestrial " spool " is discovered in the Gobi Desert area of Siberia . Voice-over narration states that a connection has been made between the alien artifact and a meteor explosion that took place there in 1908 , some seventy eight years earlier . On the spaceflight to Venus in the Cosmostrater 1 , world renowned scientists have made a breakthrough regarding the spool's information - the Venusians have targeted Earth for conquest and intend to decimate the planet's population . Frantic to warn Earth , the scientists are frustrated in their inability to break through space interference to get their warning heard . Now in thinking about this , and piecing together information from the film that places the Earth to Venus trip at about thirty one days , my question would be - " What's the rush ? " The communication is almost eighty years old , wouldn't they have gotten around to it by now ? The reason the Venusians haven't gotten around to it is because their own advanced technology had already done them in . Landing on Venus , the exploratory force runs into nothing more ominous than metallic " insects " and black lava like attacking ooze , but nothing else ! Though the astronauts have set a destruct sequence into effect , they quickly find a counter measure that reverses it . One almost begs for a big goofy alien like the one from " The Phantom Planet " to appear to lighten things up a bit . On the flip side , the movie assembles an impressive , though no name international cast , including Asians , a black , a Russian and a German . Seven men and one woman from the scientific community form the astronaut team , though why Sumiko is given a bright red jumpsuit to wear instead of the same color as the men is intriguing . She's also portrayed as the most human of the team , suggesting a heart for the robot that continuously beats Professor Orloff at chess . I guess my main problem with the film is that it takes itself way too seriously . The constant narration in the first half of the film seems to neglect the players instead of letting them move the story along through their own interaction . With no comic relief to counteract the monotony , I found myself wanting this one to be over quick , which it was at a seventy nine minute run time , but it seemed much longer .
" It might be a good idea Sir , to phone the police " .	So , does anybody know who killed Caleb Delthern and Winstead Comstock ? The newspaper headline stated that ' Amateur Criminologist , Granston , Solves Baffling Case ' . Maybe they should have let the viewer in on the little secret . Are we supposed to believe the butler did it ? Maybe Charlie Chan should have been along to wrap things up in methodical fashion the way he always did at the end of his films . I guess this just wasn't the type of movie I was expecting with The Shadow mentioned in the title . It was merely another detective story of the era with a couple of black hat and cape scenes bookending the story to capitalize on the Shadow name . That's not to say that it was entirely unwatchable , but it helps to have a high tolerance for severely wooden acting and totally implausible situations . Like why was The Shadow at Attorney Randall's office during the opening scene in the first place ? Did he know a couple of safe crackers would be there , or did he happen to be in that building at just the right time to foil a robbery ? See what I mean ? Say , did you notice right after Kelly whisked the two thieves away to the station , Captain Breen encountered ' Randall ' ( Rod La Rocque ) picking up the documents that had fallen on the floor during the attempted robbery . All the ones he had in his hand were neatly folded with a stack of envelopes , which he placed back on the floor when Captain Breen ( Kenneth Harlan ) walked in . However when Henry ( Norman Ainsley ) entered the room , the first thing he picked up was a long unfolded sheet of paper . Speaking of Breen , was there ever a detective that followed poorer protocol ? Talk about compromising a crime scene , he lets a couple of reporters do anything they want at the Delthern murder scene , while he leaves the room ! Too bad gambling boss Grossett didn't have a larger role , I kind of liked his smarmy character . Actor Cy Kendall had the perfect size and demeanor to play a heavy , which he did in ' B ' Westerns as well as crime films like you see here . In summing up , I don't see any reason to recommend this one , even for die-hard Shadow fans , because the character's persona and mystique is all but absent . This one may know what evil lurks in the hearts of men , but I wish he had given us a hint . And to top it all off , young Jasper got away with his gambling debt scot free !
" As the outcast and the black gorilla met , the jungle vibrated with their wild battle cry . "	Did you ever play that game where someone starts a story and then turns it over to the next person to carry it forward , and so on ? Well that looks pretty much how " The White Gorilla " was put together , with this requirement - each story teller has to introduce a new person , and must include either a lion or an elephant in their segment . That would explain characters like the trunk riding elephant boy and his mother who acts insane to control the tiger men ; really , I'm not making this up . By the end of the story , there's no resolution to the fate of these characters , they just drop out of the story along the way as if someone forgot all about them . Ray Corrigan is certainly no stranger to ape films of the 1940's , he appeared as the man in the gorilla suit for a whole slew of these jungle epics . Here he's actually top billed for portraying both the outcast white gorilla and the story's narrator , Steve Collins . It's genuinely comical that Collins describes the on screen action from the vantage point of a treetop or some other hidden location . The technique allows him to see through jungle forests and the walls of caves as if he had X-Ray vision . Of course the reason for this , as I've come to learn from this forum , is that the film was spliced together with scenes from the 1927 silent film , " Perils of the Jungle " . Ray Corrigan and director Harry L . Fraser both made their marks years earlier in a fair share of ' B ' Westerns each . Oddly , this film was the only time they crossed paths . Fraser managed to direct John Wayne in two Lone Star films in the 1930's - " ' Neath The Arizona Skies " and " Randy Rides Alone " . When the film's " ultimate " battle between the titled white gorilla and a fearsome black gorilla eventually occurs , it's very much a disappointment . They wind up sort of wrestling each other in a contest that has no resolution , in fact it happens a couple of times . Corrigan's turn as a gorilla in " White Pongo " on the other hand had a genuinely creative slug fest against his opponent , using uprooted trees as weapons , definitely a livelier contest . For that reason , I'd have to give " White Pongo " the edge in viewer satisfaction over this film . In fact , I'd probably have to give virtually any other ape movie the edge over " The White Gorilla " . I say virtually , because there's at least one that's definitely worse - " King of Kong Island " .
" Go get ' em . "	You know , I must have missed something here because this story just didn't make much sense . During the Civil War , Union Colonel Pembroke ( James Coburn ) surrenders his position at Fort Holman to Rebel forces , and once court martialed , makes an offer to Major Charles Ballard to take the fort back with a handful of men . When asked why he surrendered in the first place , he stated that it wasn't important , so we never do find out . Huh ? With five outlaws saved from the gallows , and a soldier thrown in for good measure by the Major , Pembroke makes his way back to Fort Holman , dangling a five hundred thousand dollar promise of hidden gold to his rag tag band . Curiously , it seemed to me that once the bullets started to fly , Pembroke lost more men than he started out with , but then again , I wasn't counting . In what looked like the complete reverse of the situation at the end of " Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid " , it appeared that Pembroke's bunch had the entire Rebel garrison at Holman surrounded , managing to destroy everything in sight while picking off a swarm of soldiers who never seemed to be seeking cover from all the gunfire . Holman's commander , General Ward ( Telly Savalas ) must have figured that being this close to the end of the flick , he might as well take Pembroke's sword to end it all . The set up seemed to suggest that Ward and Pembroke were mortal enemies , but if they were , I'm not going back to find out why . The print of the film I viewed probably didn't help matters any , it was a cheap DVD I picked up for a buck , and was quite dark and muddy throughout . I will give credit though to Pembroke's military ally Eli Sampson ( Bud Spencer ) , he got an awful lot of mileage out of the old , hey the War is over gimmick . As for the half million in hidden gold - nope , it never turned up .
" I like to have you and my other enemies together so I can see what you're all doing . "	One shot , 2 bullets , no gun - that's the common denominator in three separate murders being investigated by Charlie Chan in Mexico City . The motive for the murders is a set of research notes and a formula for an atomic bomb which the killer is after . Adding to the mystery is the fact that there are no rifling marks on the bullets that found their victims . This is a very stiff , almost painful to watch Chan film . The acting is halting and abrupt , even for the experienced members of the Chan family , Sidney Toler in the Chan role and Benson Fong as Number # 3 son Tommy . Willie Best appears as Chan chauffeur Chattanooga Brown , cousin of Mantan Moreland's Birmingham character in the prior seven Monogram Chans . There is virtually no meaningful investigation to solving this case , a sample of the mechanism that houses a remote controlled bullet mysteriously turns up in Charlie's pocket ; the detonator is disguised as a thermostat . Of course , if you're a fan of Charlie Chan , you'll have to view this film to be a completist , but once is probably enough . There is one redeeming factor to this movie though - Sidney Toler cuts a mean rumba !
" When life is suspended , time has no meaning at all . "	" Frozen Alive " plays it straight throughout it's eighty minute running time , and that might be it's biggest downside . With no pseudo scientific jargon to camp it up and little in the way of action , the film offers an early look at the field of cryogenics with a slight detour into a murder mystery . Dr . Frank Overton ( Mark Stevens ) and his assistant Dr . Helen Wieland are about to make a significant breakthrough in their research after chimpanzees frozen to eighty below zero are revived unharmed after three months . The next step is to find a human volunteer to undergo the same deep freeze treatment and prove that medical science can benefit from the process . However Overton's wife Joan ( Delphi Lawrence ) is extremely jealous of her husband's lab time with Helen , and seeks comfort from former flame Tony ( Joachim Hansen ) and refuge in a bottle . Giving new meaning to the term soused , Joan shoots herself in Tony's apartment and makes her husband a widower . He doesn't know it yet , because he's advanced the cause of science by becoming a guinea pig for his own experiment . Everything just described occurs in a rather monotone and understated fashion , and without even the help of a musical score to emphasize the high points , the film fails to deliver . The detectives who arrive at the lab wishing to interrogate Overton as a suspect in his wife's death seem virtually uninterested in the fact that he's a human popsicle . Keeping her own feelings for Overton in check , Dr . Wieland almost pulls the plug on him by botching the revival , while colleagues just stand around performing her instructions . At least the rhythm of Overton's heartbeat keep things suspenseful until it's learned that Mrs . O's gunshot wound was self inflicted . This film offered the hope of much more in the way of mystery and thrills but comes up short in both departments . As far as a recommendation , I would advise to keep this one on ice until you've exhausted the rest of your movie library .
" All right Mumbo Jumbo , bring the Fraulein with us . "	I went into " White Pongo " cold , preferring not to read the DVD sleeve to get a hint of the story . Lo and behold , it's another in a long line of gorilla films that found popularity in the 1940's , that perhaps thought it could enrich itself with a name no one had ever heard of before or since . Pongo rhymes with Congo , and that's where the action takes place , as an expedition heads into gorilla territory to seek out what may be the missing link between monkeys and men . Not only that , but the animal in question is a rare white gorilla , thought to be highly secretive and very hard to find , but is never more than a few feet away in any scene involving the intrepid explorers . Maris Wrixon provides the film's female lead and romantic interest , Pamela Bragdon . She's the daughter of Sir Harry ( Gordon Richards ) , and insists on being part of the adventure , citing her experience of having been born on a safari . She has eyes for her personal guard Bishop ( Richard Fraser ) , who's mission on the trip is of a dual nature ; he's really an agent attempting to get the goods on safari guide Hans Kroegert ( Al Eben ) , who may have murdered anthropologist Dierdorf . It's Dierdorf's diary that offers a clue to the white pongo creature's existence . Critics of the filmed versions of " King Kong " who find racism behind every banana tree would really have a field day with this one . The Number # 1 Porter Boy is called Mumbo Jumbo ( really , I'm not making this up ! ) , and it's a " white " gorilla considered the missing link , not a black one . I try not to get involved in political correctness with Poverty Row films dealing in monkeys , so those arguments are best left for another time . This movie is best viewed with a healthy dose of good humor and good friends . I will say there's a nifty fight scene between a " normal " gorilla and the pongo ; they batter each other with uprooted trees in a creative slug fest . Before it's all over , the white gorilla rescues Miss Pamela from the evil German guide ( Nazi overtones anyone ? ) and carries her off to his cave ; Pongo is no Kong however and has to hoist her over his shoulder . What's probably most disappointing about the movie is the way it ends . The expedition members capture the creature and crate him up for shipment to London . The film closes on that note , leaving the viewer to consider that maybe the movie makers dropped the ball , having never heard of sequel . This critic at least would have preferred to see the animal go free to create havoc another day in " The Return of White Pongo " . Oh well , maybe someone will remake " King Kong " . Oh , wait . . .
" I hope you get bit by a rattlesnake ! "	I'd have to say that this was a little embarrassing for the ' King of the Cowboys ' ; made in 1948 , the picture came out a decade after Roy Rogers ' earliest pictures in which he had a starring role . Roy's character comes off as a bit clueless in this one , along with his female co-star Jane Frazee , who alternates her allegiance between Roy and Robert Livingston , portraying chief bad guy Bill Regan . The whole story seems kind of muddled , with missed opportunities for what could have been an entertaining hour or so . Like the legend of the ' Hangman's Hotel ' for example , which says the hanged man comes to life at midnight . With Andy Devine in the cast as Cookie Bullfincher , you would think the story would get a little mileage out of that set up . Instead , you have some convoluted proceedings that would have been better served if this had been a Bowery Boys flick . It was a sad attempt at a haunted hotel gimmick that relied on poor old Genevieve , who truth be told , wound up getting more screen time than Trigger , who's contract as ' Smartest Horse in the Movies ' didn't have anything to say about getting upstaged by a mule . And then you have Foy Willing and his Riders of the Purple Sage replacing Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers for your musical interlude . I don't know about you , but it was already half way into the picture and I was still looking for Pat Brady - oh well ! Yet there was still an interesting element to be found here if you were looking hard enough , and that turned out to be Roy's athletic dismount of Trigger while still on the run from the bad guys . OK , it was probably a stunt double , but I haven't seen that one before in a couple hundred Westerns . Jane Frazee does the honors as the female lead in this picture , as she would in four other films opposite Roy in the time frame . In " Under California Stars " , she appeared as Andy Devine's cousin , appropriately named Caroline Bullfincher . You're never quite convinced what side she'll come in on in this story though , since she starts out pretending to be someone she's not , and winds up on the good guy side almost by accident . Fans of the old Laurel and Hardy films might be as surprised as I was to see James Finlayson here as the Sheriff of Sintown . I would have liked a little more comedy relief written into his role , but he played it pretty straight after all . I had to wonder , when it was all over , why he and old Vanderpool ( Charle Coleman ) wound up in the mine shaft with Cookie when there was no reason for that to be . Just a way to close it out I guess , with about as much thought as went into the rest of the picture . I hate to be that harsh , but if you've seen enough Roy Rogers flicks , you've got to know that this was not one of his finer efforts . Say , Sintown - I wonder if that's the same place that grew up to be Sin City ?
" You stuck your nose in the wrong place once too often . . . "	Here's a curious little programmer from Monogram Pictures , probably the best known of the Poverty Row studios of the 1930's . The basis of the story has to do with the testing of a newly invented device in the form of a glass tube operated by radio that was designed to control a passenger ship . The gizmo is classified as ' S-505 ' and if successful , might have significant application during wartime . This all leads to murder and mayhem as a band of enemy agents in a remote location attempts to wrest control of the device . The odd thing is that the affiliation of the enemy agents is never identified , even with one of their own men on board . The other thing that had me scratching my head was why the ship's original Captain Holling ( Noah Beery ) was pronounced dead after being relieved of command , only to turn up later skulking along the ship's rooms and corridors in dark glasses , scarf and hat . It was stated that he was poisoned , and there was some mention made of an exotic West Indies toxin that might have been responsible , but that went nowhere . There's not a lot to recommend this one , even if you're a fan of unknown flicks from the turn of the talkie era . Though Noah Beery is top billed , he has very little screen time , and even though I saw George Hayes ' name in the opening credits , I was hard pressed to identify him sans beard and that trademark Western film voice . She tried , but Zeffie Tilbury was a bit tedious as lovelorn Granny Plimpton . So what I think you'll find to be the picture's most redeeming quality is the presence of pretty Astrid Allwyn as ship's nurse Lila Kane . It's too bad , because the picture had the makings of a neat little mystery , but it got all jumbled up in the delivery . Monogram might have done better to put a Chinese detective in charge , like 20th Century Fox did for 1937's " Charlie Chan at the Olympics " . That one took place aboard ship for a good portion of it's story , and also had to do with a newly developed radio control device for aircraft . If nothing else , Chan could have explained everything that happened in the story in a way that would have made some sense .
" I wouldn't send any man's soul where your's is going without a chance . "	Young Asa Knox is taken away from his surviving family by an outlaw after his father is killed . Mrs . Knox heads back to St . Joseph , Missouri with her other son Clint . The Knox family's original destination was California during the glory days of the Gold Rush , so for the math to work , the Knox boys would have just been hitting their twenties when we rejoin them in St . Joe of 1860 . Instead , Hoot Gibson , portraying Clint , looks every bit of forty four , his real age at the time of the film . Ace Carter ( Rex Lease ) , who grew up an outlaw himself , looks at least ten to fifteen years younger . So much for that casting decision . Back in 1936 , I imagine every Western made found itself exploring what was probably a new theme at the time . I haven't run across many ' B ' Westerns where the Pony Express plays a role , so seeing how it was used here looked fairly original . The man in charge of the service is named Christman ( Earl Dwire ) , and he explains that the Express will utilize one hundred ninety relay stations , and employ eighty men and five hundred horses for trips between St . Joe and Sacramento . His goal is to make the trip in ten days , a rather impressive feat it seems , even without complications . Clint is initially turned down by Christman for a job as a Pony Express rider , citing his need to be around to help his mother and fiancée . You'll have to pay attention to Mom Knox's speech encouraging her son's employment as if the future of the country depended on it . It's almost as eloquent as the Gettysburg Address , which by the way wouldn't exist for another four or five years . The film plods along at times , and does manage to use some of the standard clichés of the genre , most notably when Ace uses the old rope across the trail trick to knock Clint off his horse . Modern day viewers who haven't grown up with these oaters will probably be shocked to learn that holding up a stagecoach could get you death by hanging , even if the guy you shot was only wounded . Fortunately , Ace's holdup victims all had their backs to him , and Mom isn't talking . Hoot Gibson's character explains how fate might have dealt a different hand if back when they were kids it was Clint who was kidnapped instead of Ace . The judge was OK with that , so no necktie party . The film was directed by Harry Fraser , who during the mid 1930's also did the same for a couple of John Wayne's Lone Star Westerns - " Neath The Arizona Skies " and " Randy Rides Alone " , both from 1934 . Catch those films for some interesting techniques , notably flash forward sequences used to pace riders on horseback along to their destination ; it wasn't used in ' Cavalcade ' . At least the hero getting the girl remains a staple here , but then again there was never any doubt . Hoot Gibson got to kiss his girl way back in the middle of the story , how novel was that !
" . . . in the jungle , you're not always given a second chance . "	Gee , what would have possessed Jungle Jim ( Johnny Weissmuller ) to take on a hippo , and under water no less ? That's one of the offerings in ' The Forbidden Land ' , as the jungle hero aids an anthropologist seeking the fabled Land of Giant People . When a couple of the ' giants ' actually appear for the first time , my first thought was who might have raided Lon Chaney's Wolfman wardrobe . If you take all the Jungle Jim films together , this would have to be right up there with the goofiest , if not the most dangerous for Jim . He would actually have been a goner if not for chimp sidekick Tamba wielding a coconut bean ball when the male giant had him down for the count . For trivia fans , it's finally revealed here that Jim's home is near Ingaba Lake in the Wasabi District , even though most of his earlier stories took place in the Nagandi District . Or maybe he just moved . This film more than any of Weismuller's other Jungle Jim flicks looks like it was slapped together with as many elements as possible and as little coherence necessary to pull off the story . For example - ' The Old One ' , the wise old man of Tiku . In the scene establishing that he was blind , he fires off the film's cleverest line - " When eyes are dead , heart must see " . That advice was never needed again . The story itself involves ivory poachers , merely tall ' giant ' people , and Jim tackling the earlier mentioned hippo and a black panther . Oh yes , and he's injected with a truth serum to reveal the location of the giant homeland . It would be interesting to hear Weissmuller express his thoughts about the picture after being injected with truth serum . Keeping track of non African animals in an African setting ? This one has a South American jaguar battling a bush hog . As for that black panther , it's hilarious to watch it turn into a stuffed animal and back during it's wrestling match with Jim ; as always , no blood drawn against the intrepid jungle tracker . Second chances notwithstanding , Weissmuller tries to do as much as he can with the material he's given , but is shown to best advantage in his swimming and diving scenes . Not as trim as in his earlier Tarzan days , but still impressive enough . But can you really kill a hippo using just a knife ?
" Tonight my dear Maxwell , I'm ready to try my experiment on a human . "	I've never been at a loss to describe a film , but this time I think I've met my match . With no idea of what I was in for , " Maniac " managed to turn a mere fifty one minutes into a hallucinogenic experience without the drugs . With lines like " What I want is a victim with a shattered heart " , and " What was IN that hypo ? " , this X-rated " B " movie is in a league of it's own . That's not to say the film was bad , or even in the " so bad it's good " category . There are worse movies , believe me , if you've seen " The Beast of Yucca Flats " you'll realize that . However this film has some of the most bizarre elements you'll ever see , and they just keep coming at you . If the demented Dr . Meirschultz ( Horace B . Carpenter ) doesn't wake you up with his " bwa-ha-ha " maniacal laugh , then you'll certainly be entertained by the eye popping cat scene , and that's meant literally . If you thought it couldn't get any more gross , well just wait a second , and you'll witness mad doc impersonator Don Maxwell ( Bill Woods ) munch it down for maximum effect . You've got things here you never expect to see - cats chasing mice , cats fighting each other , women fighting each other in a different version of cat fight , hypodermic needles , a dead body bricked up behind a wall , and more , so much more you won't believe what you're viewing . Oh yes , and there's a bare breasted woman too , so nonchalantly and provocatively inserted that you'll have to rewind to be sure you're not imagining it . All this from a film that starts out like your standard evil scientist creating life movie . There's even a dead woman brought back to life , which by the time the film is over , you realize is one of the more believable elements of the story . Chalk this one up to one rare movie going experience . If I ever host my own late night Elvira fest , this will be the one to debut the series . It's " Reefer Madness " without the weed , and one weird ride into bizarro land you'll never forget , as hard as you may try .
" Oh for goodness sake , I do love murder trials , don't you ? "	Jerry Mason ( John Wayne ) is fresh out of college and has sought out old friend Jake Benson ( George pre " Gabby " Hayes ) . Together they open up a blacksmith shop , but wind up prospecting a gold strike after following up on a quartz nugget removed from a lame horse's hoof . Their mining work allows them to while away some time as they wait for Jake's granddaughter Betty ( Barbara Sheldon ) to arrive home from school . The film offers the obligatory bad guys , this time in the form of the crooked assayers , Harris and Cole ( Lloyd Whitlock and Yakima Canutt ) . The pair conspire to steal Jake's ranch by having him unknowingly sign the deed over to them , while looking for a way to hijack the gold strike as well . They think they have it made when they shoot Jake in the middle of the desert , and frame Mason for the murder when he gets into town . There's an interesting sequence in both this film and another Lone Star Wayne film , " The Lawless Frontier " , where Wayne's character pursues a bad guy by riding a makeshift flume through a drainage trough , heading him off at the pass so to speak . Although innovative , it's not very believable given the setting . When it comes time for Mason to stand trial for Jake's murder , Jake shows up incognito , dressed in a woman's clothing . As he gets ready to testify , he trips over his dress and reveals who he is , as Harris and Cole attempt their getaway through the courthouse window . What follows is a Keystone Cop style sequence , with the baddies hijacking a rail car , Benson in an auto , and Mason giving chase on horseback . In true Lone Star style , the picture closes with John Wayne's character winning the girl , and a fumbling wedding photographer ready to capture the moment . This time , Wayne even gets to give her a kiss . John Wayne made a little over a dozen Westerns for Lone Star Productions from 1933 to 1935 . They all followed a similar formula as outlined above , some obviously better than others . For fans of the series , I would recommend " Riders of Destiny " and " Sagebrush Trail " , as two of the better entries .
" I didn't get you into this to get yourself killed . "	" The Man From Utah " opens with a singing cowboy strumming a guitar on horseback . This is how we're introduced to John Weston ( John Wayne ) , heading into town and looking for work . When he helps Marshal Higgins ( George pre-Gabby Hayes ) foil a bank robbery with his fancy shooting , the marshal offers him an undercover job as a deputy to investigate the Dalton Valley Rodeo . Apparently , the annual winners of the big prize money in the rodeo are a tight knit band of bad boys in the employ of Spike Barton ( Ed Peil ) , who also happens to head up the rodeo committee . Serious challengers to the supremacy of Barton's top henchman Cheyenne Kent ( Yakima Canutt ) wind up severely ill or dead . Even back in these 1930's Lone Star Westerns John Wayne had a charismatic presence that hinted at future star quality . If for nothing else , seeing Wayne so young in these films is a real treat . The movie itself clips along at a quick fifty three minute pace , much of it taken up by stock rodeo footage of roping , bulldogging and Indian parade and dance . In the deciding rodeo event , Weston avoids disaster by discovering a poisoned needle inserted into the saddle of " Dynamite " , a formerly unridden bronco on which he must outlast Cheyenne . The ending is no surprise , as Barton's bad boys forsake winning the rodeo events and go for the whole thirty thousand dollar pot of prize money deposited in the local bank . But the marshal and Weston are there to foil their plans and save the day for the Dalton Valley Rodeo . And as we've seen before in films like " Neath the Arizona Skies " and " Randy Rides Alone " , Wayne's character closes out the film in a clinch with a pretty young lady , this time the judge's daughter Marjorie Carter ( Polly Ann Young ) , who pined for him throughout the film .
" Now you just sit tight Mr . Stevens , the gorilla will get you over our dead bodies . "	A newspaper headline in an opening scene states " Police Claim Gorilla a Professional Killer " . When a wealthy businessman is threatened with a note tied to a rock and thrown through his window , Walter Stevens ( Lionel Atwill ) hires on the Ritz Brothers to protect him . By the time the story is over , the film will have zig zagged enough times to make it senseless , so don't spend a lot of time trying to understand what's going on . This was my first introduction to the Ritz Brothers , and unfortunately , I was not impressed . Their gimmick was a repeated one trick pony , a series of abrupt starts punctuated by hunching shoulders and a " Take that down , Garrity " that got old pretty quickly . Patsy Kelly performs as Stevens ' maid Kitty ; she has a few clever lines but comes across a bit harshly with unnecessary screeching at times . I was surprised to see Bela Lugosi pop up in this one as Stevens ' butler Peters . His character appears and disappears at inopportune moments to the consternation of Kitty and the detectives . Lugosi's portrayal is reminiscent of another characterization , that of Murkil the butler in " One Body Too Many " in a film done five years later . In both films , Lugosi seems to be above it all , with an almost conscious recognition that there's got to be something better to do than this . No one's mentioned it in prior postings , but in the movie's second half , as Harrigan ( Harry Ritz ) makes his way from room to room in the huge Stevens mansion , he's followed by the " gorilla " who quite obviously changes from a crouching walk to an upright position between rooms . Even the gorilla costume looks different in each scene . Apparently an animal trainer with a gorilla was hired to throw the investigation off track , so we have a " real " gorilla and a " fake " gorilla adding to the pandemonium . Here's what doesn't make sense when the film is over and the " gorilla " killer is revealed . In the early part of the movie , Atwill's character gets a phone call demanding the repayment of a two hundred fifty thousand dollar loan . When A . P . Conway ( Paul Harvey ) makes his appearance later in the film to collect his money , it's revealed that he's actually a special investigator working in concert with the Ritz Brothers - huh ? As I stated earlier , don't spend too much time thinking about this one , it will only make your head hurt . The odd thing is that the individual actors in the film generally fared well in other ventures , but thrown together in this mish mash it only brought the resulting product down , not succeeding as either a comedy or a mystery . There must have been something about movie gorillas in the 1930's to recommend making this picture , but this is one ape too many .
" Well , we might as well get outta here . "	There's just enough of a story and an almost sensible scientific rationale to the proceedings to make " Attack of the Giant Leeches " an entertaining hour , though it IS offset by cheesy monster costumes reminiscent of DC Comics ' Starro the Conqueror . When the philandering wife ( Yvette Vickers ) of a saloon owner disappears with her lover Cal ( Michael Emmett ) , the distressed husband ( Bruno VeSota ) is arrested for their murder , incoherently babbling about some beasts that apparently took them home for lunch . Two backwoods hicks capitalize on the sheriff's reward to locate the bodies and also wind up missing , prompting local game warden Steve Benton ( Ken Clark ) to get involved in the investigation . Warden Benton staunchly disapproves of setting off a dynamite charge in the swamp , but as is pointed out a number of times by the locals , there is no life left in the swamp to be harmed . Against Benton's advice and warning , Doc Greyson ( Tyler McVey ) detonates the explosive , which brings the bodies of three of the victims to the surface of the lake , their bodies having been sucked dry of their blood . With Liz Walker still missing , it's theorized that she may still be alive in an underwater cave , held captive by the monsters . To check the theory , Benton tests the waters in diving gear , and in no time at all is engaging one of the creatures in hand to tentacle combat , while the voluptuous Liz Walker seductively slithers into the waters of the swamp to be recovered by the search party . With no doubt as to the threat imposed by the leeches , Benton does the honors of pushing the plunger on the explosive charge that finally defeats ( and deflates ) the creatures . If you're into grade Z horror of the 50's , " Attack of the Giant Leeches " simply begs for just one screening , and it wouldn't be an entirely wasted hour of your time . Then watch it again with a bunch of friends and a slight buzz on to make it even better .
" Skipper , this isn't gorilla country ! "	Having just watched the Jungle Jim adventure " The Lost Tribe " with it's wild gorilla finale , I was a whole lot better prepared for this one with the word ' Gorilla ' actually in the title . Unexpectedly though , the apes were revealed to be men in gorilla suits , in a scheme to loot the lost gold treasure of Shalakari . That didn't fool Jim for very long , as the story mentioned more than once that this particular area of the Nagandi District wasn't gorilla territory . As listed in Johnny Weismuller's film credits , this was his third outing as the jungle hero , and the formula pretty much stays on course here . There's plenty of wild animal stock footage , probably the most and the best of the first three pictures . I was particularly impressed with the tease of a panther / crocodile tussle , even though extremely brief , and of course the lion versus tiger battle could never take place in nature . Which got me further thinking about where Jungle Jim's adventures actually take place . The original " Jungle Jim " and " The Lost Tribe " are definitely set in Africa ; this one looked like it could have been set in India by the look of the safari hands . In the comic book stories , I have a sense that Jim wound up in India from time to time . To settle the score though , one need only refer to the location of the game preserve mentioned at the start of the story , the Nagandi District . In the first movie , that was in Africa . Other similarities in style to the first two movies include the use of considerable filler , in this one Jungle Jim spends some time spear fishing as a chimp steals his catch , while in a humorous moment , Jim's dog Skipper bites the tail of an intruding lion . His crow Caw-Caw is also on hand , and it's a hoot to hear him called by name by a macaw later in the story . And of course , what would a Jungle Jim film be if he didn't engage in an obligatory underwater battle , this time a giant eel , or go hand to paw with a jungle cat or two . Funny how he never gets clawed or bitten enough to draw blood . One thing struck me as odd though , and it was quite pronounced in this story . Unlike those other comic strip turned cinema heroes of the 1950's like The Lone Ranger and Superman who never intentionally harmed his enemy , Jungle Jim actually tells villain Brandt ( Onslow Stevens ) that he's going to kill him . Granted , he wound up dispatching villains in his other films , but it was never positioned in such a way as to seem premeditated . Sort of takes some of the glow off the whole jungle hero persona , even if the bad guy had it coming .
" Some men are like books written in a strange language , and that makes it awfully hard to read them . "	" Daddy " Chris Morrell ( John Wayne ) is the guardian of a young Indian girl who stands to inherit fifty thousand dollars , whether or not her rightful father is ever found . Bad guy Sam Black wants that money , and is hot on the trail of Morrell and the girl . The action takes place in Snake River , used as the locale in a much later ( 1951 ) Durango Kid film - " Snake River Desperados " . Safe to say , with John Wayne in these mid 1930 Lone Star films , Yakima Canutt or George ( later Gabby ) Hayes are usually close by , in this case both are , Yakima as gang leader Sam Black . Sheila Terry portrays the love interest , as the sister of a local bandit who trades shirt and scarf with a battered Wayne early on , putting him on the defensive in a plot line that goes nowhere . There's a very cool horse dive off of a rock face near the end , that actually looks pretty exciting . But everything else is fairly standard for the day , as John Wayne ends up in a clinch with Terry in the closing scene , with Gabby and Indian girl Nina giggling their approval .
" I think we should see what I look like under the fluoroscope ! "	What a travesty of movie ratings injustice - a 2 . 1 on the IMDb scale as I write this . Folks , this is a lot closer to a 3 . 0 , I'll even go out on a limb and say 4 . 0 where I've put it . Come on - how can you have a movie about a net of static electricity surrounding the earth and alien amorphic cell structures , and not give it at least a 4 . 0 for creativity ? Then you've got all that great dialog like - " Dave , look at the composition of this mud . " You know , I don't think they ever got back to that mud . No matter , this is the kind of flick that ' Z ' movie diehards live for , and I can now rest easy . Actually , I saw this quite a few years ago without the proper appreciation for it , along with Corman titles like " Attack of the Giant Leeches " and " The Wasp Woman " . I don't know what the fascination might be , but to quote a character from the film - " Whatever it is , it works fast ! " Back to that alien amorphic cell structure - I liked the idea of a third element competing against your standard red and white blood cells . When astronaut John Corcoran ( Michael Emmet ) returned from the dead , I had visions of a scene that might have been a precursor to 1979's " Alien " , but that was not to be . Instead , budget restrictions limit the picture to a de-feathered Big Bird knock off , even though that concept was still almost a decade away . Who knows where one idea leaves off and picks up with another ? Look , this is not that bad . Not that good , but not that bad . Anytime you can hook up crash landing astronauts with alien beings committed to taking over the Earth , you've got a winning combination . Throw in the cheesy monster factor and you're on your way . Just remember - " A wounded animal that large isn't good " .
" My friends , we cannot keep this a secret any longer . . . "	OK , let's get this whole ' worst movie ever made ' business out of the way real quick - Plan 9 is NOT . Not when " Voyage to the Prehistoric Planet " , " The Incredible Petrified World " , and " She Gods of Shark Reef " all occupy a space on this planet . I've been giving this a lot of thought , and for my money , a movie can only be truly bad when you can't even find the wherewithal to make fun of it . On that score , Plan 9 succeeds wildly , and it's your loss if you miss an opportunity to see it . And you know something else , buried deep in the plot of the story is the germ of an idea that maybe Earthlings have gotten a little too big for their britches and have become a bit too dangerous to be part of the galaxy . Trouble is , the concept was done right eight years earlier in a masterpiece of sci-fi fiction - " The Day The Earth Stood Still " . So I guess that leaves the goofy stuff . Like when General Roberts ( Lyle Talbot ) explains to Colonel Edwards ( Tom Keene ) that the government's official position on flying saucers is that they don't exist . Yet earlier , we saw an Army Officer in charge of Saucer Field Artillery . It's the kind of oxymoronic thinking one would expect from military intelligence . You know , it was kind of curious to me that the female alien's name was Tanna , since Plan 9 had to deal with resurrecting the dead to take over the Earth . The entire series of Universal Studios ' ' Mummy " franchise dealt with the power of tana leaves to reanimate the title character . Coincidence ? - I wonder . My favorite line from the movie - Paula Trent ( Mona McKinnon ) to her pilot husband Jeff ( Gregory Walcott ) - " Now toddle off and fly your flying machine . . . " Speaking of the Trent's , where exactly did they live anyway ? When Bela Lugosi's stand-in comes calling in the middle of the night , she runs out of the house and is smack in the middle of a cemetery ! That's kind of creepy , don't you think ? The film though did give me something to ponder rather seriously . There's a line in the picture where someone states - " People who can think are so scared of people who cannot " ; he was talking about The Dead . If the film were made today , he'd be talking about politicians .
" I'd say she was contemplating a voyage . "	I strongly disapprove of a film where I have to rewind to understand what's going on , especially if the person I've just seen murdered shows up again in her bedroom writing in her diary . It's all part of a pill addled nightmare sequence experienced by Chuck Scott ( Robert Cummings ) , newly hired chauffeur to gangster Eddie Roman ( Steve Cochran ) . The basic plot has Roman's unhappy wife Lorna ( Michele Morgan ) convincing Scott to hustle her off to Cuba from Miami to escape an abusive marriage . This might have all worked out pretty well if the stuff that didn't happen actually happened , but instead , the stuff that really happens isn't nearly as interesting , making the stuff that's about to happen inconsequential . It's too bad too , because I was really getting into the characterizations of Cochran , Cummings , Morgan and Roman's henchman Gino , Peter Lorre in a menacing tease of a role that could have really scared up the heebie-jeebies . I especially enjoyed the conversation they shared regarding their occupation of choice being the amusement business , in it strictly for laughs . Too bad about the Napoleon brandy . Some of the more frustrated reviewers on this board complain about how confusing the story is , but if you follow it logically , it's not really . The point at which Chuck Scott realizes he's had a nightmare is clearly revealed , followed chronologically by events that lead to the finale . I guess the plus side of the movie allows for the ' Dallas ' style ending to play out right in the middle , but wasn't it just too convenient how Scott gets the girl ? Just how ' Love That Bob " might have done it .
" Naughty , naughty , don't ask me too many questions . "	The only other reviewer at the time of my posting states that the quality of his VHS transfer was excellent , while my ' remastered ' DVD print is about as second rate as they come . A lot of jump cuts and missed dialog however doesn't hurt the flow of the story all that much , but even so , what you're left with it are some of the most over the top melodramatic performances you'll find coming out of the era . All in service to the melodramatic nature of the story , as an undercover investigator attempts to expose the ring leaders of an escort bureau . Drake Hamilton's ( Robert Kellard ) mission becomes complicated when his fiancée is set up to make a call on him as a ' date ' from the escort service , but the arrangement is so awkward you'll wonder why June ( Margaret Marquis ) just didn't explain the whole story when she got to his room . I'm always amazed at the way times have progressed when it comes to how expensive things are today . The fee for an escort back then - ten dollars plus expenses while on the date ! ! ! That didn't include any business the gals did on the side , I guess that's where entrepreneurial ability came in . There are some genuinely laughable scenes here , not all of which were meant to be I'm sure . One which had a lush ( Arthur Houseman ) walking into a fern a couple of times , making this viewer wonder which of the two was more potted . And gee , I wonder how many drinks it would take to make a high roller like Snuggles ( Isabel La Mal ) look good . But the scene that will have you sit up and take notice is the dancing stripper , didn't she have a nice pair of . . . legs ? The grand finale really goes for the gusto , and I for one actually wondered how investigator Hamilton was going to explain the whole thing to the authorities . Now that would have made for a great sequel !
" You have the back of a toad and the venom of a snake . "	I'm not a devotee of these action kung fu flicks , but every once in a while they're a neat change of pace . This one is almost entirely fighting from start to finish between a core trio of antagonists , Master Ma , Little Fatty and Chun Wu . Little Fatty appears to be the central character , owing his martial arts ability to a life long study of frogs and toads . The bandit Wu is portrayed by Tiger Yang , who the opening credits claim was Muhammad Ali's martial arts instructor . Funny , but I don't recall ever hearing of Ali having an interest in the martial arts . Honestly , at almost two hours , this one was a bit much for me , but I stuck it out to the end just to be fair about it . At some point , it must have been revealed that Master Ma was Little Fatty's father as the credits on this site state , but that was lost on me ; I recall in an opening scene that Ma revealed himself to be Fatty's uncle , and Fatty remembered him as such . Ultimately , Little Fatty proves victorious against the bandit Wu , but it was two against one for a good part of that battle , and it ended in quite gruesome manner with Fatty bashing Wu's head with a good sized rock . I'm glad they didn't show that . For me , the film was redeemed somewhat by the presence of a pretty Chinese girl who spent her screen time being rescued from Wu . Best line of the film : Fatty to Ma - " Master Ma , I'll put your leg on for you " . You'll just have to see it for yourself .
" Just at the present time I find horse tradin ' most interestin ' . "	In a case of mistaken identity , Tex Ritter is arrested for murder and horse theft , but with the situation grim , there's still plenty of time for a handful of tunes that are actually pretty good for a Western as early as this one . Qualifying that , it's Ray Whitley and his Range Ramblers that provide the quality entertainment , and even though Tex lends his voice to a couple of songs , one is particularly gruesome . With a weak stomach , Tex's sidekick Hank ( Hank Worden ) grows noticeably uncomfortable during a rendition of ' Blood on the Saddle ' , getting greener by the moment as Tex over enunciates ' buh-lu-udd ' time and again . Perennial ' B ' Western bad man Earl Dwire has the perfect look for a crooked town boss . Tombstone ( Archie Ricks ) was his first victim , now it's Ritter's turn , as James Clark ( Dwire ) stakes Tex to a rigged roulette game . With his winnings , Ritter's character Tex Randall unknowingly trades for a herd of stolen horses . He must drive them through a canyon on property owned by Dad Reed ( Jack C . Smith ) , but that won't be easy since Reed refuses to cooperate with Clark . Directed by Robert N . Bradbury , the film comes shortly after a series of Lone Star Films he did with a newcomer named John Wayne between 1934 and 1936 . In virtually all of Wayne's films , he wound up getting the girl by the end of the picture . There seems to be a romantic interest here , provided by Dad Reed's daughter Jean ( Jerry Bergh ) . However while she's romantically gazing at the moon and stars , Tex is oblivious and misses all the signals . When things get sorted out at the end of the film , Tex reveals he's actually an agent for a railroad company that's interested in Dad Reed's canyon for a cut off through Pecos County . All's well that ends well , with bad guy Clark under arrest , and Tex closing out the film with the movie's title song , ' Hittin the Trail For Home ' . Having seen three of Tex Ritter's films , this one stands in the middle for story quality . Available copies of " Arizona Days " suffer from jump cuts and dark scenes that distort the film's continuity making it tough to watch . A better one to get your hands on would be " Trouble in Texas " , which itself is a rework of " The Man From Utah " , a Bradbury directed film from the John Wayne Lone Star library . It has an early film appearance by future star Rita Hayworth .
" When this ship sails , death sails on her . "	Reading some of the positive posts on this film leads me to wonder whether I watched the same movie . There's probably only one reason to catch this picture , that being the presence of Bela Lugosi . However with the bad editing of what survives in the American release of " Phantom Ship " , even Lugosi's performance raises eye brows at times . The story attempts to portray what might have happened on board the ' Mary Celeste ' , a ship out of New York harbor in 1872 bound for Italy , and found adrift and derelict in the mid Atlantic on December 5th of the same year . The speculation left this viewer disinterested as soon as the body count started to mount , especially when the ship's Captain Briggs ( Arthur Margetson ) attempted to pin down the whereabouts of his crew and who ' might ' have possessed a gun when a bullet was fired into his stateroom . There's no time to build empathy with with any of the crew members , primarily because no one's around long enough . Ultimately , Lugosi's character confesses to murdering the crew over having been shanghaied aboard the same ship six years earlier . Then , in a moment of crazed paranoia , he jumps overboard to seal the deal . Besides Lugosi , the only other character bringing any gusto to the proceedings is first mate Bilson ( Edmund Willard ) , and he does so by flogging his own men . A side story involves Captain Briggs as a newlywed with his wife Sarah aboard , but his leadership turns out highly ineffective . Apparently , the couple were allowed to escape the ship in the scenario presented , so Lugosi could complete his mission . Devotees of films of the 1930's through the ' 50's will recognize Ben Welden as one of the men on board ship . He usually played cheap hoods in gangster films and early TV shows . The best though had to be the tattooed fat guy who almost made it to the end ; watching him prompts one to get up and take a shower as soon as the film is over .
" Let's see if we can make the little rascal talk . "	For all intents and purposes this is another in a string of Jungle Jim adventure movies , except that Johnny Weissmuller appears in this one using his own name . Most of the typical JJ scenarios are presented except for Weissmuller wrestling some hapless stuffed animal or underwater blow up creature . Otherwise it's pretty standard stuff , with Weissmuller guiding author Ellen Marsten ( Jean Byron ) into the jungle in search of book material . The moon men of the title turn out to be pygmies from the Baku country , with no connection to other worldly environs . If I didn't know better , I might have considered them as the inspiration for George Lucas ' Ewoks , but with faces exposed and not as hairy . You might recognize their leader Damu as Billy Curtis who almost two full decades later appeared as Clint Eastwood's diminutive ally Mordecai in " High Plains Drifter " . To give you an idea how much thought went into these flicks , consider an early scene when native Marro ( Ben Chapman ) is attacked by the band of pygmies in order to drug and capture him . He's struck by a poison dart on an area of his upper chest that was covered directly by his shield ! Of course , there must be villains , and this time out Myron Healey does the honors as the evil Santo . He and his gang follow Johnny into the Baku country in hopes of discovering a large cache of diamonds . The trail ends at the cave of the high priestess Oma ( Helen Stanton ) , revealed to have discovered the secret of eternal life . That gives one a pretty good idea of how Oma meets her demise - hint , she can't leave the cave into direct sunlight - Oops ! In keeping with the Jungle Jim tradition , a North American mountain lion makes an appearance in the film , demonstrating that wild animals in pictures don't honor geographic boundaries . As for Johnny's sidekick , he's got a chimp named Kimba , who could have been Tamba from his earlier pictures , they all look alike you know . Or maybe not , Tamba was pretty adventurous , but in this picture , it seemed like Johnny carried the chimp around everywhere they went .
Hostel or Hustle , you decide .	This type of horror fare is not my usual cup , but based on other viewers positive raves , I felt compelled to give it a try . Not without some trepidation did I purchase my ticket for what I felt would be a squeamish couple of hours . I don't know anything about director Eli Roth , but with Quentin Tarantino's name attached to the project I felt that there might be something here worth taking away . Movie goers , save your money . This film uses the tried and true formula - college age students getting one good hedonistic fling out of their systems before real life , the gruesome depictions of mutilation and slasher gore , and the go for the gusto revenge rampage by the lead character Paxton ( Jay Hernandez ) . I can't even say that any of the torture scenes were particularly innovative , though those faint of heart will require shielding the eyes every so often . Now based on what I've read , I'm sure the version I saw had deleted scenes for American audiences , but one's imagination is tested enough with this offering , and I can honestly say I didn't have to avert my eyes even once . I recall reading one poster's summation stating that one would think about this film well after the movie was over . That indeed was the case , as my thirty minute ride home was entirely concerned with why I spent the time and money falling for the hype .
" You must produce the goddess , if you fail , you die ! "	This is the kind of movie I usually delight in making fun of , but I'll hold back a bit in deference to one of my three childhood fictional heroes ( the others - Superman and The Lone Ranger ) . I'm sure the film makers tried hard to put together a serious picture , but the result was somewhat dubious . The best I can say is that it's better than ANY of the Jungle Jim adventures made over a decade later , but certainly below the standard of the Johnny Weissmuller ' Tarzan ' films , though I haven't seen one of those recently . I also have to add that I've just learned , after the fact , that this was cobbled together from an earlier serialized version , which would explain a serious jump cut where Tarzan escapes from an unconscious state , tied to a tree in the jungle , only to find himself about to be accosted by an alligator ( or crocodile , I can always go back to check for sure ) . You know , you'd think Tarzan would get it after the first two times he got that part of his anatomy under the loin cloth kicked , but no , he does it again at Mantique , jumping into a crowd of villains in an attempt to secure the ' green goddess ' . No credit for learning by your mistakes . And by the way , what kind of Tarzan yell was that ? Chalk another one up for Weissmuller . The version of the film I just watched was part of a one hundred ! movie DVD compilation from Mill Creek Entertainment , that must have taken seriously some of the other reviewer comments on this board , because I didn't see any African animals like giraffes or rhinos . Not that they were missed , but I was certainly expecting wildlife that didn't honor geographic integrity , common for the era . But wait , there was that lion in the Dead City that should have made mincemeat out of the jungle hero , but guess what ? - not a scratch on him ! And let's not allow Major Martling ( Frank Baker ) off the hook so easily either . Why did he commission that ' mysterious ship ' at Mantique to make the getaway with the idol ? It was pretty much confirmed by all concerned that the lone vessel appeared about the time bad guy Raglan ( Ashton Dearholt / Don Castello ) arrived in Mantique . Oh well , I tried . I'm still wondering why the warning about the combination of characters relating to the explosives code was written in English . But as for Herman Brix who portrayed Tarzan - quite the superb physique , perhaps the most natural build of any of the movie Tarzans . And I would be remiss if I didn't mention the heroine , Una Vale ( Una Holt ) , who kept me guessing with all those costume changes - well done !
" Seems to me , I smell somethin ' that should be buried , smelly like a polecat . "	Since adding the Encore Western Channel to my cable TV lineup I've been overdosing on that particular genre , so I thought I'd take a break to check out a four disc , twenty movie DVD package I picked up from Mill Creek Entertainment . It's called ' Cult Classics ' , and the title that immediately called out to me was " Terror Of Tiny Town " . Wouldn't you know it , the darn thing turned out to be a midget Western . No , not a short feature , but a movie with an all midget cast ! It came out the same year as another novelty Western featuring an all Black cast called " Two Gun Man From Harlem " . The principle is pretty much the same here . Take your standard ' B ' oater , pit your white hat hero against a dastardly villain , and populate it with nothing but midget actors . What's sort of cool in the story is the early misdirection which seems to implicate Tex Preston ( Billy Platt ) as a cattle rustler before it's revealed there's a third party villain working the Preston's against the Lawson's . Bat Haines ( Little Billy Rhodes ) is as nasty a villain as you'll find in any John Wayne , Roy Rogers or Durango Kid picture , even to the tune of keeping the local sheriff in his pocket . The hero of the piece , Buck Lawson is played by Billy Curtis in his very first film role . Obviously he caught someone's eye to recommend casting him as the mayor of Munchkin Land in 1939's " Wizard of Oz " , from there going on to a rather prodigious movie career . Western fans will note the resemblance between the young Curtis in ' Tiny Town ' and the sixty four year old actor who was made mayor of Lago by The Stranger in " High Plains Drifter " . To his credit , Curtis did his best to stay away from roles that denigrated little people , and did a creditable job here . Still , it's hard watching the picture not to crack up every now and then over inadvertently funny scenes like the midget cowboys riding on their Shetland ponies , or walking into a saloon under the swinging door . The movie opted to drift back and forth between a normal adult size world and a miniature one to achieve different effects ; the scene I thought was exceptional was the one that played out with the runaway stagecoach built to little people scale . Some of the goofier scenes involved pint size singers whose voices were obviously dubbed . " The Terror of Tiny Town " won't make anyone's best films list , but you know , it really shouldn't be on anyone's worst list either . Take it with a grain of salt and you'll probably be entertained . A couple questions need answering though . Why was that penguin in the middle of the movie ? And if a regular cowboy fires a six-shooter , does a midget use a three-shooter ?
" Well listen , I'd match him with an ape if the customers could tell them apart . "	" Swing Your Lady " may not offer Humphrey Bogart his strangest role ( for that , try 1939's " The Return of Doctor X " ) , but it sure is his goofiest . Bogey is wrestling promoter Ed Hatch , heading up an entourage that includes his protégé Joe Skopapoulos ( Nat Pendleton ) , trainers Popeye Bronson ( Frank McHugh ) and Shiner Ward ( Allen Jenkins ) , and patient fiancée Cookie Shannon ( Penny Singleton ) . The wrestling circuit brings the team to the Ozark Mountains , where Ed attempts to find a suitable opponent for his boy so he can build his reputation on a climb to the world championship . When Ed's car gets stuck in a ditch , female blacksmith Sadie Horn ( Louise Fazenda ) singlehandedly gets him free , and a match made in heaven is born . Only trouble is , when Joe sets his eyes on Sadie , it's love at first sight and the match is over before it's begun . Not to worry though , Sadie's suitor for the past ten years ( Sadie's husband went ' possum hunting eleven years ago and never came back ) , is hillbilly Noah ( Daniel Boone Savage ) , and he's not about to give up Sadie without a fight . The match is signed , and Plunkett City is about to get a show . Ronald Reagan makes an unlikely appearance in the film as a newspaper sports reporter , which he actually was early in his career . It's a minor part with only a bit of screen time . The wrestling match itself between Joe and Noah goes for quite a while , and is fairly well staged . With the incentive to headline a card at Madison Square Garden for the winner , Ed encourages his boy to win after a series of head stomps and an airplane spin . But Joe turns the tables when he decides to stay behind and marry his blacksmith sweetheart Sadie . " Swing Your Lady " defies genre classification , although musical comedy comes close . There are four or five tunes sprinkled throughout the film , all done in a hoe down hillbilly style including a square dance number . For his part , Bogey does a credible job , given the offbeat nature of his role . But he's a lot more comfortable in a comedy role as the convict Joseph in one of his last film appearances - " We're No Angels " .
" You can never tell what you're gonna run into at four o'clock in the morning . "	Someone , somewhere , at some time must have thought this was a pretty good idea for a picture . But come on , even with the back drop of Cold War hysteria and all those ' duck and cover ' air raid drills back in grammar school , this is one sorry effort . I keep thinking about the character of Deputy Dan Colter ( Seamon Glass ) and I just have to shake my head . What a pain in the butt . Did it really make that much of a difference where everyone parked their cars ? And what was the big deal about getting everyone's name - he never referred to anyone by name afterwards anyway . Then he really earned the creep of the year award by choking out the little puppy dog . You would think by that time every able bodied guy and gal on board would just rush the lunatic and throw him over to go their own way . The inclusion of the hitchhiker killer was an interesting touch though . Remember when granddaughter Juney ( Aubrey Martin ) stated to him that they were all going to die ? Clint ( Ron Starr ) responded by saying that she wouldn't because she was nice . Sounded to me like he might have had a plan , but they all went out the window when he tried making a tossed chicken salad while all the birds were still alive . Curiously , most of the other reviews of the flick on this board seem fairly supportive , making me wonder whether I watched the same story . I don't know , I put myself in the place of any one of the poor roadside hostages and I think I'd be of a mind to take out old Deputy Colter and make a feeble run for it , foolish as that might have been . After all , it wasn't a test , so why bother following rules ?
" I never seen him before , but he can sure sling lead ! "	By the time " Whirlwind Horseman " came out , Ken Maynard was well past his prime as a major cowboy star , winding down his career with movies for Grand National and Colony Pictures . Here , Maynard wears one of the biggest good guy white hats going , as he tries to get to the bottom of a ' sudden burst of lawlessness ' with sidekick Happy ( Bill Griffith ) . Together they're also trying to locate a missing friend and old timer named Cherokee Jake ( Bud Buster ) , who's being kept hostage by the bad guys for the location of an oil discovery . The villains are terrorizing all the local ranchers until they can determine where the actual oil well is so they can turn in their own claim on it . The set up for this one is about as standard as they come and the effort is fairly unremarkable . The print I viewed was hampered by some of the darkened day time sequences that plague other Westerns of the era that are somewhat annoying if you haven't seen it before and gotten accustomed to it . There's also the frequent pauses in dialog between characters as if waiting for a cue or for something significant to happen . Maynard himself is involved in his share of those and you find yourself wondering what everyone is waiting around for . There's one bit of action that stands out , and that's when Sheriff Ken Morton ( Maynard ) runs a rope across the trail and trips up four horses and riders from the bad guy posse . If you stop to think about it though , there's no way you can believe that one guy can trip up four charging horses with his bare hands ( even with gloves on ) like that . It's another example of trip wires in use before the PETA folks got involved against cruelty to animals . All the horse got up from this one , but it couldn't have been fun . The most recognizable baddie in the flick is perennial ' B ' oater stand-by , Glenn Strange . I like to think that between him and Stanley Andrews , they appeared in just about every Western ever made in the early days . You watch any classic TV or movie Western prior to the mid 1960's and you'll probably see one or the other , and that's a good thing . You know , the ' Whirlwind Horseman ' wouldn't have been as much without a whirlwind horse . Maynard's light colored palomino was named Tarzan , and watching them gallop across the screen together was one of the thrills of their pictures . Tarzan has some good presence in this flick , even if you never hear his name mentioned .
" There's something corrupt going around my pants and I just can't seem to locate it . "	Dead Man's Gulch is the locale for this Marx Brothers western spoof , and whoever holds the deed to the town at the end of the show is a rich man . As you can imagine , the deed itself is up for grabs , and changes hands any number of times before the grand finale . Groucho is S . Quentin Quale , in turn hoodwinked and aided by brothers Joe and Rusty Panello ( Chico and Harpo ) . As usual , Groucho woos the ladies - " Lulubelle , it's you , I didn't recognize you standing up " ! . Harpo is also in fine form , playing harmonica on horseback , and serenading an Indian camp with a makeshift harp . The frenetic pace is just enough to keep you off kilter and entertained at the same time . It's all silly fun of course , and by the time the film ends , the outcome of the deed doesn't even matter . So head on over to the Crystal Palace , and " Go West " .
" Hey , are you the Three Meskeeters ? "	What got my attention right out of the gate was how young the principles were in this early Three Mesquiteers outing - Robert Livingston , Ray Corrigan and Max Terhune , the trio that participated in the most number of films as the title characters . " Roarin ' Lead " was only the third film in the series that eventually stretched to fifty one pictures , so it's not surprising that the boys still had that youthful appearance . As for the story , and this is not meant as a put down , but it's a largely forgettable one that once again explores a crooked town boss ( Hooper Atchley ) who's taking out local ranchers via the old rustlers stealing cattle gimmick , but with a bit of a twist . Hackett ( Atchley ) , as president of the Cattlemen's Protective Association , was paying out insurance claims on the stolen beef , but with funds running low , he intended to foreclose on the local orphanage , thereby adding a valuable piece of real estate to his holdings . Bad mistake - the Mesquiteers turn up as the trustees of the Clark Estate , majority stake holders in the company that owns the orphanage . What's different about this early oater is the inclusion of a variety show put on by the orphans who try to save their home . I would never have thought about the possibility , but Miss Doris ( Christine Maple ) actually frowned on adoption if it meant that the children would go to parents whose only intent was to use the kids as ' slave labor ' on their respective ranches . That term - ' slave labor ' - was used more than once , and really made me think about how kids might have been taken advantage of in a situation that presumably would have been for their benefit . Hey , did you catch that cliff jump into the lake by Stony ( Livingston ) and Tucson ( Corrigan ) to escape the bad guy posse ? And you thought that Butch and Sundance scene was entirely original ! I was surprised at the amount of screen time given to Yakima Canutt as henchman Canary , since he wasn't Hatchett's top gun , but reporting to George Chesebro's Captain Gardner . But the Swami gimmick that exposes Yak with an injured wrist was pretty lame , with Hackett making his own matters worse by trying to gun the good guys in a crowded hall . There wasn't too much thought put into these stories when you come right down to it , but if you're a fan like me , you're willing to cut everyone involved a little slack . Not too much more to add except for the puzzler ending - Did Lullaby ( Max Terhune ) really adopt Bobby ? ? ? ! ! !
" Hey Rocky , couldn't we rig up a space anchor for Placida and call the whole thing off ? "	Take your best shot at " Crash of Moons " , but I found the film to be fairly entertaining , with some unique story elements and special effects that come off as pretty original for the mid 1950's . I've been overdosing on sci-fi films of the era recently , and must say that it's a lot better than some of the space turkeys that came out a decade later , like " Voyage To The Prehistoric Planet " and " Zontar The Thing From Venus " . Part of it's appeal for me included the well done orbiting space station OW-9 , and the use of creative space jargon to describe futuristic technology like the ' viseograph ' , the ' astrophone ' and ' tortanic ' missiles . The hero of the piece is Space Ranger Rocky Jones ( Richard Crane ) , the movie spliced together from episodes of the mid ' 50's television program . It's not hard to see where some of the imagination for Star Trek's Captain Kirk came from . Confident and take charge , Rocky seemed to be wherever the ladies were present , though without Kirk's overworked libido . His team includes the leggy Vena Ray , adequately portrayed by Sally Mansfield . The story line is also fairly imaginative , with two gypsy moons linked together by an atmosphere chain that initially threatens the space station , and then takes up an orbit that may destroy another planet . Ophecious is ruled by a hawkish space queen named Cleolanta ( Patsy Parsons ) , who views the threat of rogue moon Placida as a United Worlds plot to destroy her planet and her rule . If you're a fan of ' B ' Westerns , you'll have no trouble recognizing a couple of faces that made dozens of cowboy flicks each . Harry Lauter is Cleolanta's right hand man Atlasan , while her lieutenant is veteran Lane Bradford . Nan Leslie , who also made her mark in a fair number of Western films , is Atlasan's wife Trinka , the voice of reason on Ophecious who is anxious to accept Rocky Jones ' help to save her planet's people . Meeting her prompts Rocky's sidekick Winky ( Scotty Beckett ) to remark - " Hey Rocky , who is that luscious trail of star dust anyway ? " Perhaps the surprise member of the cast for trivia fans is the character Bavarro , who a dozen years later would become the perfect foil for Colonel Hogan on the popular series " Hogan's Heroes " . I didn't make the connection at first , but will have to go back to review John Banner's scenes to measure the resemblance . OK , it's dated , black and white , and has moments when the non action simply plods along , but overall I found " Crash of Moons " to be likable enough . It helps that the players themselves didn't seem to take the whole thing too seriously , as they looked to be in the spirit of things , all with a straight face . I wonder how much practice that took , as some of those space uniforms looked downright out of this world in a genuinely ' out there ' sort of way .
" I'm beginning to smell a rat ! "	The Red River Land and Irrigation Company is experiencing sabotage at a number of their project dams , so Gene Autry hires on to investigate the trouble . Smiley Burnette's on hand as Gene's sidekick Frog Millhouse , but this isn't one of his pictures where you get to hear that distinctive frog voice . That's OK , as Gene and Frog foil a nefarious group attempting to undermine the local ranchers by disrupting the dam operation , but it's never really made clear what the scheme is all about . You kind of have to figure out on your own that if the local ranchers fail , the mortgages on their properties would be ripe for picking by the local hoods . There's a term introduced in the story that I've never heard before in an early Western , or any Western for that matter . Once Gene hires on with the locals , he's referred to as a ' ditch rider ' , presumably for patrolling the local dam sites to prevent their destruction . The term didn't seem to be particularly appropriate , but it sounded kind of cool , so I guess I can let it pass . I had to do a double take when I watched that scene of Gene going over the cliff on his horse Champion to escape the bad guy posse . I would swear I'd seen the exact same scene before in a movie , and since the era is the mid 1930's , I would suspect it's from one of John Wayne's early Lone Star Westerns . It will probably take me some time to research the exact picture , but I'll get around to it some day . As for Smiley following Gene into the drink , that's a different story . I like to think of events like that as a warm up for that great scene where Butch and Sundance escape Lord Baltimore's posse by jumping into the river at the bottom of a canyon . Unique for an Autry Western , I thought the inclusion of the black character Iodine ( Eugene Jackson ) to be pretty entertaining . I don't think I've seen him before in a picture , but I'll be more attentive now . He actually got to do a little more than just a bit part with that dance routine at the saloon , nicely done . As for Gene's nominal love interest in the story , it blew by pretty quickly . Frances Grant portrayed the daughter of one of the local ranchers , and she almost got as far as holding hands with Gene . Not too shabby , but the one thing that really caught me by surprise in the picture had to do with Gene and Smiley closing in on the bad guys . I never saw it before in at least a couple dozen of Autry's flicks , but Smiley actually takes a bullet in the shoulder !
" Well now , that's a freak of nature to behold . "	A young Sam Sutter ( Stewart Petersen ) sets out to rescue his older sister , captured by a trio of Indian braves at the Sutter homestead while they were the only two there . Apparently , Sam is motivated by an earlier conversation with Charlotte ( Jewel Blanch ) , who with Bible firmly in hand , declared that she would be willing to give her own life for a member of her family if that be her fate . Sam's mission almost ends before it begins , if not for the life saving action of the Russian , an old coot of an alcoholic prospector , who's life affirming motto seems to be " nothin ' prettier than sweet yeller gold " . The Russian is enthusiastically portrayed by the old paladin himself , Richard Boone , somewhat heavier and a lot more grizzled than his earlier TV Western character . The Russian's crusty mettle is challenged time and time again on the trail , with his trusty canine friend B'arkiller at his side . The key to Charlotte's location is learned by befriending a feeble old Indian discovered at a Cheyenne camp known by the Russian . Cut Tongue ( Henry Wilcoxon ) is at a disadvantage however , as his name implies ; he lost his tongue when captured by the Cheyenne and has been their slave ever since . His sign language and drawings in the dirt lead the Russian and Sam to the unnamed tribe that took Charlotte away . It's a wary squaw named Ashkea ( Brenda Venus ) that reunites Sam with Charlotte at the Indian camp . Seeing the love between brother and sister , Ashkea is moved to tears , unable to comprehend the devotion the two have for each other . Ashkea figures in the film's surprise ending , though observant viewers will probably see it coming well before it's revelation at the very end . Filmed in Deluxe Color , the movie was heavy on the blues and greens , and along with some washed out scenes the movie had it's distractions . As slowly as the first half moved , the latter part of the film had a forced pace that seemed off balance , especially when it came to young Sam's challenge . Originally intended to be a race against warrior Temkai , it turned out to be a race against time , with a questionable outcome the result . As a nice touch , the movie's title song is performed by Jewel Blanch , heard once midstream , and then again at the final curtain . It's not enough though to raise the film much above average , though as others have noted , it's sentimental treatment of family love and loyalty is a rarity by today's standards .
" In a few minutes madame , you shall see a miracle you shall not believe . "	In the tradition of 1958's " The Fly " with Vincent Price comes the female version known as " The Wasp Woman " , produced and directed by Roger Corman . With opening and closing credits enhanced by a swarming hive , the film is another in a long succession of creature features that offers a scientific experiment gone horribly wrong . In this case , the mad scientist Zinthrop ( Michael Mark ) is not really mad , but rather a methodical and careful practitioner who's prodded by his employer to step up the pace to improve a youth serum he's been working on . With sales slipping at Janice Starlin Enterprises , the company's founder ( Susan Cabot ) sees an opportunity to reverse the decline and maybe take a few years off herself in the process . In a rare bit of self restraint , Zinthrop is quite unique from those who have gone before ( Karloff , Lugosi , Price ) in that he never feels compelled to try out his wasp jelly concoction on himself - there's a wise man ! Instead , his experiments have the rare ability to not only make his subjects younger , but can actually change a rabbit into a rat ! Would it have been so hard to find a baby bunny for that first demonstration ? Not content to shed nearly half her age , Starlin sneaks into Zinthrop's company lab and cranks up the dosage on herself . Realizing that his experiment may have a terrible side effect on humans , Zinthrop dejectedly walks into the off screen path of an auto and winds up at Central Emergency . Back at Starlin Enterprises , the boss supervises her staff meetings with increasingly severe tension headaches that you know sooner or later will result in the title character . Admirably , the film takes it's time with the big payoff , since the wasp effect falls somewhat short in the scare department . If you've seen the theatrical poster promoting the film , be forewarned , the " monster " is a woman with a wasp mask and furry gloves , and not the reverse . As a screen monster , the wasp woman is an incredibly tidy sort . With three victims to her credit , there's never a trace of a body part left lying around as incriminating evidence . A quick explanation in passing advises that the creature completely shreds it's victims , but what happened to all that blood ? For historical perspective , I always get a kick out of the technology that prevailed in a film's era . Did we really spend that much time dialing a telephone in the Sixties ? " The Wasp Woman " would be a great candidate for a modern remake with the current evolution of CGI effects . Can you just see the coverage on " Entetainment Tonight " ? We've got a movie for you that's sure to create a lot of buzz !
" Words fail to express my contempt for this court ! "	Kids in Westerns were fairly common as far back as the 1930's , but it's always surprising to me when a youngster is killed or allowed to die like you find here in " Santa Fe Stampede " . Young Julie Carson ( Genee Hall ) and her father Dave ( William Farnum ) are snuffed by henchmen of Santa Fe Junction's mayor , Gilbert Byron ( Le Roy Mason ) . Though you only see their buckboard crash over a small cliff , this viewer was left wondering if there was some way to have the young lady saved from the wreckage , but that wasn't to be . Considering that a lot of these programmers were meant for Saturday afternoon matinée crowds catering to youngsters , I tried to imagine how kids of the same age might have reacted to the scene . For his trouble , Stony Brooke ( John Wayne ) is framed for the murders , and it's up to his partners Tucson Smith ( Ray Corrigan ) and Lullaby Joslin ( Max Terhune ) to come to the rescue . Together , the trio is The Three Mesquiteers , summoned by Dave Carson for their help in securing his gold claim before things go horribly bad . With virtually every authority figure in town in the pocket of crooked Mayor Byron , it won't be easy for the boys to pull off their heroics . But don't worry , the Mesquiteers will wrap this up in under an hour like they always do . For John Wayne , this was his third appearance for Republic Pictures as a Mesquiteer , replacing Robert Livingston in the series who was promoted to feature films . Wayne appeared in six films with Corrigan and Terhune ; in the final two Terhune was replaced by Ray Hatton . The Mesquiteers series was somewhat of a merry-go-round for the principal players , who found themselves trading off partners over the course of fifty one pictures . Other ' B ' Western greats who appeared in the series included Duncan Renaldo , Bob Steele , Rufe Davis , and Tom Tyler , along with a handful of others who appeared in a limited number of stories . Of those I've seen , the pictures with Wayne seem to be the ones where the boys have the most fun in between corralling desperate outlaws . Here's something that caught my eye while watching this flick - this is the ONLY ' B ' Western I've seen to date in which a cowboy , in this case a villain , uses a rifle with a scope ! I don't know when they were invented and first used , but it seemed unusual here , I guess that's why I noticed it . Thinking back on some of the other Mesquiteers movies I've seen , I can't remember if the female lead ever became a serious romantic interest for the members of the trio . Wayne and Corrigan seemed to be jockeying for position to romance June Martel's character in this one , but nothing comes of it . Contrast that with virtually all of Wayne's pictures for Lone Star in the early 1930's ; in those he closed out each story in a clinch with a pretty lady .
" The best place to hide something is where everyone can see it . "	Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) and Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) are men out of time in this World War II era mystery , centered on the development of an advanced bomb sight by Dr . Franz Tobel ( William Post Jr . ) . The invention will give England an edge in the conflict , however Tobel is intent on mass producing it himself . To insure the mechanism's secrecy , he divides it's components into four sections , giving each to different caretakers who are unknown to each other . Holmes ' nemesis , Professor Moriarty ( Lionel Atwill ) is in the employ of Nazi Germany , presumably the highest bidder for his services , and he is intent on securing the invention for his own nefarious reasons . He leaves his calling card for Holmes in what was thought to be a secure envelope that Tobel entrusted to his fiancé , Miss Charlotte Eberli ( Kaaren Verne ) - " We meet again Mr . Holmes " . For two bitter enemies , it's disconcerting to view Holmes and Moriarty casually discussing their views in a relaxed parlor setting . The film concludes with the assumption that Moriarty falls victim to his own trap door and the bomb sight plans secure again with Dr . Tobel . The film is passable , but to be viewed with a critical eye .
" You run from the truth . "	If as I've read , that director John Huston didn't like this movie , it's totally understandable . I'm more curious as to why he might have taken on the project given the inconsistent elements in so many parts of the story and characters . Perhaps he felt he could have melded these issues into a coherent picture , but if so , it was undone by the film's editing after he left the set . Examples abound , beginning with the Zachary family at the center of the story . Early on , we come to understand that the Zachary brothers are returning home from Wichita to their mother and sister . Later on , in a scene with Ben ( Burt Lancaster ) and Rachel ( Audrey Hepburn ) on horseback , talk turns to the possibility of romance , with Ben mentioning that they are not even related . It's all revealed later of course , but wasn't it just a bit creepy that two people raised as brother and sister would suddenly begin to see each other in romantic terms ? That premise managed to keep me off balance for much of the rest of the movie . I also had difficulty with the central characters making one hundred eighty degree reversals in nature and temperament . Ben starts out as a noble character , willing to hire an Indian ( John Saxon as Portugal ) because of his skill with horses , even defending him against the racist local ranchers . Later though , he has no problem ordering brother Andy ( Doug McClure ) to kill an Indian under a flag of truce . Similarly , when Rachel learns of her heritage , she's willing to go off with the Kiowa camp , but has no difficulty taking up arms to shoot them when the family home comes under siege . Audie Murphy's character as brother Cash is possibly the most extreme ; having been raised with Rachel as his sister , he doesn't even need one second to renounce her as a ' dirty Injun ' , demanding that Ben send her away . In all of these examples , there wasn't even a hint of any of the characters being conflicted about their decisions , they just managed to turn on a dime as the story called for . As for Johnny Portugal , what ever happened to him ? He seemed to be set up for a role in the outcome , possibly as a rival for Ben , but that never materialized . Before knowing that the film's basis was Alan LeMay's novel , I found myself mentally comparing it in some respects to John Ford's " The Searchers " , starring John Wayne . Interestingly , that was also based on a LeMay book . In that movie as well , I couldn't understand why Wayne's character wanted to find his niece to kill her , having been kidnapped by Comanches , and unable to escape through no fault of her own . The harsh aspects of racism that underlie the themes of both stories are strong enough to make one focus on birthright and family relationships , so on that score , both have some value . Comparing the two , " The Searchers " is the stronger film . The one thing I haven't seen anyone comment on in this forum though , are the shocking terms spoken in the movie in an era before political correctness became the norm . When Hagar Rawlins ( June Walker ) unleashes on Rachel as ' red ni - - er as ever was ' , it was a genuine sit up and take notice moment in the story . The phrase ' red hide ni - - er ' was also used later on , again in an entirely inflammatory context , the only time I've ever heard the term used in film to this point . On a final note , I agree somewhat with other reviewers who feel Audrey Hepburn was miscast as an Indian . However , for a Plains settler , I found it a bit ironic that when Burt Lancaster went for a swim , he was as white as if he had never been out in the sun with his shirt off . Not too convincing for a Western hero .
" What would a weekend be without a fox hunt ? "	" In Society " presents Abbott and Costello as a pair of inept plumbers who manage to get themselves invited to an upper class weekend party , where they get to hob nob with the hoi polloi and solve a mystery in their usual frantic manner . There's some fairly standard fare here , including the Bagel Street / Susquehanna Hat routine , while the romantic chores are handled by future TV Sky King , Kirby Grant wooing the lovely Marion Hutton , who goes by the unlikely name of Elsie Hammerdingle . Her character is a female taxi driver , and along with the boys , rides out this comedy in a case of mistaken identity . When an expensive painting depicting " The Plunger " winds up missing at the society affair , the boys become likely suspects when their plumber identities become known . The painting is recovered following a well choreographed chase scene in which Bud and Lou hop aboard a conveniently placed hook and ladder rig . There's some innovative stunt driving featuring a handful of near misses with oncoming traffic . When it's all over , the weekend hostess quite proudly proclaims - " You may be plumbers , but you're wonderful plumbers ! "
" Somehow I don't like murders at close quarters as much as I expected . . . "	First off , I'll state that I enjoyed " Secret Agent " , however on reflection , the story doesn't hold up realistically as the espionage drama it sets out to be . Not that it couldn't have been , it's just that the story development overlooked some important considerations . The main one is the integrity of Madeleine Carroll's character , Elsa Carrington . Presumably , Elsa is an agent assigned to assist novelist / aviator Edgar Brodie ( John Gielgud ) in his new identity , that of Richard Ashenden . When the going gets tough after she gets romantically involved with Ashenden , she's ready to ditch him and seek escape in the company of their known target , a German courier named Robert Marvin ( Robert Young ) . Had the British government known how wishy washy she was , would she have ever been given such an important mission ? Come to think of it , how did she even become a spy ? And how does Ashenden decide he's simply going to quit the mission after the wrong man is killed ? Fortunately that didn't have to be answered , because he was back on the case quicker than a commercial break . There are some other elements that stretch credibility also . While I can accept an intangible connection between a man and his pet , I found Caypor's dachshund to be absolutely psychic , so tuned in was he to his master's unfortunate death . On balance though , the film is somewhat redeemed by an amazingly adept performance by Young's character as he attempts to woo Elsa , even though her cover was as wife of Ashenden . Director Hitchcock's reliance on humor was served well by their steady comedic banter which had a genuine naturalness to it . I won't get into Peter Lorre's characterization as the hairless Mexican , as even the film admits coming up short on that one . Lorre is gleefully crazed as he pounds walls with his fist and attacks a roll of toilet paper , which by the way , wasn't exactly in a bathroom , was it ? I don't quite know what to make of the climactic closing sequence . With Elsa once again changing stride in midstream , the British agents confront their quarry in a confined railroad car , the rest of the train brimming with German military . As English planes commence a bombing run and destroy the tracks , the train collides in a heap , leaving the four principals dazed in their compartment . As they all slowly come to , The General ( Lorre ) sets his handgun in front of the German agent , presumably to elicit his own suicide in a hopeless situation . Bad move , he uses it on The General . It reminded me of an earlier quote uttered by both Ashenden and The General in unison - " He hasn't got a copy of the rules " .
" . . . we agreed to a hangin ' , not a murder . "	A somewhat muddled Western with Glenn Ford in the credits , " Border Shootout " often keeps you wondering when he might actually appear on screen . The picture has the flavor of a made for TV Western , and there are enough ' huh ? ' moments to keep you off balance . Like the first time new deputy Kirby Frye ( Cody Glenn ) rides out of town , gets shot at , and all of a sudden there's Indian Jim ( Michael Horse ) right there beside him firing back at the bad guys . With no explanation , Kirby talks Jim into giving himself up , and I had to ask myself , well , what did Jim do except try to get the deputy out of a fix ? Stuff like this seemed to go on throughout the movie , and if you weren't paying attention , you might have missed that the central story had to do with hot head Phil Sundeen ( Jeff Kaake ) stealing his own cattle and selling them to the cavalry . Sundeen seemed to have the members of the town council of Randado in his pocket , but they wavered back and forth constantly , so you had a sense that someone would eventually break from the pack , the mystery being who would go first . On top of all that , a mysterious gun for hire is introduced about mid way through , and once again , you start wondering where this is all going to play out . The surprise of the flick had to be Charlene Tilton as a mail order bride for a character more than twice her age . She has some rather suggestive scenes with town boss Sundeen , and you have to pay attention when she delivers that ' hot poker ' line the first time they appear on screen together . It had the feel of a page out of the ' Dallas ' play book . I can't really go on record making a pitch for this film as a must see ; Glenn Ford's worth it for the few times he makes his presence felt . It was kind of cool seeing him portray the kind of character he had done many times before , and doing it in his seventies makes one appreciate the effort . But all in all , I'd have to go with old Haig Hanasain's analysis to his fellow town council members . He suggested what the critics might have been thinking when he came up with - " I hope you all realize we're in trouble " .
" Kharis still lives , lives for the moment he will carry death and destruction to all those who dared violate the tomb of Ananka . "	" The Mummy's Tomb " takes place thirty years following the events of " The Mummy's Hand " , recounting the events of that earlier film in a series of flashbacks as narrated by expedition leader Stephen Banning ( Dick Foran ) , bearing an uncanny resemblance to Martin Mull . We also come to learn that the Mummy from the prior film was only " seared " , and it's mentor Andoheb ( George Zucco ) was only shot in the arm and actually survived the first film . If you're ready to accept that , you'll be able to swallow the rest of the story , as the aging Andoheb entrusts the Mummy's safekeeping to a new caretaker Mehemet Bey ( Turhan Bey ) . Now there's a great coincidence , the Boris Karloff character in the original " The Mummy " was known as Ardath Bey ! Mehemet Bey's avowed mission is to bring the Mummy to Mapleton , Massachusetts to avenge the desecration of his holy tomb , by destroying the members of the original expedition and their families . But like his mentor before him , Mehemet is deterred from his mission by the sight of a pretty girl , in this case the fiancé of John Banning , Stephen Banning's son . Wallace Ford is on hand in this sequel as well , but without the comic nuance of the earlier film . In a continuity goof , Ford's character is called Babe Hanson , and not Babe Jenson as in " Hand " . It was a rather dramatic oversight , as the name Hanson is given prominence in a newspaper headline following his demise in the film . The story writers also take liberty with the legacy of the tana leaves that are instrumental in keeping the Mummy alive . In " Hand " , much was made of the fact that nine drops of liquid extracted from the leaves were necessary to resurrect the bandaged one ; here three leaves keep him alive , and nine are needed to give him movement . I know , it's only a movie , but gee , let's keep our monster continuity intact . I've yet to research Lon Chaney's involvement in this and the subsequent Mummy sequels , but I question why a name actor would have been called upon to portray a character that's never seen in his real guise ; why not save the bucks and have a starving newcomer take on the role ? If the Chaney name was a hook to bring in the moviegoers , who would ever know the difference ?
" Darling , you look as if you're ready to kill me . "	Add " Tormented " to the list of 1960's " B " list films that with a healthy dose of present day technology and a credible rewrite , could actually turn out to be a pretty good psychological thriller . The basic plot involving a jazz pianist dumping one love affair and about to marry someone else takes a turn for the worse when jilted lover Vi ( Juli Redding ) falls to her death from atop a lighthouse landing . Former boyfriend Tom ( Richard Carlson ) could have saved her , but because he didn't , he now suffers guilt over her demise . There are actually some interesting and haunting elements to disturb Tom's psyche , the third set of footprints in the sand and the record that makes it's way over to the turntable to play itself . Those however are offset by apparitions of Vi's head talking to Tom and her disembodied hand feeling around the floor for the new girl's wedding ring , each conspiring to elicit a chuckle from the viewing audience . As if Tom's conscience isn't guilt ridden enough , it doesn't take him long to decide to really kill someone when a boater named Nick ( Joe Turkel ) attempts to blackmail him over the missing Vi . He really loses it when he seriously considers doing the same to the nine year old sister of his fiancée , who witnessed his clubbing of Nick . Poor Sandy ( Susan Gordon ) , only a kid and she witnesses two violent deaths as Tom himself takes a header into the ocean from the same spot as Vi , poetic justice I suppose . Watch for a couple of goofs in the final scene when the bodies of Tom and Vi are recovered from the ocean . As they're placed on the beach , Vi's arm crosses Tom's chest as if to simulate a hug , but by this time she had already been dead a week - no rigor mortis or decomposition ! Also , earlier in the film , a lady named Mrs . Ellis was introduced , a friend of Tom's who was blind . But at the same beach scene , she reacts as if she sees the bodies , with a look of horror on her face . This is the only film I've seen from director Bert I . Gordon , but judging from the comments of other reviewers , I'll have to give some of his other movies a try . Not that I'm a glutton for punishment , I try to find something positive in everything . Oddly , his daughter Susan portrayed the young girl Sandy in the film ; she also appeared in one of my favorite episodes of " The Twilight Zone " , as a crippled girl named Jenny who comes up with a plan to outfox a couple of policemen from another planet who arrive on Earth to bring their king back home . In retrospect , her performance may have been the best one in " Tormented " .
" I understand Indians ain't got no use for blondes , no way . "	The Gary Cooper of " Fighting Caravans " is certainly not the Gary Cooper of " High Noon " , nor is his future star quality evident here . In this film , Cooper is as green and naive as the Clint Belmet character he portrays . To avoid arrest on a trumped up charge , he poses as an intended groom for French lovely Felice ( Lily Damita ) , who is intent on finding passage to California on a wagon train from Independence , Missouri to Sacramento . Clint has been trained in the ways of frontier life by two grizzled veterans , Bridger and Jackson , and they don't exactly cotton to the budding romance they see unfolding - " Here's hopin ' she finds a husband somewhere's else " . Based on a Zane Grey novel and set right in the middle of the Civil War , the film moves unevenly from it's unlikely premise , to a temporary stop at an Army fort while it's troop marches on to Vicksburg to hook up with General Grant , and throughout it's dangerous journey in the middle of hostile Indian territory . Cooper proves his worth along the way and finally wins his lady's heart by rescuing her from a runaway wagon . See it both for Gary Cooper's early starring performance and for it's early Western treatment in the relatively new " talkie " format , but don't expect an epic .
" Hey , you better start at the beginning and let me get this straight . "	It's always a treat for me to see Charles Starrett in a non Durango Kid role ; " Stampede " was made about four years before the first film in that series . It certainly differs from the Durango formula . There's no comedic sidekick , in fact , the entire picture is done fairly straight as a dramatic Western . Starrett's character is out to purchase the Milford Stock Ranch in Salt Springs , Montana , but opposing forces will commit murder and mayhem to prevent that from happening . It will be up to Larry Carson ( Starrett ) to sort things out and bring the bad guys to justice . Also unlike the Durango films , there's a love interest for Starrett's character , though it doesn't start out that way when Carson learns his brother's been murdered . Villain Matt Stevens ( J . P . McGowan ) is pulling strings behind the scenes to make it look like the owner of the Milford Ranch is the murderer . It takes pretty Dale Milford ( Finis Barton ) some time to trust in Carson , and together they manage to get the goods on Stevens , even as he's using renegade Milford hands to do some of his dirty work . The way they set up Stevens to open his personal safe was so simple it was ingenious ; bringing his notes and papers out into the open to prove his guilt with the evidence . In the film , Starrett wears all black , except for a white hat and bandanna . Watching the film , it occurred to me how gorgeous the trail footage was , something you generally don't get a hint of in a ' B ' Western . A fair amount of time is spent by riders on horseback between ranches and town , and the scenery definitely stands out . One confusing plot point in the story centers on Henry Brooks ( James McGrath ) , who's character owns a hotel and is in the pocket of bad guy Stevens . It seemed like he was the guy who was going to foreclose on the Milford Ranch , but that didn't seem to make much sense to me . It would have been better to cast him as the crooked town bank president , and that would have solved the issue . It shouldn't come as a surprise that the title " Stampede " really has little to do with the story involved . In fact , there wasn't even a hint of a stampede to speak of , unless you consider Stevens ' henchmen driving the Milford horses through a pass that he was going to dynamite . That tactic proved rather ineffective , since it did nothing to delay Carson's progress in getting to the truth . Chronologically , the story start to finish might have covered a period of only twenty four to forty eight hours , but that didn't stop Carson and Dale from making wedding plans . I'm just not sure how romantic a honeymoon they might have had ; it was going to be spent driving a herd of horses to Salt Springs !
" Never bait trap with wolf to catch wolf . "	Charlie Chan ( Sidney Toler ) is on two cases at once in " Shadows Over Chinatown " , one is business , the other personal . The trail of the two investigations converge when it's learned that the missing person he is trying to locate once worked with the murder victim . Overshadowing the entire plot is an insurance fraud scheme involving the principals of an escort service . In typical Monogram fashion , the story reveals a few interesting leads that go nowhere , such as the unlucky number thirteen , the number of people on a bus headed to San Francisco with Chan's party aboard . Charlie also exposes a pickpocket without revealing his identity to the rest of those on board , a ruse that works to his advantage later in the film . We haven't seen Victor Sen Yung since the 20th Century Fox Series of Charlie Chan films , but he's back in this one as Number # 2 Son Jimmy , along with chauffeur Birmingham Brown ( Mantan Moreland ) . Moreland's screen time and comfort level progressed through the first few Monogram films , but here it seems like he's back to square one with a reduced role and not much to do except keep Jimmy company . He does get a good line in at one point when an unconscious Jimmy falls out of a closet - " Every time I open a door a dead body drops out " . The pieces of the puzzle eventually come together when a phony private detective is revealed to be in on the insurance scam with the head of the escort service . Chan enlists the aid of his missing person target , Mary Conover ( Tanis Chandler ) , who agrees to seek her former job back at the agency . It's wrapped up pretty quickly , with Mary successfully reuniting with her boyfriend and grandmother .
" I didn't know anyone could sing so good and be so pretty all at the same time . "	" Lights of Old Santa Fe " presents Roy Rogers and Dale Evans in a modern Western setting with a host of musical numbers and rodeo intrigue in the forefront . Dale's character Marjorie Brooks owns the Brooks International Rodeo , although with only one major booking , the business is on the brink of financial ruin . As unscrupulous rival Frank Madden attempts to take over the rodeo and marry Marjorie to seal the deal , it's up to Roy and Gabby Whittaker ( Gabby Hayes ) to uncover the scheme and give the Brooks name credibility once again . Roy and Dale make a wonderful couple on screen and their charm and charisma are evident in the songs they do together , including the title song . Then there's a double dose of an uncharacteristic tune for a Western named " The Cowpoke Polka " . But don't ask Gabby to take in a ballet as he's invited to do in the early part of the film - " I'd just as soon slide down a razor blade " ! Trigger gets top billing in the film as " The Smartest Horse in the Movies " , but he doesn't have much to do here , although he does warn Roy and the Pioneers of trouble in camp when he breaks away from a Madden henchman named Ferguson ( Roy Barcroft ) . The rawhide lariat that Trigger snaps proves to be the undoing of the whole rodeo scheme when Roy traces it's ownership back to Ferguson and his employer . Roy and Dale first appeared in a film together in " The Cowboy and the Senorita " in 1944 , followed soon after by this one . In all , they performed together in easily two dozen films , along with their hit TV series in the early 1950's . For anyone interested in a film representative of their engaging warmth and charm , " Lights of Old Santa Fe " is a good start .
" On the night when the moon is high in the heavens , the mummy and his princess , they walk . "	With Lon Chaney portraying The Mummy for the last time , and with no name actors for support , " The Mummy's Curse " is the least noteworthy of the Mummy sequels , but you know what - it's a blast ! Let's start with the chronology ; originally " The Mummy " starring Boris Karloff was set in 1932 , the year of it's release , reinforced by the second expedition to Egypt by the Whemple's at which time they discovered the tomb of Anck-Es-En-Amon , Imhoteps ' lost love of 3700 years prior . The first sequel , " The Mummy's Hand " is also chronologically coherent , set in 1940 . But then it gets interesting ; " The Mummy's Tomb " takes place some thirty years following the events of " Hand " , with " The Mummy's Ghost " somewhat after . Now we learn that " The Mummy's Curse " occurs an additional twenty five years after " Ghost " . If you're doing the math , we're now into 1995 ! Now we're into the locale ; " Ghost " ended with Kharis and Ananka lost in a Massachusetts swamp , Ananka's beauty having withered into an ages old hag before the waters of the swamp claimed the two lovebirds . Now we've shifted to the Louisiana bayou country and the site of an industrial project - " The devil's on the loose and he's dancin ' with the mummy ! " We're signaled to the emergence of the Kharis legend by the first appearance of a dead body , but has anyone noticed that the laborer Antoine died with a knife in his back ? Kharis always did his dirty work with his left hand , leaving bandage mold behind on the neck of his victims . I must say though , the resurrection of Princess Ananka was inspired and a classic piece of work , as she slowly and gradually crawls out of the dirt of the swamp , her twenty five year old mud pack having worked wonders for her complexion - and all without benefit of a tana leaf brew ! Speaking of which , the tana leaf legacy gets a slight reworking in this film as well , it takes three leaves to keep Kharis ' heart beating and nine to give him life and movement . As Ananka , Virginia Christine is a quick study , note that in all the Mummy films , none of the victims ever figured it out like Ananka - RUN AWAY FROM THE MONSTER ! Hey , how great would it have been though , when Dr . Halsey ( Dennis Moore ) and Betty Walsh ( Kay Harding ) , discover the collapsed Ananka on the side of a swamp road ( ? ) and the creature not far behind in pursuit , if The Mummy had actually overcome the scientist , picked up Ananka and drove away in the car ? It would not have been any zanier than the actual outcome . Finally , is it possible that Egyptian high priests just have no self discipline ? George Zucco's Andoheb , Turhan Bey's Mehemet , John Carradine's Yousef , and now Martin Kosleck's Ragheb falls under the spell of a pretty woman , all breaking their vows to deliver Kharis and Ananka to their final resting place . Eventually , Lon Chaney's Kharis creates his own undoing , destroying the monastery where Ananka's sarcophagus is held , with the rubble of the building crashing down on top of him . But it was with a sense of " It's not too late to do this at least one more time " that I viewed the ending , Kharis has gotten out of a lot tougher scrapes than this one . If you can't tell by now , my sarcasm for the Mummy series is done tongue in cheek , because the films are a blast and a sheer joy for lovers of old classic horror . While the original " Mummy " deserves it's place in the Universal pantheon of terrific characters along with Frankenstein , Dracula , and the Wolfman , the sequel Mummy's are best enjoyed on a somewhat different level , one that requires a stronger disengagement from reality and definitely allowing a chuckle or two .
" Innocent act without thinking , guilty always make plans . "	" The Sky Dragon " would be the last of the Charlie Chan mystery films , this one starring Roland Winters who appeared in a total of six films as the Oriental Detective . Keye Luke , who first appeared as Number # 1 Son Lee in 1935's " Charlie Chan in Paris " opposite Warner Oland , appears here in a much more mature characterization . So much so , that this is the only film in which Charlie is called " Dad " instead of " Pop " by any of his offspring . The movie involves an insurance scam aboard a San Francisco bound airline flight , on which all the passengers are drugged , with the perpetrator making off with a two hundred fifty thousand dollar bundle . Chan must make his way through a host of suspects among the passengers , before ferreting out the guilty party with Lee's help impersonating an injured ( actually dead ) pilot . Notable among the cast are Tim Ryan in his third Chan appearance as Lieutenant Mike Ruark of the San Francisco Police Department ; and future Daily Planet Reporter Noel Neill as an airline hostess . For trivia fans , her TV Superman counterpart George Reeves also appeared in a Charlie Chan film , 1941's " Dead Men Tell " , as of all things , a newspaper reporter ! For his last appearance in a Chan film , Mantan Moreland as Birmingham Brown doesn't have much to do , although he does get physical at one point , helping Lee wrestle down a gunman confronting Charlie . Like many Charlie Chan films , it helps to keep a scorecard to track the characters and their relationships . " The Sky Dragon " has enough going on to keep you guessing , although in the end it's a rather average entry in the Chan series .
" This sounds like a third degree among those movie who-dunits , doesn't it ? "	Producers Releasing Corporation was known for it's cheap sets and low production values ; " The Panther's Claw " probably falls in the middle tier of their low budget offerings . What I found most amusing about this picture is the choice of it's title , purporting to be some great mystery a la the symbolism of a sleek black cat . Instead , the panther's claw belongs to a common house cat named Gomer , and when all is said and done , the ' claw ' becomes virtually a throw away in the solving of the murder mystery at the center of the story . In fact , Gomer doesn't even show up for the end of the picture , his purpose having been served about mid way through . The story itself is actually decent enough , with Sidney Blackmer in the role of Police Commissioner Thatcher Colt . His character might have been Charlie Chan , Mr . Wong or Bulldog Drummond in any of those detective flicks from the same era , and he acquits himself rather well via a low key manner and methodical police work . He manages to fend off the aggressive D . A . who wants to arrest an innocent man in the murder of a famous opera star , thereby clearing a milquetoast of a man named Digberry ( Byron Foulger ) , who's been implicated in the murder by coincidence and a rather elaborate frame up . You never get the impression that Digberry might be a legitimate suspect , with an early hint offered by a Digberry lookalike who slinks around the corridors of his apartment without showing his face . Like the Charlie Chan films , this one offers a red herring or two to keep the viewer guessing , and the murderer could actually have been any of them depending on the script writer . The opening credits dedicate the picture to the members of the New York City Police Department , and on that score it was a reasonable tribute . There was a fair amount of detective work that went into the solving of the crime on the part of Commissioner Colt , and a lot of information was packed into the seventy minute run time . This was the first picture I watched out of a two hundred fifty movie DVD set I picked up quite reasonably from Mill Creek Entertainment as part of their Mystery Collection , and it wasn't a bad way to get started . Only two hundred forty nine more to go .
" The dead have no place for the living . "	Having just seen Boris Karloff in " The Ape " , I was somewhat taken aback to see another " man in a gorilla suit " sharing office space with the protagonist of " The Monster Maker " . Though not credited , I wouldn't be surprised to learn if it was Ray " Crash " Corrigan in the get up , up to his old monkey shines once again . In the movie , J . Carrol Naish portrays mad scientist ( is there any other kind in these 1940 era poverty row productions ? ) Dr . Igor Markoff , suddenly smitten with the appearance of Patricia Lawrence , daughter of famed concert pianist Anthony Lawrence ( Ralph Morgan ) . You see , she's a dead ringer for the mad doctor's own deceased wife , who we learn committed suicide when she was reduced to the ugliness of acromegaly , a disfiguring disease which is glandular in origin . Markoff had injected her with a serum when a romantic rival tried to steal her away years ago so he could have her all to himself . Obviously , Markoff believed in the adage - beauty's only skin deep . Markoff's plan to win Patricia involve injecting Lawrence with the acromegaly virus , with promise of a cure if the pianist can convince Patricia ( Wanda McKay ) to marry him . The makeup job on Lawrence was surprisingly well done , without being too outlandish . Holding out as long as he can , Lawrence finally seeks Markoff's help , but rather than committing to assist him in his scheme , he becomes Markoff's prisoner , with Markoff pulling more strings to entice Patricia to his lair . As usual , good triumphs over evil , as Lawrence breaks his bonds and wrestles a handgun away from Markoff , shooting him in the tussle . Markoff's able assistant Maxine ( Tala Birell ) , offers hope for a full recovery , as she is familiar with the doctor's work , and knows just where the X-54 serum antidote can be found - very convenient . The film ends as it opened , with Lawrence performing in concert to an appreciative audience that includes Patricia , her fiancé Bob , and Maxine , none the worse for wear for having endured his debilitating condition . Final mention must be made of Markoff's brutish lab assistant , played by veteran " B " heavy Glenn Strange , usually to be found in hastily turned out Westerns of the era . However in his career , he managed to portray the iconic Frankenstein on three occasions ( " House of Frankenstein " , " House of Dracula " and " Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein " ) . The twist in this film is the name he was given , for once the mad doctor was called Igor , and the assistant was " Steve " !
" There's two sides to every pancake . "	Two brothers find themselves on opposite sides of the law in this early " Trucolor " film from the Republic studio . Frank Plummer ( Bill Elliott ) is building a life and putting his days as a member of the Plummer Gang behind him . Brother Jim ( a young Forrest Tucker ) is staging a train robbery , and intends to use his brother's influence to pull off the job . In between them is Kate Foley ( Adrian Booth ) , who's favor goes back and forth between the two until her conscience wins out in the end . This is a formulaic Western yarn with not a lot going for it , except for the Trucolor package . Andy Devine is on hand as Deputy Casey Brown , and he's allowed to play it fairly straight , backing up Elliott's integrity throughout the film . Lots of cliché's here , like " Open up , or I'll blast ya out " from Forrest Tucker on the hijacked train . For an interesting goof , pay attention when proprietor of the Square Deal Casino , Winnie McPhail opens a closet door - one views what appears to be an outdoor tree line on the horizon . For Wild Bill Elliott fans , I would recommend one of his earlier Red Ryder films ; you'll find it more entertaining . This one gets a , primarily for the filming done in color .
" Oh that's lousy coffee , an ' you're a lyin ' skunk " .	Prior reviewers in this forum have been a bit more generous than I'm prepared to be . This was my first Bud Spencer film , and I found it to be adequate at best . If not for the sneering presence of Jack Palance there might not have been enough to hold my interest . Spencer's character is Hiram Coburn , who's gimmick with the eyeglasses portends someone about to get hurt , though that convention falls away by the end of the story . He's a slow to get riled caretaker for a young Chip Anderson ( Renato Cestie ) who has to slug his way through a slew of bad hombres until the payoff . The orphan boy is the sole owner of ' Welldigger's Roost ' , a ramshackle cabin in the ramshackle town of Westland , but the object of much interest by the town's all around judge / preacher / sheriff Franciscus ( Francisco Rabal ) , and a curious dirt eating prospector . The old coot has a taste for gold , but it's an oil gusher that eventually proves out on the ' Roost ' . Until that point , Coburn stays busy dodging Sonny Bronston ( Palance ) and his sister Mary ( Dany Saval ) . Sonny wants to make an honest woman of his sister , apparently after a fling with Coburn , although if you follow the film closely , that's not really ever made clear . Mary pretends to be pregnant , which puts her brother's plans for killing Coburn on hold , but Coburn himself never really fesses up to the deed . The best line of the film is his during the wedding ceremony which he attends hogtied - Mary - " But why have they got you tied up ? " Coburn - " To restrain my enthusiasm . " Though filmed in color , there are a fair amount of drab sequences that look virtually black and white . The print I viewed also seemed to be badly edited , subject to jump cuts that change the direction of the story on a dime ; it occurred enough times to be annoying . I liked Palance in the flick , almost a two decade preview of his character ( s ) in the " City Slickers " franchise . Whether on purpose or not , he changes accents frequently in the picture , with his Mexican take the best . It's a hoot to see his ' girls ' fawning all over him ; one gets the impression they might have been part of a traveling whorehouse , but they never did more than kick up their heels at the Westland saloon . Except for Mary , they could have all gotten a bit more screen time , amigo .
" We wanna knock off about a million Japs ! "	The East Side Kids made a number of movies to inspire patriotism for the war effort during World War II . " Let's Get Tough " gets a bit muddled in the execution as it tries to portray Danny's ( Bobby Jordan ) older brother as a former GI who's discharged from the service for subversive activity , namely spying for the Japanese and the Nazis . Story continuity didn't seem to rely on much believability with these films , as a newspaper headline and story indicates that Phil Connors ( Tom Brown ) was a saboteur . Later in the picture it's revealed that he was really infiltrating the secret Black Dragon Society , but it made me wonder how the ruse could have been pulled off for real . I suppose it could have worked , but you would have to have a lot of authorities in on it , and probably a miracle to pull it off . There's also the question of the East Siders pelting shopkeeper Chino believing him to be Japanese , yet later they apologize to Mrs . Chino in a way that makes it seem that they've known each other a long time . It just seemed to create a kind of disconnect from reality in the story ; why would the boys suddenly turn on Chino if they knew him as a regular from the neighborhood ? As a fan of the East Side Kids , I'm curious why Gabriel Dell wound up playing the German Heinbach in the story instead of being part of the gang . This kind of thing happened every now and then , and as a kid watching these movies it drove me crazy . It also bothered me that the core group of East Siders sometimes had different names from picture to picture , but looking back on that time , it doesn't seem like such a big deal now . But at least the boys wind up heroes for breaking up a Japanese spy ring , even if they weren't old enough to join the military . What a difference a year makes though . In 1943's " Kid Dynamite " , Danny , Muggs and Glimpy show up at the end of the picture , each in a uniform from a different branch of the service !
" You're gonna die lookin ' like a brave man . "	I couldn't get over seeing Roger Corman's name in the opening credits as both producer and director of " Five Guns West " , out the same year as another low budget flick that marked the beginning of his career - " Swamp Women " . Oddly , both films featured a young Mike Connors in a lead role , but credited in each as ' Touch ' Connors . In this picture , he's one of five outlaws pardoned by the Confederacy in exchange for undertaking a special assignment on behalf of the Southern cause . The entire plot becomes rather dubious because by the time the men intercept a stagecoach supposed to be bearing thirty thousand dollars in hard currency , neither their human target or the money is anywhere to be found . Dorothy Malone is thrown into the middle of the story as a bit of a distraction and something of a love interest for the nominal leader of the bad guys , Govern Sturgess ( John Lund ) . Probably the dumbest scene in the film was that shootout under the porch between Sturgess and John Candy , the Candy Brothers impressing me as the original Dumb and Dumber . Brother Will in fact was such a hothead that it was surprising he lasted as long as he did in the story ; in the course of the picture he wound up picking a fight with each of his companions . I did however get a kick out of the scene where they cut off and shook the rattlesnake's tail , a gimmick visited some fifteen years later in " Two Mules For Sister Sara " . My question still is - can you really do that with a rattlesnake tail ? There's really not a lot here to get excited about other than seeing an early Corman effort . From that standpoint , it's a lot better than a bunch of later stuff he did in the grade Z horror category , but at least flicks like " The Wasp Woman " and " Creature From The Haunted Sea " had some camp value . This one sets out with an interesting premise , but winds up being hijacked along with the Dawn Springs stagecoach .
" I like women who ain't all sawdust inside . "	All the elements were here for an intriguing and gritty gangster / prison drama , but once Dot Burton ( Faye Emerson ) wound up at the penitentiary , the film started a lot to resemble a high school sorority league . All smiles and chatty , Dot and her new jailbird friend Myrtle ( Julie Bishop ) wind up scheming about how she can make the best of her sentence , until the time comes to claim the forty thousand dollars she scammed from her bumbling partners . I have to give the film makers credit for dressing up mobster Carey Wells ( Roland Drew ) in drag , that was both clever and corny at the same time . I'd love to know how many takes were necessary to film the visitation scene when Dot's ' sister ' comes to see her in prison . The relationship between Dot Burton and Ken Phillips ( Frank Wilcox ) didn't quite work for me either , especially from her side . I mean seriously , what did she see in this guy to spark a romantic angle ? Especially since she knew him as an adult when she was still a kid . The plot would have worked without going for this stretch . The surprise for me in the story was one of Jackie Gleason's very early screen appearances when he was still using the middle initial ' C ' . Unfortunately he didn't have a whole lot to do as the gang's getaway driver . If you get the chance , try to catch him in the Bogart film " All Through The Night " where in a similar role he gets to weigh in on World War II military strategy and how the Allies could win . As I sit here writing this , the thought occurred to me that as a Warner Brothers film , this could just as easily have been an East Side Kids story , with all the female leads replaced by Billy Halop , Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , et al . Throw in Ann Sheridan for the Ken Phillips character and you would have had a much livelier story . Still , at just a couple of minutes over an hour , " Lady Gangster " is an interesting little diversion , but don't go in expecting to see a real lady gangster .
" Who shall defile the temples of the ancient gods , a cruel and violent death shall be his fate . "	" The Mummy's Hand " opens with scenes lifted from the 1932 Universal film " The Mummy " , and that remains about the only connection to the original . George Zucco as Professor Andoheb is entrusted with the secret formula that will bring the dead back to life , but it must be strictly followed , or the result will be uncontrollable power in the Mummy so revived . Not one , but two veteran B Western stars are brought aboard for this erzats followup to " The Mummy " - Tom Tyler as the bandaged one , and Dick Foran as the central hero Steve Banning , leading an expedition into the Egyptian desert to locate the lost tomb of Princess Ananka . He is assisted by comic sidekick Babe Jenson ( Wallace Ford ) , magician Solvani the Great ( Cecil Kelloway ) who finances the expedition , and Solvani's daughter Marta ( Peggy Moran ) , at first skeptical but then a more than willing love interest for Foran's character . But the best performance of the lot goes to George Zucco as Andoheb , who takes control of The Mummy , sending him on a mission to maintain his revival by locating the fluid extracted from tana leaves which accompanied his burial . In addition , Andoheb plans to make himself and Marta immortal as his own personal high priestess - what a guy ! When the tomb of Ananka is eventually discovered , it brought me a chuckle . It's HUGE and an elaborately done set , but Banning and his team are constantly frustrated by their inability to find it ! Pay attention during a conversation following the discovery of the Mummy's second victim Ali , the foreman of Banning's digging crew . The name Ali must have been on Dick Foran's mind , because he calls Marta " Molly " . Have fun with " The Mummy's Hand " , along with the other Universal " sequels " , but don't expect any to come close to the mood , atmosphere , or conviction of the original . Even Lon Chaney couldn't work that magic in " The Mummy's Tomb " , " The Mummy's Curse " , and " The Mummy's Ghost " .
" Have a cigar and take off your pants . "	I saw this movie under it's reissue name " Cavalry Charge " , and must say that it's original title makes a lot more sense . The film is not a cavalry Western per se , but a story that takes place in 1862 along the route of the Santa Fe Trail , with Union and Confederate forces alternately getting the upper hand in the action taking place . But it's not your typical Civil War yarn either , as brothers on opposing sides of the War reunite with opposing views on the U . S . Government's efforts to enlist Apache aid in defeating the Rebels . Ronald Reagan stars , and portrays three different characters before it's all over . He's introduced as Confederate Captain McCready , surprising a band of Union soldiers taking a swim break , while routing their horses and burning their uniforms , though taking no prisoners . His identity is revealed to be that of Vance Britten , brother of Union Colonel Jeb Britten ( Bruce Bennett ) when the two meet up in an ambush within an ambush within an ambush , trust me on this . Later , he assumes the identity of a Union Major dispatched from Washington , in an attempt to subvert his brother's mission of securing help in the war effort from the Apaches . Rhonda Fleming appears as the unhappy wife of a trader stationed at Fort Point , harboring memories of her romance with Vance Britten years earlier . With her husband killed in an Indian attack , she's free once again to take up her romance with Britten , though there are ups and downs along the way , and you never get the feeling Reagan's character is playing it straight with her . The prominent Indian Chief Grey Cloud is portrayed by Charles Evans , in a role stating that he was once a Union General who became an Apache when he married a squaw , renounced by the military for doing so . Even though their screen time was limited , it was still fun to see Iron Eyes Cody and Chief Yowlachie as fellow chiefs who agree to remain neutral in the white man's war . That of course goes all to hell in a war bonnet in the movie's latter third , when an impatient civilian fires on Grey Cloud standing under a white flag . Arguably , the white man comes across looking pretty poorly at this point , leaving the Indians no resort but to attack Fort Gil . Up to that point the film had an entertaining appeal , questionable as the premise was . With the Confederates coming to the aid of the Union soldiers and civilians within the fort , any hope of keeping the Indians neutral went up in smoke . Speaking of which , stay attentive during the Indian attack ; when a white bearded civilian is hit with a burning arrow in the back , he falls into a pile of hay , but the hay ignites into flame somewhat to the right of where the man fell . Except for the rather exceptional cast of talent in the film , the movie is really nothing special . In addition to the starring players already mentioned , notable support comes by way of Noah Beery Jr . and Hugh Beaumont , both as Confederate officers . I got a kick out of one of Reagan's lines in the film - while impersonating Union Major Riordan at Fort Gil , he encounters a mob that wants to lynch Geronimo for his attack on trader McQuade's wagons , resulting in three dead white men . To keep the mob from erupting , he orders one of his men to shoot the leader if the mob got out of hand . In a weirdly prophetic line that would later become a hallmark of his presidency , Reagan's character states : " That's what's known as delegating authority . "
" If you fellas are through with your little necktie party , why I'll be on my way . "	" Lawless Range " has all the look and feel of John Wayne's Lone Star Westerns , but this one came from Republic Pictures during the same era . Adding to the tone of the film is the direction of Robert North Bradbury , who also made some of the Lone Star pictures ; one of his trademarks is the quick flash forward technique used once in an early sequence . The formula pretty much remains the same too , this time Wayne's character takes on two identities . He's John Middleton posing as John Allen , working undercover for the local marshal ( Jack Curtis ) to expose a crooked bunch known as the Butch Martin gang . Interestingly , we never see Butch Martin , presumably it was a phony name to keep the real brains behind the gang under wraps . That would have been banker Carter ( Frank McGlynn Jr . ) , who's trying to use late mortgage pressure to put the local ranchers under . You have to give credit to some of these early Westerns for the innovative stunt work done with men and horses alike . There were a few incredible mounted horse spills in the movie that make you wonder how they could have done that . There's also a great sequence where Wayne's character takes off after two villains on horseback , and catching up to the first , jumps on the henchman's horse knocking him off while continuing to chase the second . If you rewind and play real close attention , you can distinguish the difference in body build between Wayne and stunt man Yakima Canutt as the exchange is made . Yak portrayed the nominal leader of the Martin gang , every now and then mentioning he had to check in with the ' chief ' . I got a kick out of the scene where Middleton reports to the sheriff on the ambush prepared by the bad guys at Shotgun Pass . The marshal just happens to have a couple dozen men hanging around just ready to ride into action . As an added treat , John Wayne is shown singing a couple tunes in the course of the film , but the voice is obviously dubbed in , otherwise we're listening to a low , deep falsetto . In one instance he serenades the film's romantic interest , Ann Mason ( Sheila Mannors ) . Here again we pick up a mainstay from Wayne's Lone Star Westerns , as the movie ends , he's seen getting cozy with his girl for the final frame .
" I don't know what's come over me , I must have a touch of swamp fever . "	It seems to me that you'll either love or hate this offering , judging by the comments of other reviewers for the film . As a fan of the genre , I'll always give the benefit of the doubt to the plus side , I rather got a kick out of " The Mad Monster " , with George Zucco as a deranged scientist , given to phantom meetings with his former colleagues who drummed him out of academia for his outlandish experiments and theories . After all , if you're looking to ingratiate yourself with the War Department , you might want to check the dictionary for a suitable replacement for an " army of wolf men " . But it's exactly this kind of weirdness that makes the film fun , especially when Dr . Lorenzo Cameron ( Zucco ) injects his gardener assistant Petro ( Glenn Strange ) with a serum of wolf blood to transform him into a revenge machine . With cunning precision , Cameron launches his creation on a scientist killing spree , taking out his detractors one by one while maintaining a self assured calm , not to mention a perfect alibi for his whereabouts each time . A half dozen years following his wolf man portrayal , Strange would take on the role of the feature creature in 1948's " Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein " . What gives the movie it's most endearing charm however are the neat fog shrouded swamp scenes replete with hanging moss ; for a poverty row effort I don't think I've ever seen it done better . It's the perfect touch for midnight viewings on a dark and stormy night . Let's give some credit to the supporting cast , Anne Nagel as Lenora Cameron , the mad doctor's pretty daughter , who has a bit of a thing for newspaper reporter Tom Gregory ( Johnny Downs ) , hot on the trail of the " beast on two legs " story . Downs is actually top billed over Zucco and Glenn Strange in this effort , though that's highly questionable . One look at Doctor Cameron , and one take of his diabolical laugh is all that's needed to know that it's George Zucco's show all the way . Just turn down the lights for maximum atmosphere , and in Petro's own words , you " ain't got no reason to be afraid " .
" When there's trouble in the jungle , it's everybody's business . "	I was getting a little worried , almost an hour into the picture and Jungle Jim ( Johnny Weissmuller ) still hadn't tangled with a wild animal yet , but at 58 : 08 he makes short work of a shark - no battle actually , he just stabs it ! That was right after the shark beat up on an octopus , so maybe he was too tired to fight . What's curious to me was how a shark and an octopus found their way into an African river . Besides the battle of sea creatures , we're also treated to a tussle between a pair of dinosaur impersonating lizards , one of which had a dimetrodon fin attached to it's back . Pretty cool stuff for a kid watching this stuff back in the 1950's , because after all , I was one of them . As for the movie's main plot , you really have to pay attention to let the whole thing sink in . An evil scientific genius ( Lyle Talbot ) discovers that boiling igneous rock will release the liquids and gases in it's magma composition , and when common sugar is added , a residue of carbon from the burned sugar is held suspended by the magma . Then when the whole solution is immersed in cold water , what's left is re-crystallized into synthetic diamonds - Whew ! When I tried it , I only got a hot , wet rock . You know , I think they made all that up . There must have been a reason each Jungle Jim movie offered a different female lead , this time it was Sheila Ryan as spunky photographer Ann Lawrence . They're out to find a former All-American football player who went missing in the jungle some nine years earlier . The opening film credits state ' Introducing ' Bob Waterfield , a real life pro player and coach for the Los Angeles Rams . The ' introduction ' tag is usually meant to herald an up and coming new star , but in this case , Waterfield's performance was decidedly less successful than his football career . At least Rick Vallin turns up one more time as yet another tribal chief named Bono , causing me to wonder where the current rock star Bono's name actually came from - Hmm . And say , you know who else gets an opening film credit - Tamba The Chimp ! ! I got a kick out of an early scene when Miss Lawrence first meets Jungle Jim when he saves her from drowning . Admiring his features , she asks him to ' turn your head to the right ' , to which he turns his head left ! Having seen about a half dozen Jungle Jim films recently , I have to admit that once viewed , they're largely forgettable , but at least when they're on they offer a lot of fun , even if some of it is just plain goofy . This one though , I must say probably had the best ending of one so far . Not only does Ann Lawrence get to kiss Jim's co-hero Bob Miller ( Waterfield ) , but Tamba gets to plant one on Jungle Jim himself !
" You don't have anything to worry about anyhow , ghosts don't start walkin ' around till midnight . "	Chalk one up for " Ghost Town Renegades " , here's a " B " Western with a title that actually has something to do with the story . It takes place in the abandoned old mining town of Waterhole , Arizona , where a newly discovered vein may prove profitable once again . Holders of deeds to property in Waterhole are contacted by chief bad guy Vance Sharp ( Jack Ingram ) with an offer to purchase their worthless land , but they never seem to make it out of town alive . Sharp's henchmen make them disappear whether they cooperate or not . Enter Cheyenne Davis ( Lash LaRue ) , sent to sort things out by the territorial chief marshal . When given the lowdown by Marshal Jennings ( Henry Hall ) , Cheyenne asks if he should investigate as the law or as the Cheyenne Kid ; the Marshal states that a little bit of both would do . Chey's old partner Fuzzy ( Fuzzy St . John ) is already on the case , going undercover as it were , and posing as a prospector . Lash LaRue gets to use his trademark bull whip a few times in this oater , but it's Fuzzy who seems to get the quality time in this picture . He certainly gets to use his acrobatic skills , head butting bad guys and doing a few headstands at the expense of Sharp's henchmen . He's even featured in a couple of bits at an abandoned mining cabin , trying to make a grab of his " haunted " hat , and doing some double takes at the meanest hombre he ever saw while looking in a mirror . Handling the female chores in this one is a pretty Jennifer Holt , one of the deeded landowners in Waterhole , who falls in with Cheyenne after being duped once by Sharp . Jennifer appeared in a number of LaRue's Westerns , including " The Fighting Vigilantes " and " Stage to Mesa City " . Sometimes credited as Jacqueline Holt , she's the sister of cowboy actor Tim Holt , and daughter of Jack Holt . Good guys and bad guys trade the upper hand a few times in this flick , but in the end , Lash and Fuzzy come out on top after exposing the crooked Sharp and his accomplice at the assay office , Jonas Watson ( William Fawcett ) . It's a fairly quick paced shoot ' em up that comes in at just about an hour . One thing to note about the shooting scenes , watch as the bad guys shoot the stage driver from behind , he doubles over as if hit from the front . It happens twice in this picture . The other thought that occurred to me - if you shave off Fuzzy's beard and sideburns , could it be that under all that hair is Popeye the Sailor Man ?
" He who hunts in jungle in turn is hunted . "	" So this is the mighty Tarzan , King of the Jungle " ! That's the reaction of Sikes ( Saul Gorse ) as Tarzan makes his way to the evil trapper's camp . Tarzan ( Gordon Scott ) had already put away Sikes ' brother for foolishly encroaching on Tarzan's domain , and it would only be a matter of time before he would do the same with older brother . If you're following the story with a discerning eye , you might wonder why Sikes didn't capture Tarzan right then and there instead of going through the motions of a jungle man hunt . I guess he wanted to make it a sporting proposition . Gordon Scott makes for a rather well proportioned Tarzan who might have had a backyard jungle gym ( can't believe I came up with that one ) , but he doesn't come across as believable as Weissmuller , or going even further back , someone like Herman Brix . Besides his well proportioned physique , ( notice the lats ) , Scott's hair never once seemed out of place and perfectly groomed at all times . Hard to imagine how that could be while living in the jungle , traveling by vines and wrestling crocs for sport . I'm still waiting for a picture where the jungle lord might actually bleed following one of his encounters with a wild beast , it just never happens . There was one unique feature to the story , Tarzan actually makes a running mount on to a giraffe to gain some speed across the African veld ; that's one I haven't seen before . But the real gem of this picture had to be the appearance of Chief Tyana , who I thought from time to time while watching bore a resemblance to a young Scatman Crothers . Holy cow ! , the screen credits after the film listed him as Sherman Crothers ! Goes to show , you have to get your start somewhere . Not too much else to say , as others on this board have commented on how the picture was spliced together from some pilot TV episodes , and it did actually have that kind of feel to it . For example , it looked like the movie was just about over very early when Tarzan captured the first two trappers . For a Tarzan flick , I guess I would put it about the middle of the pack and that's being generous . You have to hand it to that Cheetah though ( Cheta in the credits ) . He was twenty six years old at the time the picture was made , and didn't look a day over six !
" I'll knock her nose around her ear ! "	Starting out , I'd have to say that you'd be hard pressed to come up with a more attractive screen couple than the young James Cagney and Loretta Young . What got them there however , and what ensues is a somewhat haphazard mess of a story , though memorable for a lot of great scenes and characterizations , not the least of which is a quick appearance by George Raft during a dance contest ! As always , Cagney lights up the screen with his commanding presence ; here he's an independent taxi cab driver about to get embroiled in a dispute against a rival cab company that threatens the livelihood of the independents . Young's character , Sue Riley , is the daughter of a cab driver who dies in Sing Sing after killing a Consolidated goon who wrecked his vehicle . Uncharacteristically , Sue pleads for restraint at a meeting of the independent drivers , embarrassing Matt Nolan ( Cagney ) who wants more aggressive action . The first ' huh ? ' moment of the story occurs when Nolan and Sue are seen getting lovey dovey on line at a movie theater , when in the moment earlier scene she slapped his face , prompting the Cagney quote in my summary line above . But say , wasn't that the slickest wedding proposal ever when Cagney slipped the ring on Young's finger ? - very smooth ! The film gets some good mileage out of secondary characters as well , with George E . Stone as Nolan's pal Skeets , and Sue's girlfriend Ruby , played by Leila Bennett . Ruby is comically annoying with her ceaseless chatter about nothing in particular , though conversations about fish dying an unnatural death and her own matrimonial prospects are noteworthy . It was probably convenient for her to be dating Skeets whenever the couples went out , but how would you like to be on the receiving end of " Come on , I feel like being bored and you can do the job better than anybody I know . " You know , it didn't surprise me when she told Skeets her favorite actor was Joe E . Brown - who would have guessed ? Still , if you examine the film with any sense of credibility , you'll be left wondering about a whole host of questions . Like what did Marie ( Doroth Burgess ) ever see in Buck Gerard ( David Landau ) ? What would make ANYONE think they could get financial help for the killer of one's own brother-in law ? How could Sue rat out her husband when the cops came calling on the Gerard apartment ( quite convenient timing I might add ) ? And why , oh why , didn't Nolan , or anyone , ever reveal to Sue Riley that it was Buck Gerard who set up her father's ' incident ' that sent him away to prison ? Which makes the ending just a little TOO tidy for my taste , not that Matt and Sue couldn't live happily ever after , but geez , she pulled a gun on him just a few scenes earlier . BUT , if you're a James Gagney fan , this is a pretty good showcase for his talent , including some snappy Yiddish dialog , a fox trot that should have beaten Raft , and a quick tap dance at Sue's apartment . I'll watch it again !
" Maybe angel face can talk her way out of this one " .	I saw this film under the title " The Marijuana Menace " , and like that other period film about the ' dreaded weed ' - " Reefer Madness " , this one purports to be an instructional film about the evils of drugs and the consequences they lead to . I found this to be somewhat more titillating than it's counterpart , with a livelier bunch of partying teenagers . The opening sequence offers stern warnings about the use of marijuana with such newspaper headlines as ' Marijuana Crazed Youth Kills ' and ' Marijuana Deals Death ' . It would be great to hear commentary from someone who saw one of these films back when it was made to understand if the one sided nature of these pictures actually had an influence on anyone . They seem awfully camp today and it wouldn't surprise me if they were similarly dismissed by most folks back in the day . Apart from the drug theme , I got a kick out of how newspaper reporter Art Brighton ( Arthur Gardner ) simply walked into a confectionery shop and hired himself as a soda jerk on the spot . Then there's the favorite everyone seems to respond to on this board , Fern Emmett as the town gossip who just can't quit . I've only seen her in one other picture , 1943's " Dead Men Walk " , and wouldn't you know it , she was the local busy body in that one too ! That scooter complemented her character rather nicely , don't you think . As for the main character Joan Barry ( Luana Walters ) , could they have made her any more ditzy ? She kept falling into every trap set for her by scheming cousin Linda ( Fay McKenzie ) ; I don't think she needed to puff on anything to get in trouble . At one point , trying to be hip , she exclaims " I have the name , so I'll play the game . Let's make a wild one ! . . . Now what do I do ? " Oh brother . Fans of this type of stuff should be on the look out for the four disc / twenty film DVD pack from Mill Creek Entertainment at a price that makes it a super bargain , especially since it collects a bunch of drug titles under the heading of ' Cult Classics ' . They include the aforementioned " Reefer Madness ' along with other era films with titles like " Marihuana " and " Cocaine Fiends " .
" When I was your age , I sucked more blood than a California landlord . "	If , like the female protagonist in " Polish Vampire in Burbank " , you can't get enough of vampire movies , you might as well add this one to your list . But be warned , this ham and cheese fest defies simple classification , as it aims for comic horror and winds up a horrific comedy . To be sure , the simple plot has an original touch . The lead character , vampire Dupah ( Mark Pirro ) , has yet to bite his first victim ; he gets human blood from his father ( Hugh O . Fields ) and oversexed sister Yvonne ( Marya Gant ) on their nightly excursions , and drinks his allotment with a straw from a baggy . Utilizing every double entendre in the book , the film proceeds to follow Dupah's agonizing quest to lose his vampiric virginity . He laments that his fangs may be too small , he worries about his first act of penetration , and wonders if he can " go all the way " . Dupah is encouraged by the skeletal chatter of his older brother Sphincter ( Eddie Deezen ) , even though in life he hated the sight of blood , and met his demise when he couldn't outrun a sunrise , the classic curse of the vampire . There are more unique elements as well ; in a flashback sequence we learn how Sphincter almost had the Holy Ghost beat into him by the Judo for Jesus Girl ( Catharine Wheatley ) . The " Queerwolf " concept ( Paul Farbman ) is probably the best of the film , he was a normal man before " it " happened - but since being bitten by a queer during a full moon , he has trouble keeping his wrist straight . Eventually , Dupah jacks up the courage to bite his new girlfriend Delores Lane ( Lori Sutton ) , and as he completes his mission , his accomplishment is heralded by the strains of the " Rocky " theme . The film , produced on a shoestring by Mark Pirro doing triple duty as actor , writer and director , suffers from poor production values , but hey , it made a half million dollars on a next to nothing budget of twenty five hundred dollars . It makes me wonder what a big budget film with today's technology could accomplish . So , was there anything actually scary about " Polish Vampire " ? Well yes , there's Ernie and Misty ( Steven and Bobbi Dorsch ) doing a Sonny and Cher impression . One last thought , was it just me , or did the skeleton of Dupah in the film's finale look like Michael Jackson ?
" Shall I weigh the blastoff synchronizer sir ? "	Similar to the earlier patch job known as " Crash of Moons " , Space Ranger Rocky Jones ( Richard Crane ) assembles his gang here once again to avert a threat to Earth , though not as ominous as the one in the earlier film . Most of the action as it were , takes place on Fornax , a moon of Jupiter . The mystery of the film seems to be how Professor Newton ( Maurice Cass ) believes that the environment on Fornax might be hostile to humans , when eight years earlier an Earth rogue named Cardos exiled himself to the moon to escape his criminal past . There he's been ingratiating himself with Zoravac ( Walter Coy ) , the ruler of Fornax . What gives the film some of it's dubious fun is the extensive use of pseudo scientific jargon . Making a return appearance are the viseograph and the astrophone , but perhaps most impressive was the mechanical canary used to test the atmosphere on Fornax ; too bad they didn't come up with a more colorful handle for it . This time around , Rocky's young ward Bobby ( Robert Lyden ) is given a playmate , the daughter of Zoravac named Volaca . As expected , the pair wind up in places they don't belong , but manage to help Rocky and Winky ( Scotty Beckett ) save the day and the millennium . Once again , Winky has the film's most memorable line - " Well rattle my rocket reflexes " . Though uncredited in the film , bad guy Cardos is portrayed by Nestor Paiva . You might recognize him as the Amazon boat captain Lucas from a couple of the " Creature of the Black Lagoon " movies . Like it's predecessor " Crash of Moons " , this film is a fun diversion , even if just to get a view of how far we've come in both space technology and film making . I got a bit of a chuckle out of the mention of an interplanetary agency called the ' Office of Space Affairs ' . Had it still been around for the launch of the Star Ship Enterprise , they might have been kept real busy investigating Captain Kirk .
" Take the route by the falls into the big dry wash , then whistle twice like a quail . "	This was my first look at Donald Woods in any kind of role , and I'm pretty sure it wasn't representative of his usual kind of character . In the story he portrays Michael O'Brien , undoubtedly Irish , but living in a Mexican village in Paradise Valley , whose residents remain virtual prisoners of an evil overseer named Juan Mendoza ( Anthony Warde ) . There were times when it sounded like O'Brien's accent wavered between Mexican and a traditional Irish brogue , so that seemed a little distracting . Realistically , it didn't make much sense that an Irishman would be in love with the daughter of a Mexican blacksmith ; his role would probably have been better served by casting Duncan Renaldo or Gilbert Roland . But maybe they were busy . Anyway , that was one twist the movie had to offer . There was another idea in the picture that I hadn't seen before as well , which turned out to be fairly clever . When some gold nuggets turn up in the valley , O'Brien and blacksmith Garcia ( Byron Foulger ) hit upon the idea of smelting the gold and casting it into the bells he's about to make . It all comes in handy for the film's dramatic finale when the village strongman Gueyon ( Paul Newlan ) brings the curtain down on Mendoza's villainy . Oh yes , can't forget the ladies . O'Brien's love interest in the picture is Maria Garcia , ably portrayed by Gloria Warren . The smarmy Mendoza has designs on marrying Maria , but doesn't mind being distracted by a dancing senorita named Nita ( Shirley O'Hara ) . I couldn't imagine what Nita saw in Mendoza , but they say love is blind . It's unlikely " Bells Of San Fernando " would ever find it's way to a cable channel , probably your best bet is to pick it up as I did as part of a two hundred fifty Western movie collection from Mill Creek Entertainment . The set contains a bunch of titles I'd never heard of and seems to be a great sampler for cowboy actors like Donald Woods that you might not ever get a chance of seeing . It also contains a lot of the public domain titles of John Wayne , Roy Rogers and others you've probably seen already if you're a fan , but having them all together in one place is a convenient way to go .
" This is the work of a devil . . . "	" Bells of San Angelo " is one of the early Republic films done in Trucolor , although it was orange and blue that dominated the print I just viewed . Cowboy hero Roy Rogers portrays himself as a border investigator on the trail of a silver smuggling operation . Roy is aided by comic sidekick Andy Devine in a dual role , as Sheriff Cookie Bullfincher , and as his later revealed alter ego George Wallingford Lancaster , although the second identity has no real significance in the story . Dale Evans enters the picture as Western novelist Lee Madison , and the first half of the film includes a running gag wherein Roy and companions expect to meet a male writer . Roy consistently dismisses Madison's stories as trivial , as Dale takes it all in while claiming to be a woman named Helen Clifford , until she can figure out what Rogers is all about . When Roy , Cookie and Lee discover the phony mine that serves as the front for the smugglers , trouble ensues as Miss Madison is kidnapped by the gang's leader Gridley ( John McGuire ) . It's Trigger to the rescue , as his riderless presence alerts Roy's pals , the Sons of the Pioneers into action . Taking a page from Miss Madison's book " Murder on the Border " , page 77 to be exact , Roy appears to shoot Lee as she's held hostage by Gridley . Roy then takes care of the bad guys in short order , even though it's two against one . " Bells of San Angelo " is entertaining enough , and it's nice to see Pat Brady , even if in an uncredited role as one of the Sons of the Pioneers . His comic timing is not as fully developed as we'll come to see in a few more years on the " Roy Rogers Show " . Roy and Dale make a charming couple , and they even get to sing a duet together among the host of songs presented in the film .
" Your face looks strangely familiar , seems I've seen it before just under the word WANTED . "	Cowboy crooner Eddie Dean has a dual role in this one , that of his regular character using his own name , and that of outlaw Clip Mason , The Tioga Kid . Their paths cross at Dow City in the Tombstone Territory of Arizona , when Eddie and sidekick Soapy Jones ( Roscoe Ates ) get wind of a cattle rustling operation . They hire on as hands for pretty rancher Jenny Morgan ( Jennifer Holt ) , while Eddie tries to find out more about the outlaw that looks just like him . One tip for viewers , good guy Eddie - white shirt ; bad guy Tioga - black shirt . One wouldn't consider Dean to be one of the more physical cowboys , he seems slighter of build than most . That doesn't prevent him from having some of the wilder fist fights you'll see in a Western . Nothing in the vicinity is safe ; in this one a brawl in a bunkhouse takes out a wood stove , table and a bunk . Be attentive during a bar room battle when Dean , as Tioga , takes on town boss Joe Marino ( Dennis Moore ) ; one of Marino's henchmen hits him on the left side of the head with a bottle , but you'll see him grab the right side of his head as he goes down . It looks like Roscoe's Soapy character is a goner in this one , he gets shot off his horse by one of Marino's henchies , but it turns out he's only winged in the arm . One of Soapy's better lines in the film - " Well I'll be the uncle of a prairie dog ! " Dean's horse Flash is co-billed with Eddie at the start of the film , but did you know that he actually appeared with four different horses in his films ? Depending on the movie , you'll see him riding either War Paint , White Cloud , Copper or Flash . Eddie didn't want any of his horses upstaging him . Fans of Dean's singing voice won't be disappointed here , he does three original tunes written for the movie . " Driftin ' River " opens the film , followed later by " Way Back in Oklahoma " . After saving the day in the story , Soapy suggests that maybe Eddie and Jenny ought to hitch up , but his response in song says otherwise - " Ain't No Gal Got a Brand on Me " . For trivia buffs , Eddie Dean's real name was Edgar Dean Glosup .
" I shoot better than that , but I need you alive . "	Ageing a dozen years and adding a chin full of whiskers makes Guy Madison almost unrecognizable from the title character he portrayed in the 1950 classic TV Western " Wild Bill Hickok " . Here he portrays a gunman of questionable reputation who accepts a mission to track down the purveyors of rifles and rotgut to reservation Indians . Those same outlaws are in turn gunning for Martin Benson , and intend to make it a painful ride along the way . Making the affair a bit dicey , Benson is saddled with an entire family who he hasn't seen or contacted in years . His parents have been busy though , while Martin appears to be about fifty , his youngest brother Aryas appears to be around twelve . There's also sister Susan and brother Daniel ( Steve Merrick ) , that one would swear could be the winner of a Will Hutchins look alike contest . The family is the target of villain boss Graham ( Rik Battaglia ) , who figures that if he treats everyone badly , his reward will be Susan's hand in marriage . I saw the film under the title " This Man Can't Die " , and though my summary reference quotes Martin Benson when he shoots one of Graham's henchman , the title actually refers to Tony Guy ( Peter Martell ) . Or at least I think it does . Tony is Benson's partner gone undercover to infiltrate the Graham gang , and when he's left for dead at the Benson homestead , Daniel and Susan attempt to nurse him back to health to get information on the bad guys . I found it interesting that they would hide him in a furnished cave at the edge of their ranch , nice touch . At times I had the impression that the film tried being a ' peep show ' Western , what with the prominently visible female breasts from time to time , though often in violent situations . It seemed to be done more for risqué effect than to advance the story , but each tease was a sit up and take notice moment . There's a curious mountain man named Joe who appears a couple of times , who quite humorously has a small ladder built into the saddle for his mule Washington . In a scene near the end when bad guy Graham gets the drop on Martin , the mule man's appearance out of nowhere turns the tide . You can see the contrived finale coming as Graham and Benson wrestle over a rope fashioned into a noose ; you know that the bad guy will swing for his indiscretions . Though the credits list this as a color film , the DVD print I viewed was in black and white , and I think I preferred it that way . It was part of a compilation of nine ' Spaghetti Westerns ' from St . Clair Vision , but to my mind it had the look and feel of an American made flick . Only the musical score from Amedeo Tommasi helps convince otherwise .
" Let's step on it boys , we got horses to sell . "	Gene Autry takes a young English aristocrat under his wing , Edward the Earl of Granby , and quickly nicknames him ' Spud ' after the boy's father . Starting out one gets the impression that Spud will use his nobility to be a royal pain , but he soon warms up to Gene and his sidekick Frog ( Smiley Burnette ) after Gene saves him from a runaway bronco . The Earl has arrived out West with the intention of selling the working ranch that he's inherited , but changes his mind when he takes a liking to Gene's plan to round up range horses and train them for the military . The film's villain Jim Neale has other plans though , he would like to get his hands on Spud's ranch to expand his own operation . Neale is portrayed by a mustachioed and smarmy looking Gordon Elliott , soon before he came to be known as Wild Bill and a cowboy hero in his own right . The showdown occurs when Army Colonel Allen ( Guy Usher ) agrees to a race between Gene's white hats against Neale's black hats , with the winner to be awarded the military contract . The Colonel's daughter ( Judith Allen ) is the film's romantic interest , and tries to have some fun getting even with Gene for an earlier encounter . There's a neat scene when two of Neale's henchmen take off after Gene on horseback ; Gene leaps up to break off a tree limb and uses it to trip up both men's horses . I'd really be curious as to how they managed to film that , as both horses took a heavy spill to dismount their riders . Smiley Burnette manages to take center stage a number of times in the story , getting caught up in a marching drill , and launching a military charge as he runs through a medley of trumpet solos . Later he gets to ham it up in a bicycle race with one of the baddies after they lose their mounts in the horse race . As expected , Gene Autry saves the day for Spud and his ranch by crossing the finish line just ahead of bad guy Neale . The film ends as it began , with Gene crooning a tune , this time with the pretty Miss Allen riding by his side .
" In Scotland , it's my firm intention to kill two birds with one shot . "	Kalinsky ( Hugh Miller ) is a mysterious financier who makes war a profitable business , and he means to get his hands on a secret war plane . He's formed an alliance with the villainous Gregoroff ( Victor Jory ) , and they have kidnapped the plane's inventor Caldwell ( Richard Bird ) . Captain Hugh Drummond ( John Lodge ) brings himself into the case after double agent Miss Thompson ( Dorothy Mackaill ) attempts to slip him a mickey , but she's no match for the perceptive Drummond who instinctively spills his tea and invites himself along for the ride when she makes her way to hook up with the bad guys . This is one film you'll have to pay attention to , especially if you're not familiar with the Drummond series , which I'm not ( yet ) . The Captain's sidekick Algy ( Claud Allister ) shows up when the boss calls , though his presence here is more in the way of comic relief . It was a bit disconcerting that one of Algy's notable quirks is drinking straight alcohol ! It seemed rather strange to me that he disappeared before the story ended with no explanation , maybe he just got bored . The one sit up and take notice scene proves just how dastardly Victor Jory's character could be . Near the end of the story as he readies his escape , he's confronted by Miss Thompson , and he belts her one right in the kisser - not a way to treat a lady ! When the " secret " plane was finally revealed , hijacked by the sinister Gregoroff , I had to laugh because for all it's secrecy , it was just your run of the mill era bi-plane . But then we get the real scoop , as inventor Caldwell reveals the true secret . The plane can be controlled from the ground , and as Caldwell freezes the plane's controls , Gregoroff goes down in a blaze of glory . The only other Drummond film I've seen is " Bulldog Drummond Escapes " , also from 1937 . In that film's finale , he's planning to run off to get married with the film's heroine portrayed by Heather Angel . Ever the lady's man , Drummond's doing the same thing here !
" Confound it Drummond , how is it that whenever I see you someone has either been murdered or disappeared . "	In this entry in the Bulldog Drummond franchise , the Captain ( John Howard ) finds himself on the trail of a pair of villains who have kidnapped his fiancée Phyllis Clavering ( Louise Campbell ) . What makes the story interesting are the written and audible clues that Irena Soldanis ( Helen Freeman ) and her brother-in-law Mikhail Valdin ( J . Carrol Naish ) leave for the detective . The motive behind the kidnapping hearkens back to a murder trial that sent Irena's husband to the gallows , courtesy of Drummond . " Bulldog Drummond Comes Back " seems to be a follow up to the same year's " Bulldog Drummond Escapes " . In that film , the running gag had Drummond's sidekick Algy ( Reginald Denny ) fretting over the birth of his first son ; this time out , Algy is worried about making the christening . Scotland Yard's Colonel Neilson is portrayed by the venerable John Barrymore this time around , and as befits his reputation , is actually top billed above the film's lead character . He earns it though , with a repertoire of disguises necessitated by the villains ' threat to kill Miss Clavering if Scotland Yard gets involved . But in this , my third viewing of a Bulldog Drummond movie , the scene stealer is once again Drummond's butler Tenny ( E . E . Clive ) , who's deadpan repartee and mannerisms make for beautifully understated comic relief . He's also a bit more adventurous this time out , inviting himself along as Drummond and Algy take after the bad guys . It's interesting to note that it was Tenny who figured out one of the clues to be the old disappearing ink trick . Note the scene in which Tenny hitches a ride on the back of the car which shanghais Drummond outside the Anglers Rest . Tenny looks into the rear window of the vehicle , and clearly visible inside is the back of a person's head . However inside the auto , Miss Soldanis and the kidnapped Miss Clavering are in the back seat , but with a shade pulled down over the window ! I've seen J . Carrol Naish now in a number of films , and he looks different every time out . Here , as the creepy villain Valdin he looks almost Oriental in appearance , in a characterization that would have done Peter Lorre proud . Before the mystery is over , Drummond , Algy and Phyllis must escape a death trap before succumbing to lethal gas . Ever the enterprising butler , Tenny makes use of a Scotland Yard auto to remove a fallen tree from the road and arrive just in time to make the save . One thing though , can you really shoot the pin out of a door hinge with a handgun ? If you can overlook some of the less plausible elements in this and other films in the Drummond series , they're worth the effort in entertainment value . I'm still waiting though to see if Captain Drummond ever winds up at the altar ; in both " Escapes " and " Comes Back " he winds up still single at the end of the film .
You know , I think it was fate that brought us together like this . "	Oh boy , where to start ! For a cowboy hero , Gene Autry sure takes part in some questionable and seriously folks , unethical behavior , in this Republic oater , in the interest of saving his inherited meat packing company . I don't know which was worse actually , faking a marriage to a fourteen year old girl , or beating the tar out of an opposing company's lawyer to get back an already signed contract selling his business ! Can you picture him running the California Angels using those kinds of tactics ? You've really got to chalk this one up to being a product of simpler times , way , way simpler , when movie viewers didn't put too much thought into their pictures . Helping keep things in a lighter perspective , Smiley Burnette's up to his old tricks as Frog Millhouse , but I think he might have been upstaged in the comedy relief department by that glib suit salesman ( Joe Frisco ) . The guy was so smooth I think he used double talk that I was able to understand , and that's pretty smooth . Smiley walks away with an armful of haberdashery and I don't think he had a clue . But you know , Smiley earns his nickname when he takes that hop into the swimming pool at the Randolph party ; he actually looked like a frog ! I also got a kick out of Autry's save on that runaway dynamite wagon , keep an eye on that scene and you'll see it takes place on two different terrains , mountainside and desert . That Gene sure knew how to steer ! I was a little curious going in about the film's title , but it had nothing to do with Gene as a cowboy , but with his being a novice as a businessman . He gets to sing the title song while riding on horseback with the Randolphs , and I'd really like to believe the setting of the movie was somewhere in Texas . That would make sense ; if you listen closely to the scene at poolside during the Randolph party , you'll hear Ann Randolph ( June Storey ) call out to Mr . Bush ! ! !
" Wait'll some guy lays a stiff right hand on that new beak and it'll spread like ice cream in August . "	It wasn't unusual for films of the Thirties to be weak on story line and continuity and this was no exception . It's got Jimmy Cagney going for it , and even he seems confused at times , going through a few changes in speech pattern over the course of the movie . He starts out like a member of the East Side Kids and tries out a diction coach before getting the serious heave ho from society gal Joan Gibson ( Virginia Bruce ) . She played her part well , making me wonder why Jimmy Kane ( Cagney ) didn't take her for a few rounds in the boxing ring to teach her a lesson . What bothered me about the picture was the way it rushed things along without a coherent explanation for things to come . Like the opening scene when Cagney's character is introduced prior to a prize fight by the ring announcer , with an appeal for fans to contribute money to send him away to a health camp . There was no mention of an ailment , only that he needed to get some rest . Then after meeting and falling for Peggy Harmon ( Marian Nixon ) at the ranch , he forgets about her just about as soon as he gets back to New York . He completely reverses character after hooking up with Gibson , fawning all over her and even getting a nose job to improve his appearance , with the attendant result of a change in fighting style which turns off the fans . When he turns down a title fight with the lightweight champ I had to pinch myself , when would that ever happen ? Probably a good reason for his manager ( Guy Kibbee ) to deck him for a wake up call . The one scene I did enjoy was that flashback scene when Kane and Peggy reflect on the single time they met at a night club in the past . It was a throwback to " The Public Enemy " when Cagney squished Mae Clark's face with a grapefruit , but this time he used a seltzer bottle spray ! I think if the picture carried through with more of that light hearted approach , it would have been much more enjoyable . My main gripe I guess is that Cagney was a stronger character in stronger roles before this one , especially in the earlier mentioned gangster flick . Even when not top billed , his presence usually took over any scene he was in , whereas here , you sometimes wondered just what he was doing there in the first place .
" You name it , he's got it ! "	View this film critically and you'll find it's lack of continuity and exasperating story line to defy credibility . It begins right away with the non courtship of Verity Wade ( Barbara Hale ) leading to marriage with virtually no attempt to define what she ever saw in the smooth talking Hank Martin ( James Cagney ) . When the swamp siren Flamingo ( Anne Francis ) apologizes to Verity for trying to feed her to the alligators , it was about that point I knew the rest of the film was meant only to take in Cagney's performance . Here's something I really don't understand . In the scene attempting to prove that Castleberry's scales were rigged to underpay the cotton farmers , Jeb Brown's ( John McInture ) load weighed in at twenty two hundred pounds , and he was going to be paid on that . However when Martin's men raid the Castleberry office and come up with the ' right ' scale weights , the re-weighing comes out at sixteen hundred pounds . It seems to me that Brown would have benefited from the original weigh-in , and the ' proof ' showed that Castleberry wasn't a crook . The most bizarre scene though had to be the trial of the dying Jeb Brown , with the jury declaring the man innocent right after he does kick the bucket ! Even the newspapers reported it that way . The look on Verity's face right after the trial says it all - this is such a mess I can't believe it ! Had the power brokering and behind the scenes intrigue been more fully developed , the movie might have been a lot more compelling . Even the election outcome was made to seem like it depended a whole lot more on nice weather than a carefully executed victory plan . I mean , this was for governor of a state after all , and it seemed like the election would be in doubt if Martin's bayou friends from little old Cypress Bend couldn't make it to the polls . By the way , anyone know who won ? At least Cagney takes his role and runs with it . There's some of the ' Yankee Doodle Dandy ' in his lively step and lots of energy in his portrayal . But even though he's one of my favorite actors , this movie's lion seemed to be operating in a circus .
" Remember who you're playin ' with , a bunch o ' crooks . "	Humphrey Bogart in his first screen role and Spencer Tracy in one of his earliest are about the only reasons to take in " Up The River " , a blend of prison drama and comedy that really doesn't satisfy very well . Tracy's character is Saint Louis , a virtual celebrity inmate who's on a handshake basis with the warden and handles his incarceration like a country club stay . His partner , Dannemora Dan ( Warren Hymer ) is more of a foil for Tracy's antics , which include breaking out of prison at will . When first introduced to Bogart's character Steve Jordan , it appears that he's an officer at the prison , but in reality he's a clerk inmate . While processing a contingent of female prisoners , he's smitten by the pretty Judy ( Claire Luce ) , and vows to wait for her on the outside once he's paroled . The central plot involves Steve's blackmail by an unscrupulous businessman back home in New England . Steve's family believes he's been away on work in China , and the revelation will devastate his mother and sister . The solution - Saint Louis and Dannemora need to break out of prison to come to the aid of their buddy ; they do so during a blackout scene following a talent show . With things patched up for Steve , Saint Louis and Dan need to break back into the prison , because after all , the Bensonatta Penitentiary baseball team needs their talents in the big game against State's Prison . For all the buildup about the outcome of the game , the ending leaves you flat as the scene fades on Tracy and Hymer even before a pitch can be thrown . There are some interesting scenes in " Up The River " - the warden's young daughter is allowed free access in the prison yard among the convicts , and this doesn't seem to be cause for concern with anyone . She is loosely supervised by a coterie of women's auxiliary matrons . It brought a chuckle to see the inmates passing notes by feigning their help for the chief matron , while pinning a note on the underside of her ankle length gown . Bogart's portrayal is a bit stiff in this film as he hasn't found his own personality yet . Tracy on the other hand has already become fairly self assured and carries off his role with some fun . But as mentioned earlier , the film ultimately fails to satisfy , and is better approached as a work in progress for two superstars in training .
" Are you an undertaker ? . . . You hold me like I was dead . "	Here's a perfectly creepy little bump in the night flick that should appeal to most fans of the decapitated head genre . One's first thought if you've been around the block with these films is " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " , and the plot of both appear remarkably similar . " The Head " is certainly more atmospheric and brooding , no doubt owing to it's German origins , while ' Brain ' has a much more camp flavor . Which leads me to consider that if the star of ' Brain ' was Jan in the Pan , this one features what you might call Abel on the Table . Here's something a bit odd , the opening scene has the picture's protagonist Dr . Ood ( Horst Frank ) slinking around in the shadows of Dr . Abel's laboratory home , and he stops to pick up a turtle walking on the pavement ! Where in the world did that come from ? Very strange , and I kept looking for that turtle the rest of the way , but he never showed up . I wonder why the film makers decided the story needed a one hundred seventeen day interlude before Irene Sanders ( Karin Kernke ) came out of her coma with a new body . On screen , it played out like she awoke the very next day after the operation . Ood's explanation had to do with reshaping her organs and a lot of other such nonsense , when all he did was take stripper Lilly's body for the experiment . At least they came up with some kind of explanation for the missing stripper , but gee , throwing her under a train was kind of gruesome , don't you think ? Anyway with all that said , you should have some fun with this one , even if it's played much more seriously than it needs to be . It's just the ticket for the proverbial dark and stormy night , huddled up on the couch with all the lights off . The picture provides all the remaining atmosphere you'll need .
" Charity . . . , for a drunkard's family ! "	Not what I expected from a movie titled " Ten Nights In a Barroom " , particularly since it was packaged with a variety of anti-drug propaganda films from the 1930's like " The Marijuana Menace " and " Reefer Madness " . This one played more like a melodramatic morality play at one end , and as another reviewer on this board pointed out , like a standard ' B ' Western from the era wherein the main character was duped by an unscrupulous villain to take away his business and livelihood . For a very early talkie film , it deserves some credit for a gripping story , but upon analysis , falls victim to a number of problems to the discerning viewer . For starters , there was an issue with the film's continuity relative to Joe Morgan's ( William Farnum ) sick young daughter Mary ( Peggy Lou Lind ) . Early in the story , Dr . Romaine's diagnosis allowed for Mary to get over her illness with bed rest after a couple of days . Yet after six months , Mary's still in bed with no further explanation of her ailment , and that drags on until another title card states it's one year later ! The young actress portraying Mary does a serious heart string number when she encounters her father in the bar for the first time , but then the picture goes on to attempt the scenario again when the initial impact provided the pathos needed to engage the viewer in her family's plight . At that time , the effectiveness of the scene was measured in the follow up where all the family men of the town stopped their drinking to go home to their families . Where the film achieves a measure of success is the way it keeps one in suspense about villain Slade's ( Tom Santschi ) angle in leading Morgan down the path of the demon rum . It was easy enough to guess I suppose , but it wasn't clear early in the picture that Morgan was a man of some means , or that his family history was scourged by alcoholism . It's that unveiling that makes for an absorbing story , even if some of the acting has that forced look and feel of early talking pictures that tended to lay it all out for the viewer instead of allowing for one to use their own imagination .
" I know what happens when you're in a peaceable mood . "	One thing about these old " B " Westerns - the title often had nothing to do with the actual story . Case in point , " Vigilantes of Dodge City " was not a story about vigilantes as one commonly envisions when hearing the term . This film is one of a number of Red Ryder Westerns , the series of films that starred either Allan " Rocky " Lane or Wild Bill Elliott as the title character . The supporting cast generally included Alice Fleming as the Duchess , Red Ryder's aunt who raised him , and trusted young Indian friend Little Beaver . Beaver was portrayed by present day accused wife killer Robert " Baretta " Blake , then credited as Bobby Blake , and sporting a remarkable resemblance to the grown actor . Bill Elliott does the honors as Red Ryder here , and besides helping out with the Dutchess ' Ryder Freight Lines , he raises horses for the Army . Crooked banker Luther Jennings ( LeRoy Mason ) and cohort Bishop ( Wally Wales / Hal Talafiero ) scheme to set up Red with not only robbing the Ryder Freight Lines , but also of defrauding the government by rustling his own horses . Little Beaver plays a key role in this story , when he discovers a hidden cave that serves as headquarters for Jennings and his henchmen . As a fan of these old Westerns , I find it interesting how different cowboy stars handled their six-shooters . Bill Elliott , in the heat of a good showdown , seems to " throw " his gun in the direction of his target as he fires , as if adding emphasis to his action . If you enjoy this film , try some more Elliott Red Ryders , well over a dozen in all , including Sun Valley Cyclone and Sheriff of Redwood Valley . For a different yet similar take on the Ryder character , try Rocky Lane's Rustlers of Devil's Canyon or Marshal of Cripple Creek . All are from the mid 1940's , with the Elliott films preceding the Lane versions . For fans of the early Republic Serials , one of the better ones is The Adventures of Red Ryder from 1940 , starring Don " Red " Barry as the title character . Have fun !
" A West Point man never retires in the face of fire . . . "	Monogram Pictures took a stab at the old ' like father , like son ' theme in this 1938 picture with somewhat mixed results . Jackie Cooper is credible as the high school senior reacquainting with his father who's been gone for five years , yet that's the main plot point that strains credibility in the ensuing story . Not only was ' Knuckles ' Kelly ( Robert Warwick ) away from his family for that long , but when he returns , his reception is no more anticipated than if he was returning from a day's work . On top of that , the elder Kelly was a racketeering bootlegger , a fact unknown by his son , and appearing to be no more than an inconvenience for his wife Molly ( Louise Lorimer ) . When Larry ( Cooper ) and the town of Millford learn of his father's former occupation , he begins to withdraw from his circle of friends and second guesses his acceptance to West Point , figuring that his father's political connections might have gotten him his appointment . The film at least gets a few points for having Larry's high school principal and his core group of close friends remain loyal . They realize that his hard work at becoming class valedictorian and the school's top athlete were his own doing . His toughest sell though is with the father of his two closest chums , Bill Davis ( Tommy Wonder ) , and sister Julie ( Lucy Gilman ) , who Larry is going out with . Their father offers the ' like father , like son ' argument to forbid his kids to remain friends . However circumstances conspire to vindicate Larry when the three companions get involved in a car accident , and Bill comes clean for being responsible . Again however , credibility is stretched just a bit when Judge Davis ( Selmer Jackson ) does a complete hundred eighty degree turn in glad handing Knuckles Kelly in the finale . It's one thing to admit a mistake , but quite another to completely forget that the man was a criminal at least the past five years . Simpler times called for simpler movies . Say , I wonder if Jackie Cooper actually played the drums in the couple of scenes where he's shown doing so ; he sounded pretty good if that's the case . I was impressed too with the Kelly purchase of the rather good sized mansion for a mere seventy eighty thousand , five hundred dollars . Today , you'd have to add another zero to the end of that number to make it work . Considering the movie was made in 1938 , it's not a bad little story , with Cooper portraying a character close to his own age at the time , unlike a lot of modern films where teenagers are often played by actors in their twenties . The same went for his girlfriend in the picture , although Tommy Wonder as brother Bill was actually twenty four . Oh well , I guess it happened in the 1930's too !
" Don't worry boys , we'll split all the medals three ways . "	The draw for this picture would presumably be the character of Wild Bill Hickok , but when all is said and done , the story plays out pretty much like any of hundreds of ' B ' programmers from the Thirties and Forties . George Houston presents a fairly rugged and good looking portrayal of the title character and it's pretty much his picture all the way . Al ( Fuzzy ) St . John is Wild Bill's sidekick , Whiney Roberts , and I have to give some writer credit here ; Whiney does seem to be a cross between a fox terrier and a jackrabbit . The story itself is a fairly standard and typical one for an old Western . Cattle rustlers are stealing large herds and disposing of lawmen sent to investigate , so Wild Bill is called upon to lend his Civil War buddy Steve Norris ( Dave O'Brien ) a hand when his own herd goes missing . When you get right down to it , you have to wonder why Wild Bill was given a nominal partner for this one ; Fuzzy doesn't have much to do here except watch Bill go one on one with the bad guys . At least he's comical to watch . I guess I shouldn't be , but I'm usually surprised to hear how black characters were treated in these old films . There's a party scene at the Norris home where Hickok calls over the black family butler , saying ' Oh , come here boy " . It's a rather innocuous line , but Mantan Moreland is such a great character actor that he's able to brush it off easily enough . I would have liked to see more of him in the picture , but he was only around for a few minutes . That didn't stop him though , from getting in the film's best line in a funny scene with Fuzzy . Neither of them can read , but Moreland has a unique explanation for why he can't read a hand written note - " I can read readin ' , but I can't read writin ' . " You know , I thought about that for a while , and it almost made sense !
" You know we ought to give up this racket though , gonna lead us both to a rope necktie one of these days . "	If my count is correct , this is the eleventh Lone Star Film starring John Wayne that I've seen , and it may be the best of the bunch . Not that it doesn't have it's share of gaffs , but it was entertaining and had some humor to lighten the load . Perhaps it was Armand Schaefer's directing hand that accounts for my preference over the ones done by Robert North Bradbury and Harry Fraser . With no pun intended , this could have been an episode of " Alias Smith and Jones " . Wayne's character is John Brant , escaped from prison for a murder he didn't commit ; while making his getaway from the sheriff , he uses the old breathe through a reed trick to remain underwater . When he surfaces to find an outlaw waiting , he hesitates giving his name , whereby " Bob Jones " begins calling him " John Smith " . Lane Chandler shares virtually equal screen time with Wayne in this oater , as the outlaw who committed the crime for which Wayne's character is being hunted . Yakima Canutt is on hand as the outlaw gang leader , and his stunt work in the film is interesting to watch . The most daring one ( as Brant ) is when he's covered by a pile of brush and is positioned to grab the underside of a stagecoach to get on board , while the horses have to carefully straddle him in his prone position . For me , that was a sit up and take notice scene , one that cries out for a " how they made this movie " follow up . Other scenes weren't half as daring , in fact there were two flying horse mounts that almost missed , but with a low budget production that didn't believe in do-overs , they stayed in the film . However there's a great sequence when ( again as Brant ) Yak jumps a hitching post and one horse to land on another horse . It's a good thing the horses cooperated . Since I mentioned the use of humor earlier , I'll note a particular scene when Smith and Jones go shopping at the general store , where they both eye up the pretty Sally Blake ( Nancy Shubert ) for the first time . With a handful of packages each , they manage to break each other's sack of eggs creating a mess . I guess that's why they came up with egg cartons . If you're paying attention , you'll note that when " Smith " gets dressed up to pay a visit to Sally , he removes his old shirt to put on a new one . In the story line , he was shot some two weeks earlier in the left shoulder , but that area shows no sign of damage at all . Could Wayne have been that quick a healer ? In the same scene , and the only time I've ever seen it done , Wayne's character dabs his fingers into the grease of a frying pan to slick back his hair - where's the Vitalis when you need it ! For anyone who's a fan and seen a handful of Wayne's Lone Star films , you'll know how this one ends . Not so much that Smith's name is cleared and the outlaws are brought to justice , but in the fact that John Wayne's character gets the girl . It happens virtually every time , and this one fades on Smith / Brant and Sally in a smooch behind his ten gallon hat .
" It's a wise monster who knows his own father . "	Beware - " Frankenstein : The True Story " - is not ! In fact , after the film gets off to an intriguing start , it begins to unravel in almost comic fashion to the point where it seems to be a parody on the order of Mel Brooks ' " Young Frankenstein " . Seriously , how can you keep a straight face when that disembodied arm begins crawling across the room ? And didn't Michael Sarrazin's Creature seem just a bit too poofy when he first came out of the fish tank ? Here's a puzzler . When Clerval ( David McCallum ) and Victor Frankenstein ( Leonard Whiting ) construct their body from the best of the remains of seven dead men , they agree that they need the ' perfect ' brain to place in their creation . So when Clerval loses his heart medicine and dies , instead of cutting Clerval's brain out of his head to use in Frankie , why didn't he just bring Clerval back to life and eliminate the middleman ? There's a lot of stuff like this that wasn't given much thought in coming up with this ' true story ' . Like just how long WAS Victor asleep on that boat ride to the Arctic ? Don't you think he might have been a Popsicle by the time they got there the same as every other ice encased object on board ship ? And no Igor ? - what's with that ? Every good Frankenstein film needs an Igor . At least the movie manages to cram in the elements of all three original Frankenstein concepts , including those from ' Son ' and ' Bride ' . Speaking of which , I wonder what Jane Seymour thinks to herself these days when this picture is brought up ? And she did it all with a straight face ! Listen , if you ever heard the term abomination used in describing the original Frankenstein Monster , it's a term that seems perfectly suitable here , but in regard to the movie , not the Creature . That's not to say you shouldn't view it at least once just to get all that ' true story ' stuff out of the way . It's worth it to see a notable cast that includes the stars already mentioned along with James Mason , Nicola Pagett , Michael Wilding and Agnes Moorehead , and then ask yourself , what were they thinking ?
" Anybody who doesn't wanna hang , step out and get shot ! "	Great name for a Western flick , but that's the only draw for this run of the mill ' B ' programmer that doesn't even have a name actor in the leading role . You'll have to keep track of a good guy being a bad guy being a good guy before it's all over , as Billy Wade ( James Brown , but not any of the ones you know ) tries to get the drop on villain Ike Garvey ( Walter Coy ) and convince his nephew Ted ( John Wilder ) that he's not part of the Garvey gang . There's a half million dollars in cash riding in on the stagecoach to make things interesting , but didn't it strike you as odd that Garvey would empty those two strongboxes filled with bills and coins right out on top of a massive rock outcrop ? Couldn't you just picture a big wind whipping up a la ' Sierra Madre ' and blowing the whole shebang away in a heartbeat ? You know , they never showed the cash again , so who knows ? Caught this on the Encore Western channel today , intrigued by the title , but not much of a thriller . No Wyatt Earp or OK Corral , just your standard formula Western with the hero committed to a date at the altar in the finale , which even a bullet couldn't prevent .
" Shiver my timbers , a land lubber I'll never be . "	With enough references to the original " Treasure Island " , I didn't feel lost for not having seen that one yet . Robert Newton is a treat as the ' Arrgghh . . . ing ' Long John Silver , planning one scheme or another to lay his hands on the fabled riches of the titled island . Here's a question - how did Silver manage to get into Billy Bowlegs boat near the beginning of the story without being seen ? Here's another puzzler . When Silver lays out the plan to ' El Toro ' Mendoza ( Lloyd Berrell ) to waylay Sir Henry's warehouse of jewels and rum , it called for two signal fires to send the governor's warships south as a diversion , while the pirates would head north toward the warehouse . However only one signal fire was lit , which was the signal for Henry's men to go north as well ! When I saw the opening credits and the garish bright blue and orange coloration of the De Luxe format I experienced some trepidation regarding the actual film's rendition . There were alternate sequences of mundane , almost muddy scenes , usually during night time or indoors , whereas outdoor vistas on the ocean , particularly those with Newton's bright red outfit contrasted against the ocean showing up superb . More than anything it probably shows how far camera technology has advanced over the years to even out those wide swings in light sensitivity . With the present day popularity of the " Pirates of the Carribbean " series of films , it's both interesting and fun to see how little has changed in the pirate movie genre over a half century . They still employ treasure maps , secret medallions , skeletons and a character named Mendoza . To that I say - " Arrgghh . . . men ! "
" You always break the law with the best intentions , don't you ? "	Miss Phyllis Clavering ( Louise Campbell ) is oh , so close to getting married to Captain Drummond this time out ; they've made it all the way to the Clavering Villa in Geneva , Switzerland for the ceremony . However one of the wedding gifts gets it the way , a synthetic diamond that looks just like the real thing . It was made by Gwen Longworth's father , Professor Bernard Goodman ( Halliwell Hobbes ) , and it appears so genuine , Sir Raymond Blantyre ( Matthew Boulton ) wants to steal it's secret formula to prevent the worldwide decline in value of real diamonds . I wonder what he would have thought of cubic zirconium ? The plot relies on the theft of the fake diamond in the early going , though the whole lights out trick and murder of the detective assigned to guard the wedding presents seems to have been a bit much . Couldn't the bad guys have waited till everyone was asleep ? Speaking of wedding presents , the Longworth penguin seemed a fitting touch . He winds up knocking over a statue of a cherub that Drummond and Tenny conspired to have fall victim to an accident . One of the highlights of the film is the rather elaborate looking lab used by Professor Goodman . There's a great long shot with a view of all the impressive equipment , with glowing tubes and sparking wires to lend credibility to the professor's experiments - Dr . Frankenstein would have been envious . The story may have taken on a bit too many twists and turns by the time it really got going in the second half . A rival scientist Dr . Botulian ( Porter Hall ) is introduced , performing the same kind of synthetic gem experiments as Goodman . His presence turns out to be a wedge between the original villains and good guys , hoping to cash in on the the whole fake diamond thing himself . Drummond's regulars are all on hand here . His associate Algy ( Reginald Denny ) doesn't have as much to do in this adventure , while butler Tenny's ( E . E . Clive ) role gets more physical . One of the more humorous scenes involves a frantic Tenny aboard a motor bike chasing down a van . Tenny must be in his sixties , but he's as agile as Yakima Canutt climbing aboard the speeding vehicle . John Barrymore reprises his role as Scotland Yard's Colonel Neilson , with repeated warnings to Drummond to mind his own business , and falling victim to a crooked tie gag twice . More so than most Drummond adventures , you'll really have to pay attention once the plot thickens with the real and fake Dr . Botulian . As usual , good guys and bad guys trade the upper hand repeatedly until Drummond's side achieves victory . The film probably could have used the penguin for a humorous send off , however by the time it's all over you get the feeling that Drummond and Miss Phyllis are one step closer to the altar .
" Listen Mike , there's somethin ' going on , and it doesn't smell like lilac . "	What a great name for a gangster film - " The Boss of Big Town " ; it conjures up visions of racketeering , mob warfare and violent shoot outs . In fact , the film is a little more reserved than that , focusing on corruption and payoffs in the city food industry . The ' big town ' of the title is never mentioned by name , so in that regard , take your pick . Mike Lynn ( John Litel ) is the general manager of the city market when his vendors start receiving demands for payoffs or face retribution . He's called down by mobster Craige ( John Miljan ) to invite participation so business goes on without a hitch . Instead of accepting , Lynn becomes determined to expose the corruption and put Craige out of the rackets . The twist in the film is a familiar one to anyone who's seen enough Westerns of the same era , it turns out that Lynn's boss Moore ( H . B . Warner ) at the city market is the brains behind the shake down . There's even a showdown of sorts with a twist as well . With reporter Linda Gregory ( Florence Rice ) watching Lynn's back , Craige arrives on the scene to take out Moore , and in turn is shot by police inspector Torrence ( Lloyd Ingraham ) in a moment of incredible timing . I got a chuckle out of the ending , reminding me of John Wayne in virtually every one of his Lone Star films from the mid 1930's . The final scene closes with Mike Lynn in a clinch with his reporter girl friend , in an unlikely match up that the film barely hinted at with all that went before . If you pay attention , you'll get a kick out of an early scene when Mike uses a phone to call for an ambulance for an injured market vendor - the phone doesn't have a cord ! Also , stay sharp for Inspector Torrence's remark about one of the shop owners - he calls him a ' Polak ' .
" Why Mr . Bill , this place is zombiefied , but good . "	There's not a lot about this film that makes much sense , but if you're in the mood for some lighthearted comic horror , " King of the Zombies " is a fun stop . The always funny Mantan Moreland is showcased in this one , and has all the best lines in the picture from the word go . Moreland portrays manservant Jefferson Jackson for government agent Bill Summers ( John Archer ) and pilot Jim " Mac " McCarthy ( Dick Purcell ) , who are forced to crash land on a Caribbean Island while in search of a missing Admiral - " Uh-oh , look out Admiral , here we come . " Their plane lands in a graveyard , as Jeff wakes up to a headstone welcome - " Rest in Peace " . From there , the trio make their way to a sufficiently creepy residence , home to a mad doctor named Mikhail Sangre , which is a nice touch as " sangre " is Spanish for blood . The first half of the film involves Moreland's character encountering zombies by way of the kitchen maid Samantha ( Margueite Whitten ) and her cook Tahama ( Madame Sul-Te-Wan ) , who also does double duty as a voodoo high priestess . When Jackson is eventually " zombiefied " himself , it's done for laughs - " Move over boys , I'm one of the gang now . " For his part , Dr . Sangre provides the movie's menace , as he consistently denies the existence of zombies , even while introducing his wife Alyce ( Patricia Stacey ) who walks around in a permanent trance . Sangre is obsessed with the study of hypnotism and " transmigration " , the transfer of souls from dead bodies into live ones . I couldn't help but notice that Sangre's speech pattern resembled a Bela Lugosi knockoff , with Henry Victor's portrayal including some Dracula like flourishes . The movie never really makes much progress as a horror film , and winds up providing a lot more questions than answers . For one , the fate of Alyce Sangre is never revealed by film's end , even though one scene shows her niece Barbara trying to un-hypnotize her . In the movie's finale , Dr . Sangre pumps a number of bullets into the zombiefied pilot McCarthy , but when he comes out of his trance , he's none the worse for wear . And finally , as Sangre backs up from McCarthy's advance , he falls into a fiery burning pit and his doom , but gee , didn't he know it was there ? As do many of the Monogram films of this era , the racial angle is present , and this film is no exception ; in fact there are many references to the black man's condition . Back to the early cemetery scene when Jackson realizes he's not dead , he declares " I thought I was a little off color to be a ghost " . Later , as Dr . Sangre shows the agents where they'll be staying , he remands Jackson to the lower quarters with the black servants , so his staying with the white men doesn't rile the rest of the black staff . It's always interesting to see how these period films handle racism , certainly they were not bashful in presenting them . Monogram in particular frequently threw in a zing , just catch any of their Charlie Chan films with Mantan Moreland as a supporting player , and not only against blacks , as Orientals took their lumps too with the repeated chop suey and egg foo yung remarks . But at least Moreland is given a rare center stage role in " King of the Zombies " . He offers another great line with the movie's closing scene - " If there's one thing that I wouldn't want to be twice , zombies is both of them " . If you , as I can't get past the comic elements of this flick to give it credibility as a horror film , then I only need to point out one final and truly scary fact about his movie - it was nominated for a Best Music Scoring of a Dramatic Picture for the 1942 Oscars - Yikes ! !
" Somebody better get after that ape or he'll tear this town wide open . "	As I sit here and think about the movie I've just seen , I ask myself why the film makers even bothered to feature a gorilla as a central character in this story , but there's the title " The Ape " , so I guess they had to fit one in somewhere . The story is actually rather standard fare for the era , a mad scientist / doctor Bernard Adrian ( Boris Karloff ) is obsessed with finding a cure for a young woman's paralysis , and will go to any lengths to succeed . Those lengths include killing a circus ape that invades his home , gutting out the creature ( off screen of course ) , and then using the carcass to disguise himself as he seeks victims from which to extract spinal fluid for the serum he needs to complete his experiments and cure the stricken Frances Clifford ( Maris Wrixon ) . To state that the film makers took excessive liberties with the premise of the movie is putting it mildly . For example , Karloff's character , who appears frail and weak , manages to dispatch the ape by blinding him with some lab fluid , and stabbing him once with a knife , and to the back no less . Then , in his first outing in the monkey suit , he manages to waylay a burley Henry Mason ( who was such a cad , he actually had it coming ) on his way into town to join the gorilla posse . If not for the presence of the venerable Boris Karloff , this film probably wouldn't stand a chance . However , you then ask yourself why Karloff would even consider getting involved with this project after having created film history with " Frankenstein " and " The Mummy " . Perhaps he was intrigued with the idea of working a comedy . You'll get a chuckle out of the Ray " Crash " Corrigan ape early in the film as he makes his way to Dr . Adrian's home . Attempting to cross a rail fence , he practically trips over it , and has to correct his balance . You have to love these low budget Monogram efforts , no time or money for do-overs . In spite of some of my tongue in cheek comments , you owe yourself at least one viewing of " The Ape " , whether you're a fan of the poverty row movie machine of the 1940's or a follower of Boris Karloff . In my case , I'm all the better for having seen it , and I can truthfully say it didn't make a monkey out of me .
" I'd like you to check my motor , it whistles . "	Oh boy , whistle it does in this energetic early 1960's romp in tinsel town . By association , Ann-Margret fairly or not , came to be known as the female Elvis . Living up to the name , she matches The King here song for song and move for move in what's basically a musical showcase strung together around a loosely scripted story that's largely forgettable and unnecessary . It's a colorful picture , and a travelogue of sorts touching on just about every name casino in Las Vegas of the 1960's . But you know , I had to wonder about Ann-Margret's Hoover Dam tutorial during the helicopter ride , with Elvis at the controls . Couldn't they have come up with something more hip to talk about ? Over the years I've had time to consider whether I'm an Elvis fan or not ; I like his music for the most part but at the same time , Colonel Tom sure made some bad decisions concerning his movie output . I haven't seen a lot of them , and my gut feel is that this one stands out a little above the average , with the average being pretty low . But ' Viva ' probably gives you as good a flavor of the all around Elvis as any , with an energy that's contagious and fun . Catching the film on TCM , it was interesting to learn that Ann-Margret was discovered by George Burns at one of the Las Vegas casinos in 1960 , so this was like a homecoming of sorts for the singer / dancer / actress . Filming ' Viva ' led to the prerequisite hush-hush affair with Elvis , even as he was already romantically linked with Priscilla . There was probably more than just a little rumor to it , Presley always honored Ann-Margret whenever she opened a Las Vegas act with a room full of flowers .
" How do you do , mystery cowman ? "	" Lucky Terror " is a bit unusual for a ' B ' Western , with elements I haven't seen before that keep it interesting for it's entire sixty one minute run . Hoot Gibson stars , somewhat past his prime as a cowboy attraction , but still showing some of the charisma and skill of the real life champion rider and roper he had been in his younger days . In the story , he's wrongly accused of murdering the owner of a gold mine after being chased by a bad guy posse of four inept villains led by Bat Moulton ( Jack Rockwell ) . Ususally in these types of stories , the hero gets set up and is wrongfully charged by the crooked sheriff and town judge . Here however , Gibson's character Lucky Carson is actually cleared of charges , but takes it on the lam thinking he'll be found guilty . If I hadn't read the screen credits , I would have taken it for certainty that Carson's alcoholic lawyer was being portrayed by Pat Buttram , but it was really Charles King , who I've only seen before as a villain or a henchman . Part of the story plays out with the background of a traveling medicine show , which Carson joins up with as a trick shot sharpshooter . Doc Halliday ( Charles Hill ) nicknames Carson ' Lucky Terror ' due to his accuracy with a rifle , but gee , if one could really shoot like that it would be nothing short of a miracle . Lucky outlines an Indian face and the name of ' Ann ' Thornton ( Lona Andre ) to demonstrate his skill , and there's not a bullet hole out of place - amazing ! I got a kick out of Doc Halliday , the snake oil salesman peddling his wonder drug . As in all these stories , it cures everything under the sun , but apparently not Doc's stitch of rheumatism that he exhibits a couple of times ; that was a neat touch . The Doc had an Italian sidekick named Tony ( Frank Yaconelli ) who played accordion and sang a bit , but was otherwise unnecessary to the story . On the other hand , the Ann Thonton character got a lot of mileage out of frequent outfit changes that showed off her pretty features and wholesome smile . A bit unusual too that her presence wasn't played out as a romantic interest for Lucky Carson . I really have to mention the excellent stunt work in the picture . Gibson's early film work was done as a double and a stunt man , and if he did his own riding here , it's really something to see . There's a great scene where Hoot's character crouches on top of a horse giving chase to two villains , straddling the two riders and knocking them from their own mounts . There's a cutaway in the scene to account for what probably couldn't happen if done for real , but still , it comes off as pretty good . A bit of Hoot Gibson trivia - he got his nickname as a teenager when he delivered drugs and packages ( on horseback ) for the Owl Drug Company in the Los Angeles area . He started out as Hoot Owl , but that was shortened to Hoot as time went by . He was always adept as a rider , having gotten his first pony when he was only two and a half years old ! As in this picture , Gibson often didn't wear a six gun , relying instead on his boyish charm , which certainly helped the characters he portrayed since he didn't cut the dashing good looks of classic Western stars like Rogers , Autry and Charles Starrett .
" You're the best known unknown that I've ever known . "	It used to always make me wonder , even as a kid , why a movie's murderous villain would sneak up close to one of the story's lead characters and fail to close the deal . It made me consider them entirely inept , even while they were leaving a trail of bodies behind elsewhere throughout the picture . The scene with Mike Mazurki's Splitface creaking open the door right next to Tess Trueheart ( Anne Jeffreys ) is a prime example . Of course had he followed through , millions of Dick Tracy fans across America would have been severely outraged , and with good cause . But it gives you an idea why this kind of suspense doesn't work very well today , if it ever did . Then there's Splitface - what's the deal with him ? Here's a villain that's probably got the most distinctive scar that can be used to identify him , and he signs his threatening notes with - ' Splitface ' ! Now I don't know about you , but if I were going to try and extort a pile of money from someone , I wouldn't sign it using my own nickname , especially if it could identify me with a characteristic that no one else could possibly have . And since I'm on the subject , it would have been enlightening to learn how Splitface got his unique disfigurement . While watching the picture , the thing that really made me sit up and take notice was the way Splitface dispatched his victims . Done mostly in darkened silhouette , you still get a pretty good sense that the murders were extremely violent utilizing a stab and slash technique that appeared pretty gruesome . Done today , you would have the requisite amount of spurting and gushing blood , but even without it , the couple times you see Splitface in action solidifies his character as one mean hombre . You have to hand it to Mike Mazurki , he made for a pretty scary character . This was my first look at Morgan Conway in any kind of role , and I'm on the side of many reviewers on this board who feel he doesn't quite fit the bill . When they both first appeared on screen together , I would have guessed that it was Lyle Latell who played Tracy , except that he was the shorter of the two , and that wouldn't have worked . As for Anne Jeffreys , it's always cool to see her in a picture ; my own best recollection of her as a kid growing up was the role of Marion Kirby in the ' Topper " TV series . It would have been cool if the movie offered some of those well punned nicknames like you had in " Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome " - I'm thinking about villains like I . M . Learned and Dr . A . Tomic . They were a mainstay of the Chester Gould comic strip , and I always got a kick out of those . Here , the best they could come up with was the name for the undertaker - a bit of a stretch that he would go by Deathridge .
" Well they were in jail , I figure they could be trusted . "	I was left scratching my head early in the story when the buddy trio of Tim Holt , Ray Whitley and Emmett Lynn deposit twelve thousand dollars for their boss in the Sweet Water bank . A note signed by Pop Edwards requesting they bring it back is delivered by a young boy , but since the banker smells a rat he refuses to return the money , whereupon the boys take it back forcibly . This sets up a ruckus with banker Turner yelling the bank's been robbed and demanding that the men are jailed . The sheriff pretty much takes the boys ' side , but jails them anyway to play it safe . Oh well , I guess it doesn't have to make much sense . These early oaters were put together quick and cheap , and sometimes in just one take . Throw in a pretty female ( Betty Jane Rhodes ) for a romantic interest and you were just about home free as the good guys save the day from the evil town boss . That's pretty much the story here . Tim Holt as the lead hero actually doesn't seem to have a lot to do , leaving the memorable moments to his sidekicks . Ray Whitley sings and yodels through a couple of tunes , while Emmett Lynn tells tall tales in the interest of promoting his own self importance . Keeping an eye out for those subtle bits that add some color to these old time Westerns , I got a kick out of signs in the local saloon promoting Old Mule Whisky and Red Rock Gin for ten cents , and Dead Man's Delight Lager Beer , a bargain at just a nickel ! Tim Holt appeared in some of the coolest sounding Western titles of the ' 40's and ' 50's , with names like " Thunder Mountain " , " Under The Tonto Rim " , and " Wild Horse Mesa " . " Along The Rio Grande " is one of his earliest , and it shows in his youthful good looks and smiling face . Not the worst way to while away an hour of your time , as long as you're not expecting " High Noon " or " Shane " .
" Steve , you know what this is don't you , it's a time space warp . "	This film hooked me early on with it's colorful special effects and eerie just around the corner hint of suspense , but even while watching it , I realized that it came two years after " Star Wars " , at which point it's low budget origins started to make sense . The appearance of the stop motion monsters then took the film in a different direction , and I was almost sure Hercules or Odysseus might be coming around the corner to save the day . The biggest problem I have with the film is the Williams family non existent reaction to mind numbing events . When a little green alien appears on your bed , I think that merits some kind of response ; instead wife Ana ( Dorothy Malone ) doesn't even mention it to her husband Grant ( Jim Davis ) . Watching your house disappear in a swirling light storm would also elicit a bit more of a reaction than the " Oh , well " casualness displayed by both Grant and son in law Richard ( Christopher Mitchum ) . That's why young Jenny's ( Natasha Ryan ) performance is all the more refreshing in the movie , at least she had a real world credibility and natural curiosity about her . Her " thank you , water " and " thank you , light " reaction to forces she didn't understand revealed a child's way of dealing with the unknown the only way she knew how . The movie could have used more of Jenny . I'm not quite sure how the film's title fits in with events of the story , other than the opening voice over narration describing a scientific theory that all of time exists right now . Overall , the movie has a made for TV feel that falls just short of delivering the goods . It's like watching a film in a time space warp .
" Looks like it was a pretty good fight while it lasted . "	" Young Bill Hickok " freely uses the names of historical figures to tell a formulaic story of adventure in the closing days of the Civil War . Roy Rogers portrays Wild Bill , earning his name after he wards off a band of Morrell's Overland Raiders singlehandedly . The central story involves the shipment of gold to help finance the Union's war effort , while foreign agent Nicholas Tower ( John Miljan ) attempts to disrupt the enterprise , enlisting the aid of seedy John Morrell ( Wally Wales as Hal Taliaferro ) . On the side of the good guys are crusty Gabby Whitaker ( George " Gabby " Hayes ) and Calamity Jane Canary ( Sally Payne ) . Jacqueline Wells provides the love interest for Hickok , and her presence sets up some tension in the film , first as a Southern lady and Confederate sympathizer , and also as Hickok's bride to be who must take a back seat to his duty to help the Union cause . Before the film is over , the Civil War has ended with Lee's surrender , and the news of Lincoln's assassination arrives . Tower's association with John Wilkes Booth was established midway through the film as Hickok discovers a letter signed by Booth in Tower's office . The inclusion of these historical snippets adds some interest to the proceedings , but ultimately have no affect on the main story itself . Generally Roy Rogers portrayed himself or a character named Roy Rogers in his films , but as in this movie , he occasionally was cast as a legendary Westerner . For more of this type of fare , try " Billy the Kid Returns " , " Young Buffalo Bill " , or " Jesse James at Bay " .
" What's the matter with you , you look like you've seen a ghost . "	I'm surprised by the number of negative reviews of this film , though I know it's a far cry from the best the spaghetti Western genre has to offer . My main complaint would be in the long exposition that took place in the first half of the story to set up Father John's murder at the hands of Sam Clayton's ( Jack Palance ) gang . That was more than offset however by seeing three greats of the genre in a single flick together , Palance , Lee Van Cleef and Richard Boone . Van Cleef's dual role was a neat device the way it played in the latter half of the story . Richard Boone's role as sheriff of Juno City seemed a bit disjointed however , since he disappeared for a while and didn't really participate in the finale . What I didn't catch in any of the other reviews on this board was mention of what I'd consider an homage scene to one of Van Cleef's best performances opposite Clint Eastwood in 1965's " For A Few Dollars More " . Right after Van Cleef , as Lewis , guns down a handful of Clayton's henchmen , a man named Mortimer thanks him for all the money he won in a bet on who would be victorious in a show down . Upon which Lewis shoots his hat , and then one of the outlaw's guns into the hat resting on the ground . A similar scene , but more intense , had Van Cleef against Eastwood in the earlier movie ; in ' Dollars ' , Van Cleef's character was named Mortimer . Something else I caught that was interesting - in the opening scene , when the Clayton gang rides into Crane City to rob the bank , there's a barn to the right of the bank with the sign ' JC McCormick , Blacksmithing , Wagon Repairing ' with a large wagon wheel in the center . Later in the movie , when Lewis describes his past to young Johnny ( Leif Garrett ) , there's a flashback scene to Abilene . Outside the Abilene Gambling Hall , right across the street , there's a barn with the same sign ! You would think that in movies like this done on the cheap , somebody could have remembered to take it down the second time around . So for me at least , " God's Gun " wasn't a complete waste of time as the nay sayers would have you believe . The puzzler though is the Italian / Spanish translation of the title , ' Diamante ' means diamond , and ' Lobo ' is a wolf . Somehow I don't think ' Diamond Wolf ' would have made much sense to theater goers .
" Every time we begin to investigate somethin ' , the bullets start to fly " .	Encore Westerns featured a six-gun salute to Lash La Rue today , and I would have been remiss if I didn't take in at least one of his pictures . In this story , the black clad cowboy hero rides in to Mesa City as Marshal Cheyenne Davis along with partner and deputy Fuzzy Jones ( Fuzzy St . John ) . They've been sent to help the owner of a stage company who's on the brink of foreclosure unless he can land a government mail contract . Said owner , John Watson ( Steve Clark ) is dispatched early by the bad guys , and things look pretty bleak for his son and daughter who plan to continue running the business . It wouldn't be too far off to say that a good half of this picture's run time is taken up by endless chase scenes back and forth with the villains creating havoc all over the countryside . Cheyenne and Fuzzy are just close enough each time to ride in and make the save . There's a scene where bad guy Baxter ( Marshall Reed ) goes for his gun to draw down on ' Chey ' , and he strips the gun from the outlaw's hand with the bull-whip with the kind of confidence that made La Rue a ' B ' Western matinée favorite in the Forties . For this outing , Fuzzy has a gimmick where he carries around a figurine of Sitting Bull for good luck , which comes in handy in one of the shoot ' em up scenes . He's always good for a chuckle if only for his appearance alone , but he gets his share of pratfalls in during the fight scenes as usual . Pretty Jennifer Holt makes another appearance in a Lash film as one of the Watson siblings . You'll also see her with Lash and Fuzzy in " The Fighting Vigilantes " and " Ghost Town Renegades " . The character of her brother Bob was portrayed by Brad Slaven . The story's finale of course is never in doubt . There's an early hook thrown the viewer when lawyer Baxter keeps throwing out references to the unseen boss calling the shots . It would have been to easy to lay that one on the disinterested sheriff ( Lee Morgan ) , but instead the film makers settled on the post office master in a wheelchair . Attempting to get away from Cheyenne , he makes a lame move with a blanket before getting boxed up by the marshal and returned for postage due .
" Is the Rat in from Chicago ? "	While watching the movie , it struck me that this might be the closest I've seen to a silent film actually put to dialog , the execution of which seems like actors from a high school play who simply studied their lines and recited them from memory . We know that the principal players were much better than that from their later work , so take it as part of the learning curve in going from silents to talkies . Add to that a bit of overacting , a prime example being the conversation between Mal ( Robert Armstrong ) , Gus ( Kit Guard ) and Squid ( Al Hill ) when discussing Weber's murder . Armstrong does such a quick double take that it's comical , I caught myself in a knee jerk reaction laughing over the way the trio handled that scene . The story itself takes a while to unfold , and you don't get a sense of where things are going until well into the picture . Once you get there though , it turns out to be a fairly interesting ride , as Rhoda Philbrooke ( Carol Lombard ) finds her affections torn between gangster Mahlon Keane ( Armstrong ) and alcoholic musician Tony Vaughan ( Roland Drew ) . I thought the poker scene in which Mal covers for Rhoda's dishonesty was cleverly done , initiating the relationship between the two . So let's see , a cab ride in New York City in 1929 for sixty five cents - not a bad bargain . Combine that with a letter that could be simply addressed using a person's name and the town in which he lives ( Mahlon Keane , Roslyn , Long Island ) , and I find myself longing for those good old days . Rhoda's fox fur was a bit much though , don't you think ? All in all , not a bad little entry on the sixteen disc " Mobsters " DVD set from Platinum Disc , this being one of the earliest of the films chronologically . Perhaps better viewed as a curiosity piece than for it's story , it's a fine example of an early talkie that gives one a good idea how the transition from silents was accomplished .
" Am I dreamin ' or who am I ? "	I've never seen a Western before where the hero and his sidekick pals start out in jail ! It turns out to be a set up for the good guys getting sprung by a trio of look alike outlaws . Billy the Kid ( Buster Crabbe ) and his partners , Fuzzy ( Fuzzy St . John ) and Jeff Walker ( Bud McTaggart ) spend the rest of the picture attempting to get the goods on Mesa City town boss Stanton ( Glenn Strange ) and his gang of henchmen . It's actually a pretty creative idea that Stanton's gimmick is providing protection for outlaws in Mesa City with the help of a crooked town judge ( Milt Kibbee ) . Beyond that , what you have is a fairly standard ' B ' Western shoot ' em up , complete with a pretty female ( Anne Jeffreys ) who eyes up The Kid , but the hint of a romance is never really brought to the fore . " Billy The Kid Trapped " is the third in a series of films Buster Crabbe did for Producers Releasing Corporation in the early 1940's . Later on , because of it's negative connotation , the name of Crabbe's character was changed to Bill Carson . However even in his Billy the Kid stories , Crabbe was never portrayed as a bad guy , rather as a hero wrongfully accused of a crime . As for Anne Jeffreys , she appears in the story as a blond , and looking nothing like the character she portrayed in the Topper TV series of the mid 1950's . I just took a quick look at her stats on IMDb and nearly jumped out of my seat to learn that she's still alive ! , and will be appearing in a movie to be released this year ! ! ! Holy cow , maybe she really is the ghost of Marion Kerby ! Keep a keen eye on Fuzzy in the picture and you might catch the only time you'll ever see a bearded sidekick actually spit a chaw in the face of a bad guy ! Fuzzy had quite the staying power of a loyal pardner , and his career at PRC took him through a host of saddle pals , beginning with Bob Steele in the Billy the Kid series , followed by the stint with Buster Crabbe . Later , he teamed with George Houston and Bob Livingston in the Lone Rider pictures , and then a new PRC series with Lash LaRue . Closing out with a bit of trivia - Buster Crabbe rode a palomino in the Billy the Kid series , even though the horse appeared white . The horse's name was Falcon .
" Hey , ain't that the guy you murdered Professor ? "	You can make out the Hal Roach / Our Gang connection in the casting of the movie , but by this time , the magic was gone , and the youngsters appearing here were used more for visuals and sight gags rather than genuine chemistry among friends . The story finds the kids attempting to prove their friend , the neighborhood Fix-It Man ( Whitford Kane ) , innocent of a murder , and most of the action takes place in the second half at a creepy old mansion with it's share of dark passageways and ghostly effects . Since you never get to see the title character Doc Robbin till the very end , you begin to wonder just what connection George Zucco might have had to the picture until he's finally revealed under the gorilla suit . Unlike many films of the era utilizing a gorilla gimmick where the ape looks entirely fake , this one has some genuinely scary moments for young viewers where it's hard to tell the difference ; I think I'd run too . As for the kids , they're a little hard to warm up to , with Ardda ( Ardda Lynwood ) the single genuinely likable character , especially with her courtroom testimony . Speck's ( Dale Belding ) gimmick of fainting a lot gets to be over used , and even though one of the film's alternate titles cites ' Curley and His Gang ' , I didn't see much that suggested Curley ( Larry Olsen ) as the nominal leader of the kids . Others on this board have mentioned the stereotyping of the little black boys , Dis and Dat , but when you come right down to it , they wound up with the funniest bits , especially the scene involving the washer and clothes press machine . It seems to me that if racism was the main point of the film , you wouldn't have the kids all getting along as equals and having a fun time together during their misadventures . However if you want the real thing in an Our Gang comedy , you'll have to go back to some of the shorts made during their heyday in the early 1930's . Think what you'd have had here with Spanky at the helm , and Darla , Alfalfa and Stymie along for the ride - the gorilla wouldn't have been safe !
" Texas , greatest place in the world , where they grow mice that can stand flat footed and whip a tiger . "	The setting is West Texas in 1873 , and the Texas Rangers have been disbanded , only to be replaced by the corrupt Texas State Police . Tracy Beaumont ( Fred Sears ) owns the town of Indian Springs and virtually everything in it , but it's not enough . Gaining the upper hand on respected cattle man Homer Ross , in debt to Beaumont for thirty eight thousand dollars , Beaumont agrees to erase the debt by setting him up as the figurehead Commissioner of State Police . At that point , Beaumont gets to send out tax notices to the local cattlemen under Ross's authority , and dispatches his goons to seize property if the victims can't pay . Enter the Durango Kid , whose alter ego Steve Lanning gets on the inside of Beaumont's gang by posing as a wanted man . This is the only Durango Kid film I've seen where Durango's identity is discovered , by young Tommy Ross , who's befriended by Lanning in an opening scene . Lanning commits him to secrecy by swearing him in as an honorary Texas Ranger , and as an assignment , sends him back into town to spy on Smiley Burnette ! Smiley arrived in town as " The Tinker's Tinkerer " - experts may charge more to fix things , but Smiley charges less . This is your standard Durango Kid film , as Smiley gets to do a couple of musical numbers , including a quick change skit playing " Fiddlin ' Fool " . On hand also are Doye O'Dell and the Radio Rangers , who sound good performing " Give Me Texas " and " Jimmy Crack Corn " . By film's end , the Durango Kid prevails as he always does , and it's off to the next town to right another wrong . Chances are pretty good that he'll run into Smiley Burnette , and the good guys get to prevail once again .
" Anyway , I like the idea of being a king . By the way , what's my name ? "	I remember watching " Hercules Unchained " back in the day , but for the life of me , my viewing of the film today brought back not one memory of it . For certain though , with Steve Reeves generally acknowledged as the best of the movie strongmen to portray the Greek demi-god , all the rest are pretty lame by comparison . But even here , the movie takes a quick down hill turn from the original " Hercules " , though it does offer a fun time if you're not in the mood for real Greek mythology . Really , how serious can you get about a character who's name sounds like crayon , even if he is a colorful sort . In the story , Herc and his sidekick Ulysses ( Gabriele Antonini ) attempt to mitigate a feud between two brothers who both want to be the king of Thebes . Following a wrestling match with former world champ Primo Carnera , Hercules has the misfortune of drinking from the ' waters of forgetfulness ' . Falling into a daze , he and Ulysses are captured by the soldiers of Queen Omphale ( Sylvia Lopez ) , who promptly realizes that he's the man of her dreams , and maybe even a candidate for the old trophy cave . Omphale plays it up for all the leggy cheesecake glory it's worth , giving new meaning to ' over the top ' . For his part , Ulysses decides to play the dumb and dumber routine until he can snap Herc out of his stupor . Watch closely the second time Hercules takes up Ulysses ' challenge to bend the iron torch stand in an attempt to remember who he is . He successfully does so , and then unbends it just as easily , leaving a slight curve in the stem . However when he returns the stand to it's original location , the stand is perfectly straight . Before it's all over , brothers Eteocles and Polinices do each other in following a chariot battle and hand to hand combat with swords . Hercules prevails in a battle against weirdly diamond striped tigers , reuniting with long suffering ( 20 days to be exact ) wife Iole ( Sylva Koscina ) . Koscina , looking gorgeous , manages to maintain her dignity throughout , which is saying a lot , as every other woman in the film was cast for their eye candy appeal . Don't take my comments as a put down of the movie , as I'm trying to give my review the same goofy flavor as the film . That means having some fun with an early offering from a genre that generated nearly two hundred movies following the first two Steve Reeves epics . If you can't do that , at least try a glass of some Grecian spring water .
" Pardon me Sir , but these are not guns , these are pistols . "	The movie opens with a trouser less Drummond ( John Howard ) and his butler Tenny ( E . E . Clive ) , confined to Rockingham Lodge on the eve of the Captain's wedding to Miss Phyllis Clavering ( Heather Angel ) . Drummond's sidekick Algy ( Reginald Denny ) is holding their pants hostage to prevent his boss from getting caught up in a distraction that would disrupt the ceremony . Is it possible that they only had one pair of pants each ? Scotland Yard's Colonel Nielson ( H . B . Warner ) meanwhile , is about to be taken hostage himself by an old nemesis , Richard Lane ( J . Carrol Naish ) . Lane hopes to secure information about a newly developed radio-wave disintegrator , but when Nielson becomes uncooperative , Lane hustles him aboard a plane bound for Morocco where he'll have time to work him over for the secret . The early going is marked by a frantic effort to catch Lane and Nielson , as Algy valiantly tries to deliver the pants along the way . The ever patient and ever single Miss Clavering stows away aboard Drummond's plane as the good guys take flight to Africa . The final confrontation there involves a lion , strategically tethered to an uncertain stake with Colonel Nielson the prize should it give way . " Bulldog Drummond in Africa " offers it's share of characteristic good humor and camaraderie between Drummond and his cohorts , though this time around some troubling elements are included as well . Nielson's butler Phillips is dispatched by Lane , and Algy takes a bullet in the arm during the finale at Lane's estate . For J . Carrol Naish , this was his second unsuccessful attempt to outwit hero Drummond . He previously vied with John Howard in " Bulldog Drummond Comes Back " , though portraying a different character . Heather Angel reprises her role as Phyllis Clavering from " Bulldog Drummond Escapes " , the only film in the series with Ray Milland in the role of the title character . Howard and Angel would team up a total of four times , culminating in the 1939 entry " Bulldog Drummond's Bride " . Not having seen it yet , I've got my fingers crossed for an invitation to a wedding .
" You know I think I'll call him and find out if I'm a millionaire . "	In 1933 , John Wayne made three Westerns for a series at Warner's , and another three for Paul Malvern's Lone Star Productions . Somewhere in between he found the time to play against type in this rather offbeat romantic comedy . It may be the only time you'll catch him in a movie wearing a suit and tie as he portrays the playboy son of a businessman ( Reginald Barlow ) , with a never ending eye for the ladies . I was rather surprised to see that Wayne's love interest in the story ( Evalyn Knapp ) actually got top billing , though understandable as Wayne was still a relatively new actor even though he was headlining over at Lone Star . The story itself has an interesting premise as Dick Wallace is assigned by his father the job of collecting delinquent accounts for the company . It brings him to the town of Somerville , population 407 , give or take a few as events in the film play out . What doesn't seem quite as believable though is Dick trading his car for a gas station so he can stick around to woo the minister's daughter . Come to think of it , the minister not paying his debt to the Wallace firm also seems like a stretch , but no more unbelievable then some of Wayne's Westerns . There's the hint of a sub plot in the early going when one of Dick's gal pals named Polly ( Natalie Kingston ) attempts to snag him for his potential fortune , but that one goes nowhere . When it's finally revealed that Dick and Marion ( Knapp ) are married , Polly's reaction is virtually nil , she must have had another potential millionaire in the wings . The movie's payoff occurs in the way Marion turns the tables on Dick's father , who hires her as a secretary , and winds up wishing his son would marry someone just like her . Winning him over without appearing to be a gold digger was the whole point , and Marion has the charm to pull it off . By the time the film is over , we have John Wayne in a clinch with his sweetheart , pretty much the same way all of his Lone Star films ended , though this time he's planting a great big kiss on the new Mrs . Wallace .
" That settles it , when I lose my touch at flapjacks , it's time for a change in scenery . "	' Fuzzy ' St . John could have been top billed here and I don't think anyone would have a problem with that . A perennial sidekick to film cowboys Lash LaRue and George Houston's Lone Rider , Fuzzy backs up Buster Crabbe's character Billy Carson in this oater heavy on the laughs and pratfalls . In fact , Fuzzy has a couple of comedic sidekicks of his own , running gags with ' don't call me webfoot ' Emmett Lynn , and the dense but harmless Charles King . Carson and Fuzzy Jones are partners in a mining operation , when Fuzzy decides to use their profits to buy the town saloon from Old Man Taylor . There's a locked trap door in the saloon's back office that hides the entrance to a gold mine , and is sorely desired by town boss Horace Black ( I . Stanford Jolley ) . Black also has designs on the Lane Ranch , and spends virtually all of his screen time plotting how to weasel an interest in both of them . " The Gangster's Den " is about as predictable as they come for ' B ' Western fare . For his part , Buster Crabbe spends most of his screen time getting the low down on his adversaries by calmly watching their play , and mixing it up with the villains when he has to . But when you get right down to it , the real treat is provided by Fuzzy and his wayward pals .
" The devil has the largest congregation . "	If the movie leaves you somewhat confused the first time around , you might try fast forwarding through it a second time like I did to pick up the pieces . That might clear up a a thing or two , but you'll still have to put up with some of the unresolved issues the flick has to offer . Most notable of these is the fate of Telly Savalas ' character Don Carlos . In keeping with the erstwhile religious backdrop of the story , Don Carlos is crucified and left hung out to dry after being shot by one of his own henchmen . But what ever became of him - did he die ? Interestingly , Savalas ' entire screen time in the first half of the movie was played shirtless , but it did look pretty hot out there . There's a great scene of Stella Stevens in one of the Priest's ( Robert Shaw ) dream-scape recollections , that of an angel of death bearing a dagger . It's too bad nothing ever came of that tidbit . Alvira ( Stevens ) arrives in town seeking the one who murdered her husband , tricked out as a coffin sleeping vampire wannabe . But again , the astonishing symbolism is allowed to fritter away to nothing , even after someone offers - " Now do we kill the witch girl ? " One thing for sure , the movie never goes where you think it might . Martin Landau appears as a Colonel on the trail of the mysterious revolutionary Aguila / the Eagle , and with the help of a blind man , identifies Robert Shaw's Priest as the one who killed the man in the Montes grave . The Priest concocts a story for Alvira Montes that he helped her husband kill himself so his name would live on as a martyr for their revolutionary cause . I say concocts , because if you study the flashback scene with the young and hairless faced Shaw , a man who looks like Alvira's husband in a picture shown earlier simply dies from bullet wounds , and quite unceremoniously at that . I'm open to other interpretations however . If the picture wasn't surreal enough , you'll find yourself going ' huh ? ' right as it breaks into a party scene to the tune of " The Battle of New Orleans " . It's not Johnny Horton's voice , and it's got additional lyrics compared to the commercial version . Dropped in where it is makes it seem like a mid film intermission . But hey , if you're not in too serious of a mood , you might have some fun with this one , even as it teeters precariously on the traditional spaghetti Western fence . I can say this at least with some certainty , it's the only movie I've EVER seen where a character picks his nose on screen ( a Mexican near the beginning of the film ) . The title of the movie would probably have been better served up as one of Clint Eastwood's spaghetti classics , but " High Plains Drifter " sounds a whole lot cooler .
Roy Rogers to Gene Autry - " Put ' em up Sheriff ! "	This is one of Gene Autry's most easily obtained films , but if you pick up a recently made copy , you're likely to see Roy Rogers with equal billing on the video or DVD sleeve . It was only one of two times that the cowboy stars appeared in a film together , and since it was Gene's picture for Republic Studios , Roy appears uncredited as one of the Sons of the Pioneers . Actually , he might have been between names as it were . Born Leonard Slye , his name with the Pioneers was Dick Weston before he became Gene's replacement at Republic as Roy Rogers . Smiley Burnette is on hand as Autry's sidekick here as he often was , his character was named Frog owing to that deep , low falsetto he sometimes uses . Perhaps the most unique casting decision of the film , after the fact of course , was that of Lon Chaney Jr . as a henchman for Martin Simms ( Cornelius Keefe ) . It would be another five years or so before " The Wolf Man " would establish Chaney's name as a horror icon , but you know , he appeared in quite a few Westerns in his career , and some quite good ones at that , including 1952's " High Noon " . You'll also catch him as a guest in a handful of classic TV Westerns as his career was winding down . As far as the story goes , " The Old Corral " is one of those modern Westerns where the Old West meets a developing America with automobiles and electrical appliances in plain sight ; I thought it was pretty cool to see a General Electric marquee during an opening traffic scene . I wonder if that was a little bit of early product placement , or just a consequence of being in the right place at the right time . The plot has a story loosely built around a witness to a murder back East , with singer Eleanor Spencer ( Hope Manning ) attempting to maintain a low profile in an out of the way town called Turquoise City where Gene is sheriff . Actually , there are two sets of bad guys in the picture , with gangster Scarlotti ( John Bradford ) chasing Spencer cross country to eliminate her as a witness , while Simms and Garland ( Chaney ) try to ingratiate themselves with the singer in order to cash in with Scarlotti . You know , I'll never be able to figure out why the shooting starts in a lot of these early ' B ' oaters . For example , when Scarlotti's gang takes off in their car chasing Simms and Spencer , one of the gangsters turns and shoots at Gene during the Turquoise Day festivities . What would have been the motivation for that ? - he could have hurt somebody ! Here's something to think about . When Scarlotti arrived at Turquoise City , he had five henchmen along with him . During the final confrontation with the good guys , Smiley shoots the driver , one is run over by the cattle stampede , and another is shown being shot and falling down ( Smiley again ) . Presumably , those villains are as good as dead , but at the very end , all six are shown in jail together ! No math majors on this set . But I guess that's what made up the fun in these early films , with not much thought given to logic and reasoning . That , and a healthy smattering of cowboy crooners belting out the tunes . Gene was actually pretty generous in sharing the singing assignments here . While he handles his share , Roy and the Pioneers knock out a couple as well , and Smiley shows his versatility by playing an accordion and harmonica at the same time , while using his feet to bang a xylophone ! Oh yeah , Gene and Roy both yodel too !
" Sweet wine often turn nice woman sour . "	A woman under suspicion of murder is herself murdered . This Charlie Chan film breezes along fairly quickly at just an hour in length , and is brought to conclusion in a straightforward manner . The characters under suspicion all have a hidden past - the murderer / murdered Lola Dean was once Lola Wagner , in love with Manuel Cardozo who wouldn't leave his wife , only to be dispatched by the jilted Lola . Indian mystic / psychic Alfredo Marana , ably portrayed by Victor Jory , turns out to be Alfredo Cardozo , brother of Manuel on a quest to avenge his brother . Lola's aide Helen Ashby , is really the wife of murdered Manuel , who also has an ax to grind . The red herring in the mix is Armando the butler - the butler couldn't have done it because he himself is murdered . Sidney Toler comes across convincingly as he unravels the mystery , except when he puffs on the potentially drugged cigarette offered by psychic Marana - he sports the goofiest look ever . Harold Huber as Captain of Detectives is allowed to play it straight and effectively , unlike previous roles in the Chan series . Even Sen Yung isn't as bumbling in his role as Number # 2 son , but he does have his moments . All in all , the mystery is plausibly played out . It's interesting to note that the name of another detective of the era is mentioned not once but twice in the film , as the Mary Beth Hughes character Joan Reynolds brings up Bulldog Drummond's name ( she wanted to kill Lola too ! ) . This isn't one of the better Chan films ; it would rate higher if not for the blackout scene when the butler is dispatched , an overdone device in the Chan series . For my part , a is fair , but by all means , give it a try .
" I can't write a ' thousand bucks ' , it makes me nervous , my hand trembles . "	The opening credits state ' Introducing ' Huntz Hall , which surprised me a little because Hall was part of the gang in the earlier Warner Brothers flicks , including the original " Dead End " which introduced the boys to film . Of course they were the Dead End Kids during their WB days , so maybe this was the first ' East Side ' Kids picture Hall appeared in ; I'll have to find out more . In fact , the early part of the story does have a Warner Brothers feel to it as it explores Officer Tom Brady's ( Warren Hull ) repeated assertions that all kids aren't bad , they just need the right kind of direction in life . The story has a boxing theme like many of the Dead End / East Side movies would . What's a little different here is that Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) and Danny ( Bobby Jordan ) are on the outs for much of the film . Danny falls under the sway of small time hood Monk Martin ( Bobby Stone ) , while Muggs gets sponsored to represent the Police Athletic League in a Golden Gloves tournament . As a kid watching these pictures , I remember being annoyed that the characters didn't maintain continuity from film to film , even having different names for their characters . It doesn't seem like such a big deal anymore . Muggs is approached by crooked promoter Slats Morrison ( Eddie Foster ) to throw his fight against Joe Ryan so local mobsters can cash in on a rigged payday . If you listen carefully , you'll hear Muggs say ' Slats Martin ' while talking to him , and immediately after officer Brady arrives and calls him ' Morrison ' . No do-overs for these Poverty Row efforts , just get them into the can ! I got a kick out of the casting of the owner of Clancy's pool hall . Charlie Chan's Number # 1 Son Keye Luke appears as Clancy , in a bit of a turn around to the practice of using non Asian actors in Asian parts during this era . The story doesn't attempt to answer why his name is Clancy , but it would have been a hoot to find out . As happens virtually every time out , the so called ' bad boys ' wind up on top , Muggs wins his final Golden Gloves fight with all the heavy money on his opponent . He even managed to do it right after donating blood to the injured Danny , a bit of a stretch , but hey , it's the East Side Kids .
" Roy says it's boots and saddles for all you Rough Riders ! "	It's 1900 , and Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders have returned from Cuba . Roy Rogers and friends Rusty Coburn ( Eddie Acuff ) and Tommy Ward ( Ray Hatton ) seek work as border patrol agents , with the personal recommendation of Roosevelt himself . The border patrol captain is willing to take them on , especially since outlaw Arizona Jack is marauding the border passes and seeking refuge in Mexico . Adding drama to the plot is the presence of Dorothy Blair ( Mary Hart ) , as the daughter of the owner of the Amco Mining Company . Rogers has orders to detain her , but when a fight breaks out in the cantina she escapes on a Mexican stagecoach , only to be captured by the bandits . Roy Rogers has the uncanny ability to walk into any situation , no matter how grim , and pick up a guitar to sing a song . This happens twice in Roundup - first in the unfriendly environs of the local cantina , and then again when captured and secured in Arizona Jack's bandit hideout ; it's not very believable given the situation . Be attentive for a continuity goof in a chase scene in the second half of the film ; as Arizona Jack's gang pursues Roy and Rusty on horseback , the good guys string a rope across their path to knock the first two riders off their horses . But as the bandits get up to dust themselves off , the rope is back in place again . " Rough Riders Roundup " moves along at a brisk fifty eight minute pace , and as mentioned , has the obligatory fisticuffs , chase scenes and gunfights expected in a " B " western . One overlooked detail though - Roy appears to ride his trusty palomino Trigger in the film , however Trigger is not top billed as " The Smartest Horse in the Movies " in this flick . I assume he fired his agent before the next picture !
" Heap Big Show To-Morrow "	For an early Gene Autry Western , this one has a few interesting hooks to keep you entertained , chief among them the location in that far off western state of Georgia . I imagine it was necessary to pull off the premise of the title , since the story dealt with a community of ' turpentiners ' who made their living off the by-products of the local pine forests . It set up a type of range feud between encroaching ranchers who needed more grazing space for their cattle , pitting them against the turpentiners , who relied on the forest for their livelihood . Autry gets caught in the middle trying to do the right thing by both sides , and winds up becoming alienated from both . It's the only picture I can remember where any Western hero of note ( Autry , Rogers , Hoppy , etc . ) actually had a father in the story . I don't think I've ever seen Smiley Burnette looking as young before in a movie , to the point of being almost unrecognizable behind the mustache and meager girth . However when he lets out with the frog voice , there's no mistaking him . Ever the con man , Colonel Millhouse ( Burnette ) does some quick thinking on his feet when he declares a runaway team of horses a publicity stunt to help promote his Wild West Show . There's a nominal love interest for Gene's character in the person of young Milly ( Betty Bronson ) , who has an earnest crush on Gene and pines for him when he goes away to establish his career as a world champion cowboy ( sorry , couldn't resist the pun ) . That sets up the ensuing action when Gene returns to Pine Ridge as the star of the Millhouse extravaganza . The story moves along at a pretty rapid gallop , and you'll see some exciting horseback footage featuring Gene and the bad guys . I didn't see it as all that necessary to speed up some of the action footage the way director Joseph Kane did , for me it was a little distracting . Say , you know , I was curious about one thing - when Gene was late for his act in the Millhouse show , the Colonel threw in a ringer to impersonate him , but where did the Autry impersonator find a Champion impersonator ?
" Well , first we have men and no tickets , now we have tickets and no men . "	I kept picturing what an effectively done remake of this movie today might come up with , because it had all the neat elements needed for a thriller combining air travelers trapped with gangsters in a confined space with no way out . But in the 1940's it seems , and even later , there wasn't very much in the way of creativity to keep the suspense going for a sustained period of time . Can you imagine a henchman any more bumbling than Ryan ( Richard Clarke ) getting distracted by a pretty face , or losing a gun in his very first skirmish ? And he came highly recommended ! " Desperate Cargo " actually isn't all that bad , though the print I viewed was distractingly full of annoying jump cuts and quick scene changes . Most times continuity wasn't lost , but you had conversations sometimes interrupted in mid sentence . It was amusing to hear the island town of Puerta Nueve pronounced differently by at least three characters in the story . Ralph Byrd heads up the cast as purser Tony Bronson on a Trans-Caribbean Airways cruiser , quickly paired off with Ann Howard ( Julie Duncan ) , one half of a singing sister act , the other half being Peggy Morton ( Carol Hughes ) . You know , it would have been a nice touch if they actually got to do a number in the picture , I kept waiting for one . I really couldn't wrap my mind around the story's romantic angle for her and newspaper reporter Jim Halsey ( Jack Mulhall ) , but let's give credit to Halsey for trying . It seems I . Stanford Jolley found some time in between a corral full of Westerns to appear here as the lead villain Carter ; I liked the wheel chair gimmick , nice touch . All in all , as another reviewer on this board has noted , the film is largely forgettable once it's over , but the ride to the finale is entertaining enough . I've only seen one of Ralph Byrd's ' Dick Tracy ' films , but he has the distinction , through no fault of his own , in having appeared in one of the movies on my all time Top Ten Worst list - " Blake of Scotland Yard " . If you're faced with a decision , go with " Desperate Cargo " .
" He ain't retarded , he's misunderstood . "	My son asked me if I wanted to watch this film with him , so in the spirit of male bonding , I took him up on it . The only thing is , he wound up walking out during some of the intense parts , while I wound up getting squirmy with Ermey . I really should know better by now , I watched the 2003 remake a little over a year ago and this is the same movie . Nor do I get it when it comes to the fascination for these flicks , when pretty much watching any single one provides all the fix one needs in the slasher / gore / splatter area , pick your favorite shade of crimson . But hey , wasn't it clever how the Leatherface character was named ' hew-it ' ?
" I mean that from now on , I'm Gat Ganns , murderer . "	It appears a little more thought than usual went into this Lone Star Western , as the story line is fairly consistent and director Robert North Bradbury throws in a few elements I haven't seen yet after watching almost all of them . Wayne's character is Ted Hayden , who takes on the guise of wanted murderer Gat Ganns when it might help him get the goods on bad guy Gentry ( Lloyd Whitlock ) . George Hayes , not yet known as Gabby , teams up with Wayne to outwit the baddies and save the day for the Winters ( Lafe McKee and Virginia Faire Brown ) . It struck me that Wayne's appearance in the film bears some resemblance to another cowboy star , Hopalong Cassidy . His character wears all black , including the tall cowboy hat , and he rides a white horse in the story . Of course , Hoppy teamed with Gabby to round out that connection as well . The story itself is fairly formulaic , bad guy Gentry wants the Winters ranch and they aren't selling . Stealing their money and their cattle , and getting rid of Mr . Winters all sounds pretty familiar , with Gentry hiring the phony Ganns to help pull it off . Then he plans to eliminate Ganns as well , by killing him and claiming the reward money . Needless to say , the good guys figure it all out , and the payoff is a beaut . As Gentry staggers out of a cabin following a fight with Hayden , his own men gun him down by mistake - OOPS ! Yakima Canutt performs some of the daring stunts he's known for , one involves bringing two buckboard horses to a halt after they've broken away from their rig , with Yak riding the hitch like a pair of water skis . There's a wilder one though , when as Hayden , he dives off his horse and through the window of a cabin in pursuit of Gentry . It's one of the better stunts you'll see Yak perform in this or any movie . Typically , John Wayne gets the girl at the end of the picture , but it's not surprising . Earlier in the story , his character Hayden remarks to Gentry - " . . . I'll stay at the Winters place tonight , I got a few things I want to pick up " . The difference this time out though , the film doesn't end in a clinch between the new couple . Instead , they chase down young Jim Hayden after he embarrasses big brother and Fay into a match up . For trivia fans , you might want to keep that ' Wanted ' poster for Gat Ganns in mind if you look up some more of Wayne's Lone Star films . It appears again tacked to a cabin wall in a scene from " The Trail Beyond " . Even in the Thirties they found ways to economize .
" Who can ever be sure what's behind a mask ? "	You would think that teaming Bela Lugosi and George Zucco together would guarantee a moody creep fest , but " Scared to Death " is all over the place with references to green masks and Nazis , and a central character who's dead and telling the story in flashback . The flick adds character after character , presumably to keep things interesting , which might not have been as distracting if done in black and white . There's a lot crammed into this tale , and in the end , it's difficult to say whether it serves as mystery , horror or comedy . For what it's worth , the dead narrator Laura LaValle ( Molly Lamont ) was a singer in Paris who married Ward Van Ee on a bet , and now believes herself to be trapped against her will in the Van Ee ( great name ! ) home by her husband ( Roland Varno ) and father in law ( Zucco ) . She won't consent to a divorce , and at every turn smells conspiracy to do away with her . The first appearance of Lugosi and midget sidekick Angelo Rossitto brought an unintentional chuckle to this viewer , their disparate pairing a particularly weird element of the movie . In fact , the diminutive Indigo doesn't do much but posture and skulk around furtively until he eventually disappears from sight without explanation later on . Perhaps he figured out he was in over ( under ? ) his head in this one . Nat Pendleton portrays a lug of a private patrol officer and body guard for Zucco's character ; he's got a thing for maid Lilly Beth ( Gladys Blake ) , so their presence has some basis for being around , but why did the reporter and his girl friend show up ? Nothing had actually happened yet by the time of their arrival , so Terry Lee's ( Douglas Fowley ) nose for news was working overtime for nothing . Though the revelation of the ' killer ' doesn't come totally out of left field , I'll have to admit some confusion over the whole floating blue mask gimmick . It appeared a few times with Lugosi's character on screen , but why was Leonide out in the garden mimicking the same apparition ? Like a lot of what goes on in the picture , it's another diversion that winds up without servicing the story . In the finale , we're left to consider that Laura literally dropped dead away at the ' horror ' of her ' dead ' first husband showing up to give meaning to the story's title . It's a bit of a stretch , but by this time one's left wondering what isn't . There's only one thing I'd be willing to bet on here , the best performance in the entire film had to go to the put upon maid Lilly Beth . Throughout her entire presence in a ' deep hypnotic trance ' , try as you might , you won't catch her with anything but a straight face . For this film , it's the mark of a consummate actress .
" You ever been to a necktie party ? "	This one starts with a fairly serious if not standard premise ; if the new railroad train can make it to the town of Tomahawk , Colorado by the prescribed time , they'll win a subsidy that gives the rail line an advantage over the local stagecoach outfit . Unfortunately , the film devolves into virtual farce by the last half hour , as a reluctant engineer ( Walter Brennan ) is faced with the necessity of taking his train apart ! in order to make it to the finish line . Which wound up being even more ludicrous than the team of horses it took to pull the engine and three additional railroad cars over forty miles of wilderness devoid of train tracks . If any of this was even remotely believable it would have made for an interesting story , but as it is , the picture is best viewed strictly for light entertainment . The surprising thing for me winds up being how this 1950 color picture previewed a couple of classic black and white TV Westerns down the road . In not too much of a stretch , Anne Baxter's character is turned into Annie Oakley for the 1954 series , the sharp shooting cowgirl who gained fame in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show of the late 1800's . And with Richard Sale writing and directing , there's no question that the Chief Yowlachie character was the basis for Yancy Derringer's sidekick and bodyguard Pahoo KaTeWah . The Chief used hand gestures to speak and portrayed the same stance and attitude as Pahoo , while using a tomahawk instead of a dagger . Need any more convincing ? - his name was Pawnee , the same tribe that Pahoo came from . This was my first look at Dan Dailey in any kind of role , and he coyly plays off of the female Kit Dodge ( Baxter ) in an amusing manner , particularly in that ' bussing ' routine . Lending support to the unconvincing dynamics of the story was his unique ability to participate in a perfectly choreographed song and dance routine with Madame Adelaide's girls , complete with his own props ! You know , one of the Madame's dancing girls looked just like a young Marilyn Monroe ! But geez , couldn't they get someone more authentic to play the role of Crooked Knife ? So I check the credits , and that's none other than the original screen Tonto , Chief Thundercloud , not even attempting some phony Indian dialect . What a let down , and not even upset that the railroad hands wiped out half of his war party ! At least the story had a neat twist finale when the Mayor of Tomahawk expanded the city limits to allow the train to achieve it's goal and ' win ' against all the obstacles thrown it's way . But good grief , what was that farewell between Kit Dodge and Johnny Behind the Deuces all about when her five ' kids ' joined to wave goodbye . Somewhere along the way Grandpa Dodge's birds and bees talk wound up being a mere afterthought .
" Well those plugs of mine could beat your windjammin ' clodhoppers . "	" The Old West " offers a few curious elements for Gene Autry fans ; for one , it looks like he learned a few judo throws for that stable fight against the bad guys . The other was seeing Dick Jones in the role of a villain , something I hadn't seen before . Jones doesn't really have the face for a villain , nor the voice or body language to be a nasty henchman . As a pair , Jones and House Peters Jr . had me going WHAT ! ? ! ? when they agreed to come back to Saddle Rock after the mob that wants to hang them cools down . And they came back ! ! ! The story is told in somewhat of a flashback style , though it needn't have since the action looks like it all might have happened just the day before . It's always curious to me why these old Westerns from the 1930's and ' 40's often had a father of a youngster who looked more like they should have been the grandfather . In fact , stage driver Jeff Blecker looked like he could have been Gene's father , even though the actor playing his character , Louis Jean Heydt , was only two years older than Autry . The story itself contains a fairly common plot element , with bad guy town boss Doc Lockwood ( Lyle Talbot ) challenging Gene for the right to supply horses to the Southwestern Stage Lines . Doc feels his ranch raised horses are superior to Gene's trained wild mustangs , but it turns out there will be a ringer in the outcome . Gene's pal Pat Buttram is on hand as Panhandle Gibbs , and when the two main opponents fall out of the race with complications , ( read that as their wagons got wrecked ) , Panhandle comes up the winner by default . Even as a kid , I could never understand why as the noose starts to tighten for the film's main heavy , he winds up shooting the guy who starts to spill the beans , and with a room full of witnesses including the story's hero . That's exactly what happens here , with Doc Lockwood plugging his boy Pinto ( Dick Jones ) , who's behind bars ! How does he figure he'll get away with that one ? I guess that's why you have to take a lot of these old oaters with a shaker full of salt , and focus on the entertainment value , not the credibility of the story . A couple of years later in 1953 , Republic Pictures put out a film starring Rex Allen in a picture that also had a competition at it's center to decide on a winner for a government mail contract . It's called " Iron Mountain Trail " and would be of interest to anyone who enjoyed this picture .
" Now everything there is , I am . "	Roy Rogers portrays Vance Corbin , an ex-Confederate soldier who takes the amnesty oath declaring his allegiance to the United States , and is duly elected sheriff of Purvis City . Opposing him is town boss Ambrose Ballard ( Cy Kendall ) , whose goal is to eliminate all the local ranchers by declaring them seditionists and having them hung for treason . Gabriel Hornaday ( George " Gabby " Hayes ) is the voice of the ranchers , also going by the name of " The Night Rider " . Vance and Gabby are aided by Sam and Belle Starr ( Eddie Acuff and Sally Payne ) , and Gabby's niece Jeanie ( Marjorie Reynolds , bearing an uncanny resemblance to Dale Evans ) . Ballard attempts to ingratiate himself with a local contingent of cavalry troops , but when Colonel Davis suspects something amiss , Ballard's henchman Stacy ( Jay Novello ) shoots him . Ballard protects Stacy for as long as it may prove useful , but then attempts to eliminate him as well . With Stacy ready to come clean , Roy and company arrive in time to set the record straight with Captain Morgan , as Stacy settles his score with Ballard . Presumably Roy Rogers is the Robin Hood of the story , otherwise the title of the film bears no relation to the actual story line , not uncommon for a lot of B Westerns . This one follows a typical formula , but there is one neat innovative sequence when Vance Corbin aboard Trigger is attempting to escape a bad guy posse . Riding up on a herd of wild horses , Corbin quickly dismounts , removes the saddle , and Trigger blends in with the herd as the bad guys ride by completely unaware . This is the only time I've seen this strategy in a Western film , and it came across as a fairly clever ruse .
" You can't take the roar of the crowd and cash in on it " .	For a three time Indy race champion , Jimmy Cagney's character Joe Greer isn't as flamboyant as some of the ones he portrayed in the handful of films prior to this one . There's the spark of " The Public Enemy " Tom Powers here when he manhandles Joan Blondell , and slaps around kid brother Eddie ( Eric Linden ) . But the story is somewhat uneven with abrupt scene changes and much left to the imagination of the viewer to piece together the motivations of the lead players . Director Howard Hawks peppers the film with cameos of the leading race car drivers of the day , and for movie goers of the era , that was probably a cool feature , but for me , names like Billy Arnold , and Fred Frame don't carry any recognition . The highlight of the movie would probably be the race sequences , and they made me wonder why anyone would take up the profession with enough dust swirling around to blacken the features and choke every driver . I guess you had to love it . As a nostalgic period piece , the movie serves well to evoke memories of the California race tracks mentioned and shown in the story . Even back in the Thirties , it wouldn't be hard to imagine that the race announcer's statement about ' 100 death defying laps ' was anything but accurate , probably even more so than today with all the safety features built into the cars and race track itself . You have to admit , there wasn't much between the drivers and their primitive looking machines to provide escape from serious injury or death . Which made it too bad for Cagney movie regular Frank McHugh , who had to pay the price for getting between Joe Greer ( Cagney ) and brother Eddie in one of the movie's defining races . I think another reviewer on this board had it right about the film's closing scene in which Cagney prods his ambulance driver to out race a competitor to the hospital . The need for speed can lead to all sorts of reckless behavior , and I wasn't so sure that the movie was finding fault with that as much as glorifying it for the thrill of the audience .
" You know , you're a lot better man than you even think you are . "	Once again , a boxing milieu provides the backdrop to an East Side Kids film , as the boys initially make their way to a Civilian Conservation Corps camp under Danny's ( Bobby Jordan ) pretext of finding a training camp for Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) . Muggs ' character follows the pattern of starting out as a street wise tough guy only to soften up when he comes to realize the world isn't out to get him . Along the way he manages to stage a few boxing scenes with various opponents , and interestingly , he doesn't actually win any of them . When I used to watch these flicks as a kid back in the 1950's I recall how frustrated I would get about the lack of character continuity from story to story . For example , in this picture , Scruno isn't a member of the East Siders , he's already at the CCC camp as a worker . Apart from the single demeaning chore of bringing in the boys ' gear , this film doesn't get into the rather common practice of providing racial stereotypes . The set ups in the film almost always center on Muggs ' character , and they never really get beyond simplistic . However I can see how young audiences of the era would be captivated by Muggs ' traits of loyalty to his friends and willingness to work things out for himself in a jam ; not squealing on a guy who might have gotten him into a mess was a plus . Even when he gets booed for bad sportsmanship in the first camp fight , you get the feeling there will be redemption on the horizon for this Vassey Street bad boy . As for the boxing scenes , there's not much to see in the un-choreographed action , which gets sloppy with pushing and shoving , and virtually no emphasis on technical pugilism . For some reason , those scenes were generally sped up adding even more to the unrealistic feel of the fights . Ultimately though it doesn't matter much , as the boys come through showing what they're made of , and that's usually a pretty good reason to cheer . Fans of the East Side Kids who want to sample more of the boxing adventures might try looking up " Bowery Blitzkrieg " and " Kid Dynamite " .
" It's not what you run away to , it's what you run away from . "	If you had asked me if Mickey Rooney and Peter Lorre ever appeared in a film together , the obvious answer would have been ' No ' , but here they are together in a strangely noirish take about an everyday Joe garage mechanic whose life spirals out of control due to some bad decisions . It all starts out with a measly twenty dollar bill and winds up as grand theft auto and murder , and the unbelievable part about the whole thing is that it all looks pretty plausible as the story unwinds . OK , that might be a stretch , but I dare you not to be so thoroughly engrossed in the picture that you can't wait to see what happens next . Besides the story itself , there are so many intriguing elements that the picture has to offer that you'll be using the old remote for pauses and replays throughout . Like the sign in the used car lot - ' Jack For Your Old Hack ' ! That's where Dan Brady ( Rooney ) finds out he's upside down with his own set of wheels , owing thirty five hundred , but think about it - the brand new car he stole off his boss's lot was going for only three thousand ! Was there even a comparison there ? And holy cow ! - hocking a hundred dollar watch for thirty bucks lands you with a grand larceny charge ? I thought the Fifties were the good old days ! As for Peter Lorre , he may have had more sinister parts in movies , but was he ever creepier than he was right here ? He pulls a knife on Mickey Rooney and it turns into a rather neat fist fight , but I have to say , they each drew blood a rather bit too easily . Scenes like that one gave the picture an overall camp feel that had you wondering if you should take it all as seriously as the players intended it . I didn't have too much trouble with Jeanne Cagney as the scheming femme fatale leading Rooney on the road to ruin , but I had to wonder about good girl Helen ( Barbara Bates ) who didn't bat an eye when Dan confessed to murder . She was all ready to high tail it to Mexico and stand by her man even though Brady dumped on her throughout the story . It's probably a good thing they hijacked a lawyer for the getaway . Keep your eyes peeled for early scenes with Mouseketeer Jimmy Dodd at the diner when Vera ( Cagney ) first makes her grand entrance ( it's classic ) , and a later one when Jack Elam makes an uncredited appearance as a bar patron . Probably not a big deal for the casual viewer , but if you're a fan of these old flicks , those quick cameos are a veritable treat . Along with all the street scene eye candy from an earlier era that make each take so visually busy that you just can't take it all in at once . And what other movie offers the line " Stop or I'll Shoot " to such effective use ?
" Great thunderin ' Halleluia - that's ruin ! "	I had the greatest trouble believing this film came out in 1939 , I would have believed 1959 if not for the principals . Writing , cinematography and acting are far superior to what the average 1930's , or even 1940's film had to offer . Story wise , I found the treatment of the Jesse James legacy to be somewhat sympathetic , even though his ruthlessness and manner grew more extreme as the picture progressed . Perhaps even handed might be the best way to describe it , without knowing all the historical facts behind the James Gang . Tyrone Power offers a compelling portrait of the man and the outlaw , nicely complemented by Henry Fonda as brother Frank James . Randolph Scott is perfectly understated as Marshal Will Wright , who treads the line between keeping the peace and offering Jesse a fair shake because of the damage caused his family by agents of the St . Louis Midland Rail Road . His presence as a romantic foil for the hand of Zee Cobb ( Nancy Kelly ) could have been overplayed , but director Henry King managed to keep that relationship one of admiration and respect . The one performance I think everyone can agree on as being suitably bombastic was that of Henry Hull as newspaper editor Rufus Cobb . By the time his third or fourth editorial came around , any viewer would have been able to write it . I caught the film on Encore Westerns today , but if I had a copy of the picture , the scene I would be replaying time after time would be that tumble over the cliff on horseback that the James Brothers made while being chased by the railroad posse . Fonda's horse went over in a virtual somersault and it made me jump in my seat . I know the PETA folks would have a problem with it , but that might be the best aerial horse maneuver I've ever seen , and I've seen a few , especially in the ' B ' oaters of the 1930's and ' 40's . John Wayne's Lone Star Westerns also featured some insane horse spills , which I've come to learn were achieved by the use of trip wires . I guess that's why you don't see any of those declarations about not harming animals prior to about the 1960's . Anyway , " Jesse James " succeeds on a number of levels , even if historical accuracy is compromised . The one thing I think most viewers could agree on would be Major Rufus ' eulogy - " There ain't no question about it , Jesse was an outlaw . . . "
" He can charm a bird right out of a bush . "	What boggles my mind is why Howard Hughes would even attempt this garbled retelling of the story of three legendary Western figures . With Hughes ' generally obsessive attention to detail in his aeronautical career , you would think that at least some integrity would be maintained with names and dates for historical accuracy , but nothing about the film makes any kind of sense at all . Only Jack Beutel as Billy the Kid comes close to matching his character's age at the time of events in the story . In 1881 , Pat Garrett would have been thirty one years old , but Thomas Mitchell was fifty one when the movie was made . An even greater disparity exists with Walter Huston's Doc Holliday ; at fifty nine , Huston was almost twice his character's age of thirty . And with all that , the grave marker showing Billy the Kid's ' death ' on July 13 , 1881 ( he actually died on the 14th , but that was Doc Holliday in the grave ) , how would one explain Doc's resurrection to take part in the Gunfight at OK Corral ( / 1881 ) ? In all , just a complete mess regarding history . What's not a mess is Jane Russell's film debut as Rio McDonald , Doc's girlfriend turned Billy's lover . Oh baby , how hot was she ? At nineteen , it's a toss up as to who had the more sizzling screen presence , Russell here or Lauren Bacall in her first picture , " To Have and Have Not " . I'm willing to call it a tie . But there again , Hughes had to go for that over the top close up of Russell's lips about to kiss Billy , it almost demands a laugh out loud reaction . And how about all those goofy Warner Brothers type cartoon music moments ; didn't ANYONE have a clue that they didn't fit with the story ? You know , I'm usually the first to dismiss reactions to a film dealing with alleged homo erotic subtexts , but I have to agree with other reviewers on this board regarding the relationship between Doc and Pat Garrett . There's that conversation between the two just before Garrett takes out Holliday that's just mind blowing in it's suggestion . Just another element that digresses the entire story into never-never land . I think what might have given this picture half a chance would have been to keep the famous gunslinger names completely out of it . Then at least you could have made a case for a somewhat offbeat Western . Still , I don't care how you might attempt to rationalize it , there's no way anyone in his right mind would take a strawberry roan in trade for Jane Russell .
" Well this is a payoff , murder in the house of Mr . Wong , now we've seen everything . "	A distressed Oriental woman comes knocking on the door of James Lee Wong seeking his help . Before we get to learn her request , she is murdered by a poisoned dart , fired through the open window of Wong's study . She is Princess Lin Hwa , a woman of high degree from the Wang-Ki family , as evidenced by a ring displaying her family crest . As in prior Mr . Wong films , James Lee Wong ( Boris Karloff ) is accompanied in his investigation by Police Captain Bill Street ( Grant Withers ) , though he needn't bother , as the detective is mostly ineffective in getting any real police work done . It's Wong himself who develops his leads and is more effectively helped by Herald newspaper reporter Roberta Logan ( Marjorie Reynolds ) , a somewhat romantic interest for Street , though she's pretty much pushed around by the Captain for most of the film , while maintaining a wry smile and quick wit to counteract the blustering bully . In her last minutes before dying , Lin Hwa manages to scribble a curiously worded " Captain J " on a piece of paper , pointing Wong to not one but two different but connected leads - Captain James of the steamship " Maid of the Orient " , and Captain Guy Jackson ( everybody's a Captain ! ) of the Phelps Aviation Company . It's revealed that the Princess was arranging for the sale of airplanes to her brother in China , but the two Captain J's were conspiring to rid her of her money without fulfilling their end of the bargain . The real villain behind the murders though is the outwardly helpful bank president Davidson ( Huntley Gordon ) , having had access to Lin Hwa's bank account and freely forging checks to relieve her account of a million dollars . The giveaway - Davidson claimed to have had a vicious dog buried with an expensive headstone , but Wong correctly surmises that the grave actually conceals the body of a mute dwarf that was a friend of the Princess . Monogram Pictures released this movie in 1939 , and later remade the film in 1947 with another Oriental Detective in the lead role , casting Roland Winters in his first screen appearance as Charlie Chan . " The Chinese Ring " is virtually a carbon copy of the Wong movie , with the " Captain J " clue changed by one letter to " Captain K " . From there it moves along at pretty much the same pace until Chan's revelation of the killer . Both films are passable , but if you've seen one , you've seen both .
" That's easy Pop , the murderer will be the one with the guilty look . "	The Scarlet Clue takes it's name from a bloody footprint found at the scene of the first murder in this film , which takes place on a suitably mysterious docked boat . The action resumes at the Cosmo Radio Center , where a host of suspects and victims interact with Inspector Charlie Chan as he goes about solving the case . In two wonderful segments , Chan's chauffeur Birmingham Brown ( Mantan Moreland ) carries on a spirited dialog with Ben Carter , each interpreting the other and finishing each other's sentences , leaving Number # 3 Son Tommy ( Benson Fong ) totally confused . There's an interesting segue near the middle of the film when Charlie Chan meets a former Shakespearean actor , now radio personality named Horace Karlos ; could this be a tribute to Boris Karloff ? By the time the film ends , there are four victims , all having been been murdered for being too close to the identity of the criminal attempting to steal government radar plans . In a clever scheme , two of the victims are dispatched via the pitch of a radio broadcast that shatters a vial containing a gas that lethally interacts with nicotine when the victims puff on a cigarette . As in many Charlie Chan films though , you don't see the identity of the guilty party coming , it's only revealed at the end with a neat wrap up by the Oriental detective .
" Oh , no tellin ' what'll disappear next , maybe one of us ! "	By the time " Streets of Ghost Town " came out , Columbia was using more and more stock footage to keep expenses down , and it's quite evident here , particularly in those scenes with the voice over narration by Charles Starrett . The film also chews up a lot of time with endless back and forth riders on horseback and it's share of stampeding cattle . But for young matinée movie fans of the 1940's and ' 50's , this was the kind of action that kept all the young fans happy , both boys AND girls . I was intrigued by the location of the story , near Border Plain and the wild country of The Spur . That sounds really cool , but I wonder if there really is such a place ; Google gives you over a million hits , and I don't have that much time . With the ghost town theme , I thought the picture would get a little more mileage out of Smiley Burnette reacting to ghostly phenomena , but there was only that single Donner appearance in the window , and not too scary at that . As for Smiley , he only gets to do one musical number in the picture instead of his usual three or four , in fact the first is done by Ozie Waters and his Colorado Rangers . Then there's that curiously named boy actor , Little Brown Jug as Tommy Donner ; I really need to get to the bottom of that nickname . His real name , Don Reynolds is credited here , but I've seen pictures that list him only as Little Brown Jug . If you're a big time Durango Kid fan , you might think you've seen this picture before , there was a 1946 Durango film titled " Landrush " , also taking place in ' The Spur ' , and having similar elements , right down to digging trenches to fight the fires set by the villains . My guess is that if you watched them back to back , the land rush scenes from the earlier film are recycled here . As far as other ' B ' Westerns offering a ' ghostly ' theme , I would recommend Lash Larue's " Ghost Town Renegades " from 1947 , where the comedy antics are handled by Fuzzy St . John .
" Someday my friend , I'm gonna kill you . "	Based on two of Edgar Allen Poe's short stories , " The Gold Bug " and " The Tell Tale Heart " , I found the story to more closely resemble a reworking of " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " set on the ocean . It's three ' prospectors ' are portrayed by John Bromfield , Lon Chaney Jr . and Victor Jory in a pirate style adventure that ends in murder and a somewhat forced slide into paranoia on the part of the Professor ( Jory ) . For it's premise , the story turns out to be fairly mundane , though with a few neat touches . The underwater skeleton holding the first clue to a hidden treasure was a nice flourish , and having the Professor memorize details of a treasure map only to burn it to insure his safety was brilliant . Jory's character maintains a running feud with his younger partner Brannigan ( Bromfield ) , presumably over Brannigan's initial dust off by the Prof's comely island girl Alita ( Tessa Prendergast ) . After that , Alita never convinces as an ally of Brannigan or the Professor , but jeez , what did she see in the Professor in the first place ? Was it just me , or didn't Victor Jory look a bit like a zoned out Spencer Tracy ? Clearly the stunt double used when The Professor attempted to spear Brannigan underwater in an early scene was about twenty years younger . And how about the Swede , Lon Chaney Jr . Didn't he look really old here ? Granted , he was fifty at the time of the picture , but he looked about seventy . Rounding out , and I do mean rounding out , the main cast is Barbara Nichols as Brannigan's floozy girl friend Mimi . It wouldn't be too far wrong to say that her best scene was played completely on her back . I'm wondering now why she wasn't on the boat for the main adventure . If you haven't seen it yet , the title " Manfish " derives from the name of Brannigan's fishing boat out of Port Royal , Jamaica . Director Wilder seemed to have a penchant for a rapid fire panning technique in the movie that makes you dizzy after awhile , especially since it serves no practical purpose . Modern viewers might be perplexed by the ending credits that state the film's color was by DeLuxe , since the only existing version is in black and white ; another reviewer's post answers the question adequately . I can't imagine this film being on anyone's must see list , but fans of Lon Chaney will probably want to give it a try . For those who venture forward , you might take the example of anyone in the film presented with a vexing problem , always best solved with a handy bottle of rum .
" Hey , this looks like the place where the plot begins to thicken . "	For a while I thought " Spooks Run Wild " and " Ghosts on the Loose " were the same film , both featuring The East Side Kids teaming up with Bela Lugosi . This , the earlier of the two movies is heavier on the haunted house atmospherics which the East Siders use to fire off their gags and one liners . Lugosi comes complete with his Count Dracula outfit and midget sidekick Angelo Rossitto ; the long view of his mountaintop retreat is reminiscent of the sinister house in " Psycho " . What's kind of neat about the story as it progresses is that the boys all take turns teaming up with each other as they search for their injured buddy Peewee ( David Gorcey ) in the huge Billings Estate . Peewee seems to be in a trance after being treated by Nardo ( Lugosi ) , so his pals connect Nardo to the ' monster killer ' they heard about on the radio on the way to camp . In between the sound and sight gags , Scruno ( Sunshine Sammy Morrison ) has some fun with the stereotyped scaredy cat role he's given as the black member of the East Siders - " I'm so scared I'm turnin ' white now " ; and later - " A white spider , that must have been the ghost of the black widow ! " It all comes across as pretty harmless , but done today , the political correctness police would be all over it . There's a line Lugosi speaks in the film that reminded me of his performance in 1931's " Dracula " . In that earlier film , a wolf howls in the distance and Dracula says to Renfield - " Listen to them . . . children of the night , what music they make . " Under similar circumstances in " Spooks " , while walking through the Hillside Cemetery , he remarks - " City of the dead . Do they too hear the howling of the fighting dogs ? " I wonder if that line was intended as a tribute to the horror classic . From the outset , I had the idea that the old switcheroo would take Lugosi off the hook as the monster killer ; indeed it turned out to be the spooky Dr . Von Grosch ( Dennis Moore ) who almost claimed Linda Mason ( Dorothy Short ) from the camp as his latest victim . Lugosi's convincing along the way though , even getting to use a version of that famous stare down from " Dracula " and " White Zombie " . The diminutive Rossitto appeared with Lugosi a couple more times in pictures , in 1942's " The Corpse Vanishes " , and 1947's " Scared to Death " . He doesn't have a lot to do in any of the stories , in fact he doesn't even speak in this one , but his presence adds just a slight dash of bizarreness to the proceedings . At just over an hour in length , " Spooks Run Wild " is a fun diversion , but don't expect a tight script or much in the way of story development . It's all in the gags , one liners and Leo Gorcey's malapropisms . If you're putting together your list of films for Halloween fright night , this would be a good one to start off with .
" You got a six gun where your brains oughta be . "	" Heritage of the Desert " was a first for two of it's principals ; it was Henry Hathaway's first directing effort , and for Randolph Scott his first starring role . Both went on to bigger and better things of course , and though interesting from that standpoint , the film itself is a rather run of the mill oater whose theme would be done over and over again . Based on a Zane Gray novel , the story features Scott as surveyor Jack Hare , who gets caught up simultaneously in a range war and a love triangle . The romantic interest is portrayed by the disarmingly pretty Sally Blane , a ward of Adam Naab ( J . Farrell MacDonald ) whose own son ' Snap ' ( Gordon Westcott ) grew up with Judy after her father died . The marriage between Judy and Snap has been pre-ordained for twenty years , until Jack's presence causes Judy to reevaluate her feelings , and lack thereof for Snap . For his part , and unknown to his father , Snap is beholden to the villain of the piece , Judd Holderness ( David Landau ) , owner of the White Sage Saloon , and holder of Snap's gambling debts . One welcome addition to the cast is Guinn Williams as Holderness henchman Lefty . His part here as in many of his other films , calls for something of a dimwit , and it's too bad he wasn't able to win out over his boss's machinations in this one . For me , Williams ' persona was best rendered as Roy Rogers ' sidekick Teddy Bear in the 1944 film " The Cowboy and the Senorita " , and as Alan Hale's drinking buddy in two successful Errol Flynn Westerns , " Dodge City " and " Santa Fe Trail " . When this picture was made , he wasn't credited with the nickname ' Big Boy ' . In one of the film's anomalies , bad guy Holderness telegraphs his guilt over the murder of Snap Naab by pinning a message to his victim - " I've dropped my offer to $5 , 000 " - and leaving the body at Naab's doorstep . How was he planning on getting away with that one ? It doesn't really matter though , as the Naab patriarch makes the save by the end of the film in an awkward shootout between the principals . Even more awkward is Jack and Judy riding off into the sunset holding hands , with Naab riding on horseback closely behind - what were they thinking ? As an early Western , ' Heritage ' is no " True Grit " , one of Henry Hathaway's final directorial efforts . But it's not terrible either , and worth a viewing for reasons mentioned earlier . At only sixty minutes it breezes by fairly quickly , with quick scene changes that maintain one's interest level .
" I can assure you , we are in for a good pounding . "	Just a couple of weeks ago I caught a flick on the Monster HD channel called " The Brain Eaters " , so when this one followed I just had to be there . There's just something dreadfully intriguing about pictures this cheesy , and if you watch enough of them , you really get to form a weird perspective and insight . For example , when I first saw the skeleton that washed ashore in an early scene , I couldn't help but wonder if it was the same one that was used at the bottom of the swimming pool in the following year's " Teenagers From Outer Space " . You watch enough of these and you can put together all kinds of connections that your friends and relatives will marvel at . Now if I didn't know better , I'd also be wondering if Omar's ' Rosebud ' raft was an inadvertent tribute to 1941's " Citizen Kane " . Geez , I can't believe I even came close to that one . But you know , this flick has it's share of great lines like the one in my summary above . Or how about Murdoch's excellent analysis of the stranded islanders ' situation - " Let's face facts Professor , we've stumbled onto a living horror " . Here's what I'm thinking . You take the basic set up , a number of people of diverse backgrounds on an isolated island in the middle of an ocean . Let's say you've got this professor , a washed up actress full of herself , a hot looking assistant that the viewer can immediately relate to . Throw in a rugged good looking hero , and as a foil , come up with a beatnik character for the young set . You might also want to add an eccentric wealthy couple whose money is no good in their current predicament . I guess there's no way of knowing which work came first or which one inspired the other , but in " Gilligan's Island " , the laughs were at least intentional .
" Well , would you mind going downstairs and doing it with your wife ? "	I picked up this movie under the re-issue title " Movie Struck " , appropriate enough for the film's premise - a starry eyed Cecilia Moore ( Rosina Lawrence ) longs for a Hollywood career and sees her chance in the " On to Hollywood Beauty and Talent Contest " . Though she wins against a handful of contestants ( among them Miss Gopher City ) , the contest promoter runs off with the prize money , leaving Cecilia in a lurch . A series of fantastic coincidences eventually land Cecilia and her sister Nellie ( Patsy Kelly ) in Hollywood , while Cecilia's would be boy friend Joe Jenkins ( Jack Haley ) masquerades as an important man with connections who conspires to get her a screen test . Rounding out the main cast is Mischa Auer , a debonair Hollywood star who's forte seems to be seducing young , beautiful women . In this case , the casting was a bit off base , as his character Rinaldo Lopez is more a caricature than a romantic leading man . The story itself moves along rather blandly , and Cecilia's big break screen test winds up incredibly boring considering the consequences . What gives the movie it's much needed comic relief are two terrific bits featuring Laurel and Hardy , first as a pair of Mexican bandits in business suits , and later in a funny harmonica duel . Even though you may find this film featuring the comic duo on a video sleeve , their actual screen time is probably less than ten minutes all told . I'd be curious to know if the salon scene is the first in movies to portray an overtly gay male hair dresser ; it's a short scene but the depiction is obvious . With not much in the story of note other then Laurel and Hardy's antics , I'm pressed to give it much more than a lukewarm recommendation . By 1937 , a lot of their best work was already behind them , so it's surprising they weren't used more here . The big winner coming out of the film seems to be Jack Haley , who became the " Wizard of Oz " Tin Man in a couple more years .
" Small thing sometimes tell very large story . "	A formerly unproductive gold mine suddenly turns out to be highly profitable ; it's owner Manning insists someone is out to murder him . He turns to Charlie Chan ( Roland Winters ) for help , and the Oriental detective and his two assistants , Number # 2 Son Tommy ( Victor Sen Yung ) and driver Birmingham Brown ( Mantan Moreland ) embark on a pseudo Western adventure . The story is set in Arizona , and to downplay suspicion in their involvement , the Chan party heads off to the Lazy Y Dude Ranch , from where they can keep an eye on developments at the Golden Eye Mine . Sen Yung and Moreland make quite a sight in their Western attire , particularly Birmingham in his buffalo inspired jodhpurs . Tim Ryan is back in a reprise of his role as Lieutenant Mike Ruark ( The Shanghai Chest ) , but this time he's undercover as teetering lush Vincent O'Brien at the Lazy Y . He's there independently , but it turns out his investigation runs parallel to Chan's , so they use the coincidence to hook up . It turns out that the Golden Eye is a pass through for a gold smuggling operation originating in Mexico . The obvious brains of the smuggling gang appears to be the mine's superintendent Driscoll , but as usual for a Chan mystery , the obvious is always done one better , in this case , the mastermind is the handsome local assayer Talbot Bartlett ( Bruce Kellogg ) , who's only too happy to assist Chan in any way he can so that he can throw him off the mark . Bartlett is also busy courting Manning's daughter Evelyn ( Wanda McKay ) to be better positioned to remove the mine's owner from the picture . " The Golden Eye " is an average Charlie Chan mystery , made somewhat more interesting with the comedic bits by Mantan Moreland and the quite effective interplay of Tim Ryan's drunken character O'Brien . If you're a Charlie Chan fan , you'll have to add this one to your list .
" I have heard tales of this legendary hero . . . "	I knew that Peter Lupus had made a number of Hercules movies , but hadn't seen any until coming across this flick in the fifty movie DVD pack from Mill Creek / Treeline Entertainment under their Sc-Fi collection . His role in the TV series ' Mission Impossible ' only hinted at his size , but not the impressive physique he reveals here as the Greek strong man . There's also some hint of his acting ability shown as well , but let's face it , he wasn't surrounded by Shakespearean actors here . Hercules ' mission , which he's chosen to accept , is to rescue the Queen of Hellenes from her captors , the three sovereigns of Babylon . King Phaleg of Assyria has the same thing on his mind , but his motive is to unite his country with Hellenes to form an even more powerful state . You know the Babylonian trio will fall apart at some point , as lone sister Taneal would like nothing better than to rule singlehandedly without the interference of her brothers Salman Osar and Azzur . Taneal offers viewers an early insight into how Babylon will fall when she reveals the existence of an ancient wheel underneath the city that's chained to strategic pillars and walls . When it's time for Hercules to spin the old wheel of fortune , the city of Babylon comes crashing down , but didn't he make it look just a little too easy ? Lupus , going by the name of Rock Stevens for this film , seemed to symbolize the adage , ' walk softly but carry a big stick ' . Some of his scenes wielding that huge billy club looked almost comic in execution . It also seemed to me that it might have had a boomerang quality to it as well . Check out the first time Hercules throws the club in the direction of a Babylonian rider in an early scene . Herc is positioned behind the man on horseback , but when the club knocks the rider from his horse , it's shown hitting him from the front ! If you ask me , I'd say THAT was ' Mission Impossible ' !
" Sounds like that long legged nephew of mine has cut loose again , proving what a peaceable man he is . "	All the Wild Bill Elliott Red Ryder films have that story book opening where he steps out from behind the cover of a dime novel , gun drawn and ready for action . With this one , Little Beaver ( Bobby Blake ) steps out with him in a neat introduction to the story . The other regular on hand is Red's Aunt , the Duchess ( Alice Fleming ) , though I can't recall her being referred to by that name this time out . " Wagon Wheels Westward " plays out as a fairly standard and formulaic story , with Red and company tackling a villainous gang attempting to loot the members of a wagon train load of settlers heading for Desert Springs . When they get there , it looks like " Deserted Springs " - not a soul in sight . The mystery is resolved by the end of the film , it seems that gold fever stampeded everyone out of town ! The bad guys , headed by Dave McKean ( Roy Barcroft ) posing as land agent John Larkin , attempt to get the drop on the settlers by issuing fake deeds in return for their cash . Naturally they intend to high tail it once they loot the settlers , but Red Ryder smells something fishy and gets busy smoking out the bad guys . The film offers the expected shootout between both sides , and it's the only time in any Western when I heard one of the bad guys complain about wasting ammunition . That was before the quick thinking Little Beaver dropped a pair of bricks on a couple of the baddies knocking them out ; his bow and arrow must have been out of commission . I always get a kick out of seeing young Bobby Blake , whether in the old " Our Gang " series , or backing up the Rocky Lane or Bill Elliot Red Ryder's . Even back then he bore a strong resemblance to the adult Robert Blake of " Baretta " and more recently the celebrated murder trial . Little Beaver's favorite response to a Red Ryder request - " You betchum " ! Wild Bill Elliott has a rather large list of film credits with over two hundred films , which included sixteen Red Ryder movies . He also got a lot of mileage out of portraying Wild Bill Hickok in a number of films , and even appeared under his own name in 1943's " Calling Wild Bill Elliott " . Pretty amazing actually , if you consider if it were done today , we might have something like " Sylvester Stallone : First Blood " .
" . . . keep swingin ' , keep swingin ' , case you don't hit him the breeze might give him pneumonia . "	The East Side Kids films were never great cinematic achievements , but they were usually fun and had a sense of do good sentimentality . This one however seemed to be all over the place , as if it was a bunch of scenes in search of a movie . Before it's all over , you have a pool room match up , a boxing event , a jitterbug contest and Danny ( Bobby Jordan ) joining the Army . It's loosely held together by a running feud between Danny and Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) , whereby Danny inadvertently bests Muggs in each scenario . The usual camaraderie between the gang members is overshadowed by Muggs ' mean spirited treatment of Danny , who happens to be romancing Muggs ' sister Ivy ( Pamela Blake ) . It's interesting how different films in the series introduced family members who never showed up again in the interest of a story line . The latter fourth of the movie makes an unusually overt pitch for patriotism as Danny takes his employer's advice to do some serious fighting against real ' bullies called Japs and Nazis ' . Nick the pool parlor owner tugs at the heart strings when he tries to inspire Muggs with his ' Bill of Rights ' in their hearts speech , about all the local boys who have gone into the service to help in the war effort . Complementing the action are a host of visuals in the form of ' Buy U . S . Savings Bond ' posters , and in that regard , the film serves as an excellent period piece . The same can be said of the more commercial sign work , like the plugs for Goodrich Tires , Simoniz Wax , Champion Spark Plugs , and Dr . Scholl's . Hey , how about that scene at the gas pump when the driver gives Danny his ration book to purchase three gallons of gas ! Still , there are some comedic moments to lighten things up . Glimpy ( Huntz Hall ) entertains with his one liners , and shows up at the jitterbug contest with a partner that looks to be about seven feet tall . For his part , Muggs is quite the dancer , showing some fancy footwork that never made it into the boxing ring . The main thing that doesn't work in the story has to do with Muggs , in no other East Side Kids film do the boys ever do anything underhanded or illegal . However in this one , Muggs tries to enlist Danny's help in robbing Gendick's service station . That one scene is so out of character with the gang's rationale that it affected my appreciation of the movie . However the film pulls it out at the very end , as Danny , Muggs and Glimpy all turn out wearing the military uniforms of different service branches , as does Ivy who also signed up for a hitch . Besides that , the story offered one big surprise revealing Muggs ' real name - did you know he was Ethelbert ? ! ? !
" People pay good money to see me get hurt . . . "	Probably one's only interest in seeing this movie would be to catch Leonard Nimoy in his first starring role , no mean feat as the actor had only two prior roles in film , one of them uncredited . The story itself is entirely uneven , and one is kept constantly off balance as to what Paul Baroni's ( Nimoy ) intention and motivations are . I had to do a double take as the opening credit introductions rolled , and we learn about the ' Billy Goat ' gang , of which Baroni and his pal Angelo are members of . There's not one shred of difference between Angelo and the Daily Planet's Jimmy Olsen , as portrayed by Jack Larson . As for the gang itself , they looked like they could mop up 106th Street and 3rd Avenue with the Dead End Kids , even with Leo Gorcey at the helm . I guess my main problem with the story is that there's never any real compelling reason for the decisions Baroni makes . For example , what was behind his desire to sing in the church choir , thereby alienating himself from the rest of the ' goats ' ? How does one run away from almost killing a priest , only to turn up in the headlines of the local sport pages - couldn't the authorities make a connection ? And above all , how do you double cross the bookmakers and then get to do it again with even bigger money riding on the outcome ? Which by the way , got the biggest ho hum reaction from a trio of losers I'd ever seen after dropping twenty grand . If only Mr . Spock could have foretold his future stardom he might well have passed on this groaner , but then again , who's to know - one has to start somewhere . Still , the first time you see Nimoy straight on with that goofy make up job of a nose you'll double over . Did anyone else get the impression that it was about to fall off ? I'm impressed though , that two Star Trek alumni got their start by actually starring in full length film roles . The other would be DeForrest Kelley , who did the same in a somewhat better picture , a psychological thriller called " Fear in the Night " from 1947 .
" On this particular trip , we better know what's in the water . "	The Creature From the Black Lagoon saga comes to an end in this final installment of the Gill Man trilogy . The film starts out slowly with an expedition to the Florida Everglades headed by Dr . William Barton ( Jeff Morrow ) and Dr . Thomas Morgan ( Rex Reason ) in search of their objective . When finally tracked down , the monster is burned , gravely affecting it's outer scaly layer . The film moves into interesting scientific territory as the scientists debate over whether their efforts can transform the heretofore sea creature into a land animal . Against this backdrop , Barton's marriage to wife Marcia ( Leigh Snowden ) unravels as he is overcome by jealousy and fear . He's aware of the furtive glances cast her way by expedition guide Grant ( Gregg Palmer ) , and is no match for the calm and assured manner of Morgan . At least he doesn't have to compete with the Creature ; in this film , the big guy doesn't have an eye for the women . Maybe it was just the mood I was in watching the picture , but I was waiting for this one to be over . And then all of a sudden it was , the Creature left contemplating his fate as he looks out over the ocean , deciding what course to take . Perhaps it was a device to leave room for one more sequel , yet knowing that the Creature has no life on land and a certain death by returning to the water , the finale is left to the imagination of the viewer .
" Only children and fools open their mouths when they have nothing to say . "	" The Feathered Serpent " is unique among Charlie Chan films for a number of reasons . For one , we learn the identity of the master criminal well before the movie's end . Professor John Stanley ( Robert Livingston ) has kidnapped colleague Henry Farnsworth to learn the location of an ancient Aztec treasure . Only Farnsworth can decipher the Aztec hieroglyphics that may reveal the location of the riches . Perhaps even more meaningful for fans of the Chan series , Keye Luke has returned after an eleven year absence to reprise his role as Number # 1 Son Lee . The last time Luke appeared in a Chan film was in 1937's " Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo " , then with Warner Oland in the title role ; he had never appeared in a Sidney Toler Chan film . On top of that , this is the only pairing of Keye Luke with Victor Sen Yung , who again appears as Number # 2 Son Tommy ( although he was Number # 2 Son Jimmy in all the Sidney Toler Chan films in which he worked ) . The movie takes it's name from the ancient Aztec practice of worshiping a feathered snake or serpent . It's a bit difficult getting used to Roland Winters ' speech pattern as the Chinese detective in this film , it seems a bit more exaggerated than in his earlier pictures . And I can't imagine why the film makers chose to have Chan run around the Mexican wilderness in his trademark white suit and hat , when a safari suit would have made a lot more sense . The end of the movie plays a lot more like an Abbott and Costello film than a Charlie Chan picture . There's a lot of animated fighting and the Chan brothers actually get a bit violent in pummeling the bad guys , particularly Tommy who repeatedly pounds his opponents ' head against a stone step inside the discovered temple ; it's actually quite gruesome if you analyze what's going on . But probably the most off kilter moment comes when Charlie himself warns his party to be careful in handling a weapon intended for himself - " Poison dart probably dipped in poison " .
" Right now nothing's dangerous . "	Right out of the box , this had the makings of a pretty good revenge flick , but that plot got slowly frittered away with off tangent events that didn't move the story forward satisfactorily . I saw the film under the reissue title " Gangs , Inc . " , part of a 4 DVD / sixteen film ' Mobsters ' movie set well worth it's ten dollar price tag . This one falls slightly below average against the rest of the ones in the collection , a shame because it could have been a lot better . I guess the main problem with the story is that even though Rita Adams ( Joan Woodbury ) ultimately gets her revenge against the crime syndicate that rubbed out her father , she wound up going the same route as the bad guys by sharing the same fate with a guilty verdict . The goon that she took the rap for in a fatal hit and run accident wound up written out of the story in an off screen auto accident , so there was no way for her to exact revenge on him directly . The job of infiltrating the crime combine fell to Alan Ladd's character Jimmy Kelly , but don't blink or you'll miss his connection to the story . Kelly's girlfriend Donna ( Linda Ware ) has a couple of singing numbers in the film , but other than being friends with Rita , there's no other reason for her being there as she plays no role in the outcome either . What you have here is a movie that on the surface looks like it's actually going somewhere but never arrives . The ending closes on a dedication sign for a playground , presumably on the grounds of the orphanage that took in the young Rita Adams left fatherless in the early part of the story . This viewer was left surmising that the sign was paid for with Rita's share of her ill gotten mob money .
" When it comes to joinin ' an army , we'll just make up our own mind . "	Oh boy , I really wanted to like this film , but as the story progressed it just got more and more unbelievable as major plot holes kept creeping into the story taking away any sense of credibility . I'm not disputing the historical accuracy of Jesse James riding with Quantrill's Raiders during the Civil War , in fact , at the start of the war , he would only have been about fourteen . So all those references to the boys being just kids when they first entered Quantrill's camp were more than justified . Here's where the problems start . Quantrill's ( Brian Donlevy ) third in command is a fellow named Tate , later revealed to be a Union plant . So why would Tate accept Jesse James ' ( Audie Murphy ) challenge to a handkerchief fight with Bowie knives , putting his own life at risk above the call to duty ? That one just doesn't make sense . But besides that , in addition to Tate , Jesse knocks off Quantrill's number two man Anderson ( Scott Brady ) later in the story without repercussion . All throughout the film , Jesse's disillusionment with Quantrill's methods is consistently put to the test , and each time he decides to hang around . For Quantrill's part , when Jesse challenges the killing of innocent civilians during his attacks , why would Quantrill simply allow the James boys , the Youngers and Kit Dalton to just sit out one of his raiding parties ? There's more . It doesn't take long for Quantrill's lady Kate ( Marguerite Chapman ) to figure out just how ruthless he and his men are . " Kill ' em and bury ' em , all in a day's work , huh ? " is how she sums things up . But she sticks around too , even while trying to talk Jesse and his comrades to leave the ' Butcher's Brigade ' . As the Civil War rages on and Quantrill's ranks grow thin , there's a scene when all of his men dessert , along with Kate , and Quantrill seems no more upset than if he missed breakfast . But here's the best ! During one of Quantrill's raids near the end of the movie , he's blinded by a gunshot from Union forces . Unable to see , and with his eyes blindfolded besides , he and Jesse's men arrive at the site of an earlier raid , and he says , " It looks like we've been here before Jesse " . At that point , the movie nailed it's own coffin for me . I have to say though that the casting for the picture at least was inspired . I always enjoy seeing James Best , this time as Cole Younger riding with Jesse's crowd . Kit Dalton was portrayed by Tony Curtis , and Scott Brady looked a bit paunchy as Bloody Bill Anderson . It's a quandary to describe my feeling for Marguerite Chapman in the role of Kate ; she managed to convey her anxiety about Quantrill's villainy well enough , but didn't do anything about it . I'm already on record with my thoughts on Audie Murphy playing a screen heavy ( " Gunsmoke " , " No Name On The Bullet " ) . Granted he was World War II's most decorated hero , but with his baby face he doesn't convince as a desperado . In keeping with the historical accuracy of Jesse James ' age during the time of this story , Murphy's casting makes some sense , but I would have preferred to see him play it with the kind of intensity Emilio Estevez used in portraying Billy the Kid in " Young Guns " .
" He's pretty healthy lookin ' for a corpse . "	Curiosity seekers might be interested in seeking out old films like this for samples of politically incorrect , often times racist language that passed for the norm well before the civil rights movement . The Mexican laborers on the Don Toreno ranch are routinely called peons throughout the story , even referring to each other with the name . It was a bit unusual too , to see the term in writing as part of Don Toreno's will , in which he gives his employees the land they live on free and clear upon the reading of his will . Therein lies the tale for this Republic ' B ' programmer starring Don ' Red ' Barry , who comes to the aid of the Mexicans after their mysterious local hero ' El Lobo ' ( Neyle Marx ) is killed in a gun battle . As Jim Lawrence , a former worker on the Toreno ranch , Barry dons the black mask and cape to echo the spirit of El Lobo to keep the villains confused and constantly off balance . The chief bad guy is none other than Milburn Stone , well before his Doc Adams days on ' Gunsmoke ' , and perhaps a bit difficult to recognize if you've only seen him as the crusty doctor . At times , he seems to be taking orders from crooked sheriff Jeffers ( Rex Lease ) , but it's Stan Borden ( Stone ) who has designs on the Toreno ranch and Miss Elanita ( Virginia Carroll ) . The one curious thing about the movie that would have given away Lawrence's identity under the mask - none of the Mexicans ever spoke to him in Spanish - hmm . However he did give out with a ' Hasta la vista ' line at one point , but hey , even the Terminator got away with that one . It seemed like the film makers attempted to add some comic relief to the story with the introduction of a black character named Memphis ( Ernest Wilson ) . That didn't seem to go anywhere , as his gimmick with a pair of dice was never expanded . He also had to suffer the aforementioned racial angle by being called ' boy ' as he got off the stage . He looked like he was hired to be a cook on the ranch , but it wound up as a throwaway part . What wound up being cool about the story was the way it ended . As the suspense built to a head for the reading of the will , both bad guys drew down on each other to reveal their villainy and take each other out . I can't recall an ending like that in another Western , though there's probably one out there . The one thing that did get a chuckle out of me was the closing scene . By that time , Barry's character managed to charm his way into a relationship with Miss Elanita . He's shown handling the local minister's business card citing - ' Marriages - $5 . 00 or one heifer " !
" Who say who dat when I say who dat ? "	" Ghosts On The Loose " has one of the more interesting casts in film , with members of the East Side Kids top billed with Bela Lugosi and aspiring newcomer Ava Gardner . However as strong as the lineup looks on paper , the movie itself is a rather hum drum affair , with a few funny gags and one liners thrown in as Leo Gorcey leads the way . Those who tune in due to Lugosi's presence may be disappointed . His on screen time is actually very minimal , and is mostly spent disparaging his band of Nazi agents . A characteristic line - " Why do I have such idiots around me ? " Gardner's role is that of Glimpy's ( Huntz Hall ) sister , planning her wedding to Jack Gibson ( Rick Vallin ) . Similar to Lugosi , her role is almost a throw away with not much to do . As a newlywed , she doesn't seem too upset by an interrupted honeymoon , while husband Jack is even less believable chasing down the printing press responsible for Nazi propaganda . The best bits are reserved for the East Siders . Glimpy's wedding tux was borrowed from a mortuary , due back the next day for the funeral of a mobster . Sunshine Sammy Morrison as Scruno is a welcome addition to the gang's antics , while Mugs delivers his share of fractured one liners . One of my favorites - " Well can you picture that , I must be havin ' optical delusions " . " Ghosts On The Loose " helps reinforce for me that the East Side / Dead End Kids / Bowery Boys did their best work in support of a major star , case in point - " Angels With Dirty Faces " . The film is worth a one time viewing though for it's eclectic casting , and it's closing scene with a closeup of Huntz Hall's face displaying a case of German measles , complete with swastika rashes .
" Another couple of doses and your patient will be ready for the asylum . "	" Nightmare Castle " has one of the best opening lines of any film I've seen - " At this rate you'll destroy all the frogs in the entire county , my dear . " So says Muriel Arrowsmith ( brunette Barbara Steele ) to her pseudo scientist husband Steven ( Paul Muller ) . When Steven discovers his wife being unfaithful , he sends her and lover David ( Rik Battaglia ) out in a blaze of glory . To maintain the huge estate left behind by Muriel , Steven schemes to marry Muriel's sister Jenny ( blonde Barbara Steele ) . Borrowing a plot element from 1958's " The Screaming Skull " , Steven intends to drive his new wife slowly insane with the help of lover Solange ( Helga Line ) , an ageless beauty thanks to the scientist's youth inducing blood transfusions . Hampton Castle is the perfect setting for the grim proceedings in a film that has some trouble finding it's real purpose . The movie is rather busy with the ghostly appearances of Muriel and David , the mental unraveling of Jenny , the blood transfusions to keep Solange young and beautiful , and the quite macabre ways Steven uses to dispatch his intended victims . It's all done in a rather disjointed style that probably wasn't helped by the print I viewed , with unrelated scenes following each other a number of times . For her part , Barbara Steele has a unique blend of skeletal proportions that she brings to the screen , from the gaunt expressiveness of her face to the long spider like fingers that clasp Steven around the neck just before displaying the hideously rotting features behind her long dark hair . It's a great counterpoint to the diabolical scheming of husband Steven who gets his own comeuppance in a fiery finale .
" Afraid . . . , listen Captain , Clyde Beatty isn't afraid of man , beast nor devil . "	I'm surprised I missed this one as a kid growing up , since anything with wild animals , especially jungle cats I found to be thrilling ; that's why Tarzan has always been a favorite . " The Lost Jungle " more than anything appears to be a showcase for the talents of circus animal trainer Clyde Beatty , who portrays himself in the film . Beatty is not particularly impressive in physical stature , which makes it all the more remarkable in the way he handles himself surrounded by all manner of wild beasts both in captivity and in the wild . The search for a legendary island city of Kamor in the South Pacific forms the backdrop for the film's adventure . However it's not Beatty who initiates the voyage , but a Professor Livingston ( Crauford Kent ) who theorizes that a place exists where animals native to both Africa and India live together . That leg of the journey takes place aboard a schooner directed by Captain Robinson ( Edward LeSaint ) , who for good measure drags his daughter Ruth ( Cecilia Parker ) along . Ruth is technically Beatty's fiancée , but since he can't tear himself away from his lions and tigers , he quite literally misses the boat . Beatty forms his own expedition to Kamor to rescue the Robinson's when news of their disappearance arrives . Their trip aboard a dirigible also meets with disaster , but at least they make it to their destination . What I found amazing was that two different parties set out for a largely mythical land , somewhere in a vast ocean ( maybe ) , and they both wind up in exactly the same place . As a romantic , Beatty's a good lion tamer . When he first encounters Ruth , she's about to become lunch for a savage island lion named Sammy . After saving her from a main course , Beatty once again mangles every opportunity to let Ruth know how much he missed her . Instead he's fixated on the incredible wildlife that the island has to offer - sheesh ! Skulking around to make life tough for Beatty is the villain of the piece , a low life named Sharkey ( Warner Richmond ) . Motivated by jealousy and greed , Sharkey does his best to do bodily harm to the boss . Beatty never suspects what a heel he is , but the viewer can only cheer when a savage lion evens the score with the bad guy . If you pay close attention , you might recognize a whiskerless George ( Pre-Gabby ) Hayes aboard the dirigible as one of Beatty's crew . However another future star also makes an early appearance in the movie . The young boy with the dog who's fascinated by Beatty's heroics is none other than Mickey Rooney ! Perhaps the real stars of the movie though are the four footed entertainers themselves , second billed to Beatty as The Hagenbeck Wallace Animals . Truthfully , it's hard to imagine how those jungle scenes were created , especially the very realistic battle between a lion and tiger . I imagine some stock footage was used , but it's difficult at times to draw a line between the staged and real scenes . A couple of times in the movie , Clyde Beatty makes a reference to " bring them back alive " regarding the jungle cats of Kamor . I would be curious to know if there were any conflicts with Beatty contemporary Frank Buck over the phrase , as Buck was an adventurer who captured wild animals for zoos and circus use during the same era . In fact , Buck's film " Bring ' Em Back Alive " preceded this one by two years , and the line was one of his trademarks . In any event , " The Lost Jungle " is worth a viewing to see the real Clyde Beatty in person , using his skill and resources to tame wild beasts . If nothing else , you won't want to miss that famous stare down .
" There's something mysterious going on here , that man's dead " .	" The Mandarin Mystery " plays out as an interesting balance between mystery and comedy , with Eddie Quillan portraying a young Ellery Queen , casually following up hunches and clues to solve a couple of murders . That he's simultaneously romancing a possible suspect doesn't seem to bother him much , though he does express his reservations to Josephine Temple ( Charlotte Henry ) when she shows up with the murder weapon . No matter , the self assured detective will come through with a detailed explanation of the killer's modus operandi at film's end that even Charlie Chan would admire . The story involves a rare stolen stamp with a picture of an Oriental with his clothes on backwards . Quite coincidentally , the first dead body is found the same way in complementary fashion . It's a neat twist to a story that relies on some manufactured elements to solve a locked room murder mystery , but that's OK as getting there is much of the fun . The film has some great one liners and comedic banter between Queen and Temple , with Franklin Pangborn dropping by ( literally ) as the squeamish hotel manager . The film is peppered with it's share of red herrings as well . The Kirk sisters Martha and Irene ( Rita LaRoy and Kay Hughes ) rail at their father ( George Irving ) for squandering his fortune and their inheritance on his stamp collection . Irene's fiancée Donald ( George Walcott ) has a connection to murder victim Craig ( Walter Merrill ) , and then there's the shady Howard Bronson ( Edwin Stanley ) , operator of an auction house that would just love to get his hands on the Mandarin stamp . At least one of the above is removed as a suspect when they become a victim as well . With it's mix of fast paced crime solving and snappy dialog , the movie keeps the viewer slightly off balance wondering how it might end . Ellery Queen's demonstration of how the killer did it was quite ingenious , for that you'll have to watch the film . Pay attention though , as the story breezes by in just about an hour before ending with a kiss - was there ever any doubt ?
" Better to have me slap you around than have somebody bore a hole in ya " .	This has all the look of a hastily patched together story , but for Gene Autry fans it's a pretty quick paced and entertaining flick that brings together a number of familiar faces . Pat Buttram shows up not quite mid-way through following a dust up between Gene and a young Hugh O'Brian ! , and goes by the name of Mike Rawley , which seems somewhat unusual to me since he usually went by Pat in Autry's Westerns , at least in the TV series . Buttrams ' character gets some mileage out of a running gag involving Gene's horse Champion and Champ Jr . , which entices him to swear off the bottle . That actually seemed a little bold to this viewer , to have a good guy sidekick admit to having one too many . O'Brian's character is the kind of guy that if this was a biker movie , he'd be the lead tough guy . Except that Gene shoves him around without too much trouble and really isn't challenged by him all that much . Jack Beaumont ( O'Brian ) winds up getting framed for his own father's murder , but one needn't expand on that too much since that's a staple element in dozens of ' B ' Westerns . The guys doing the framing ( James Millican and Don Beddoe ) wind up getting smoked out by Gene , as Rawley is continuously amazed by all the ' firsts ' he experiences as Gene's deputy . And to think , Gene didn't even check his resume . This film finally forced me to get to the bottom of a nickname I've been wondering about for some time . In the story , the character Chip Beaumont , young brother of Jack , is portrayed by a teenage actor named Don Reynolds , who's often credited as ' Brown Jug ' . At least in this picture he was ; in even earlier films he's listed as ' Little Brown Jug ' . Reynolds was the son of a horse trainer and rodeo performer , and made his own rodeo debut at only three years old ! The Reynolds family members all had nicknames , he had cousins named Blackie and Whitie , so Don became Brownie . His father was visiting a man in Texas , and right as they were walking through the door , the Glenn Miller song ' Little Brown Jug ' was playing on the radio . The man exclaimed that here was Fess ( Reynolds ' Dad ) and Little Brown Jug . So now you know the story too ! Keep your eyes open and stay attentive during the story and you'll pick up on a couple of novelties you probably haven't seen before . In the first half of the picture , Gene gets involved with some bank robbers , and the second guy he shoots on horseback throws his right leg over the saddle to his left side before falling off his horse ; I guess he didn't want to hurt himself ! The other has to do with Autry's final showdown against bad guy Rocky Morgan ( Millican ) . Morgan attempts to shoot at Gene aboard Champion , and as Champ bucks up on his hind legs , he knocks Rocky's gun out of his hand ! You know , I never realized it , but Champion is a fantastic looking animal , and for whatever reason , it's strikingly noticeable in this film . You can have some fun with this one , it breezes by pretty quickly and packs a lot of action into it's sixty nine minute run time . Gene characteristically knocks out a couple tunes , one of which comprises the title song - " Beyond The Purple Hills " .
" Well I'll be a knock kneed bobcat . "	Set in 1861 Missouri at the outset of the Civil War , it's a toss up as to how the state will side during the great conflict . Officially a Union state , sympathies lie with the Southern cause , and when news of the attack on Fort Sumter breaks , cheers break out for the Confederacy at the garden party of Dr . Jason Bradford . Roy Rogers and Gabby Whittaker ( Gabby Hayes ) are sympathizers who become scouts for the Confederate Army , and their mission is to bring a guerrilla outlaw to justice . Val McBride wears a Confederate uniform , but his band of mercenaries would rather loot Federal supply trains and civilian ranchers , taking advantage of the conflict to enrich themselves . It wasn't unusual for Charlie Chan films of the same era to make racial references , taking jabs at blacks as well as Orientals . This is the first time I've encountered it in a ' B ' Western . There's a scene where Roy enters the Radford home and is greeted by the black maid Mammy Lou . When he comments that she's looking well , Mammy Lou replies - " Maybe I am , but I'm feelin ' kind of pale . " For a good part of the film , Roy tries to convince his friend Dave ( David Allen ) to sever his allegiance with the outlaw McBride , but the easy money is too great a temptation . Dave and Roy share an affection for Dr . Bradford's daughter Laura ( Sally March ) , though the romantic angle doesn't get resolved by the end of the film . In a rarity for these early oaters , the villain also has a female accomplice . Bess Warren ( Dorothy Sebastian ) is McBride's girlfriend , though the relationship is more casual than close . I managed to pick up this film cheaply on DVD along with another Roy Rogers flick on the flip side , " Apache Rose " . Both copies suffered from poor voice and lip synchronization , and this film was a bit blurry besides . Along with that , the story seemed to drag along with drawn out chases and repetitious dialog . Still , if you're a Roy and Gabby fan , there's enough here to tune in . So far it's the only film in which I've seen Roy sing a spiritual as part of his repertoire . For Roy Rogers fans , another film with a Confederate backdrop to consider is " Robin Hood of the Pecos " ; Gabby's along for that ride too . If you take in this film , have some fun and count up how many times Gabby says ' ya durn tootin ' " .
" Before the mantle of death covers you , speak so all may hear . "	I was surprised to learn this film was made as late as 1952 , it looks like it could have been from the Forties , or even the Thirties . Part of that comes from the stock footage used throughout the story , but even Clayton Moore's scenes have a certain aged look . Moore filmed this while on leave from " The Lone Ranger " TV series during the 1952 season , and it's not hard to spot the Ranger's mannerisms and pick up the speech pattern . As Buffalo Bill Cody , Moore looks like one of the characters he would portray in the TV show when he took off the mask and wore a disguise . Though the story is rather formulaic , I found the scenes between Buffalo Bill and Chief White Cloud ( Chief Yowlachie ) to be very well done . Credit the script writers for utilizing what sounds to be authentic dialog , particularly that of the Chief . It always intrigues me to hear the lyrical flow of Indian language . The movie's opening scene offers something you won't see very often in a Western . During an Indian attack on a wagon train , everyone defending the circled wagons ( except for Buffalo Bill and Cactus ) is wearing a dress , and you'll find yourself saying - ' Those are some pretty ugly women ' . I'm still not convinced soldiers would have disguised themselves that way , but at least it was a creative effort . The other notable Indian actor in the film but in a smaller role is Chief Thundercloud , going by the name of Black Hawk . Thundercloud has the distinction of being the very first film sidekick to the Lone Ranger , portraying Tonto in the 1938 serial aptly titled " The Lone Ranger " . He reprised the role a couple of years later in " The Lone Ranger Rides Again " . The more times I heard young Indian lad Pinfeathers repeat the phrase ' You betchum ' , I had to squint a little harder to see who was playing the part . You would too if you saw enough Red Ryder films from the 1940's . His sidekick Little Beaver would always respond to Red Ryder's request with ' You betchum ' ; the boy in the role was Bobby Blake , many years before he became Robert Blake . Apart from his role as The Lone Ranger , one would expect to see Clayton Moore in other films as a good guy . That's why seeing him as the heavy is a unique experience . He was cast as a villain in at least three Charles Starrett Durango Kid Westerns - " South of Death Valley " , " Bandits of El Dorado " , and " Cyclone Fury " . I also caught him as a henchman not long ago in a Gene Autry film - " Riders of the Whistling Pines " . Even if you're only used to seeing Moore in his trademark Ranger mask , you'll know him by the distinctive voice , a dead giveaway .
" I guess you found out Wallace , there's no place like a wagon train to study human nature . . . "	Buck Roberts ( Buck Jones ) and Sandy Hopkins ( Ray Hatton ) guide a wagon train loaded with railroad supplies through Indian territory on the way to Oregon . Jack Carson ( Rex Bell ) rounds out the good guy trio in a role that keeps one guessing who's side he's on as he trades in his buckskins for a new set of gambling duds . Carson is out to get the goods on the boss of Beaver Lake , Jim Corkle ( Harry Woods ) ; it's his gang that masquerades as Indians and takes out part of the wagon train that split up to protect the railroad goods . The film hosts a pair of good looking young ladies . Mona Barrie portrays Sadie Rand , who in a clever bit of blackmail gains the gambling concession at Boss Korkle's saloon . On the sweeter side , Christine McIntyre is a settler heading West with her mother ( Maude Eburn ) . Her contribution to the story consists of two song standards - " Rock of Ages " and " Beautiful Dreamer " . I don't know how the convention started , but why is it that when a wagon train or stagecoach is attacked and chased by outlaws or Indians , and the driver or his partner is shot from behind , he always goes down clutching his chest ? It happens twice in this story . The film was intended to be a Rough Riders movie ; prior ones teamed Buck and Ray with cowboy star Tim McCoy . However the opening credits of the version I saw made no mention of the Rough Riders connection . Speaking anecdotally , every Western ever made had one of three actors in it - Stanley Andrews , Glenn Strange or Roy Barcroft . Barcroft appears in this one , as a Korkle henchman named Loder . In the movie's one on one gunfight , Buck gets the drop on Loder , in what would be his final showdown . Sadly , Buck Jones died in an infamous fire that destroyed the Cocoanut Grove Night Club in Boston on November 28th , 1942 . Nearly five hundred people lost their lives in that tragedy . For an excellent account of that incident , I would direct readers to the following site : http www surfnetinc com chuck terms15 htm
" Sometimes I think engineers are crazy . "	" Carson City " is not your standard Western fare . Randolph Scott portrays engineer Jeff Kincaid , back in Nevada from a job in Panama and looking more or less for some action . When he learns of a businessman's plans to build a railroad leg through mountainous territory between Virginia City and Carson City , he fairly jumps at the opportunity to ramrod the project . There are opposing forces to the railroad in town , not the least of which is Carson City Clarion owner and publisher Zeke Mitchell ( Don Beddoe ) . When Mitchell winds up murdered , the suspicion falls on Kincaid and his crew . Adding to the dramatic tension is Kincaid's relationship with his half brother Alan ( Richard Webb ) , whose fiancé Susan ( Lucille Norman ) is Mitchell's daughter . She was only sixteen years old when she last saw Jeff Kincaid , and now that he's back in town , an early crush is about to develop into a wedge between the two brothers . The part of the crooked businessman is handled by Raymond Massey as Big Jack Davis , gang leader of the " Champagne Bandits " , whose opposition to the railroad lasts long enough to plan a last big score of gold bullion on the train's maiden run between the two Nevada cities . By this time , Kincaid and his men have been rescued from a landslide that trapped them in tunnel one of their railroad project , with Kincaid beginning to uncover Davis ' hand in the plot to rob the train . It's all wrapped up pretty neatly by film's end , with Randolph Scott even getting the girl , more of a feel good ending as there was really no romantic relationship to speak of in the film . For trivia buffs , this was the first Warner Brothers film to be produced in the Warner Color format . The rendition was good in the print I viewed , and shows off nicely Randolph Scott's rather frequent change of outfits which is characteristic for his films , highlighted by the signature all black outfit in the middle of the story .
" Those drums speak the dance of war . "	Even with Clyde Beatty in the movie , Commodore Films used footage to place a lion and tiger in the same place , something I never understood about jungle films of the Fifties . Obviously the tiger realized there was a geographical problem , and beat a hasty retreat , not to be seen again after the opening scene . " Perils of the Jungle " is actually two stories . In the first half set in the Belgian Congo , Beatty and partner Grant Cunningham ( Stanley Farrar ) come to the aid of Jo Carter ( Phyllis Coates ) , a wild animal trapper who stands to lose her camp after an accidental fire releases her prize black maned Nubian lions . The only hope to raise enough money to save the operation might be the capture of a live gorilla , a rare feat that would bring in a few thousand dollars from an American zoo . Character actor John Doucette is the bad guy of the piece portraying Jo's competitor Gorman , who has designs of buying out her interest . I found a bit of unintentional humor in the fire scene as Beatty attempts to rescue a trapped man from burning . As one of the lions escapes , Beatty just happens to find a chair to do the lion tamer act , while a native boy puts out the fire with a single bucket of water . Ah , the wonder of ' B ' movies ! Just a note about Phyllis Coates . She appears here shortly after her role as Lois Lane in the first season run of episodes on " The Adventures of Superman " . Her portrayal as Lane seemed almost one dimensionally uniform no matter what the predicament , but here she seems much more natural and engaging . I liked her much better in the jungle format . If you close your eyes and concentrate on the voice of Beatty's tracker Korjah ( Roy Glenn ) , you might mistake him for James Earl Jones . The movie's second half moves to Southern Rhodesia , with Beatty and Cunningham still on the trail of black maned lions . Before embarking , they're warned about the dangers of the tse-tse fly and the warring tribes of the Matabele . Sure enough , both factors come into play as Cunningham is infected with the sleeping sickness . Attempting to reach a hospital by cutting through Wambasi territory , they have a dangerous encounter with a white man named Grubbs ( Leonard Mudie ) who's been stealing gold from his native benefactors and framing native girls for the thefts . The story line is pretty ludicrous , but it makes for a convincing death mask ceremony under the watchful eye of the Wambasi king , who turns out to be a teenage boy . Unfortunately , a lot of the scenes in this portion of the flick are very dark , but Beatty's party gets away safely after first kidnapping the boy king , and then releasing him once they're safely away . I imagine these filmed adventures of Clyde Beatty were meant to fuel viewers ' imaginations of his real life jungle exploits , but the contrived situations more often brought a chuckle . Still , when surrounded by jungle cats , you couldn't have a better man in your corner than Beatty . To get a look at him in his prime , you might want to catch his adventures in " The Lost Jungle " from 1934 , either the Mascot serialized version or the resulting condensed feature at just over an hour . It attempts to explain the coexistence of lions and tigers together on the lost island city of Kamor in the South Pacific .
" How do you explain that stuff about the missing head ? "	When it comes to 1950's sci-fi , there's good bad , and bad bad ; " Phanton From Space " isn't bad , if you know what I mean . There's an interesting back story about the alien's arrival , your typical lab scenes played out with scientific endeavor , and an invisible alien that comes to play on the viewer's sympathy once it's learned that all he's trying to do is survive in Earth's atmosphere . I got a kick out of some of the governmental jargon thrown around . There's Washington , D . C . ' s ' Central Bureau ' , the 1950's version of an early warning system ( hey , it's got a yellow and red alert ! ) , and the mysterious apparatus known as the Communications Commission . The best though were vehicles Mobile # 1 and # 7 , rigged up with those goofy roof top antennas ; how did they make it through tunnel overpasses ? There were some clever bits thrown in to keep you guessing about the alien , Dr . Wyatt ( Rudolph Anders ) refers to him as ' superhuman ' . Some fuss was made over the creature's spacesuit , it couldn't be cut and was resistant to flame and acid . Pretty comical though when the Major ( James Seay ) tried to rip it apart with his bare hands , how scientific was that ? Fortunately , the Randall's dog was on hand to keep everyone on track , what do you expect from a canine named Venus ? Also imaginative was the ultra violet light gimmick used to expose the alien's footprint and human like hand . His full disclosure at the end of the story is amazingly similar to descriptions of alien beings today , compliments of writers like Whitley Strieber . How curious is that ? The cast by and large is a group of relative unknowns , though I did get a kick out of seeing Michael Mark as the oil refinery watchman . He would graduate to a top billed role as the beekeeper / inventor in 1960's " The Wasp Woman " . One final thought - the various folks trying to sort out the alien mystery often refer to him as the ' X-Man ' , pre-dating by a decade the beginning of one of Marvel Comics ' most popular titles . I'd be interested to find out if this was the first time the term was ever used - Anyone ?
" Speak or you die , where is She-Devil ? "	If you watch enough of the Jungle Jim movies , you'll realize that the stories all follow a pretty standard formula , just as Charles Starrett's Durango Kid films did in the Western genre . Which is OK on the one hand because they're entertaining in their way , but it also makes them highly forgettable once a couple of days have passed by . What's kind of interesting in this one is that Johnny Weismuller as the jungle hero is pitted against Buster Crabbe as the villain of the piece . Since both were genuine Olympic swimming champions , the stage might have been set for some sort of athletic rivalry , however since it was Weismuller's franchise , he's the only one we see doing the high dives and underwater heroics , this time against a crocodile . Central to the story is the rumored Wild Girl of Lake Pakongee , raised in the jungle and accompanied by a tiger . Her parents were murdered years earlier by the evil witch doctor Hakim , and it's Hakim's goal to kill her as well , before she can exact revenge . Interestingly , the actress portraying the Wild Girl , Anita Lhoest , appeared on screen only one time , and this was it . She too was an exceptional swimmer from California . As in all the Jungle Jim films , wild animals take center stage from time to time , but with budgets as they were back in the day , it's not too hard to pick out that monkey treetop scramble that appeared as stock footage in the prior two films ( " The Lost Tribe " and " Mark Of The Gorilla " ) . What makes this picture fun at the finale is the wild monkey rampage that overtakes the witch doctor and his tribal goons . For those keeping track , the non African animal appearing in the story this time , besides Wild Girl Joan's tiger , is a South American cockatoo . Say , if you stay attentive , there are a couple of interesting items to stay alert for . Right after Chief Mahala ( Rick Vallin ) banishes Hakim from the tribal village , there's a shot of Wild Girl up on a rock ledge , just as in the start of the picture . If you look closely , you'll note that the waterfall to her left is in reverse , it's rising instead of falling ! Later on in the story , listen closely and you'll hear a faint Tarzan yell during the panther / tiger scuffle . That was Weismuller's classic signature that he invented for his earlier Tarzan role . For me , I guess that's where the fun is in these Jungle Jim pictures , trying to pick up on the little idiosyncrasies thrown in by the director to make things interesting . Moving forward , we'll have to see if Tamba the Chimp becomes a regular as one of Jungle Jim's animal companions . He made fast friends with Jim's dog Skipper by trading a bone for a banana in the early filler part of the movie . Good thing too , or Jim and company would have never made it across the ravine !
" White men crazy . "	In " Colt . 45 " , Randolph Scott portrays military hero turned sales representative Steve Farrell who's employed by the Colt Firearm Company , a theme that will be picked up by the late 1950's classic TV Western of the same name . His nemesis in the film , Jason Brett ( Zachary Scott ) is a clever outlaw who manages to trick the local populace into believing that Farrell is the leader of the Colt . 45 Gang , so named because of the crimes committed with a set of Farrell's own stolen handguns . The film hosts some rather big names , but somewhat fails to satisfy in it's uneven delivery and sometimes sloppy , and in at least one instance , comical editing . As Farrell pursues Brett's gang in an attempt to clear his name , he befriends Indian Chief Walking Bear ( Chief Thundercloud ) , who now allies himself with Farrell , which is fortunate , as the Chief's tribe manages to show up just in the nick of time on a number of occasions to save Farrell's hide . Brett's gang includes Paul and Beth Donovan ( Lloyd Bridges and Ruth Roman ) , but motivations and alliances change rather quickly in the film . Paul only plans to remain an outlaw until his big score , while Beth suffers pangs of conscience and decides she'll come clean . It won't help to seek aid from Sheriff Harris ( Alan Hale ) , as he's one of the bad guys . Paul shoots Beth , but she's nursed back to health rather miraculously by an Indian squaw . In turn , Brett shoots Paul , who fancies himself an equal partner in the outlaw business . For his part , Steve Farrell takes his share of lumps in the film , getting framed by Brett more than once , getting knocked out with his own gun at the hand of Mrs . Donovan , and falling for the old rope across the trail trick . Perhaps he would have fared better if he hadn't changed into the all black outfit a third of the way through the movie . At one point , as Sheriff Harris ' posse closes in on Farrell , the sheriff takes an arrow to the chest and goes down hard . So it seems rather odd that he makes it back into town just about as quick as Farrell and Walking Bear who are about to square off against the bad guys . Pay close attention as Farrell and Walking Bear lay in ambush behind a building for Brett's henchmen to walk by . As the last gang member walks past , Walking Bear lunges at his neck with both outstretched hands . All of a sudden , a rope appears ? ? ? , and the Indian proceeds to bring him down to the ground . I had to rewind and play the scene three times to believe what I was seeing . Having seen only a few of Randolph Scott's Westerns , I'm convinced this cannot be one of his better ones . " Ten Wanted Men " , " The Stranger Wore a Gun " , and " The Bounty Hunter " each appealed to me more , and even these are not among his best works . Chief Thundercloud cuts an imposing figure as Walking Bear , but he comes across as stiff and not as effective as you would expect a tribal leader to be . By 1950 , he was nearing the end of his film career ; my first introduction to the Chief was his rather fine portrayal of Tonto in the first two Lone Ranger serials of 1938 and 1939 ( The Lone Ranger , and The Lone Ranger Rides Again ) . Trivia fans will either be surprised or disappointed to know that Thundercloud's real name was Victor Daniels .
" Good hunter never break twig under foot . "	" Dangerous Money " is an aptly named Charlie Chan film in which Sidney Toler's character investigates a pair of murders relating to illegal trading in " hot money " and stolen art . The action takes place aboard the S . S . Newcastle heading to Australia via Samoa . Along for the ride are Number # 2 Son Jimmy ( Victor Sen Yung ) and assistant Chattanooga Brown ( Willie Best ) . Charlie doesn't have much time to solve the case as he's committed to another investigation on arrival in Sydney . Be prepared for more uncomfortable racial insinuations , as Jimmy converses with Chattanooga via walkie talkie using the code names " Chop Suey 108 " and " Pork Chop 711 " . Once again Chan / Toler demonstrates his dancing skill in a film ; in " Red Dragon " , he cut a mean rumba , here he slows it down a bit , but still quite smoothly with a shipboard waltz . Passenger Rona Simmonds ( Gloria Warren ) and ship's pursar George Brace ( Joseph Allen ) are hiding a secret for which she is being blackmailed . She is traveling with false papers , smuggled on board in an attempt to identify art stolen from her banker father . International businessman P . T . Burke uses his position to extort a valuable necklace from Simmonds , but as we've seen before , there is another villain masterminding the action from a loftier height . He is flushed out by Charlie in a convenient " lights out " scene intended to add to the confusion . I have to admit , it's difficult to follow most Charlie Chan films without keeping a personal scorecard , and even so , the revelation of the killer almost always comes as a surprise . Chan himself best expresses this in a line from the film - " Kangaroo reaches destination also by leaps and bounds " .
" When alibi pushed at me , always suspect motive in woodpile . "	This first Monogram Charlie Chan film is a little tougher to enjoy than the prior 20th Century Fox films . For one , Sidney Toler's depiction of Chan is more abrupt and almost mean spirited at times . Music is used more frequently , but seems out of place , as when a dramatic score is used when Chan casually strolls to a taxi . Offsetting these points is the introduction of two new members of the Chan Clan , the film now revealing there are fourteen ! offspring . Benson Fong joins the action as Number # 3 son Tommy , and Marianne Quon is introduced as Number # 2 daughter Iris . Mantan Moreland also joins the cast as Birmingham Brown , although his character has not been fully developed at this point . The mystery involves the murder of a World War II scientist and inventor who has developed plans for a new torpedo . The cast of suspects is a varied lot , and as Charlie closes in on the killer , the killer himself is murdered . Charlie uses a ruse to flush out the second murderer , but somehow it seems contrived , as there is nothing in the film to lead up to the second killer's identity . Other guests are built up to seem more suspicious , such as Paul Arranto , confined to a wheelchair but who can actually walk . It's as if one of Charlie's own lines in the film can be used to describe the solution - " Explanation too perfect to be true " .
" . . . my boy , shake the hand that shook the hand of Buffalo Bill . "	John Wayne's sixteenth and final picture for Lone Star Films was the only one directed by Carl L . Pierson . In the story , Wayne's character John Wyatt joins a traveling medicine show to expose a band of counterfeiters ; one suspects that the phony money men might be part of Doc Carter's ( Earl Hodgins ) bunch . Instead , it's a crew run by Curly Joe Gale ( Yakima Canutt ) , who was once the Doc's partner before Carter got busted for the counterfeit scheme . You'll get a kick out of the coach at the center of ' Carter's Greater Medicine Show ' , I can just picture similar get ups heading from town to town to ply the local rubes . Carter has a pretty but naive young daughter Linda ( Marion Burns ) , who doubles in the show as Princess Natasha . However the entire affair is pretty much a vehicle for selling ' Doc Carter's Famous Indian Remedy ' , and at ninety percent alcohol , it's pretty potent stuff . As for the real bad guys , government agent Wyatt eventually gets the drop on Curly Joe , with a posse of Mexican rurales chasing down Curly's gang in the finale . It's all wrapped up quickly in just about fifty three minutes , perhaps the shortest of all the Lone Star pictures . Having now seen all of the Lone Star's , a quick recap reveals that stunt man extraordinaire Yakima Canutt appeared on screen in twelve of the sixteen films in various roles , sometimes as John Wayne's sidekick and often as a henchman . On three occasions , as in this film , he portrayed the main villain . The others were " Sagebrush Trail " and " ' Neath Arizona Skies " . Even though he didn't appear in " Paradise Canyon " , George Hayes showed up in eleven Lone Star's ; back then he wasn't known as ' Gabby ' yet . Earl Dwire tied Hayes with the same number of roles , however he was one up on Hayes with an uncredited bit part as an Arizona sheriff in this one , but you'll really have to keep your eyes peeled to spot him . All of Wayne's Lone Star films were filmed between 1933 and 1935 , and are quite easily available today , most if not all in the public domain . They can be had rather inexpensively , either alone or in compilations , and they're a great way to see one of movie's greatest stars before he became a household name . Your first viewing will probably give you the same impression I had , marveling at how young and handsome Wayne appeared while learning his craft . By the time of his breakout characterization as the Ringo Kid in John Ford's " Stagecoach " , Wayne had appeared in a little over fifty films , starring in most , while patiently awaiting the role that would make him an overnight success .
" You stand in the shadow of - The Eagle . "	Right up front , I'm not a big fan of the serial format . However when I saw a three DVD set of John Wayne's serials from the early 1930's , picking them up was a no brainer , especially for the price - under ten dollars . I watched " The Shadow Of The Eagle " today in a couple of sessions , and it was with a lot of patience and deliberation that I made it all the way through , no mean feat for the run time of 218 minutes . I say all that having now seen most of John Wayne's early Westerns from the Lone Star and Republic days ; those movies run the gamut from poor to fairly entertaining given the era and Wayne's own early appearances in them . The serials predate those by at least a couple of years , so you can't fault The Duke himself for the product as much as the writing , directing and technology of an earlier time . Still , there's so much goofy stuff going on in ' Shadow ' that it's easy to understand why they were shown in twenty minute sessions a week apart . The story involves Wayne's character Craig McCoy , who intervenes on behalf of carnival owner Nathan Gregory ( Edward Hearn ) , a former World War I flier nicknamed ' The Eagle ' . Presumed dead after being shot down in the war , five of his remaining buddies team up to form an aircraft company , reaping huge profits from an invention Gregory designed . The story follows McCoy's attempt to retrieve the original design plans , while a new ' Eagle ' attempts to turn the former partners against each other , presumably to become the sole survivor and beneficiary of the lucrative invention . What's unique about the story is that the ' Eagle ' uses a remote control airplane to sky write cryptic messages and warnings meant to intimidate the principals of the Evans Aero Corp . By the time it's all over , every member of the group has been fingered at least once as the primary villain ; not only that , but ' The Eagle ' uses a pair of agents to further confound the plot by virtue of kidnapping , theft and other general mayhem . One of then is Wayne's long time collaborator , stunt man and buddy , Yakima Canutt , as an Eagle henchman named Boyle . This might be the only time you'll ever get to see Yak in a suit and tie ! In addition to the standard cliffhanger endings for each chapter play , you also have Wayne engaging in fisticuffs with one villain or another in each segment . Sometimes he's aided by the carnival strongman ( Ivan Linow ) , or as he's called by carny midget Billy ( Little Billy Rhodes ) , the big palooka . Oddly , the carnival atmosphere doesn't figure much in the proceedings , although one of the chapter endings takes place on a ferris wheel , with McCoy about to fall to his demise . He makes the comeback the next time around with a trapeze like save . I should also mention that a pretty female was also at the center of the action most of the time , Colonel Gregory's daughter Jean ( Dorothy Gulliver ) . In virtually every one of Wayne's early Westerns , the female lead wound up as a romantic interest for his character , but not here . I found that kind of odd actually , especially since he had twelve chances . One of the more exciting and innovative sequences involved Wayne and his co-star in a ' North by Northwest ' style airplane chase to close out the first chapter , it made me wonder if Hitchcock might have seen it ! So what was the goofiest scene in the movie ? There's a sequence in Chapter Nine when Wayne's character and sidekick Henry , a ventriloquist ( James Bradbury Jr . ) take off in a car chase , and shortly into it , the Eagle's henchmen Moore and Boyle ( Bud Osborne and Canutt ) suddenly just appear on the vehicle in motion - how'd they do that ? The movie was directed by Ford Beebe , whose name I've heard before , but I'm not familiar with his work , though it looks like he did a fair number of serials . Fortunately for John Wayne's career , he managed to hook up with another director named Ford starting with his 1939 break out film " Stagecoach " . Wayne's overnight success came after roughly fifty movies !
" A few hours with the rats will make him speak the truth . "	Bela Lugosi switches cinematic gears in 1934's " The Mysterious Mr . Wong " ; it was just a few years earlier in which he portrayed the iconic " Dracula " ( 1931 ) , followed by a turn as voodoo practitioner Murder Legendre in 1932's " White Zombie " . Here he gets to star in a dual role , first as the title character Fu Wong , on a quest to retrieve the twelve legendary coins of Confucius , and secondly as herb shop owner Li See in an alter ego to conceal his true identity . As corpses begin to mount in L . A . ' s Chinatown district , newspaper reporter Jason Barton ( Wallace Ford ) begins a series of investigative articles . Barton brings comic relief to the film , particularly in his relationship with pretty switchboard operator Peg ( Arline Judge ) , but he's not above peppering his remarks with racial insults , so prevalent in genre films of the era . When informed of yet another murder in Chinatown , Barton comments - " Aw what do I care about another laundryman . . . " Bela Lugosi turns in both a sinister and humorous performance at the same time as Fu Wong . He can mercilessly dispatch one of his own henchman when he brings bad news , but it's comical to watch Wong's reaction to the sound of a gong in his own home , as if he were startled by it every time it chimes . There's a street scene when Fu Wong , in broad daylight shoots Chinese Professor Chan Fu ( Luke Chan ) . As a crowd gathers to see what happened , no one is alert to where the shot may have come from , while Wong observes what's going on as if he were invisible . When Barton finally convinces Peg to have dinner with him , it's in a Chinese restaurant . As Peg reads her fortune advising of great danger , a mysterious hand appears to give Barton the fabled twelfth coin of Confucius . The hand belongs to a character unknown to the audience , who happened to be at a Chinese laundry at the same time as Fu Wong , on the trail of a message in Barton's possession . Written on a laundry ticket , the Chinese script reads - " Golden Coin of Confucius is concealed in the yellow bowl " . It was Wong's errant gunshot that shattered the vase containing the coin , but his curiosity wasn't peaked enough to examine the damaged jar . It's stuff like this along with the lack of character and story development that hamper the movie . When Fu Wong meets his fate from a policeman's bullet in the story's finale , the scene closes on Barton and Peg all set to resume their romance . But what about the twelfth coin of power ? It was deposited by Barton in a statue in one of Wong's underground passages . No attempt was made in the film to tie up this loose end , which in present day might have shouted out sequel . Given the erratic nature of the story , I would still recommend it for fans of the genre , along with those of Charlie Chan and Mr . Moto . But don't be confused by the title , " The Mysterious Mr . Wong " has no connection to the series of films also from Monogram which in a few years would star Boris Karloff as Oriental Detective James Lee Wong in a series of five films , even though all were directed by William Nigh . One more film in the series , " Phantom of Chinatown " would offer Keye Luke as a young Mr . Wong in a flashback story .
" My interest is to bring the criminal to justice . "	A secret London society agrees to disperse the assets of it's deceased members to the remainder of the group . It doesn't take long for the victims to start dropping off one by one . Enter Sherlock Holmes ( Reginald Owen ) , brought into the case by the wife of victim number two , upset that there isn't even the hint of an inheritance coming her way . Adding to the mystery , the group communicates via cryptic ads placed in a London newspaper . " A Study in Scarlet " is a credible mystery that gives the viewer a few false leads , but is ultimately solved by Holmes in uncanny style . The title of the film originates from the name of the clandestine group - the Scarlet Ring . There is a familiarity to the plot as each of the victims receives a poetic message referencing the number of members still left alive , as in the Agatha Christie based " And Then There Were None " , even though that film came a dozen years later in 1945 . I must say , after viewing Basil Rathbone in the title role as the Sherlock Holmes archetype , it takes a bit of getting used to Reginald Owen depicting the sleuth ; he's got a little too much padding . Conversely , Warburton Gamble's Dr . Watson doesn't seem to have enough , a la Nigel Bruce's portrayal . That aside , " A Study in Scarlet " is worth the effort , particularly for it's dark and moody atmosphere , and Sherlock Holmes ' deft use of the English language .
" On my record darling , you're justified in expecting battle , murder and sudden death . "	The long playing wedding scenario between Captain Hugh Drummond ( John Howard ) and fiancé Phyllis Clavering ( Heather Angel ) manages to get within one hour of the ceremony in this outing , but not before another adventure gets in the way . This time the action stays local , as a scatterbrained professor intrigues Drummond with a tale of treasure hidden somewhere at his palatial Rockingham Tower . A long shot of the Tower reveals a rather imposing structure , made to order for the creepy fun that's about to follow . In the early going , Miss Clavering's Aunt Blanche makes it a point to remind Phyllis of the five previous failed attempts to make it to the altar . Obviously this had an impact on Drummond , as he relives those events in a dream sequence , unable to get a good night's sleep on the eve of his wedding . With the prospect of a million pound fortune somewhere close by , it's a safe bet that the marriage will be put on hold once again . This time , the villain of the piece is Leo ( minus the ' G ' ) Carroll . He impersonates a butler named Boulton hired for the wedding occasion , but is really Henry Seton , arrested three years earlier for the attempted theft of papers held by Professor Downie ( Forrester Harvey ) . Just released from prison , Seton's timing is perfect . He dispatches Downie and begins to solve the cipher that leads to the treasure . For all the mystery involving the cipher , it comes as a bit of a letdown that it simply involves a reverse alphabet . The hunt for the treasure leads Seton and his unwilling captive Miss Clavering into an underground series of murky caverns beneath Rockingham Tower . Harry Potter would have been inspired by what he found there , the secretive ' Tower of Water ' and ' Chamber of Spikes ' . With Drummond and Company in hot pursuit , the hapless villain manages to discover the hidden treasure only to lose it just as quickly . Seton becomes distracted in a rather inept cat and mouse game with Miss Clavering over control of a lever that operates a trap door gate meant to keep Drummond's gang at bay . As usual , Captain Hugh Drummond finds himself aided by his regular cast ; Reginald Denny , E . E . Clive and H . B . Warner in the role of Colonel Nielson of Scotland Yard . If you've seen all the Drummond adventures up till now , you'll wonder if Nielson has anything else to do besides serving as Drummond's personal attaché . At least Nielson provides the rationale for the movie's title when Drummond assigns areas of Rockingham to his accomplices for inspection ; it was then that the Colonel referred to themselves as the ' secret police ' . For at least the third time in a Bulldog Drummond film , the old lights out trick is used when Seton / Boulton attempts to get his hands on the diary containing the cryptic cipher . That lack of originality and the aforementioned clumsiness in dealing with Miss Clavering seemed to undermine his threat as a villain . Too bad he couldn't swim either . Too bad also the way the film ended ; for all the time spent pining for her long delayed wedding , it's Miss Clavering who disappears this time when Algy's Molotov cocktail explodes during the wedding rehearsal , compliments of a rigged bottle of Mountain Mary Scotch . The finale didn't make much sense except to justify one more sequel . I wonder what happens in " Bulldog Drummond's Bride " !
" The beast exists because it is stronger than this thing you call evolution . "	Back in the Upper Amazon River Valley , an expedition headed by Professor Clete Ferguson ( John Agar ) attempts to locate the missing link first introduced in the previous year's " Creature From the Black Lagoon " . With only Nestor Paiva as Captain Lucas on hand from the original cast , the beast is quickly located and subdued via a series of explosive charges set about his watery home . Upon arrival at his new home in Marineland Park , the Creature is shackled in a holding tank where scientists can study his behavior and determine that he " just misses being human " . Lori Nelson portrays college student and budding scientist Helen Dobson , object of the affections of both Professor Ferguson and the Creature . Throughout the film , no matter where Helen and the professor happen to be , the Gill-Man without the help of mapquest , is able to pinpoint their exact location - it's uncanny . And that's saying something , as sightings of the escaped monster were reported in the film as far ranging as Norfolk , Virginia to Panama - this guy did get around ! The strength of the Creature is established in the film , where viewers could only guess at before . On his escape into the ocean from the Marineland tank , he easily overturns a car that stands in his path . Later on he throws a hapless victim halfway across the beach into some palm trees with ease . Contrast this effort with the underwater grappling scenes with the scientists in this and the prior film , where the opponents managed to get away relatively unharmed . It all suggests that the Creature's abilities were manufactured on the fly without much thought given to it's potential or limitations . For all of the film's inconsistencies though , it's still campy fun and as enjoyable as any of the schlock follow ups to the more serious Universal originals , such as the Mummy sequels . And lest I forget , probably the best unexpected treat of the movie - Clint Eastwood in his screen debut for just a brief moment , trying to figure out what happened to a missing lab mouse !
" Were you molested by apes ? "	Well , he's not Johnny Weissmuller , but then again , Weismuller never did an upside down vine grab with his foot , so I guess that counts for something . As most reviewers on this board mention , Glenn Morris is rather stiff in his virtually silent role as the jungle hero . If one didn't know better , it would seem that this was Eleanor Holm's picture . She seems to dominate most of the screen time when it's not taken up by stock footage of wild animals , and she does a pretty fair job of maintaining interest , especially during the swim scenes . Curious how she had to go get her swim suit for the sequence with Nevin ( George Meeker ) , but simply stripped down from her hiking gear to get wet with Tarzan . Nominally the story has something to do with capturing animals for American zoos and locating a rare white crocodile . Eleanor's fianc��e Nevin is an equal opportunity wild game hunter whose philosophy is best summed up in his own words - " I can't see what it is but it's something " . The whole affair winds up at a rather Busby Berkeley looking set where an enormously rich sultan ( C . Henry Gordon ) intends to add Eleanor to his already large harem . I couldn't imagine how all those white harem dancers wound up in the heart of darkest Africa , but I won't be dwelling on that too much . I always get a kick out of how Tarzan can engage a wild animal like a lion in combat and not suffer a scratch - pretty amazing ! And just like all those Jungle Jim films of a decade later , geographical integrity isn't always maintained when it comes to things like South American macaws and aardvarks as part of the on screen menagerie . If you have a choice between this Tarzan flick and virtually any of the Weismuller pictures , it's a no contest . But if you're in the mood for a mildly entertaining jungle picture , this isn't the worst thing going , especially up against a myriad of jungle ape pictures of the same era . I can't imagine though why Cheetah wasn't credited with an appearance here , if in fact it was Cheetah . Hard to tell you know . The main question I have about the story - what's with Joe Sawyer's facial tic ?
" Rise Sir Lancelot , my champion ! "	I've never been a fan of the medieval knight genre , and this one manages to reinforce my feelings . I just couldn't tell what they were going for in the story , and abrupt scene changes often occurred on a dime with no time at all allotted for the transition . Like early in the picture with news of King Leodogran's challenge to Arthur for each of their champions to meet in duel to decide Arthur's status as King . No sooner said than done , Sir Lancelot ( Cornel Wilde ) is atop a horse and going hell bent for leather against Sir Dorjak . Others on this board have mentioned the ages of the principals , something I wondered about myself . It was a little hard to fathom Lady Guinevere ( Jean Wallace ) looking her true age representing a King's daughter about to be betrothed . Kind of makes you glad they had that magic soap around . The one thing the film had going for it was the realistic battle scenes , with body blows taking on a gruesome countenance . The scene where Lancelot separates a warrior's shoulder was particularly graphic . At the same time though , my earlier comment applies as well to the final epic battle . At one point we see Lancelot right in the thick of things swinging away with his sword , and a minute later he's perusing the battle field from a distant vantage point as different sets of warriors enter the fray ; it almost looked like there were more than two fronts to the battle . And say , what accent was Cornel Wilde going for ? His character was French , but he sounded more like Russian to me . That is , when he wasn't sounding like something else altogether . I don't know , the picture just didn't do it for me , and with all that went before to test the mettle of the besieged lovers , Guinevere becomes a nun ? Her speech might have been noble but not very convincing . Alas poor Lancelot , as capable as he was on the battlefield , this was one blow he never saw coming .
" Gringos , come surrender ! "	Finally , the mystery solved as to how Telly Savalas became bald ! Starting out , " Pancho Villa " appears to be a serious treatment of the Mexican revolutionary's legend , but it quickly dissolves into a farcical comedy Western . Things get under way somewhat tentatively with Colonel Wilcox ' ( Chuck Connors ) ' fly in the mess hall scene ' , quickly followed by Villa trading a horse for Miss Clara's tin lizzy . By the time Villa feigns being dead , I realized for sure that this one was intended to be an over the top flick , with Savalas going over the top more than once . Without even knowing anything about the historical Pancho Villa , I'm sure this film had nothing remotely to do with him . It's always neat though , to see legendary TV Western personalities make a comeback , in this case , both ' Rifleman's ' Connors , and Cheyenne Bodie himself , Clint Walker . Walker portrays Villa's American sidekick , though it's never made clear why he sides with the Mexicans . A full decade following the end of the ' Cheyenne ' series , he looks as good as ever , but it's a mystery why he's in that seafaring get up , though it makes as much sense in it's way as the rest of the film . Even Anne Francis makes an appearance as Scotty's ( Walker ) ex-wife , giving further star power to this revolutionary tale . Others on this board have mentioned that train crash scene with some enthusiasm , so I'm not sure if the print I viewed was edited in some way . It appeared to me that once the locomotives made contact with each other the action froze and then we see the aftermath . Why not just show the whole wreck take place , unless it was to save those great antiques for real . Best line of the film - " He don't need a doctor , he needs a change of underwear " , as a doctor removes a lizard from Pancho's shirt while he appears to be dying from some sort of convulsion . But the one each of the principals had to be thinking by the end of the story - " You know , if I was you , I'd jump off this train " .
" We're down to a hundred miles , you better pull up . "	This could have been another cheesy 1950's outer space sci-fi flick , but the participants were going in the opposite direction . So instead , this is a cheesy 1950's subterranean film , starring an underground submarine called a cyclotram . It's mission is to discover a habitable region where the world's population can take refuge when the upper world is destroyed by a nuclear holocaust . The film opens with a voice-over describing the new Atomic Age and it's promise of a more abundant life . However Dr . Jeremiah Morley ( Victor Kilian ) sees the danger associated with those who would use this power for corrupt purposes , and his warnings earn him the nickname " Prophet of Doom " . It seems to me that Morley was the film's dominating presence , yet Kilian's performance is actually uncredited here . His " Society to Save Civilization " disbands after a year for lack of financial backing . Enter wealthy playboy Wright Thompson ( Bruce Kellogg ) , admittedly jobless and happily so , and looking for adventure . He hooks up with Morley's scientist friends and offers to finance their underground journey , as long as he can come along . With renewed energy , Morley , Thompson , and a group of five additional explorers board the cyclotram to seek humanities ' last chance for survival . What this viewer was left wondering for some time into the picture was when something exciting would happen . There are brief diversions involving bouts of toxic gas and semi dangerous spelunking , but that fearsome cave dinosaur never shows up . In a particularly nonsensical scene , a frayed rope is repeatedly shown as the cyclotram navigator Andy climbs up a rock face after rescuing Thompson . Andy actually makes it up to the top of the cliff ledge when the rope snaps , and he falls to his doom - bad timing ! With repetitive nuance , the cyclotram forges ahead ( or below ) , marking time at 850 , 960 , 1100 , and finally 1640 miles below sea level , where Thompson fashions a directional marker pointing straight up to New York - that may have been the film's innovative high point . Upon finally reaching the subterranean promised land , the group is dismayed to learn that conditions there make their pregnant bunny sterile . So much for the advancement of civilization . " Unknown World " held the promise of so much more , but doesn't deliver . The cyclotram never finds itself in a situation that it can't handle , and the path it follows conveniently plays along an underground fissure practically the entire way . When it finally reaches a depth of 2500 miles at the earth's core , the cyclotram floats it's way up to the surface world in what seems like no time at all ! But the biggest mystery to me would be how seven of the world's pre-eminent scientists could undertake such a momentous journey , and no one thought to bring a camera !
" With all respect Baron , for a ghost she's a very active young woman , "	Let's see , the Baron is not the Baron , Helene is really Ilsa , and Katrina the Witch doesn't recognize her own son , the one she's trying to drive to suicide in a case of mistaken identity . That one sentence probably sounds more interesting than sitting through eighty one minutes of " The Terror " , but the film at least does have some redeeming qualities , notably an early appearance by a very young though still recognizable Jack Nicholson . He portrays a French Lieutenant in Napoleon's army , somehow having lost his detachment , with time to kill at the Castle Von Leppe . He's searching for a young woman who caught his eye on a nearby rocky beach , and is assured repeatedly that she doesn't exist by everyone he meets . A rather demonic bird resembling a cross between a crow and a falcon seems to weigh in heavily as a symbolic figure in the movie , but the symbolism goes nowhere ; he's just an evil bird that likes to have his own brand of fun . He provides one of the more grisly scenes of the movie , clawing out the eyes of Katrina's servant Gustav , sending him over a cliff and to his doom . Directed and produced by Roger Corman , I've often seen " The Terror " heralded as Nicholson's film debut , but in fact he had seven movies to his credit by the time of this film's release . Francis ( minus the Ford ) Coppola serves as an associate producer , though he is not credited as one of the directors who helped wrap this film in a hurry . Other posters for this film have rather harshly panned the movie ; I did not find it to be terrible , but rather a film with elements that might have made it more interesting with a little more thought put into the story . Perhaps the limited technology of 1963 was also a factor , and the Pathe color rendition also leaves something to be desired . I was almost ready to forgive all though when near the finale , the cascading stones of the castle wind up floating around the Baron , Helene and Stefan in the castle crypt . They could have hurt someone , and that's a real terror .
" Hey that fella's a fighter , that's what we need around here . "	" Rainbow Valley " was made right after " Texas Terror " , and interestingly , a number of the principals stuck around to appear in both . The main heavy goes by Rogers , and is portrayed by LeRoy Mason , while John Wayne's romantic interest is a demure Miss Eleanor ( Lucille Brown ) . Each had similar roles in " Texas Terror " , along with George ( Pre-Gabby ) Hayes , but this time around , his character sports around in an automobile . John Martin ( Wayne ) expresses some surprise , remarking that it's the first one he's ever seen . However shortly later when George is injured in a chase while driving , Martin knows just what to do to bring it to a stop ! I got a kick out of George's name for the car - ' Nugget Nell ' . Some years later in the early Fifties , Pat Brady would tool around in ' Nellybelle ' on " The Roy Rogers Show " , maybe they were related . The plot is a familiar one involving villain Rogers in a land fraud scheme , but instead of water rights or phony deeds , the bad guys prevent the town folk from completing a road connecting Rainbow with an adjoining town . Preventing the arrival of supplies and necessities , Rogers hopes the local ranchers will sell out to him cheap . Special Agent Martin's presence on the scene was arranged by the governor so he could investigate , sounding a bit more involved than it had to be . Martin spent some time in jail with Rogers ' top henchman Galt ( Jay Wilsey as Buffalo Bill , Jr . ) , causing Miss Eleanor and others some concern since he might be throwing in with Rogers . Not to worry though , it's all part of the plan to complete the road and take down the baddies . I found a few interesting things about this Lone Star Western , it's the only one I can recall off hand in which John Wayne actually twirls a six gun . For his part , George Hayes seems pretty accomplished in throwing sticks of dynamite to fend off the bad guys . It seemed to me that was Teddy Roosevelt's picture hanging in the post office ; his presidency ran from 1901 to 1909 , so that would have worked for the picture chronologically , along with the presence of Nugget Nell . Having seen nearly all of Wayne's Lone Stars , this might be the one film that shows the most print degradation , with washed out scenes and a fair amount of visual static . Still , I felt lucky finding this title along with eight other John Wayne flicks from the mid to late 1930's , none of which duplicated the much easier to find public domain films like " Blue Steel " and " The Star Packer " . In my case , I found it as part of a promotional display at a local Walmart ; the package of nine films on two DVD's is put out by Echo Bridge Entertainment . Believe it or not , included is the complete twelve chapter serial , " Shadow Of The Eagle " !
" Why , I didn't know there was a thing the matter with me till I met him . "	" A Day at the Races " gets off to a start in the Standish Sanitarium , and that should tell you something about this Marx Brothers movie . Perennial hypochondriac Emily Upjohn ( Margaret Dumont ) may provide the financial key to solvency for owner Judy Standish ( Maureen O'Sullivan ) , but only if experienced and trusted psychiatrist Hugo Z . Hackenbush ( Groucho ) can be persuaded to take over . Translate that horse doctor Hackenbush , who in the course of the film is conned by Chico in a version of the " tootsie fruitsie " scam , gets plastered by both Chico and Harpo as he woos blonde troublemaker Flo ( Esther Muir ) , and dons black face grease along with both brothers in the finale of an all black musical number featuring " All God's Chillun Got Rhythm " . As others have noted in their postings , the musical numbers can get tedious , and for his part , Groucho doesn't have his way with the one liners as effectively as in some of the Marx Brothers ' more appreciated films . But the maniacal frenzy is still there , punctuated by the horse race finale of the title , appropriately sealing the fate of the sanitarium in a twist when jockey Harpo loses his horse " High Hat " to an aggressive jockey who winds up taking him across the finish line . There is one particular scene though in the " Winter Carnival " interlude that amazed me , as dancer Vivien Fey literally turns into a spinning top , encircling the dance floor in a blur . I've seen it done on a pair of skates , but to see it performed by Fey on tiptoe was truly incredible - and at the finish she was still standing ! Oh , and lest I forget , the romantic subplot to the story involves Maureen O'Sullivan and Allan Jones in an off again , on again relationship that doesn't really serve to move the story along other than Jones ' character providing the financial backing for " High Hat " , but with the Marx Brothers involved , the outcome of the race is never in jeopardy .
" Sometimes muddy waters when stirred sufficiently bring strange things to surface . "	Forged fingerprints in a Charlie Chan film were used as recently as 1946 in " Dark Alibi " , six movies prior to " The Shanghai Chest " . The same gimmick is used here again , this time with the fingerprints of a man who's been dead for six months . The prints are found at the scene of three murders , all of the victims having had some connection to the man who was sentenced to death for murder himself . But that may have been a frame up ; the man , Tony Pandello may in fact have been innocent , and someone is out for vengeance . Roland Winters portrays Inspector Charlie Chan in this 1948 Monogram release . Continuity in the later Monogram films seems to have fallen apart completely , as Victor Sen Yung appears as Number # 2 Son Tommy , contrary to his introduction in earlier 20th Century Fox and Monogram movies as Number # 2 Son Jimmy . Mantan Moreland is Chan chauffeur Birmingham Brown . In a jail scene , Birmingham and Tommy are released from the lock up , and in the next cell is Willie Best , appearing under his own name . Willie appeared in the Chan film " Red Dragon " as Birmingham's cousin Chattanooga Brown . In typical Chan fashion , the murderer revealed at the end is a surprise , having been a trusted aide of the first murder victim . But the case is wrapped up neatly by Charlie ; he outwits the villain , who did all of his dirty work in the dark of night in garb reminiscent of The Shadow .
" It's easy to die for your country , but sometimes it's much more important to stay alive . "	This one has all the look and feel of one of Gene's TV Westerns , not surprising since it was made during that show's run . Gene and Pat use their real names in the story , and Gail Davis also appears as Dell Middler , daughter of a Union Army Colonel . It's set in 1861 at the start of the Civil War , but that conflict has minimal bearing on the story . Instead , Rebel sympathizers under the leadership of Wade McQuarrie ( Jim Davis ) conduct raids on Federal supply lines , stealing silver and rustling horses to disrupt the Union cause . Gene and Pat Buttram are sympathetic to the Union and both intend to enlist in the Army . However Major Weatherly ( Stanley Andrews ) convinces Gene he would better serve his country by trying to uncover McQuarrie as a civilian . Trouble is , while this was going on , Pat actually does enlist , so he winds up being a deserter when he tags along with his pal ! I got a kick out of Pat Buttram with all his knick knacks , a rabbit's foot , shamrock pins and other assorted trinkets to bring good luck . He almost got waylaid by crossing paths with a black cat , but managed to counteract the incident with a ritual of his own . Pat and his horse decked out in camouflage was also a nifty touch . There must have been something about sending the movie's hero to the guardhouse to make him break out in a song . The same thing happened with Roy Rogers in the 1939 film " In Old Caliente " . Both cowboy heroes managed to keep their good humor and spirits in stride , knowing that the good guys always win . This one is a bit unusual however ; even though McQuarrie is eventually fingered by Gene in the guise of the phony Captain Fleming , all the bad guys meet their end buried under an exploding mountain rock pile - McQuarrie should have had a rabbit's foot !
" Don't you get enough of cops and robbers in the movies ? "	A frenetic entry in the Boston Blackie series , this one gets downright farcical at times with the Runt ( George E . Stone ) masquerading as an Our Gang Alfalfa type character , and Boston Blackie ( Chester Morris ) donning the guise of a Professor to help a friend in California . The caper involves the missing Monterey diamond , followed by the sixty thousand dollars Blackie brings with him from Arthur Manleder's ( Lloyd Corrigan ) safe back home . The film utilizes all sorts of ruses and gimmicks that wouldn't even be attempted in a movie today because quite frankly , they wouldn't work , literally or figuratively . Like buying a plane ticket with cash ! Can you do that today ? I don't think so . But given the time , I'm sure this was a fun diversion , and probably the best way to view the film and the series today . It's also cool to see some Hollywood names before they made it , like the unrecognizably young Forrest Tucker as a henchman named Whipper and an uncredited Lloyd Bridges . The bumbling police detectives were of course a staple for the genre , and you'll find them constantly foiled at the hands of era detectives like Charlie Chan , Mr . Wong , the Lone Wolf and plenty of others . There might be better ways to spend an hour , but in a pinch , this one will do as well as most .
" I have come a long way to see you . . . . I'm a very sick man . "	" Japs Bomb Honolulu During Peace Talks " is the headline that opens this World War II era mystery thriller , featuring Bela Lugosi as a Nazi plastic surgeon who turns six Japanese members of the Black Dragon Society into replicas of American fifth column industrialists . When Dr . Melcher is rewarded for his efforts by imprisonment to contain the deadly secret , he uses his surgical kit ( which somehow escaped detection ) to magically remove his beard and transform himself into a fellow prisoner who looks exactly like Bela Lugosi . So how were two identical looking prisoners explained away by their Japanese captors ? This plot point obviously didn't bother the film makers , so I won't let it bother me beyond mentioning it . Otherwise , " Black Dragons " is a fairly entertaining diversion replete with murder and mayhem , as Melcher , now Dr . Colomb arrives in the U . S . to systematically remove each of his creations . They wind up as corpses on the steps of the Japanese Embassy in Washinton , D . C . , each with dagger in hand , as if in ritual suicide , but obviously as murder victims . Along for the fun are Joan Barclay as Alice Saunders , niece of host industrialist William Saunders ( George Pembroke ) , and future Lone Ranger star Clayton Moore as a government agent . You'll recognize his voice before his face , and you might not at that if you don't realize he's in this film . For his part , Bela Lugosi uses the Dracula stare several times in the film to send a departure message to his victims . Gone is the over enunciation of his early film days when he was just beginning to learn English , though the rhythmic quality of his voice is still there . Maybe I'm reading a bit too much into the the film's final scene , but when Dr . Saunders finally comes out of the room where he was kept immobile by Dr . Colomb , he emerges completely wrapped in a dark blanket or cloak . Unveiling himself as a disfigured old man , I couldn't help thinking - " Darth Vader ' !
" You see , I'm waiting for them to come back , that's why I keep it like it was , for them . "	The video box proclaims " The First Picture in Psycho-Rama ! The Fourth Dimension ! Using Subliminal Communication ! For added emphasis , the movie was " Banned by the U . S . Government ! " Having seen it this evening , I'm ready to ban it from my own video collection after one day in my possession . The movie does have a pretty good set up though , and with some more work could have been a neat psychological thriller . After two years in a Swiss sanitarium , Sheila Justin ( Cathy O'Donnell ) has begun having nightmares about an old house that she's never seen before . Her husband Philip ( Gerald Mohr ) may have a cure ; let's bring her to that very same house . Obviously , he knows something that his wife and the viewer doesn't , and his suspicious activity while there lead us to believe that something ominous will occur of his own doing . Though unoccupied for seventeen years , the home is tended by a caretaker named Jonah ( John Qualen ) , and before long the home's owner shows up to discourage the guests from staying any longer . The subliminal messages that the film touts come at you fairly early , and if you pause the action and proceed a frame at a time , you'll see some cartoony images that state " Get Ready to Scream " and " Scream Bloody Murder " . The messages work for Sheila , she's the only one affected by events in the home enough to exercise her lungs . It turns out that all of the participants in the old home's reunion have a relationship from the past , but I won't bother you with those details . If you're up for a late night fright fest though , here's a secret - the house is not haunted , and the story takes it's time revealing what the legend of the " Mad Tierneys " is all about . My copy of the film is the Rhino Video version , with the " Psychorama " treatment restored by a character named Johnny Legend , if that's to be believed . My viewing of the film probably took almost twice as long as the stated run time of ninety minutes , as I couldn't help myself from investigating the subliminal text as they occurred . But like the lead character in " The Christmas Story " who was left demoralized when he decoded his Ovaltine message , I had to kick myself in the pants when a subliminal cobra head appeared to advise me to " Rent Rhino Videos Every Day " .
" The Sahara Desert , straight ahead and turn to your left . "	He may not be battling the entire Apache Nation , or winning World War II single handedly , but John Wayne has his hands full with co-star Sophia Loren in this desert adventure . Wayne's character is Joe January , a guide hired by Paul Bonnard ( Rosanno Brazzi ) to help him locate his missing father and a lost treasure in the Sahara Desert . Loren's character Dita is a reforming prostitute , who shanghais herself onto the expedition , and creates an unnerving romantic tussle between the two male leads , who manage to have two fist fights on her behalf before it's all over . That said , the premise sounds more interesting than the actual presentation . The film moves along rather slowly , and offers little in the way of excitement or interest in support of the story . The one sit up and take notice scene occurs when January attempts to pull the plug on the expedition when their water runs down to an eight hour supply , and Dita obliges by dumping the canteens in support of Bonnard's legend . Fortunately the lost city suddenly appears , and sets the stage for some intrigue as Bonnard slowly loses his mind after discovering the remains of his father's party . Jealous of January's interest in Dita , he leaves both stranded at the ruins , taking all the water , supplies and pack animals with him . Offsetting the pace of the story is the excellent cinematography of the Libyan Sahara , rich with vibrant color . You felt the searing heat and the wretchedness of being stranded without hope for survival , yet knowing things would always work out for hero and heroine . At least Wayne's character had one true friend in the film , his donkey ( mule ? ) Janet remained true blue to the end . This is not one of John Wayne's more charismatic adventures , and among his lesser known starring roles . I'll recommend it though for at least one offbeat scene - Wayne does a mean jackass impersonation !
" A man can't run away from what's inside him . "	" Riders of the Whistling Pines " is a cool sounding title , and the story itself is not your run of the mill Western . Set in ' modern ' times so to speak , automobiles and airplanes are very much in evidence , and there's even a reference to World War II . After being exonerated for the accidental death of a forestry agent , Gene Autry's character is ready to give up his newly formed sportsmen's club and move away . However when his singing buddies ( The Cass County Boys ) admit they tampered with his rifle sight , Gene decides to stick around to find out if the death of Charles Carter might have been murder . It seems to me that Gene found himself on the wrong side of an environmental issue in this one though . He repeatedly defended the use of DDT to control a larval outbreak that threatened the forest , and by extension , the area's logging industry . Every time he stated that the spray was safe for animals and fish , he sounded like an apologist for the chemical industry . If filmed today , Gene might have turned out to be the villain of the piece instead of lumber company owner Henry Mitchell ( Douglas Dumbrille ) . Instead , Mitchell employed two henchmen to do his dirty work , one of them being a virtually unrecognizable Clayton Moore hiding behind an unkempt beard . No matter how tough things get , there's always plenty of time for a passel of songs , and for a film coming in at just over an hour , Gene knocks out five tunes while the Cass County Boys add another ; and let's not forget the tune by the Pinnafores trio . For this viewer , there were two major sit up and take notice events in the film . In an early scene , the forestry agent Carter and henchman Wright arrive at the Cedar Ridge Sportsmen's Camp requesting to use the phone . At the time of this posting , the part of Carter is listed by IMDb as Jason Robards Sr . However if you view that scene closely , you will easily recognize the face of Bob Hope ! The other giveaway is Hope's unmistakable voice , especially when off screen attempting to make that phone call . And the other ? When Gene sets up Mitchell with word that his buddy Joe will be able to identify the man who shot him , Mitchell and his boys make for Gene's camp to do away with him . Mitchell shoots who he thinks is Gene in a rocking chair on the porch , but it turns out to be a life size dummy of Gene ! Now why would Gene Autry have one of those ? ? ?
" Get out of there , or I'll fill you full o ' lead " .	When one of Rocky Lane's courier buddies is shot and killed , the cowboy hero heads off to the town of Durango to help avenge his friend and get the goods on the bad guys who are looting local wagon trains and creating general havoc . It's true as another reviewer points out , that the town of Durango is never mentioned by name , however one of the local businesses names the town in the latter part of the movie . In the main plot of the story , local ranchers must wait a week for a forty thousand dollar payload to arrive in town in order to make their mortgage payments , and my timing in watching the film had me chuckling each time Sheriff Walters ( Ross Ford ) reassured the ranchers with " The money will be here in time " . It was like listening to a bunch of hot shot bankers who created the sub prime mortgage mess telling us that everything was really OK , until of course , it wasn't . Here's something to think about - when Rocky arrived in town and filled Sheriff Walters in on how his money pouch was stolen , they watch as Cricket Adams ( Walter Baldwin ) goes into a store across the street from the jail . The sheriff states that they could go out to Cricket's farm to look for the strongbox that the outlaws probably hid there . However Rocky was a stranger to Durango and didn't know any of it's residents , while the sheriff couldn't know Rocky was referring to Cricket's farm . Lucky guess ? - I don't think so . Or how about Rocky sliding across the dirt to escape a bad guy bullet at Cricket's farm ? When he gets up , his shirt isn't even dusty ! Now there's a super power I didn't know cowboys had . And say , wasn't that an awful big ranch house old Cricket had for a corn farmer ? I guess that's what makes a lot of these old ' B ' oaters so entertaining , even when a lot of thought wasn't put into the story line . What you need to do is concentrate on the cowboy hero , and in this one , Rocky's always well poised with his manner and his fists . I especially enjoyed his wild brawl with villain Blake ( Steve Darrell ) in the local saloon , making great use of breakaway props and furniture , along with that great rescue aboard Black Jack when Cricket's buckboard took off in an early scene . Also gratifying to see that the story's hero passes on making a play for the rancher's niece ( Aline Towne ) , deferring to the sheriff instead . Makes it a whole lot easier to move along at the end of the story .
" Don't worry sister , we'll have a bow and arrow wedding . "	Abbott and Costello found themselves in a wide variety of films ; " Ride ' em Cowboy " is their take on mangling the Western genre . They're aided by genuine " B " Western stars Johnny Mack Brown and Dick Foran along with pretty Anne Gwynne as the romantic interest for Foran's character , Bronco Bob Mitchell . Bronco Bob is largely a mythical character , invented by Mitchell when he was a starving writer . But his Western stories were hugely successful , so the Mitchell exploits grew larger than life until he can no longer live up to the image of his creation . Arriving at the Lazy S Ranch , Mitchell and the boys take a stab at dude ranch life and try to get ready for the annual rodeo celebration , in which Mitchell has agreed to compete . Therein lies the recipe for the Abbott and Costello brand of Western fun . With no sign of the Andrews Sisters from their earlier films , the musical chores are picked up by The Merry Macs and Ella Fitzgerald . A quick peek at Ella's filmography reveals that her standard " A-Tisket , A-Tasket was performed in seven films between 1939 and 1948 , and it's done here in fine fashion . Dick Foran also croons a tune as the obligatory singing cowboy . Lou Costello proved he could ride a runaway torpedo in 1941's " Keep ' Em Flying " ; here he does the same on a stampeding bronco , with Bud along for the ride . The film also offers some of the same sight gags found in Warner Brothers cartoons of the era , notably Lou's having his " palm read " in a dream sequence dominated by Indians . " Ride ' em Cowboy " gallops along at a fairly quick eighty six minute run , a lot of it at a frenetic pace . Abbott and Costello fans will enjoy their favorites here , as the boys show they can be at home in any setting .
" I like dealer's choice . . . , when I'm dealin ' . "	" Riders of the West " was the seventh of eight Rough Riders films to come out of Monogram Pictures . The stories brought together the aging cowboy trio of Buck Rogers , Tim McCoy and Ray Hatton who usually met up at some point in the movie to thwart assorted villains and desperadoes . In this one , the boys are summoned by rancher Ma Turner ( Sarah Padden ) , who's cattle have been stolen . The set up is a familiar one as local ranchers lose their herds to rustlers , they can't make their mortgage payments , and the crooked banker forecloses on their property . The cast of villains will be a familiar one to fans of ' B ' Westerns , with Harry Woods as crooked saloon owner Duke Mason , and Walter McGrail as larcenous banker Miller . Probably because they were getting older , the picture's heroes didn't engage in a lot of physical action , though Buck Jones can still put the hammer down when he's astride his horse Silver . Usually , Jones would take on an under cover assignment , but this time it's McCoy who impersonates a special investigator from the Cattlemen's Association after hijacking the real one away from a stagecoach holdup . The bad guys hoped to stop him from arriving at Red Bluff to complete his mission . Curiously , after learning that Investigator Dodge was hidden away in Ma Turner's hayloft , we never see him again . I wonder if he's still up there ? Though Monogram planned to continue the Rough Riders series , World War II intervened and Tim McCoy returned to active duty . Jones and Hatton made one more film as their characters Buck Roberts and Sandy Hopkins in " Dawn on the Great Divide " . Hatton continued portraying the character Hopkins for Monogram as the sidekick for their new star Johnny Mack Brown , using themes that were developed to be used by the Rough Riders .
" You better get those silver bullets ready for those ghosts because we're going in . "	Even with a fuzzy washed out print and voices out of sync with lip movements , " Apache Rose " is a fun Western in an uncharacteristic setting . Gabby , Andy and Smiley must have been unavailable because Roy Rogers ' sidekick here is Olin Howlin who I haven't seen before . As expected , he provides some of the film's comic relief as Alkali , the old timer with tall tales and a case of the dizzies whenever trouble's close by , which is pretty often . Dale Evans is on hand as Billie Colby , the owner of a tugboat , the " Apache Rose " . Just like her character in " Bells of San Angelo " , she and Roy start out at odds with each other , but eventually team up together to bring down a villainous plot to seize the oil rights from rancher Carlos Vega ( Russ Vincent ) . The lead bad guy is Reed Calhoun ( George Meeker ) , owner of a casino boat who's maneuvered Vega into running up a large gambling debt so he can get his hands on Vega's oil rights . I always get a kick out of seeing Pat Brady in a Rogers ' film before he became a mainstay in the TV series . Here he's involved in a Mexican hat dance with a senorita , and leads the charge with a battering ram to break Roy and Alkali out of a wine cellar . When you stop to think about some of the plot elements offered here , the film winds up being a bit silly . Men in business suits for example , operate out of a cave near the ocean . Near the end of the story , bad guy Calhoun grabs Carlos as a hostage with about two dozen of his ranch hands as witnesses , and when the villains find themselves on the short end of a shootout with Roy and the sheriff , they attempt a getaway with rowboats into the ocean . Not a very smart move with the tide rolling in ! As expected , there are a few musical numbers , and Dale gets to do a solo on her tugboat - ' There's Nothing ' Like Coffee in the Morning ' . The romantic angle between her character Billie with Roy and Vega isn't adequately resolved by film's end , though all signs point to her getting together with Roy . If you can get past some of the weaker points of the film , you can have a good time with " Apache Rose " . Dale Evans is a treat , and gets to share about as much screen time as future husband Roy .
" Listen , you see things those white boys don't see . . . "	The East Side Kids films would often use the boxing ring as the focus of their stories , but the sport dealt with here is horse racing , as Muggs Maloney ( Leo Gorcey ) fancies himself a championship rider . When an itinerant black trainer and his horse find temporary shelter at the abandoned Acme Stable , Muggs and his gang befriend the old gentleman and start getting Blue Knight ready for a successful payday . Muggs however is a tenuous rider , and is seen as a drawback for Blue Knight's success . The story gets some mileage out of Muggs defending himself against ' back out ' talk from the horse's financial backers , as well as East Sider Danny ( Bobby Jordan ) . He even gets to mix it up with one of his racing idols , Jimmy Sullivan ( Nick Wall ) , before it finally sinks in that maybe it's the right thing to do . That's where the story gets interesting for me . The East Side Kids films and others of the era , like the Charlie Chan series , often used black characters for comic relief and as denigrating stereotypes . This one though , contains two unique scenes that seem to be an attempt to address the stereotype and convey sympathy for the black character . The first is when Scruno ( Sunshine Sammy Morrison ) and Ben ( Clarence Muse ) discuss what they see as fear in Muggs ' behavior when riding Blue Knight . Scruno's observation is dead on , and Ben answers with the comment in my summary above ; to me it was taken as an insightful observation by someone who had known fear himself . The other scene comes across more forcefully , and looked like it might have been groundbreaking for it's time . When Ben himself questions Muggs about riding to win , Muggs ' anger surfaces and he slaps the black man in the face . White teenage aggression slaps down the uppity Negro . It was an awkward moment , and it left me wondering how the scene might have played for it's audience of the time . Immediately after , realizing what he's done , Muggs challenges Ben to fight back and beat him ; not so much to defend himself , but to beat the fear out of Muggs , who now realizes it for himself . Later , a redemptive moment occurs when Muggs saves Ben from a fire , and the two embrace in friendship , realizing that they really needed each other all along . All that said , it's notable to mention I've seen Clarence Muse in only two other films , 1936's " Daniel Boone " and 1941's " Invisible Ghost " . However in both pictures , his subservient role is handled respectfully and with dignity . The thought just occurred that he might have been the Morgan Freeman of his era . Of course , as all the East Side Kids stories do , this one ends on a successful note , with Blue Knight winning the big race finale in a photo finish . Muggs isn't part of that decision , but he doesn't have to be . It's a classy ending where making a tough decision winds up being the right one for everyone to come out a winner .
" I shot the body three times and the head twice . "	The mystery here is the names attributed to Abbott and Costello in the closing credits as Peter Patterson and Freddie Franklin . They repeatedly refer to each other by their real names in the film , and I can't recall their character references in the movie at all . Universal rounds out the boys ' monster pairings one last time with The Mummy , after previous and better team ups with Frankenstein , The Invisible Man and Jekyll & Hyde . Marie Winsdsor appears as the evil Madame Rontru , leader of a gang attempting to acquire the sacred medallion of the Mummy Klaris . Besides the boys , her nemesis in the movie is Richard Deacon's character Semu , an Egyptology student who wants to save the treasure of Princess Ara for the true believers of Klaris . His first appearance is rather ridiculous , dressed as he is in an Egyptian costume , though he trades it in for better suited business attire later in the film . The Klaris name is a knockoff of the Kharis Mummy portrayed in the original 1932 film by Boris Karloff . For their part , the boys get some mileage out of gags with the dead body of Dr . Gustav Zoomer ( Karl Katch ) , an expected dancing cobra and a take your pick and shovel routine . But a one is good , three is better attempt at providing a trio of mummies falls a bit flat , with Bud and a Windsor henchman ( Michael Ansara ) providing a plethora of bandaged ones . For one of their last efforts , " A & C Meet the Mummy " provides it's measure of laughs , but most have been said and done before . What it proved to me though was what I've thought all along about the casting of the sequels to the original Universal Mummy , why have a name actor like Lon Chaney Jr . portray the title character , when anyone under wraps would have done as well at half the cost ?
" That feller stuck up the two fellers that was stickin ' us up ! "	This time out , Steve Carson ( Charles Starrett ) is an ex-Texas Ranger , on the trail of cattle swindlers making life tough for Santa Fe ranchers . Before getting there , he's framed for killing the Durango Kid back in Texas by a couple of henchmen working for Buck Prescott ( Frank Fenton ) . He'll use Smiley Burnette's help in tracking down the bad guys as always , and this time Smiley's pretty handy with his fists . There's a great funny fight scene where he mixes it up with cowhand Barton , and later he turns the tables on a couple more galoots who try to take him by surprise . Smiley makes reference a couple of times as being with the Texas Rangers with Carson , I wonder if he was in any better shape back then . Now if you're thinking , wait a minute , Carson IS the Durango Kid , you're right . The man shot by Carson in Texas was an impostor who was also set up by Hawk Edwards ( Don Harvey ) and Poker Joe ( Paul Campbell ) . It's Prescott's way of getting even with Carson for running him out of Texas . Keep an eye on the enterprising bartender at the beginning of the story . As he delivers refills of whiskey for his saloon patrons , he pours an unused glass from a passed out drunk back into the bottle - that's one way to keep profits up ! It's neat to see Mary Castle in the role of Toni Eaton , daughter of one of the ranchers swindled by Prescott . She wound up with a regular role as Frankie Adams in the first season of " Stories of the Century " , a Western TV series debuting in 1954 . Teaming up with partner Matt Clark ( Jim Davis ) , she worked undercover to help catch famous outlaws of the wild west . Before it's all over , Smiley Burnette offers a couple of songs as usual . The first is a tribute to his deep bass falsetto - " Old Fashioned Froggy Blues " . Later on , we get a couple more tunes from a passel of singing cowhands called the Sunshine Boys , who sound pretty good around the old campfire . By film's end , Carson and his alter ego settle the score with bad man Prescott and his gang . What's always curious to me though is where Durango keeps his white horse and black outfit when he's not being the Durango Kid !
" No , I'm the man who held up the men who held up the stage . "	This is one of the more solid ' B ' Westerns you'll find going back to 1935 , with Tim McCoy cast in a dual role as swindled mine owner Slim Braddock , and later as the grown up son Tim Braddock , back for revenge on the outlaw that stole his father's mine claim . The picture even does an admirable job of aging bad guy Williams ( Karl Hackett ) over the course of the generation that Tim Braddock grows up to manhood , even though McCoy looks closer to his real age of forty four at the time of the film , as opposed to ten years younger as the story suggests . Funny , but this was the first time I noticed McCoy's resemblance to the young Lloyd Bridges , they could have been brothers - take a look ! Probably the most entertaining part of the film had to do with the introduction of explosives expert Bailey , wonderfully portrayed by Paul Fix . If you followed the classic Western TV series ' The Rifleman ' , you might recognize him as future Marshal of North Fork , Micah Torrance ; there are times in the picture that his profile gives it away . Even better , Tim McCoy picks up on Bailey's palaver in a subsequent scene to impersonate someone who actually knows what he's talking about . It's one of the most creative devices I've seen in a Western going back this far . I had to go back and replay a couple of scenes to be sure , but check out the first time Tim Braddock enters Brennan's mine - there's a sign posted above the entrance that states ' Blue Ridge Mine ' . Later , when Braddock and Brennan leave by the same way , the sign is no longer there . It makes it's appearance and disappears again later in the story . You've got to give credit to the film makers ( Puritan Pictures ) for maintaining a consistent story throughout , even with the shifting plot elements . It's also one of the few early Westerns where the second billed female lead really doesn't figure very much in the story , even as a romantic interest for McCoy . In fact , she's told a couple of times to mind her own business as the men figure out how to trap villain Williams . Check out the early court room scene that had me scratching my head - when Williams ' lawyer objects to the judge ! He was over ruled .
" I hope I'm not too late . . . . "	As a fan of , and having seen all of the available Charlie Chan films , I was curious to sample another take on the genre , with " Mr . Wong , Detective " as my first sampling of the Wong series . I found the movie to have both similarities and differences to the Chan mysteries . As far as similarities go , the first and most obvious is the casting of a non Oriental in the lead role ; Boris Karloff does a credible job as Detective James Lee Wong , even though one must stretch belief to accept the characterization . The story itself involves the inventor of a poison gas formula seeking revenge on three partners of the Dayton Chemical Company who conspire to cut him out of the profits from his invention . As with the Chan films , red herrings galore are introduced to cast suspicion in different directions . Only the exacting patience and precision of the title detective it seems , will uncover the real killer . Patience indeed is needed , as Police Captain Sam Street ( Grant Withers ) constantly jumps to conclusions based on clues that unfold with the investigation . His portrayal is almost over the top as he belts out commands and virtually harasses everyone he questions , including girlfriend Myra Ross ( Maxine Jennings ) , who's secretary to Simon Dayton , President of the Dayton Chemical Company and the film's first victim . Probably the major difference to the Charlie Chan films is the lack of comic relief , as provided by Number # 1 , 2 and 3 Sons , and in the case of the Monogram Chan films beginning in 1944 , that of chauffeur Birmingham Brown as portrayed by Mantan Moreland . This being a Monogram , the film does move more slowly than the better Chan's , and the Monogram Chan films in turn are considered inferior to the Twentieth Century Fox series . Monogram would eventually go on to retread the secret gas formula plot in two subsequent Charlie Chan movies , 1945's " The Jade Mask " starring Sidney Toler , and 1948's " Docks of New Orleans " with Roland Winters , both films rated in the lower third of the Chan canon . Both " Mr . Wong , Detective " and " Docks of New Orleans " at least come up with clever ways that the murderer finds to administer the poison gas that claims its ' victims . Which brings me to the most glaring plot hole in " Mr . Wong , Detective " . Early in the film , inventor Carl Roemer ( John St . Polis ) barges into Simon Dayton's office brandishing a handgun and demanding that Dayton return to him the poison gas formula , as if he would not have kept notes on such an important invention . Yet Roemer uses the very same poison gas to exact his revenge - someone wasn't paying attention !
" I gave up being an officer and a gentleman when I turned in my little brown suit . "	Joe Barrett ( Humphrey Bogart ) , Passport # 276322 , is back in Tokyo seven years after the war , fluent in Japanese and rousing suspicion in all the official channels . He soon learns that the wife he presumed dead is still alive , having survived Oyama prison camp where she was forced to broadcast propaganda messages for the Japanese war effort in order to save her newborn child . Attempting to reconcile with Trina ( Florence Marly ) , Barrett meets her family , husband Mark Landis , and the daughter he never knew - Anya , now seven years old . In Japan on a sixty day visa , Barrett attempts to build some business connections that will allow him more time in the country , only to fall in with Baron Kimura ( Sessue Hayakawa ) , a ruthless anti-American . Kimura blackmails Barrett over his former lover's past , and kidnaps the young girl to insure that he transport three war criminals from Korea back to Japan to revive the Black Dragon Underground . By this time however , the U . S . Military has uncovered Kimura's plan , and engages Barrett in carrying out the mission so they can contain the threat . The name of the film " Tokyo Joe " borrows from the night club business Barrett formed with his own sweat and money , and had to abandon right after the war . It's a well done action and adventure piece that has Bogey showing his judo skills . For more Bogart battle action , I also suggest " Action in the North Atlantic " , " Sahara " and " Battle Circus " .
" Without faith , we are only dust . "	Paramount's " The Light of Western Stars " is based on a Zane Grey novel , and with it's writing and characters , cuts a notch above the average " B " Western of the era . Victor Jory stars as Gene Stewart , and opens the story by betting Sheriff Tom Hawes that he'll marry the first girl who arrives in town . Boston socialite Madeline Hammond ( the striking Jo Ann Sayers ) turns out to be the sister of Jory's best friend Al , portrayed by Russell Hayden . Learning this , all bets are off ! Tom Tyler cuts an imposing figure on screen as the sheriff , but is cast alongside the villainous Nat Hayworth ( Morris Ankrum ) . Together , they form a gunrunning alliance across the border into Mexico . In an unlikely final showdown , Stewart's loyal friend Poco ( Noah Beery Jr . ) guns it out with the sheriff and his henchman Sneed ( Earl Askam ) . There's a great cast of supporting players here , including Eddie Dean , Ruth Rogers , and although you don't get to see his face much , future star Alan Ladd . For Zane Grey fans , I also recommend the following films based on his novels - " Heritage of the Desert " with Randolph Scott in his first starring role , " Drift Fence " with Buster Crabbe , and " Fighting Caravans " featuring Gary Cooper .
" Our partner don't usually go around murdering strangers . . . "	In 1938 , Republic Pictures decided to use Robert Livingston in feature films , including " The Lone Ranger Rides Again " serial . Needing a replacement for Livingston in The Three Mesquiteers franchise , they turned to John Wayne who came along to Republic in 1936 with the merger of several ' B ' film companies . Wayne had appeared in sixteen films for Paul Malvern's Lone Star Pictures group released through Monogram . Though he made six films for Universal in , they weren't very successful , so back at Republic , he became Stony Brooke , teaming up with Ray " Crash " Corrigan as Tucson Smith , and Max Terhune as Lullaby Joslin ; " Pals Of The Saddle " was their first effort together . There's no doubt as to who the headliner was , as lobby cards and posters of the films during Wayne's run highlight his up and coming star status . I don't know when Terhune first began to use a ventriloquist dummy , but Elmer appears here with a limited speaking role , his parts would grow as the series progressed ! The story itself is a fairly spirited one , accompanied by a lively musical soundtrack . I had to chuckle over the main plot element , a fictitious material called ' monium ' was being mined and smuggled to a foreign government by the villains of the piece to be used as an ingredient in a poisonous gas . At the time historically , America was trying to maintain it's neutrality while Europe was being threatened by Hitler . More than one of the Charlie Chan films of the era used a similar story line , and I had to do a quick double take to stay on track . These later Mesquiteers films seemed to exist in somewhat of a ' time warp ' , as 1880 style cowboys did their thing as the modern 1930's managed to intrude . In the opening scene , newsreel stock footage is used to portray a military battle with an armored tank plainly visible ! Stony and the boys decide to help out a female government agent ( Doreen McKay ) smoke out the bad guys involved in the smuggling operation . In a somewhat convoluted series of events , the good guys and bad guys manage to trade the upper hand a few times before it's all over . During one of these , Lullaby springs Stony from the locals holding him for a murder frame-up using a ' Chicken Inspector ' badge . I got a kick out of Judge Hastings ( Joseph Forte ) , the brains of the bad guy outfit , as the 3-M's take off in a covered wagon with the contraband monium on board . Calling his men to action , he yells " . . . we want to try and save that gold . " He must have gotten his story lines mixed up ! Wayne , Corrigan and Terhune would remain together for six Mesquiteers movies , with Ray Hatton taking Max's place in two more playing the role of Rusty Joslin , Lullaby's brother . In the latter part of Wayne's run , Republic and director John Ford tapped him for the lead role in " Stagecoach " . When Wayne eventually left the Mesquiteers , he in turn was replaced as circumstances would have it , by Robert Livingston . The trio series would continue for a few more years with even more replacements . Between 1936 and 1943 , Republic churned out a total of fifty one of these oaters ! At the present time , AMC seems to be running the John Wayne Mesquiteers films on an alternating schedule during it's Saturday and Sunday lineup . If you're a fan , you owe it to yourself to catch at least one of these featuring a young John Wayne before he became ' The Duke ' , and you'll have a lot of fun to boot !
" You , you've got one slight advantage on me , you don't mind being killed . "	I've never given thought to Mickey Rooney in a Western , so seeing him turn up here was an unexpected surprise . Though it makes sense to cast him as a greenhorn sugarfoot heading for Border City , Texas , it's a bit more of a stretch that his long lost brother is portrayed by Robert Stack . Not as bad as Schwarzenneger and DeVito as twins , but still enough to be a head scratcher . That aside , the story is a fairly interesting one , where even Rooney's comedy relief is well timed . Mickey portrays Denny O'Moore of New York City , his brother Patrick has been gone for eight years . Though Denny has written him repeatedly over the years to a known address , he's never been answered , so takes it as his mission to find his sibling . Fortunately he hooks up with a Texas Ranger named Joe Walter ( Robert Preston ) , or his goose would have been cooked many times over . For his part , Walter is on the trail of a Mexican Indian bandit named El Tigre who's been making life miserable for residents of the border town between Texas and Mexico . Denny and the Ranger get into repeated scrapes , both individually and together before it's all over . At one point they're befriended by a Mexican blacksmith named Ortiz , who has his own grudge against El Tigre ; his son was killed by the outlaw's band . A pretty senorita is thrown into the mix as well , Carmel ( Wanda Hendrix ) is Patrick's intended , however she doesn't love him , and is smitten with the diminutive Denny . Since all of Denny's prior love interests have been over six feet tall and almost two hundred pounds , this match up has possibilities . As befits his size , Rooney has his share of comedic moments attempting to mount a horse , and generally up to challenging hombres up to twice his size . If it were anyone but him , the script probably would have called for a bullet in response , but at least he inspires confidence in the face of danger . Either that , or he doesn't know any better . The good brother / bad brother theme is a recurring one in ' B ' Westerns , going all the way back to the beginning of the genre . The twist here is that Patrick repeatedly tried to get little brother out of harm's way in trying to avoid capture . The other was his alternate identity as the villain El Tigre , summarily dismissed by Denny who would rather believe his brother died a long time ago .
" Land of the white witch taboo , we no go . "	I was all ready to strap myself in for the ride , but you know what , once the story got going it didn't turn out to be too bad . It reminded me a little of 1949's " Mighty Joe Young " without the production values , and quite possibly a more notable cast . The story opens with the ill fated plane flight of a wanted embezzler who escapes the authorities with his ten year old daughter in tow . With a tropical storm raging , the plane goes down in an African jungle . Even though the pilot and his two passengers survive , embezzler Stockwell ( Herbert Rawlinson ) is taking no chances after his cash and jewels are noticed by the flier ; and then there were two . Shortly after getting situated , young Doreen Stockwell goes on a jungle foray and discovers a wounded gorilla . It's left to the viewer's imagination to piece things together as the film fast forwards unannounced to a period some years later when Ray Gorman ( Buster Crabbe ) arrives , curious to discover the facts behind the legend of a ' great white witch ' . His servant Tobo ( Prince Modupe ) lends testimony to the tale of a witch born of a big bird that fell from the sky . Gorman and Tobo go in search of the ' house with wings ' and the missing treasure . Adding intrigue to the adventure is the presence of mercenary Carl Hurst ( Barton MacLane ) , who sets out to follow Gorman and cash in on the treasure trove himself , along with an accomplice named Marie ( Fifi D'Orsay ) . I got a kick out of the scene where Tobo saves Gorman by shooting a leopard about to attack ; Gorman expresses his wonder at Tobo's ability to read the jungle . Tobo's response - " When you live in jungle all your life , you know these things " . Yet in the very next scene , Tobo follows Gorman as both swim across a crocodile infested river ! Actually , Tobo's character is handled in rather dignified fashion given the era , when blacks often were portrayed as foils or in subservient roles . Gorman in fact treated his guide with respect and was willing to trust his judgment , and their relationship pretty much got along as equals . The casting coup of the film definitely has to be that of Julie London as the adult white witch Doreen . It was London's first film role , and even though she doesn't sing , she really doesn't have to . It was almost comical to observe her repeated ' I really like you ' conversations with Buster Crabbe's character , who managed to miss all the signals . In that regard , the intrepid explorer was a total klutz . I saw this movie under the title " Nabonga Gorilla " , which is a bit curious since Doreen's playmate is called Samson , and the name only shows up in the credits with a different spelling - ' Nbongo ' . There it states that the part of the gorilla was played by Nbongo , though film fans will easily recognize the name of Ray " Crash " Corrigan as the man in the monkey suit . In ape circles , Corrigan came to be known by many names , including Zamba , Konga , Bonga , and my personal favorite - White Pongo . I wonder if he got to keep the gorilla costume .
" Hey , ever feel like stranglin ' your wife ? "	I never thought about the history of Perry Mason prior to the classic TV series starring Raymond Burr , so catching this on TCM today was a nice treat . The character is handled in a much lighter vein than Burr's portrayal , and I got the feeling that Warren William would also have made a good Nick Charles in the ' Thin Man ' series if William Powell hadn't been tapped for that role . One of the neat things about " The Case of the Curious Bride " is that William is given a suitably sophisticated and glib character to parry with in the form of Coroner Wilbur Strong , nicely portrayed by Olin Howland . Of course , there's the comic relief character as well ( Allen Jenkins as Spudsy Drake ) , a mainstay in mystery series of the era , along with a secretary ( Claire Dodd as Della Street ) who's not so secretly pining for his attention . If one isn't paying attention , this Perry Mason looks more like he might have been a detective solving the case instead of a lawyer defending his client . The story itself is a little baffling in that we're asked to believe that a man who's been missing and presumed dead for four years ( Holy cow - that's Errol Flynn ! ) has suddenly turned up to blackmail his former wife who's remarried . Not only that , but he had done it before ! I had to wonder what kind of guy has that kind of time on his hands in order to pull off a stunt like that . The entire movie is used to set up the payoff in the finale as Mason maneuvers suspect Carl Montaine ( Donald Woods ) into describing the accidental death of Gregory Moxley ( Flynn ) . In that regard , the picture resembles a Charlie Chan flick , in which the Oriental detective describes how he came to his conclusion about a murder suspect , only with this story the resolution comes from the suspect himself . Come to think of it , the movie had as many suspects as a typical Chan film too . Not only was there Carl Montaine as a late entry , but his new wife Rhoda ( Margaret Lindsay ) , along with the Pender siblings Oscar ( Warren Hymer ) and sister Doris ( Wini Shaw ) . It got a little confusing after a while , I'm glad Mason was able to keep things sorted out . Best advice given by Mason to suspect Rhoda Montaine - " Say nothing , and plenty of it ! " You know , I liked that . Then there was that crying jag between Mason and sidekick Spudsy over the teargas gambit - pretty hilarious to see Mason break character like that . One of the best though was that great sight gag early in the story - a ' Welcome ' mat on the way into the city morgue - Gotta love it !
" I think we can stand more canvas boys , ease the main dorsal jib and break out the spinnaker . "	Two unlikely buddies hijack a bus , stow away on a charter boat , land on an uncharted island , and save the sacred ruby of Mantua . On paper , the concept doesn't seem to work , but with Abbott and Costello , anything is possible . In " Pardon My Sarong " , all this and more combine to present a musical comedy that works even after sixty years . Watching the night club scene , it occurred to me that you never see any act today that features tap dancing , but the efforts of the team of Tic , Tac and Toe make for a very entertaining presentation , combining originality , athleticism and choreography all rolled into one . The musical stylings of The Four Ink Spots are also a treat , and a reasonable alternative to the Andrews Sisters who graced a number of the comedy duo's earlier films . When I saw this movie as a kid , the Big Stinker routine always made me roar , and surprisingly , it still holds up pretty well today in the chuckle department . It's neatly complemented by the " Tree of Truth " gag , with Lou taking his licks each time he makes a comment . There's also a bevy of pretty girls around to offset the nefarious deeds of the evil Doctor Varnoff ( Lionel Atwill ) and his henchmen . It all combines to make an entertaining hour and a half of antic fun for the " moola " team of Abbott and Costello .
" Yeah you're not stupid , you just got a shortage of corrugation in the cerebellum . "	" Million Dollar Kid " is probably as close as you'll get to a tear jerker from an East Side Kids film , as the boys are befriended by wealthy businessman John Cortland ( Herbert Heyes ) . Oddly , Cortland's character is rescued from a mugging by Muggs McGinnis ( Leo Gorcey ) and his gang , but the kicker is that one of the muggers is Cortland's own son Roy ( Johnny Duncan ) . In another twist , regular East Sider Gabriel Dell is cast as one of the bad guys named Lefty . There are a number of side stories thrown in for good measure involving Cortland's daughter Louise ( Louise Currie ) , and the death of Cortland's " good " son in the military , but those seem to be thrown in more for human interest than to advance the main story line . If you're following the credits , you'll be left confused by the mention of characters Danny , Pinkie , and Stinkie , as they're introduced by Muggs as Dave , Lou and Slug . At least one of the names is corrected by Muggs later when he talks directly to Dave ( David Durand ) . I'm always intrigued when a period film references historical events to keep the movie in perspective . Following the dismissal of butler Spevin ( Robert Grieg ) , Louise mentions how hard it will be to find a maid and cook with the war on ( WW II ) , something I would never have considered . Leo Gorcey's dad Bernard puts in a quick cameo in this one as a messenger exchanging some snappy dialog with Muggs . Catch Muggs ' expression when Dad makes his first appearance . Speaking of Gorcey , he's full of his usual malapropisms in the film . Among my favorites , when he sends lounge singer Maisie Dunbar into the Cortland party to serve Louise's two timing boyfriend - " Remember , don't be too melodrastic " . Also on hand is Lou Costello's older brother Pat as Lefty's accomplice Spike , though I can't recall that name ever being used . You'll see his name regularly listed as a producer on the Abbott and Costello TV Series of the early 1950's . Unlike a number of the films featuring the East Side Kids , this entry stands on it's own as a credible story . I find some of their films to be rather weak , with most of their best work backing a major star like Jimmy Cagney in " Angels With Dirty Faces " . The added bonus here is learning the real name of their gang at the end of the film , it's the East Side Social Improvement Club !
" There has been no English lady here . "	I was genuinely entertained by " The Lady Vanishes " , however I can't help wondering why the film garners such rave reviews along with it's standing in the IMDb film rankings . I'll readily admit that maybe it's me , as I've found myself against the majority from time to time . The premise of the film is an intriguing one , a pair of women board a train in a mythical central European country . Though unknown to each other they form a friendly bond , and while Iris Henderson ( Margaret Lockwood ) sleeps off the effects of a bump on the noggin from an offending flower box , her elderly companion simply disappears . It turns out that Miss Froy ( Dame May Witty ) is an English spy ( ? ) who harbors a secret regarding a pact between two countries . Miss Henderson finds a willing accomplice to the mystery in Gilbert Redman ( Michael Redgrave ) , who provides many a witty and comical retort to situations that arise . Both find themselves confiding in the respectable Dr . Hartz ( Paul Lukas ) when no one believes Miss Henderson's claim ; it turns out Hartz is the mastermind behind the kidnap plot . The repartee between Henderson and Redman is quick and snappy , reminiscent of Nick and Nora Charles in the " Thin Man " series . The first element that works against the film for me is the gun battle at a train stop . Now I know pistols can be deadly , but didn't it seem that the good guys were just a little too accurate in dispatching villain after villain from a fair distance ? Then , when Redman forces the train engineers to get moving again , the curious ballistics that take out the railroad men is just too unbelievable . The kicker though is the manner in which Miss Froy's secret is to be delivered to her government . It's to be found in the tune of a song that she teaches Redman how to hum in case something happens to her . Fortunately , Miss Froy makes the rest of the journey safely , because jolly old Redman has his mind on other matters ( Miss Henderson ) , and forgets the tune ! One thing though , no matter how novel an idea may seem in modern films , they usually show up in something that went before . On the train , it takes Miss Henderson a while , but she eventually remembers that Miss Froy wrote her name on a window when she couldn't be heard above the noise . Pointing it out to Redman helps convince him that Iris isn't batty . Jody Foster's character would find herself in similar circumstances with identical support in this year's thriller - " Flightplan " .
" Of course , I don't look so good with my clothes on . "	So it's St . Patrick's Day , and something tells me to go through my unviewed stack of Jimmy Cagney films . I get to " The Irish In Us " and figure it's got to be cosmic serendipity , there's no question that this is the one for today . This 1935 film offers all the elements of an early Warner Brothers flick set in New York City , and an opening scene gets things going as Ma O'Hara ( Mary Gordon ) uses the old clothesline transfer to send a stick of butter to her neighbor across the way . Living in The City back then was probably pretty cool , it certainly played on screen as a ' good old days ' kind of memory . The title of the picture never even gives a hint that it's going to be a boxing story built around a romance , which itself is built around a rivalry between a pair of brothers , with a third brother thrown in for good measure . You couldn't ask for a better Irish trio than Pat O'Brien , Cagney , and Frank McHugh as the O'Hara's , and since it was a ' 30's era First National Picture , they found a way to get Allen Jenkins involved as well , as a moniker challenged fighter named Carbarn Hammerschlog , by way of Hershkowitz . Jenkins ' bit consists of swinging away wildly any time he hears a bell ring , and that happens just enough times not to wear out it's welcome . The main story though , has to do with Lucille Jackson ( Olivia DeHavilland ) coming between Pat ( O'Brien ) and Danny ( Cagney ) , which forces Ma O'Hara to use all her motherly skills to keep the family from falling apart . There's really no question how all this will turn out , except for the result of the boxing finale which would be virtually impossible . I mean , even Rocky Balboa didn't win his first title fight , and he was ripped from a training regimen that would have put Danny and Carbarn into intensive care . I guess simpler times called for simpler solutions . You know , I couldn't help thinking how much this picture resembled an East Side Kids flick from the same era . Cagney could have been Leo Gorcey's Muggs , O'Brien would have been Bobby Jordan's Danny , and I never realized how much of a resemblance there was between Allen Jenkins and Huntz Hall until he did his slapstick thing here . The East Siders also did a fair amount of boxing themed pictures , so from that perspective it isn't too much of a stretch . It's too bad the film isn't available commercially ; mine is from a private collector as are many of Cagney's earliest pictures . It's worth trying to catch it on one of the cable channels , most notably Turner Classics when they get into a Cagney riff . Come to think of it , they might have done that today , but I haven't checked . As a final thought , Frank McHugh and Allen Jenkins made quite a few pictures between them supporting Cagney and Humphrey Bogart . For an interesting switch from a boxing format to one involving professional wrestling , catch the pair in a 1938 Bogart picture called " Swing Your Lady " . Once again , not available commercially , but it's worth it to catch Bogey in his goofiest role .
" Hey , that fella can shoot ! "	The Carson City Kid ( Roy Rogers ) is on a quest to find the man that murdered his brother , and that trail brings him to Sonora and the Olive Branch Saloon , owned by crooked card shark Lee Jessup ( Bob Steele ) . Although a hero in most of his films , Steele offers a characterization here of a villain you just love to hate , a smarmy , underhanded cheat who can't be greedy enough . George " Gabby " Hayes portrays Marshal Gabby Whitaker , who claims to have ridden with the " Kid " at one time and knows him on sight . That gag gets to be played out a number of times in the film , with Rogers grinning his way through each attempt by Gabby to continue the charade . Rounding out the cast is Noah Beery Jr . as a loose lips prospector who impersonates the Carson City Kid in order to retrieve the money he lost to Jessup in a rigged card game . And as usual , there's a romantic interest - Pauline Moore as saloon singer Joby Madison who catches Rogers ' eye and later does some catching of her own . Rogers and Moore also teamed up in " Colorado " , released in the same year , 1940 . " Carson City Kid " is a fast paced film coming in at just fifty seven minutes , and manages to include the standard gunfight , posse chase and rope across the trail trick . A 1940 Republic film , it holds up as one of the more entertaining of the early Roy Rogers Westerns .
" I tell ya , that guy gives me the creeps ! "	With the opening scene , you had to believe this was going to me a moody and atmospheric sci-fi / horror thriller . I was really impressed with all the lab equipment and scientific looking gizmos , probably the best I've seen besides the original " Frankenstein " movie . Dr . Richard Clark ( Edward Keane ) has been experimenting in the revival of life after death , and it really looked like it was going to be his story . Instead , we have a quick introduction into the theory of the ' transmigration of the soul ' , and the picture takes a sharp one hundred eighty degree turn and winds up being a gangster flick . Not all that bad mind you , but you have to get beyond a lot of the credibility defying gaps that keep the picture moving forward . Like the way Philip Bennett ( Edward Norris ) moves in on the Panino gang , shoots Mitch Larsen ( Jack Buckley ) , and just takes over without any of the other gang members batting an eye . Or when mobster Eric ( Elliot Sullivan ) seeks out Chief of Detectives George Bradley ( Addison Richards ) to rat out Bennett . It's made all the more plausible by the way the whole thing ends , which I must admit I usually find to be very frustrating . But this time I was willing to cut it some slack because that's the only way the story wound up making any sense to me . Catch this one as an entry in the twenty movie / five DVD package from Mill Creek Entertainment as part of their ' Beyond The Grave ' collection . It's an entertaining story that keeps you interested in what will happen next , even when you figure out it can't be happening .
" Fine way to talk to a man who fought and died for his country . "	" Colorado " takes place during the Civil War years , with Roy Rogers portraying a Union government agent investigating unrest in the Colorado Territory , where Union forces are being detained to contain outlaws , Indians and Confederate sympathizers . With direct authorization from President Lincoln , Lieutenant Jerry Burke ( Rogers ) comes to learn that his own brother is behind the trouble , under an assumed identity as a Union Officer , Captain Dan Mason . However Mason's allegiance is with the South , and he's in league with Indian Commissioner Jim Macklin ( Arthur Loft ) , as they sell guns to the Indian tribes . Their main goal though is to prevent Union Forces from joining General Grant's army , thereby aiding the Confederate cause . You may have difficulty as I did in recognizing a young Milburn Stone as Captain Mason ; Stone went on to portray Doc Adams in the Gunsmoke series . George " Gabby " Hayes is on hand as a cantankerous old timer who cheerfully latches up with Burke for the adventure . The love interest is supplied by Pauline Moore as Lylah Sanford , originally engaged to Mason , but eventually choosing Burke in a rather quick turn . Rogers and Moore also teamed up in " Carson City Kid " , released in the same year , 1940 . Other than the Civil War backdrop , the story is rather formulaic , as Lieutenant Burke brings the villains to justice . There is a rather unique close to the story though ; with Mason in custody , he wistfully explains to his brother how if this were Mexico , his captors would at least allow him to make a run for it , since he's going to hang for his treason anyway . As Burke contemplates this , Mason makes a break with predictable results . It's probably one of the most unusual endings for a Roy Rogers film , although the final scene is one where the Rogers ' character gets the girl to give the film a happier ending .
" I just know you're going to be happy . "	Let's see , Wade loves Marianne , Dick loves Marianne , Laura loves Dick , Marianne loves Val , Val loves himself . By film's end , Dick loves Laura , Marianne loves Wade and everyone lives happily ever after . Despite the opening comments , " The Bad Sister " is not that hard to follow , even with it's soap opera feel . Bette Davis in her first film role displays some of her future star quality as Laura Madison , but here she's quite timid and demure , much unlike her many portrayals to come and definitely not the bad sister . That role is left for Sidney Fox , who as Marianne Madison displays all the manipulative , spiteful and bitchy behavior you just love to hate in a character . Marianne plays everyone for a fool , but sinks to an all time low when she forges her father's signature to a letter supporting a questionable business venture by the slick Val Corliss ( Humphrey Bogart in his fourth film ) . Corliss skips town , leaving John Madison's partners as well as Marianne literally holding the bag . Up to that point , the film offers a fairly respectable and tense drama , but literally implodes when the ailing father offers to take the rap and cover for Marianne . In a total reversal of character , Marianne admirably confesses , and the businessmen seem satisfied that her father will make good on their bad decision . But in an entirely too simple and unrealistic ending , the " reformed " Marianne is shown smooching with the bumbling Wade , while inviting all the rest of the happy family into the Madison home . It's a feel good ending that doesn't work for all that went before .
" Why don't you scram cutie , we're buildin ' up a love nest . "	" Men Are Such Fools " pretty much tries to live up to it's title , as all the male leads are flawed characters , with Wayne Morris heading the list as former college football star turned ad agency wonder boy Jimmy Hall . Right out of the gate he's shown chasing pretty Linda Lawrence ( Priscilla Lane ) , a secretary with dreams of her own about making it big . Working for the Americo Corporation , she has an idea for a product called Fruit Tea ; had she waited a couple of decades she might have come up with Snapple . The boss at Americo is played by Hugh Herbert , the " woo woo " actor that I recall being caricatured in one of those Warner Brothers cartoons along with Bogey , Robinson and all the rest . His comical double talk contains some gems if you listen real close , and he even signs off a handwritten note with his woo woo trademark . Although he had already achieved starring roles in some minor films , Humphrey Bogart appears third billed as Henry Galleon , an ad agency exec with an eye for Miss Lawrence . Bogey's portrayal pretty much typifies a playboy and a cad , and his pursuit of Linda even after she marries Hall qualifies him as heal of the year . Jimmy Hall comes across as a self centered boob , usually embarrassing himself into the center of attention where Linda is concerned . His behavior at the Galleon party should have been enough to send Miss Lawrence packing , but somehow they wound up getting hitched . The film's habit of having the romantic leads fall in and out of character kept this viewer somewhat off balance , especially when Mrs . Hall abruptly decides that her comfortable life in the suburbs is no longer enough and leaves her husband because he's not more ambitious ! Where did that come from ? You'll be reminded by the film how long it took for married movie couples to be shown sleeping together ; the first time we see the Hall's as newlyweds , they're in separate beds ! By film's finale , the Hall's are reconciled after Linda leads Jimmy on a cross city chase following a radio broadcast in which she pitches her tea for Americo . By this time it's already been at least three years since her first ad proposal , just one more disjointed aspect of the story that came off as a bit odd . Well , if it didn't bother the writers , I guess I won't let it bother me . " Men Are Such Fools " is a lighthearted diversion that has it's moments , worth a viewing if you can find it since it's not commercially available . You might have to source it from a private collector , otherwise it might be a long wait to catch it on a cable channel . Fans of Morris and Lane can also find them top billed together in " Love , Honor and Behave " and " Brother Rat " ; the busy pair made all three films in 1938 .
" No , seriously darling , run along and buy your little factories and hurry home . "	It's unfortunate that this film doesn't have more of a reputation . Had it not been for a four movie DVD compilation from Diamond Entertainment , I would never have come across it . The story involves a scheming wife out to murder her husband , a plot that backfires when her lover botches the job and winds up dying himself in a fiery crash . Poetic justice there , but the follow up is where things get interesting , as jilted protagonist Walter Williams ( Brian Donlevy ) spends his time trying to sort things out while keeping his real identity a secret . Helen Walker turns in a strong performance as the two faced Irene Williams , a character you'll love to hate as the story progresses . She showed she could think on her feet when being tailed by a detective and when her husband unexpectedly shows up after his three month disappearance . It's somewhat of a surprise then when one of the ' keys ' to her undoing winds up in her coat pocket . I couldn't quite warm up to the romance between Williams and would be mechanic Marsha Peters ( Ella Raines ) . Even in her garage gear she's an absolute knockout , and to be smitten with Donlevy's character seemed to be a bit of a stretch . Fortunately though , she had the tenacity and energy to team up with Detective Clancy ( Charles Coburn , not that one , the other one ) . Credit Clancy with the suitcase connection that finally unhinged Mrs . Williams ' story . Everything about the late 1940's settings works well , from the busy streets of San Francisco to the bucolic trappings of Larkspur , Idaho . My own home town had the same type of fire department signal system used in the story while I was growing up , so that was a neat memory . I'm sure younger viewers will have no idea what the ' Klondike 2 ' telephone number is all about , and when was the last time your cab ride cost $1 . 15 ? Throughout " Impact " , I couldn't help drawing comparisons with another noir flick from a few years earlier , 1945's " Conflict " starring Humphrey Bogart and Sydney Greenstreet . In that one , the scheming partner in a murder plot is the husband ( Bogey ) , and the deed is done on top of a winding mountain road . It's got a clever twist that trips up the bad guy without using a trunk full of evidence . Both films suggest that some of the best noir efforts of the ' 40's and ' 50's had single word titles .
" Who ever heard of sending messages over a piece of wire ? "	John Wayne appeared in sixteen Westerns for Paul Malvern's Lone Star / Monogram Pictures , and stayed on for eight more films when the group merged with Republic in 1935 . " Winds of the Wasteland " was the last one of these , and would be Wayne's final Western for a couple of years while working on six pictures for Universal in . It's a lively story that teams The Duke up with Lane Chandler ; they only appeared together once before in Lone Star's " Sagebrush Trail " . With the dissolution of the Pony Express , the boys decide to form a stage line with the horses they receive in gratitude for their service . Wayne's character is John Blair , and along with Larry Adams ( Chandler ) , the boys are quickly hoodwinked into buying a stagecoach route from Buchanan to Crescent City . The first sign of trouble comes when the signboard for Crescent City's population reads ' 2 ' , ever since villain Cal Drake ( Douglas Cosgrove ) had a falling out with Doc Forsythe ( Sam Flint ) , with the population of the town following him to Buchanan . It's a set up that doesn't make too much sense , but if you stay with it , you'll see that Blair stays one step ahead of Drake at every turn to revitalize Crescent City and win a government subsidy of twenty five thousand dollars . For those familiar with the work of stuntman extraordinaire Yakima Canutt , you'll recognize what might be considered a very early tryout for the chariot race in " Ben-Hur " some two decades later . The seeds of that epic movie scene might have been planted here with the thrilling stagecoach race to Sacramento between Blair and Drake . Blair outwits the villain's chicanery to win by a little more than a nose , thereby winning the government grant , along with Doc Forsythe's pretty daughter Barbara ( Phyllis Fraser ) . In that respect , Wayne's character kept the streak intact of winning the lady's hand at the end of each of his early Westerns . Another reviewer for this film commented on Phyllis Fraser's resemblance to Ginger Rogers . Researching her background reveals that in fact , Fraser was a cousin of Rogers . Even more interesting , she was married to publisher Bennett Cerf for nearly thirty one years until his death in 1971 , and then to former New York City mayor Robert Wagner until his death in 1991 . Born Helen Nichols Brown , she used the name Phyllis Fraser for her entire film career . I'd be curious to know if the name derived from ' B ' Western film director Harry Fraser , who did a couple of Wayne's Lone Star yarns . Anyway , getting back to the film , you should have some fun with this one , as Wayne keeps things upbeat even when he's being railroaded by baddie Drake throughout the story . Lew Kelly adds some comic relief as the mayor / postmaster / treasurer of Crescent City , who maintains a running gag with a skunk ( the animal kind , not the human kind ) . It all comes in at a quick fifty four minute pace , quick enough to grow the population of Crescent from two to over four hundred in a blink . The only thing is , how did they ever come up with that title ?
" . . . a man must know , a man must walk alone . "	The end of the picture really made me think about how this Western turned the traditional good guy / bad guy story on it's head , ending in the death of the hero in a virtually non-climactic finale with the saving posse arriving just a little too late . It's probably how a lot of real life stories ended in the old West , ignominiously and largely forgotten to history . Up till then , the film was strangely devoid of any real action , other than Billy's ( Arch Hall , Jr . ) confrontations with members of the Sam Bass gang . Even Wild Bill Hickok knew better , but you know , I thought he might have been right around the corner to make the save . Oh well . I had the feeling the film was stretching for legitimacy with it's liberal name dropping of true Western legends like Texas John Slaughter , Wyatt Earp , Clay Allison , Red Cloud and Crazy Horse . None of them ever showed up , but you wondered if they would . Sam Bass ( Rex Marlow ) did , but again , the movie had him leading a lynch mob instead of facing down Billy on a dusty street . He didn't care much for Psalm 22 either . Hey , I got a kick out of the sign in Poker Kate's saloon - ' Gentlemen Do Not Spit On Floors ' . The punishment couldn't be worse than death . Not really an altogether bad flick as the limited reviews on this board suggest . The ballad of Billy May even gave the story some additional atmosphere as it popped up from time to time in synch with the story . At least it's nowhere near as campy awful as the Arch Hall ( Sr . and Jr . both ) flick from 1962 - this one doesn't make you go " Eegah " !
" I don't know what I've got , but I'm about to share it " .	Abbott and Costello may have wreaked havoc on more branches of the military , but they never tangled with two at the same time the way Bob Hope does in " The Private Navy of Sgt . O'Farrell " . A somewhat uneven comedy , the film makes do with Hope's traditional one liners and does the best it can with a supporting cast that includes Jeffrey Hunter , Phyllis Diller , and Gina Lollabrigida . At the center of the story is Sgt . O'Farrell's ( Hope ) plan to bring women and beer to the island base of Camp Funapee . Once accomplished with mixed results , the story meanders off to allow Hope's character to capture a Japanese submarine single handedly , and close out the story arm in arm with the lovely Maria ( Lollabrigida ) . As for the beer , I was surprised to see that it wasn't Budweiser cans floating all over the Pacific , but those of then heavyweight Milwaukee competitor - Pabst Blue Ribbon . It made me wonder if the Anheuser-Busch folks might have been given a shot at the picture . By the time the film really gets rolling , there's a can of Pabst in just about every scene . Being a long time Bob Hope fan , I can't recall today if Pabst was ever a major sponsor of his programming . But I sure do remember Texaco . Hey , did you catch the nod to one of Hope's earlier pictures ? All the men are on the beach drinking when the Indian private says to Hope - " Excuse me Heap Big Paleface ? " There's also that funny sequence attempting to reenact the beach scene in " From Here to Eternity " ; Hope even throws Lancaster's name out there in a bit of self deprecation . Also , if you were waiting to see if Crosby would show up , there's that clip of " Pennies From Heaven " to keep the streak going . Yet even with all the typical Bob Hope humor , he seems just a bit out of place in this late 1960's flick pretending to be one from the 1940's . This one approached the beach blanket bingo genre just a little too close for my comfort , and I prefer virtually any of his earlier efforts in glorious black and white . For my money , if I'm looking for Hope in a military setting , I'd just as soon tune in to one of his many USO entertainment specials . If memory serves , one of them would also have showcased Gina Lollabrigida and Phyllis Diller .
" Never let your life live from one dawn to another . "	I had the greatest trouble with two quotes from the film , the first one in my summary line above , and the other - " The hopes we have for tomorrow die today " . I can't make any sense out of the first , and the second is one of the most pessimistic and depressing statements I've ever heard . The latter was actually stated twice in the story , the second time when Julia Ashton summarized her feelings on what would have been an ill fated affair with Captain Roark ( Errol Flynn ) . Instead , the ill fate befalls Julia's husband John Wister ( Ian Hunter ) in a self imposed suicide mission into a desert region of the Sahara . For his part , Colonel Wister comes across as a model of nobility in stepping aside for his second officer , but it's a safe bet you won't run across somebody like him in real life any time soon . Back to that first quote - I'm still thinking about it , but nothing's coming to me . I'm sure it was a way of making a connection with the title of the movie , but it comes across as awkward at best . Maybe I heard it incorrectly , so any help would be appreciated . You know , I had a thought about this film I never considered before for a black and white move - I think I would have preferred to see it in color for it's exotic locations , military dress and Miss Francis ' fashionable gowns by Orry-Kelly . That might have done a better job of distracting me from the troublesome dialog .
" The longer a man dances , the more he owes the fiddler . "	Finally a ' B ' Western that doesn't have anything to do with land rights , water rights , mining rights , railroad right of way , or a town boss too big for his britches . " Arizona Gunfighter " is also unusual in other ways as well , not the least of which is cowboy star Bob Steele portraying both a hero and an outlaw . When Colt Ferron ( Steele ) attempts to avenge his father's murder at the hands of a rancher named Durkin , he shoots both Durkin and his man Farley , invoking the name of the legendary gunman . However he takes a bullet himself , collapsing with loss of blood and saved by Wolf Whitson ( Ted Adams ) and his band of Jack Pine Mountain Outlaws . Reared back to health by Whitson , Colt decides to stay on to repay that debt and to escape the law for the deaths of two men . Wolf heads up a veritable menagerie of outlaws with names like Grizzly Barr ( Ernie Adams ) and Snake Bralt ( Lew Meehan ) , and when his gang rustles cattle from the local ranchers , Whitson winds up returning them to the unfortunate victims - this is not your normal bandit . Eventually , Wolf disbands his gang , heading out of the territory with his now loyal friend Colt . In other parts of the territory , Wolf's known as Pop Whitaker , harboring other secrets as well . Trouble ensues when Snake reunites the Pine Mountain Outlaws once again , this time raiding local ranchers . Imagine Colt's surprise when he learns that Wolf is now in prison , having given himself up for his criminal past . As a common citizen , Colt gets the governor to go along with a plan to allow two outlaws , Wolf and the Arizona Gunfighter , to bring the Pine Mountain gang to justice . When the governor agrees , Colt Ferron changes his outfit to all black , as befitting his reputation . It seems a bit more thought than usual went into this oater , with original dialog and an interesting story that puts to shame all the John Wayne Lone Star Westerns of the same era . Even the film's romantic lead , Jean Carmen as Beth Lorimer , picks up a six gun in a final showdown between the good guys and bad guys . It also turns out that Wolf / Pop Whitaker is really Beth's father , another plot element that takes you by surprise . Until that was mentioned though , I had some queasy moments throughout the film when Colt and the much older Wolf exchanged furtive glances and smiles in a Brokeback Mountain sort of way . Westerns wound up being good to Bob Steele , he performed in nearly two hundred of them spanning half a century , even performing in some classic TV Westerns like " Colt . 45 " and " Have Gun Will Travel " . The young Steele resembled Gene Autry a bit , with a confident and professional approach to his craft , as evidenced by his turn as the " Arizona Gunfighter " .
" I'm sick of scrolls , translations , eternal fires ; I'm gonna have just a slight dash of murder mystery . "	Filmed in 1940 , " Phantom of Chinatown " is the last of the Mr . Wong series of films , but it's chronologically set as the earliest , featuring Asian actor Keye Luke as a young detective James Lee Wong , a role that British actor Boris Karloff parlayed into five films between 1938 and 1940 . It's refreshing to see Luke in a mature role , contrasted with his mostly comic relief effort as Number # 1 Son Lee to " Pop " Charlie Chan in the Fox Studio films of the late 1930's . However fans of the Chan films will recognize one lapse into the Lee Chan persona when Mr . Wong exclaims " That's it , I've got it " as he reviews photos of a crime scene . Also , in a later tribute to the Charlie Chan character , Wong uses the phrase " Thank you so much " , but with a different inflection than his venerable " Pop " . The story itself involves a murder investigation of archeology professor John Benton , poisoned via a glass of water as he lectures about an expedition into the Mongolian Desert that produced a scroll holding the secret to the " Temple of Eternal Fire " . The secret , it turns out , is a potentially huge oil deposit that may prove vital to the defense of China . With regard to the similar recurring story ideas used in both the Chan and Mr . Wong series , this is one theme that had not been used before , so score another one to " Phantom " for originality . Joining Keye Luke in this flashback adventure is Grant Withers , a veteran of all the Karloff Wong movies , in his role as Captain Street of the San Francisco Police Homicide Department . Curiously , Street's first name is never revealed throughout the film ; in the first two Wr . Wong movies he was Sam , while he finished the series as Bill . Characterwise , he's the same gruff , impatient detective , though with enough street smarts to allow Mr . Wong to join the case . In turn , they are aided by pretty Lotus Long as Benton's secretary Win Lee , who it turns out is also employed by the Chinese government . Her mission , even before Wong and Street get involved , is to determine the whereabouts and contents of the missing scroll that Benton returned to the States with . For a real chuckle , ( or groan as the case may be ) , pay attention as Mr . Wong tries to outmaneuver Captain Street in an early scene by turning a quick corner and pulling into a filling station . His price for a gas fill - $2 . 00 ! ! For real die-hard fans of the Chan and Wong movies , there's a scene in which a stairway passage from a shop down to a harbor boat is used by some henchmen for a quick getaway . For now , I want to say that the same set was used in the film " Charlie Chan in Shanghai " , but will have to research it to be sure . All in all , I rather enjoyed " Phantom of Chinatown " , particularly for it's casting of Keye Luke in the starring role , and it's play it straight story line , even allowing for the comic relief of Wong's cook Foo . Granted , there is the occasional racial epithet common for genre films of the era , such as the gratuitous " chop suey " remark regarding Win Lee's lunch preference . It's offset by the engaging mystery , and the intriguing Mongolian expedition reels shown during Professor Benton's lecture , another treat for those expecting a run of the mill Oriental Detective story .
" This is one time we got the murderer dead to rights . "	By now , the formula has pretty much run it's course , Detective James Lee Wong ( Boris Karloff ) is called upon to help solve the murder of a shipping magnate whose signature steamship , the " Wentworth Castle " has burned at sea with four hundred lives lost . This time though , it's Herald newspaper reporter Bobbie Logan ( Marjorie Reynolds ) who contacts Wong , playing her hunch that Homicide Captain Bill Street has once again arrested the wrong man . In this case , the suspect Dick Fleming ( William Stelling ) was in the same room with Cyrus Wentworth ( Melvin Lang ) when he died , as the fatal shot that killed him was heard in the next room by young Fleming's father ( Guy Usher ) , and Wentworth's assistant Matthews ( Wilbur Mack ) . As in the famed Charlie Chan series of films , things are never as they appear when Oriental Detectives are involved . James Lee Wong's investigation takes him to the address of Wentworth servant Lem How who's disappeared ; as agent Kai Ling , he's been on a secret mission for the Tong Society to return to the U . S . from China with one and a half million dollars worth of gold bonds for safekeeping . Bobbie , Street and Wong find Lem How murdered , and Wong goes on to discover that Lem How and Kai Ling of the Tong are one and the same person . Before it's all over , Wong takes a bullet to the arm , and the elder Fleming takes a near fatal shot while trying to take the rap for his son ; it was young Fleming's stolen gun that fired the fatal Wentworth bullet . It would be a misnomer to say the butler did it , in this case it was the chauffeur , specifically Wentworth's chauffeur who was fired for drinking and took revenge on his former employer . He was in league with Wentworth's attorney , who had his own objective - the gold bonds aboard the Wentworth Castle that never made it to the Tong . This would be the fifth and final film that Boris Karloff would portray writer Hugh Wiley's character James Lee Wong . Funny , for some reason he looked more " Chinese " to me in this film than in his prior outings . Fellow horror icon Bela Lugosi appeared in 1934's " The Mysterious Mr . Wong " as Fu Wong , a totally different character , and the series ended with Asian actor Keye Luke in 1940's " Phantom of Chinatown " .
" I didn't know you had enough brains to get an idea " ,	" Heart of the Rockies " conjures up a certain sense of romance and adventure for me , but the story here has to do with a state sponsored road gang for first time lawbreakers , with Roy Rogers appearing as a mining engineer who's ramrodding a new road through land owned by a stubborn cattle rancher . I've long gotten past the point where a ' B ' Western's title missing the point of the story bothers me , so with that out of the way , the picture winds up being a fairly standard Rogers vehicle , with a couple of oddities you can catch if you're attentive . For starters , Roy's dog Bullet shows up out of nowhere during Roy's first scrap with villain Devery ( Fred Graham ) , when he hadn't been noticeable earlier in the story . Bullet's never mentioned by name , so I'm assuming it's one and the same . When all is said and done , he actually winds up with more screen time than ' The Smartest Horse in the Movies ' , and for his trouble didn't even get a screen credit . I guess he didn't have the same agent as Trigger . This is also the bloodiest I've seen Roy get in almost two dozen pictures , but keep an eye on him in a couple of scenes . During the brawl with Devery at the Willard ranch , Roy's shown with a couple of bloody cuts when the fight is over , but they're gone in the very next frame when he mounts Trigger . Alternately , near the end of the film , when Roy mixes it up with Devery again in the barn , only one punch is thrown with Roy knocking out the bad guy . However when he turns to the camera , Roy's forehead and lip are bleeding , and he didn't even take a punch ! As for the main story , Roy has to figure out how to soften up rancher Willard ( Ralph Morgan ) to give up a part of his land for a road to be used for the benefit of all the ranchers in the area . A sub plot has Willard's foreman and chief henchman Devery cheating his own employer by rustling his prize cattle and substituting scrub stock in their place . At the same time , some of Willard's property was acquired illegally , and the deed to the questionable tract wouldn't hold up under scrutiny . This was actually a pretty elaborate set up for the sake of the story , one that most oaters didn't take the time to get involved with . But not enough to stop Roy from figuring out Devery's involvement , as long as he had some help from Willard's pretty niece June ( Penny Edwards ) . That was June's assessment of Devery in my summary line above . This time around , the comedy relief duties are handled by Abbott and Costello's regular beat cop , Gordon Jones . Jones ' character is Splinters McGonigle , who runs a guest ranch on Willard property , so he has to walk a fine line between helping Roy and staying loyal to Willard . I really couldn't figure out what that final scene between Splinters and Mrs . Edsel was all about when she simply disappeared ! Anyone ? I couldn't help thinking while watching that with the story elements being what they were , this would have been a fine vehicle for a team up between Roy Rogers and the Bowery Boys , who often found themselves in similar kinds of adventures . OK , the Bowery Boys were part of Warners ' and Roy was signed to Republic , but it's an interesting idea . To catch Roy in an outright comedy , try " Son of Paleface " , where he has all he can do to match wits with Bob Hope .
" I'd marry him if I was a little bigger and he was a little littler . "	Abbott and Costello churned out three service films in 1941 ( " Buck Privates " , " In The Navy " , and " Keep ' Em Flying " ) . With the second World War over , the boys reprise their original roles from " Buck Privates " as they re-enter the civilian world . Universal Pictures gets some mileage out of the first picture by offering about ten minutes of highlight clips , and this footage is basically the only treatment we have of the comedy team in uniform . The misadventure begins with seven year old Evie LeBrec ( Beverly Simmons ) stowing aboard the ship bound for home in Herbie Brown's ( Lou ) duffel bag . Homeless in France , she more or less adopted Herbie and pal Slicker Smith ( Bud ) as they head for the States . Nat Pendleton is back as Sergeant Michael Collins and comic foil for Herbie's antics ; Evie pulls a fast one to make it seem like the Sarge brought her aboard ship . Eventually she's put under the care of Sylvia Hunter ( Joan Fulton ) , who sees her home safely aboard , and later becomes " Aunt " Sylvia once the ship reaches home . Once on land , the boys learn that adopting Evie will take some doing , as they need to be gainfully employed , and she'll need a mom . The gainfully employed part comes rather easy , Sylvia's fiancée Bill Gregory ( Tom Brown ) has built a prototype race car and engine , and hires the boys on to do some selling . In a clever sight ( and sound ) gag , the boys take the mini car to the bank to seek financing , and as it backfires repeatedly , the scene resembles a bank robbery in progress , just one of the many fixes Herbie gets himself into . As in the prior service films , there's a frenetic finale to cap things off , as Herbie finds himself in the real car creating traffic mayhem behind the wheel in a variety of vehicular near misses . All's well that ends well though , as the adoption of Evie is assured by the nicely matched couple , " Aunt " Sylvia and Bill . Cute as a button , Beverly Simmons nearly steals the show with her Shirley Temple knock off character , and if she had more screen time would have given A & C a real run for the money .
" On third night , not before , Shark God must again have eyes . "	With a title like " Omoo-Omoo The Shark God " I was making room on my Top Ten Worst Movie List for a possible contender , but you know , this wasn't all that bad . Just goes to show you that initial impressions can be deceiving . The first thing to get my double take reaction was seeing that the picture was based on a Herman Melville novel in the opening credits . If Omoo shares the same heritage as Moby Dick , it can't be all that bad . The story has to do with a pair of stolen black pearls of great wealth ; they were the eyes of the shark god on the island of Taviti , just off the tip of Sumatra . The shark god is represented by a large stone statue revered by the island inhabitants , but without it's eyes to distinguish good from evil , the islanders have run up a string of bad luck resulting in a drought and poor crops . The captain of the Schooner Julie is returning to Taviti to finally claim the pearls he tried to steal the first time around , but wound up abandoning when the island drums drove him mad . The story adds intrigue by having the crew of the Julie take sides in the quest , with the Captain ( Trevor Bardette ) succumbing to an illness that is treated by a stowaway aboard ship . Tembo ( Rudy Robles ) is the son of the island Chief Tari ( Pedro de Cordoba ) , and uses a combination of native medicine and mumbo jumbo to give the captain a temporary fix to make it to the island . However when the captain succumbs to his malady , the illness is passed on to his daughter by way of the voodoo like curse . It's up to good guy Jeff Garland ( Ron Randell ) to set things right by convincing Julie ( Devera Burton ) that the treasured pearls belong to Omoo-Omoo after all . I wasn't expecting all the stock footage the film employs to display island wildlife the way it did , particularly the pair of tigers doing battle about midway through . At first I didn't think it probable that tigers would be part of the landscape , but Sumatra is known for it's own species of big cat , so I guess that wasn't so much of a stretch . Earlier , there was a scene where Julie and Garland observe an underwater battle between an octopus and a moray eel . The logistics of the scene don't work at all , but it was entertaining enough to gloss over the believability factor . If you watch closely though , you'll notice the tentacles of the octopus push up against the side of the aquarium glass that it was filmed in . Anyway , taking the Herman Melville connection and combining it with the " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " flavor of the greed among the participants vying for the black pearls , you have an entertaining enough story for it's mere fifty eight minute length . Say now , Black Pearl , someone might be able to take that concept and really run with it . Hey , wait a minute . . .
" Yeah , that's a very heavy grease ball wager . "	I didn't quite know what to make of " Paradise Alley " when it first came out in 1978 , and quite truthfully , I don't quite know what to make of it today . Back in the mid 1960's I became quite a fan of professional wrestling , oxymoron as that description is . So it was the wrestling theme that prompted me to see it during it's theatrical release . Coming off the success of " Rocky " , it was as if Sylvester Stallone had to follow up that first hit with another self propelled film as writer , actor and director . The comparisons to " Rocky " , inevitable as they are , should be a cautionary one though . The former was a true diamond in the rough honored as " Best Picture " , while " Paradise " and it's characters have trouble defining themselves in post War 1946 Hell's Kitchen . It seems as if each of the Carboni Brothers undergoes a personality change during the story . Cosmo ( Stallone ) is the schemer who prompts Victor ( Lee Cannalito ) to become a wrestler by going up against and defeating the house champion Big Glory ( Frank McRae ) . Brother Lenny ( Armand Assante ) is at first protective of Victor , but with the wrestler's success in the ring , the tables turn and Cosmo begins to question Lenny's ethics and handling of the purses . Lenny becomes the stereotype of a boxing manager , deflecting questions about his integrity and how he's handling Vic's money . For me , a couple of things didn't ring true historically for the film's 1940's setting . The characters of Annie ( Anne Archer ) and Bunchie ( Joyce Ingalls ) looked just a little bit too glamorous for the story's backdrop . As for the wrestling scenes , though well done and featuring some of the mid ' 70's top mat stars , they were based quite heavily on the actual wrestling style of the seventies . You had your grappling moves defined by flips and throws , punctuated by a Ray Stevens maneuver as he catapults into a turnbuckle . However most mat action prior to the 1960's was anything but , with rare exception . Even the widely available 1960 championship bout between Buddy Rogers and Pat O'Connor featured a lot of stale and boring rest holds . Ironically , I just saw this film again on the cable Yes Network hosted by Yogi Berra in a format titled " Yogi and a Movie " . Between scenes , the famed Yankee great would talk about his youth and watching pro wrestlers like Lou Thesz and Strangler Lewis . Story boards between acts mentioned a lot of trivia about the film that appears on the IMDb site for this movie , which leads me to believe that it could have been a reference point for the presentation . There are a number of reasons to check out " Paradise Alley " , and not just to be a Stallone completist . The filming style , particularly some of the bar scenes with their red tint lends a certain uniqueness to the movie . Another is the voice of Sly Stallone singing " Too Close to Paradise " over the opening credits and the rooftop race against " Rat " ( Paul Mace ) . The one scene though that will test your patience is Victor singing to his parakeet , it's probably the one scene in film history that had me wishing for fingernails on a chalkboard .
" You're a mysterious young man , Dr . Jekyll . "	As a medical doctor , Henry Jekyll ( John Barrymore ) maintains a human " repair shop " for the poor and destitute at his own expense . Generally acknowledged as too good to be true , Jekyll is challenged by socialite Sir George Carew to experience more of life for himself , before he marries Carew's daughter Millicent ( Martha Mansfield ) . " Think what it would mean ! To yield to every evil impulse - yet leave the soul untouched ! " After meeting night club dancer Gina ( Nita Naldi ) , Jekyll becomes consumed by obsession , spending day and night in his lab developing a drug that will give him the freedom to explore his baser nature . Jekyll's early transformations are almost comic in their execution , he flails his body wildly and even falls down completely as his body transforms into the hideously deformed creature Mr . Hyde . As Hyde plunges deeper into vice , his evil nature threatens to overcome Jekyll's entire life . Jekyll even creates a will leaving his effects to the sinister alter ego in case he's unable to come out of one of his mutations . A particularly well done scene explores Jekyll's psyche as he lies in bed contemplating his fate ; he imagines a huge hairy spider crawling up on his bed and bonding with his own body . Symbolically it cements the viewers understanding of Jekyll's transformation into a creature of evil and monstrous intent . As Sir George confronts Jekyll , he changes into the most gruesome countenance of Hyde yet , and beats Sir George to death . Without the drug that will keep him normal , he's no longer able to control his transformations . Despondent , he takes his own life , or should I say , Mr . Hyde kills Dr . Jekyll to put an end to the reign of terror in his Soho neighborhood . At times over the top , John Barrymore's performance is well presented , his portrayal leaves one with an appreciation for his art and his interpretation of the John Louis Stevenson character . Martha Mansfield is demurely pretty as the pining lover who patiently keeps her love for Dr . Jekyll alive , even though she has no idea what a monster he has become . Though a silent film with occasional word screens , one has no trouble in following the details of the story to it's dramatic conclusion . The only mitigating factor for the print I viewed was the musical score that at times did not match the on screen drama , seeming instead to be more upbeat than it's subject matter .
" Why there's a man who knows what he's doin ' every minute . "	After Roy , Gene and Hoppy , one of the first ' B ' Western stars I became familiar with was The Durango Kid , the masked avenger who came to right the wrongs against common folks on the Western plains . Charles Starrett was hired by Columbia Pictures to replace the aging Tim McCoy , and even though he didn't want to be typecast as a Western hero , Columbia kept up their options on Starrett because he was a lucrative draw . By 1952 , Starret had set a longevity record with 131 ' B ' Westerns for the studio , mostly as The Durango Kid , and had reconciled his feelings about being a Western star . In this , the first outing of " The Durango Kid " , there's not a lot that resembles the series that began with " The Return Of The Durango Kid " some five years later in 1945 . Because the character became so popular with young matinée fans of the era , the stories quickly traded interchangeable plots and added humorous sidekick characters like Dub Taylor and later , Smiley Burnette . And yet , there are elements here that became familiar staples as well , like the handful of songs performed , in this instance by Bob Nolan and The Sons of the Pioneers . If you're any kind of fan at all , you'll get a kick out of Pat Brady as one of the Sons of the Pioneers , keeping time to the music with a paint brush and landing in a water trough to keep things light . As for Bob Nolan himself , he has more prominent screen time in this film than any other Western I've seen crediting his group , to the point of impersonating ' Durango ' when the situation calls for it . As for the story itself , Bill Lowery ( Starrett ) returns home from an unexplained absence to find that homesteaders are being burned out and driven from their homes by a band of organized cattlemen led by villain Mace Ballard ( Kenneth MacDonald ) . When his own father is murdered by a Ballard henchman , Lowery begins dropping hints about a night rider out of Texas known as the Durango Kid . When local Jamesburg marshal Trayboe ( Melvin Lang ) suspects a connection between the two , he hires on Lowery as a deputy to bring in the Kid . Obviously , he knew what he was doing , as Lowery / Durango manage to set up bad guy Ballard for his confession , and a happy ending to the story . I'm surprised actually , that there aren't more postings for this film , as well as the meager number of IMDb votes for it . I've always considered the Durango Kid as a " B " Western staple character , along with the likes of Lash LaRue and Bill Elliott's Red Ryder . I would direct fans of Durango to some of the later pictures , memorable , at least for me , for featuring future TV Western heroes like Jock Mahoney and Clayton Moore in the role of villains . Hey , you can only have one Durango Kid !
" Thank you sir , for your arrogant assistance . "	John Wayne's Westerns in the mid 1930's for Lone Star Productions were typically formulaic , and they show the Duke developing the two fisted no nonsense style of hero he eventually achieved . Republic Pictures picked up the pacing and quality in this 1942 effort , in which John Wayne portrays a druggist on his way West and landing in Sacramento via San Francisco . Tom Craig's ( Wayne ) gimmick is bending coins , so his strength is not in question when it comes to facing down bad guys . In this case it's town boss Britt Dawson ( Albert Dekker ) , who owns just about everything there is in Sacramento , and what he doesn't he manages to control through strength of will . Dawson's only weakness is his fiancée Lacey Miller ( Binnie Barnes ) , and therein lies the thorn between two antagonists . Lacey has an eye for Craig , and is willing to back his play on opening a pharmacy in Sacramento . At first the deal is fashioned along financial considerations , but Lacey starts balancing her relationship between the two men until she can find an opening . Among Wayne's Westerns this one's unique ; a second suitor comes along in the form of socialite Ellen Sanford ( Helen Parrish ) . It's Ellen who catches Craig's eye , and that's fine as far as it goes , but Ellen doesn't love him , and it's never made clear why she's willing to marry him and promote his career into the political arena . The film's comic relief comes in the form of Edgar Kennedy , who we meet as he terrorizes a San Francisco bar with his entrance under the influence of a major toothache . When Craig eases Kegs McKeever's pain , he's earned a friend for life , as Kegs faithfully follows him to Sacramento . No mean feat there , as both find themselves in the river at the hands of boss Dawson's henchmen . Kegs winds up with his own share of problems as he winds up fending off an unusually horny aide to Lacey Miller , humorously portrayed by Patsy Kelley . Events seem to turn on a dime in the movie , and that may be one of it's weaknesses . For example , as Craig begins to earn the trust of Sacramento's citizens with his practice , charging fair prices and offering friendly advice , his fortunes turn abruptly when Dawson sabotages his medicines , and a town drunk dies consuming a large quantity of laudanum . Never mind that Whitey ( Emmett Lynn ) just barges in to the drug store and helps himself to whatever he thinks might give him a buzz . The town's citizens turn into a mob , and they're willing to hang Craig ! Fortunately , they all have short attention spans , because they drop their cause as soon as a prospector hits town with news of a gold strike at Sutter's Creek . Just as quickly , they're all off to form mining camps in search of riches . The whole scene plays out so quickly that it defies credibility , but thankfully for Craig , he's alive to carry on . The turning point in the film in more ways than one is an outbreak of typhoid fever in the gold mining camps . Uncharacteristically , Lacey has a change of heart and heads for the camps to help nurse the ill . Craig's duty seems clear at this point , and that's when the hammer falls on his relationship with the selfish Ellen Sanford . When she sets down an ultimatum , it's no contest - Craig heads off to the mining camps . Boss Dawson meanwhile plans to hijack the medical supplies on their way to the camps in exchange for a share of the newly discovered gold . When he learns of his fiancée's presence there , he's ready to come to her rescue , but is gunned down by his own brother Joe ( Dick Purcell ) , who's a bit more focused on the original mission . By now , the end is no longer in doubt . Following the trend of it's Lone Star predecessors , John Wayne winds up at the film's finish in a clinch with the bad girl turned good . But at least there was a story along the way ; in virtually all of his Lone Star films John Wayne won the girl , but most of the time he wasn't even trying !
" " But , . . . . , you'll find a crime or invent one before the night's over . "	For my first introduction to the Bulldog Drummond franchise , I must say I was rather pleasantly entertained . The film is decidedly played in a much lighter vein than the Charlie Chan stories of the same era , and with a cast of characters that complement each other nicely . Captain Hugh " Bulldog " Drummond ( Ray Milland ) however is not without his shortcomings as a detective , as he gets blind sided more than once and rescues the wrong girl before finally resolving the mystery . In retrospect , the set up is one of the bigger plot holes in the movie . Miss Phyllis Clavering ( Heather Angel ) hijacks Drummond's auto in the middle of nowhere , only to return to the Greystone estate where she's being held captive . There we're introduced to a villainous cast of characters headed by Norman Merridew ( Porter Hall ) , who masterminds a counterfeiting scheme following the murder of Miss Clavering's brother . For his part , Drummond is aided by hapless partner Algy Longworth ( Reginald Denny ) , and Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir Reginald Nielson ( Guy Standing ) . However it's Drummond's butler Tenny ( E . E . Clive ) who almost steals the show as the deadpan foil for his master , getting him out of more than one scrape before it's over . His best effort is when he nonchalantly drags a body in a blanket to Drummond's closet as if it were a routine occurrence . Pay attention to a conversation between Phyllis and Drummond when she describes the letter she found in the garden . She states that it was blurry and covered in mud making it hard to read . Earlier however , when we see that same letter switched to prevent it from reaching Colonel Nielson , it appeared in perfect condition . There's a running gag that gets a bit overdone regarding Algy's first encounter with fatherhood . He's constantly thwarted trying to get in touch with the hospital to find out what's happening . Of course everything works out well , as the old boy is rewarded with a son . All in all , " Bulldog Drummond Escapes " is a fun story , complete with clever word play , the old shoes behind the curtain trick , a lights out gimmick and the advantage between good and bad guys shared equally . Drummond even gets the girl in the end , planning marriage as it were , though I understand other adventures stood in the way before that happened . I'm inclined to check them out based on this introduction to the series .
" Things happen to people who know too much . "	A trio of familiar faces reunites in this engaging Mr . Wong mystery - Boris Karloff as the Chinese Detective , Grant Withers as San Francisco Police Captain Bill Street ( though he was " Sam " Street in the first two Wong films ) , and Marjorie Reynolds as feisty Herald newspaper reporter Bobbie Logan . Street " unofficially " seeks Wong's help in solving the murder of friend and fellow detective Dan Grady , who was working on a smuggling detail - " Smuggling and San Francisco mean the Orient " . Besides Grady , the bodies pile up rather quickly in this whodunit ; by the time the film is over there are a total of four corpses . The action moves back and forth between Frank Belden Sr . ' s jewelry shop , the Neptune Club owned by a shady " Hardway " Harry Lockett ( Frank Puglia ) , and the apartment of Belden's financier John Forbes ( Charles Trowbridge ) . Thrown in for good measure are Belden's son Frank Jr . ( Craig Reynolds ) , who has a thing for mysterious vamp Tanya Serova ( Lita Chevret ) . Except for the young Frank Belden , who's acting is a bit forced and over the top , the rest of the cast are all mixed up in the smuggling scheme that Wong rather handily solves by piecing together details involving radio control technology and a rigged telephone call . As we've seen before , Captain Street comes across as a brash blow-hard , but he gets his comeuppance rather nicely at the hands of reporter Logan at the end of the film . With both Wong and Street at the mercy of Forbes ' gun , Bobbie uses an ashtray to fake her own weapon and trick the villain into submission , after which Mr . Wong dials up the Herald with the news - " Oh yes , this is a scoop . "
" A murder in the house of Charlie Chan , now I've seen everything . "	" The Chinese Ring " is a passable entry in the Monogram series of Charlie Chan films , notable for Roland Winters ' first time portrayal of the Oriental Detective . In a strange departure from the usual strong continuity between films , Victor Sen Yung is presented as Number # 2 Son named Tommy ; he was Jimmy in all of his prior Chan films with Sidney Toler . Number # 3 son Tommy was portrayed in earlier movies by Benson Fong . Mantan Moreland is on hand as Birmingham Brown . The intrigue involves the murder of Chinese Princess Mei Ling ( Barbara Jean Wong ) and her servant ; the ring she uses to introduce herself to Charlie Chan is inscribed in Chinese - " Long life and happiness " . Stunned by a poisonous dart , she manages to write the name of " Capt K " on a scrap of paper in Chan's study . The clue leads Chan and Sergeant Bill Davidson ( Warren Douglas ) of the San Francisco PD in two directions . Captain Kong of the S . S . Shanghai Maid brought the princess to this country , while Captain James Kelso is the owner of the Kelso Aviation Company . Both are in league with banker Armstrong , eventually revealed as the mastermind of a plot to sell , but not deliver airplanes to Mei Ling's brother , a field marshal for the Chinese Army . This is a reasonably paced entry in the Chan series , particularly for Winters ' first turn as the Oriental Detective . Louise Currie provides great support as reporter Peggy Cartwright , although she's embarrassingly pushed around by romantic interest Sergeant Davidson . The mystery is a lot easier to follow than prior Chan films , many of which had up to dozen characters to keep track of ; here it's all wrapped up pretty neatly by film's end . Added on / 08 - Monogram Pictures originally made this film in 1939 as " Mr . Wong in Chinatown " , with Boris Karloff in the role of the title detective . In that story , the ' Captain K ' clue differed by one letter - ' Captain J ' . Otherwise , it's pretty much the same story , even including a variation of my summary line above , citing a ' murder in the house of Mr . Wong ' !
" This town is a sinkhole of violence and evil . . . "	Hey , wasn't that a great way to open the film - Ronald Reagan rides into view wearing that tin star , championing law and order and democracy . One of history's great ironic tributes to life imitating art . Ultimately though , the film is largely a run of the mill Western , a notch above the ' B ' programmers churned out incessantly from the 1940's and ' 50's . This one was done in color , so it gets some points for that , and it was admirable to see that the nominal comic relief character ( Chubby Johnson as Denver ) had guts enough to stand with Frame Johnson ( Reagan ) and his brothers when things got rough . By the time Jimmy ( Russell Johnson ) duped Denver to open the cell door , it seemed almost out of character for him to get taken like that . You know , I got curious watching Reagan get on and off his horse . Twice when he dismounted , he did it by swinging his right leg over the saddle and sliding to the ground . The only time he mounted was from a raised deck where he was relatively level with the saddle . I'm wondering if Reagan might have been physically impaired during filming to allow for more mobility . The other point has to do with brother Jimmy . Right after Lute ( Alex Nicol ) dies , it only takes about a minute for Jimmy to get staggering drunk at the bar downstairs . However when he's on the run from Cottonwood after being sprung from jail , he manages to down a whole bottle of tequila with no ill effects ! Some time during the ' 50's , and maybe earlier , it seemed to become the custom to show the best assets of a film's leading lady in profile . This is done extensively here with Dorothy Malone as Reagan's romantic interest , and to a lesser extent with Ruth Hampton's character . Somehow I don't think the ladies of the 1880's really looked like that , but who knows . At the same time though , Jeannie ( Malone ) had one of the picture's most memorable lines describing her man - " You're big and you're ugly and you're stupid , and I happen to be in love with you " .
" Aw , my mind's made up like a dance hall girl's face " .	Apart from my three best remembered TV / Movie cowboy heroes , ( Roy , Gene and Hoppy ) , the one I recall the best after only seeing him once or twice back in the Fifties was Lash LaRue . It must have been the impression he made with the all black outfit and of course , the unforgettable bullwhip . " Cheyenne Takes Over " features Lash in his recurring role as Cheyenne Davis , a traveling Marshal who rights various wrongs with the help of sidekick Fuzzy St . John . In this one , Cheyenne smokes out an outlaw who killed a rancher and assumed his identity in order to ' inherit ' the property left by an uncle . The twist is that the ranch was left to a pair of brothers , so as one lie leads to another , a fake Wayne Dawson ( George Chesebro ) tries to stay a step ahead of the good guys with his top henchman McCord ( John Merton ) . It doesn't take much reflection to realize that the writing on this particular film wasn't very well thought out . It's learned that the fake Dawson killed the real Dawson via flashback as told by the picture's female lead , Nancy Gates . Her character , Fay Wilkins , witnessed the whole thing from the back office of her saloon when the pair arrived after hours and demanded to be served a drink while they argued out a scenario that left the real Dawson dead . Could the fake Dawson have made it any more conspicuous that he just killed someone ? Or how about fake Dawson and McCord trying and failing to kill the impostor brother Matt Dawson while on the way to the Dawson ranch - why didn't the bad guys just wait till he got to the ranch to bump him off ? He would have been defenseless inside the Dawson home , and no witnesses around for the villains to worry about . I guess audiences of the era weren't that critical , as long as the good guys came out on top . It's been pointed out many times that Lash Larue bears an uncanny resemblance to Humphrey Bogart , but it's never been more evident than in this flick . If you didn't know better , you'd swear it was Bogey in the lead role . Come to think of it , Nancy Gates , at least in this picture , looked like she could have been a stand-in for Judy Garland . It's a good thing that only Fuzzy could look like Fuzzy .
" They are not men Monsieur , they are dead bodies . "	If you call yourself a classic horror movie fan , then you've either seen " White Zombie " , or it better be on your must see list . The opening of the film is itself a visual and auditory treat , replete with voodoo drums and chanting , punctuating stylized graphics that spell out the title . As expected , the film is set in Haiti , smack in the middle of voodoo and zombie territory . The atmosphere is heavy with foreboding right from the start , as a stage driver carrying an engaged couple navigates his way past walking corpses and the mysterious Murder Legendre ( Bela Lugosi ) . Lugosi's signature eye stare captivates the pretty Madeleine Parker ( Madge Bellamy ) , and he lays hostage to her scarf as the stage pulls away . He'll use it later to taunt plantation owner Charles Beaumont ( Robert Frazer ) , whose been in love with Madeleine since an earlier encounter . Beaumont begs Legendre for his help in stealing Madeleine away from her fiancé Neil Parker ( John Harron ) only an hour away from their wedding . Legendre's response : " There . . . . is . . . . a . . . . way . . . . " , in that signature Lugosi tone . In a scene designed to induce nightmares , Legendre slowly carves a candle and twists it in a flame to mesmerize Madeleine and seemingly cause her death . The event causes Neil to drink himself into a stupor as he tries to come to grips with his fate . His lone ally is missionary Dr . Gruber ( Joseph Cawthorn ) , who after thirty years on the island is about to concede that something strange may indeed be happening here . When Neil discovers that her coffin is empty , Gruber opines that Madeleine may either have had her body stolen , or else she's not dead . For his part , the sinister Lugosi gets a lot of mileage out of the full frame closeup of his eyes , and the ritual handclasp that he uses to give inaudible commands to his victims , whether they be alive or dead . His countenance is so fearful that even his eyebrows have eyebrows . It's with rather unnerving glee that he begins to transform Beaumont himself into a zombie , after he appeals to Legendre to bring Madeleine back to life - what a revolting thought ! As the film nears it's end , Legendre's Dead Crew make their appearance for one more time to dispatch Silver , up till now the loyal butler . But finally , it's Dr . Bruner to the rescue as he gets the drop on Lugosi , who follows his minions over the cliff of his mountaintop castle . As the smile on Madeleine's face begins to return , we realize that Legendre's grip on the island is now over . " White Zombie " followed Bela Lugosi's signature film " Dracula " by only one year , with five other movies in between , a rather prolific schedule . It's got just about all you would want in a 1930's " B " horror flick - great sets , dark and moody atmosphere , and tension that builds from creepy to creepier to creepiest . The only thing that intrigues me after repeated viewings of this film is the name of Bela Lugosi's character - Murder Legendre . I have not been able to locate it's actual use in the film , so if any knowledgeable fan reading this post can help , it would be greatly appreciated .
" No use trying to talk to ' em . "	I can't say for sure I've seen a Roy Rogers picture in color before , so this one was a pleasant surprise . It's a decently scripted story that covers a couple of plot lines and winds up maintaining credibility throughout . Well , except for Dolly Paxton ( Elizabeth Risdon ) creasing the side of Roy's head with her rifle . Geez , how good a shot could she have been ? I don't think even The Rifleman could have done that ! Dale Evans and Pat Brady join Roy as he attempts to bring Ms . Paxton's adopted son ( Byron Barr ) to justice , and in the process winds up inadvertently exposing a hoof and mouth scare on the McKenzie ranch . The story line neatly ties in the cattle disease angle with Steve Paxton's extortion plot against McKenzie ( Roy Barcroft ) , and in that regard , Steve's a real villain , having gunned down a local veterinarian with proof of the malady . It's not a good recipe for a typical Roy Rogers happy ending , but there's still enough room to come up with one . There are a few light moments in the story to ease the tension , as Pat Brady's character is introduced hanging from the rafters of his general store while his newly acquired pair of bloodhounds sniff out his raccoon vest . Sparrow ( Brady ) is training to be a detective , but gee , why would he name his dogs Frank and Alice ? There must be a story behind that . It was curious why every shot of the hounds afterward showed them running along leashed together , but it made for a good tease to trip up one of the bad guys later on in the story . Foy Willing and his Riders of the Purple Sage offer some nice tuneful diversions with Roy along for accompaniment . Roy impresses while singing the alphabet in Spanish in one of the school house settings , and even though Dale comes on the scene in a bit of a sour mood , she warms up quickly to Roy and the boys . Keep an eye on that scene right after Roy has the water hole fight with McKenzie henchman Saunders ( James Caldwell ) . After the fight , Sparrow picks up Saunders hat and takes it with him , but Saunders shows up at McKenzie's later wearing it . Fans of Roy and his usual gang will enjoy this one , and the color format is a bonus . One thing that bothered me a little though was the title . At least a half dozen times it was referenced that Roy was heading to Cheyenne for a rodeo show , and Sparrow mentioned that he was taking the afternoon off to go there himself . But a quick look at a map will show you that Cheyenne is at least two hundred miles from the very closest southwest corner of South Dakota . Couldn't they have called it ' Trouble at Sun Rock ' ?
" Get aloft and furl the mainroyal . "	The movie's title comes from the nickname of the captain of ' The Lair ' , John Nelson ( Hobart Bosworth ) - ' recognizing work as the only creed and brute strength as the one law ' . Nelson's bitter nature dates back two decades from the time his wife left him for another man . In a parallel coincidence , businessman Tom Walton ( Emory Johnson ) signs up for a voyage on The Lair after being spurned by his fiancée . Once at sea , Walton befriends Nelson after the crew attempts to mutiny , though they were provoked by Nelson's hoarding the ship's drinking water for himself . Landing on an uncharted island , Walton discovers the two lone survivors of a shipwreck some sixteen years earlier . The young Blossom ( Bessie Love ) was born on the island and raised by her adopted ' Uncle Billy ' ( Richard Morris ) after her mother died during childbirth . Once it's revealed that Blossom recalls her mother's name being Nelson as well , the pieces fall into place for the old Sea Lion . He discovers a Bible diary and learns that his wife was shanghaied away from him , a farewell note manufactured to make it seem that the captain's wife ran away from him . With feelings of remorse , Nelson reunites with the long lost daughter he never knew he had . The movie comes in at just over an hour , and despite the odds defying circumstances of the story , it's one that keeps your interest . One minor downside is the dark rendition of the print , there's a portion of one scene that almost goes entirely black . Considering that it was made eighty five years ago , it's a small inconvenience to observe in a relic dating so far back . A silent from 1921 , it's not the kind of movie you'll find on the rack of your local video store or by cruising the cable channels . However if you keep your eyes peeled , you might find it as I did as part of a ten movie ' Pirates ' themed set on three DVD's released by St . Clair Vision . The set contains mostly titles you never heard of before , but uniquely offers some early screen appearances by future stars like Errol Flynn , Bela Lugosi , and Lon Chaney Jr . For silent film buffs , there's another entry in the collection titled " The Black Pirate " from 1926 , starring an athletic Douglas Fairbanks .
" You'll be fightin ' the devil on his own ground here , Sir . "	Boy oh boy , if this film didn't star Willie Nelson I hazard to think what the reviews might be like . This is one mess of a story , defying logic and credibility even in the days of the Wild West . The wedding scene at the start of the film is where it all begins , I initially thought Willie was the father giving his daughter away . That he was marrying a character portrayed by Morgan Fairchild might have been an interesting hook , but as it quickly turns out , the marriage is doomed from the start . But not in any way you might expect . There's the usual predictable opposition on hand to give Preacher Shay ( Nelson ) a hard go of it , and Sheriff Reese Scoby ( R . G . Armstrong ) isn't much help at first . There's no single event that triggers the sheriff to righteous action , he just suddenly sees it his duty to help the new Preacher oppose town boss Larn Claver ( Royal Dano ) and his clan . That opposition takes focus in the windmill project that promises to relieve the town's reliance on Claver's control of the only available water supply . Through it all , Raysha Shay ( Fairchild ) grows increasingly disillusioned with frontier life , and longs to return home to Philadelphia . Only a quick furtive glance at the opening wedding scene gives a hint of what's to come . When a former suitor takes Raysha away from Montana , Nelson's character transforms from a man of God to a man of the devil . Tracking down the lovers to a saloon in another town , the good Reverend simply guns them down . Two shots and it's all over , and no one arrives on the scene to see what all the fuss is about . The Preacher draws a bye and gets away with murder . Sheriff Scoby , who's been run out of his own town for failing to keep the Claver's at bay , tracks Shay to a secluded farm where he's taken in by a woman who sent her shiftless husband packing a couple years earlier . Katherine Ross should have known better , but hey , it's what the part called for . How this all translates into anything remotely believable is beyond me . Sheriff Scoby shoots Shay at point blank range but doesn't kill him , he goes into an alcoholic depression , Shay recovers to shake Scoby out of his stupor , and the pair heads back to Driscoll to square things with the Claver's . I'll have to assume that one's takeaway from all this should be that Preacher Shay is a tortured hero whose singular brand of justice is fitting retribution in a lawless wilderness . Instead , all I got was that Shay got away with murder more than once , backed by a pretty decent soundtrack . I guess if you're a Willie Nelson fan , the story is forgivable given the " Red Headed Stranger's " real life reputation and charisma . But if you expect anything remotely plausible coming out of this flick , you'll be left with blue eyes crying in the rain .
" Get down out of there you upholstered nitwit ! "	For Western film fans and trivia enthusiasts , this one is a blast ! Not only do you have John Wayne teaming up with Ray Corrigan and Max Terhune as the Three Mesquiteers , but also one of the most clever twists you'll ever find in a ' B ' Western . Nancy Evans ( Carole Landis ) is the owner of the West-East Traveling Circus , as well as a ranch she inherited from her grandfather . When unscrupulous businessman Mike Abbott ( Johm Merton ) learns of an offer from the railroad to purchase her ranch for seventy five thousand dollars , he tries to swindle her out of it with the help of Evans ' business manager George Ward ( Ralph Graves ) . However instead of selling the ranch to pay off legal attachments as a result of the villains destroying the circus , Nancy instead decides to live there . But in a case of mistaken identity , Nancy and her circus friends arrive at the ' 3-M ' ranch , home of the Mesquiteers ; the sign on the property was turned upside down to look like it read ' W-E ' ! ! ! The movie also answers the question of how the Three Mesquiteers came by that name . In an early scene , the three buddies are shown heading for their home in Mesquite County , Texas . I've seen a number of the Mesquiteers films , but this is the only one that offered an insight into the origin of the name for the trio . It's not that rare to have a leading lady in a ' B ' Western , what's more unusual is to have a second pretty female get into the act . In this one , Evans has a friend and circus employee named Lillian ( Collette Lyons ) , who winds up with the best lines in the film . In addition to the comment in my summary line above ( directed to Willie the circus ape ! ) , she also fires off a comical response to Wayne's character Stoney Brooke , when he tells her he's a cowhand - " Ooh , if I could only learn to moo ! " She also wonders ' how long it takes to milk a chicken ' when first arriving at the ranch . Say , if there's something oddly familiar about the midget strongman Hercules , that's none other than Billy Curtis , who had quite a film career . He was the Munchkin City Father in " The Wizard of Oz " , and had a notable role as Clint Eastwood's ally Mordecai in " High Plains Drifter " . If you check out his filmography on this site you'll be quite surprised at his many and varied roles . There's an unusual cast credit listed for this movie that caught my eye , that of Naba as Willie the Gorilla , but I'm not so sure of that . Fans of Ray " Crash " Corrigan know that he appeared in many movies of the 1930's and 40's dressed in a gorilla suit , with names like The White Gorilla , Nbongo , Zamba , and my personal favorite , White Pongo . Or maybe Corrigan inherited the gorilla costume from Naba and decided it would be a hoot of a second career . Oh , and I don't want to forget to mention Roscoe Ates , appearing in the movie as Sheriff Brown of Mesquite . He's not as colorful here as in some of his other Westerns , but it's still fun to see him . Ates was a regular sidekick in a bunch of Eddie Dean Westerns , going by the name of Soapy Jones . Regular followers of John Wayne will note an improvement in his fighting style over the years since his Lone Star movie days in the mid 1930's . Back then , Wayne would employ huge roundhouse swings when matching fists with a villain , but here he looks much more natural in the fisticuffs department . Max Terhune , as Lullaby Joslin , generally handles the comic relief chores when he appears as a Mesquiteer , and here once again he uses a dummy as part of a ventriloquist routine ; he did the same in " Range Defenders " . There's one funny scene where he gets dunked in a water trough by Willie the Gorilla , but you'll wind up asking yourself who manned the dummy while Lullaby was all wet ! If you'd like to know more about The Three Mesquiteers series of Westerns , there's a great website called ' The Old Corral ' , the best I've seen dedicated entirely to ' B ' Westerns . You'll find separate commentary on each of the starring Mesquiteers in this movie , along with a history of The Mesquiteers and all of the actors who portrayed them in a total of fifty one films . Check it out at : http www bwesterns com trio3m htm
" Have a good time dear , don't get in too deep " .	Another entry in the Mill Creek Entertainment collection of ' Cult Classics ' , a neat compilation of twenty films from the 1930's focusing on exploitation flicks that sidestepped the Hays Code to offer scenes of sexual titillation or the evils of substance abuse . " Gambling With Souls " falls in the former category , telling the story of a married woman gone wrong by virtue of going after the finer things in life . I actually found it to be one of the better stories in the set I have with only a couple pictures left to see . One of the things I just don't get from movies of the era is the disregard for real time events as presented to the viewer . The story opens with a stunner , ' Beauty Kills Lucky Wilder ' the headlines proclaim , as we see a montage of newspaper stories devoted to the raid on a local gambling club . Assuming that it took at least some time to put out a newspaper , it would seem that Mae Miller's ( Martha Chapin ) husband would know about it before arriving at the district attorney's office during her interrogation in an early scene . Overall , the story is a pretty grim affair , as Mae , and then her sister Carolyn ( Gay Sheridan ) get sucked into a spate of gambling losses leading to prostitution to pay off their debts . It's all pretty sordid , with a momentary break of comic relief offered by the guy with the hat bit who's too much of a rube to realize that he's being suckered . The biggest kick I got though was the quick flash of a byline acclaiming Dr . John Miller's ( Robert Frazer ) ' New Technique for Brain Surgery ' ! What ? ? ! ! I guess you have to put critical viewing aside and just relax to take in a film like this . The fun is more in seeing how things were done in a simpler time than in paying close attention to the story . I couldn't help noticing the resemblance between actress Martha Chapin and Britney Spears , perhaps a cautionary warning from seventy years ago that history is doomed to repeat itself . Seriously , if you enjoy this kind of stuff , or just want to sample a handful , I recommend that Mill Creek DVD set . Just remember , it's not brain surgery .
" Watch her wiggle , watch her shake , and don't forget to watch that snake ! "	The story synopsis for this film on Encore Westerns stated that after being framed for murder , Gene Autry goes on a search for the real killers . I was wondering if he'd have better luck than OJ , so I tuned in to check it out . Actually , I knew he would , since Autry always gets his man , whether in the movies or on his TV show . This was an early Autry Western for Republic Pictures , utilizing a plot element I haven't seen before . Chief villain Morgan ( J . P . McGowan ) and his top henchman Conners ( Tom London ) attempt to run an infected herd with ' Texas cattle fever ' from Sage County across Colima County , where a quarantine is in effect . Autry's first brush with the bad guys occurs when he saves the sheriff's daughter ( Dorothy Dix ) from the gang . I got a kick out of that gun shot Autry used to knock the hat off Conners ; directly behind Conners were three of his men on horseback and not one of them or their horses were hit ! You know , there's a fair amount of entertainment in this picture for one that comes in just under an hour . Smiley does his usual thing with a colorful tune , and black character Eightball ( Eugene Jackson ) does a neat tap dance . My favorite was the way Dr . Parker ( Earl Hodgins ) discredited the phony vet with his quick delivery on matters of veterinary medicine . Maybe it was another rider , but I would swear that was Gene and Champion that took a tumble during the chase after the bad guys near the finale . If I'm wrong , someone give me a heads up . You know , I was just as curious as the town folk about that five o'clock deadline Connors gave Gene to get out of town . But somehow , it just didn't have the suspense of " High Noon " .
" I just wanted to see if there's any of my blood still on the sidewalk . "	" Shootout " begins with an unbelievable scene ; when Clay Lomax ( Gregory Peck ) is released from prison , he's allowed to strap on a loaded gun directly in front of the prison warden . Seems like a more vindictive ex-con could have done some damage . Shortly after , with his mind set on revenge against the partner that double crossed him in a hold up seven years earlier , Lomax inherits young Decky ( Dawn Lyn ) from a former flame who died en route delivering him a message . There's not much doubt as to the identity of Decky's father , with subtle but numerous references along the way to establish the relationship , not the least of which is the young girl's age as about to be seven . Decky's a precocious and street smart ( trail smart ? ) young lady , and there's a humorous scene where she initiates a sweet con for a saddle pony that Lomax picks up in stride . The drama is provided by the three lunatic ranch hands of Lomax ' quarry , Sam Foley ( James Gregory ) . Their job is simply to follow Lomax and report back to Foley on his progress , and they manage to screw that up pretty badly . The nominal leader of this trio of misfits is Bobby Jay , played way over the top by Robert F . Lyons in a manner that you really want to see him get his , the sooner the better . When Bobby initiates a game of William Tell with Lomax and a prairie family as hostage , it sets up the return favor of Lomax dealing with him in exactly the same way when the tables turn at the Foley ranch . " Shootout " is somewhat less than a satisfying Western given it's principal star . Gregory Peck's performance appears tired at times , though there are some good moments with his young charge . The confrontation set up by the story line never occurs , as wacko Bobby takes Foley out in a moment of greed . The showdown between Lomax and Bobby is cleverly done , though the conclusion is never in doubt . But can anyone explain why the housekeeper , given the circumstances , didn't just faint dead away ?
" Chuckawalla , there's skullduggery going round here . "	Like the opening song says , Roy , Gabby and Ray Hatton are a happy go lucky bunch of punchers in this quick paced story that moves West to New York and back again to the Circle R to have Roy Rogers save his ranch from a gang of would be land grabbers . The bad guys are after the molybdenum found at Skeleton Canyon on Roy's property . The story is one of those modern Westerns where technology competes with the cowboy life , as in an early scene when the good guy trio block the road of a passing car with their herd of cattle . Did cows really have the right of way back then ? Gabby and Ray share a fair amount of screen time here with Roy , usually in some kind of a dust up between themselves but always in a good natured way . They're at their best when they start a brawl at a night club to divert attention from Roy , who has his share of trouble in the picture . Say , how is it when the trio jumped on the East bound train with only the clothes on their back , they're shown at the Valley Stream Steeplechase with new suits ? Especially since Roy needed an extension on the next mortgage payment for the ranch . I guess viewers really weren't supposed to notice things like that back in the Thirties and Forties . There's probably a few other things you weren't supposed to notice , like how Gabby and Ray made it to the end of the horse race finish line at the same time as the riders - but they were on foot ! Or the shootout at the cabin back out West ; Gabby's firing at the villains in the cabin , but one of his bullets shatters a light fixture on the inside wall that's in the same direction as the line of fire . The bullet would have had to make a one hundred eighty degree turn in mid flight at the very least ! But for all that , it's still a fun paced Western that manages to pack it's share of songs by Roy , along with a tune by a gal named Louisiana Lou . This would be a good one to catch with Ray Hatton's choice of refreshment handy , a ' sasparilly ' with a whiskey chaser !
" It all started as a publicity stunt for the show . . . "	" Chained For Life " is offered as part of a four disc , twenty film DVD set from Mill Creek Entertainment , any one of which is worth it's relatively modest purchase price in entertainment value . Most of the flicks in the set fall into the exploitation genre of the 1930's , with a good number dealing with drug and alcohol abuse , and a few touching on illicit sexual behavior . The picture in question here doesn't come in that high on the sordid scale , but it is somewhat creepy in it's own way . I really never thought about it before , but how WOULD Siamese twins balance a life in which one or even both partners fall in love and expect to consummate a marriage with their other partner standing by ? And how would the ' normal ' partner deal with all of that ? It's all just a little bit beyond my comprehension . The story at the center of this picture deals with another anomaly - what is the proper punishment for a Siamese twin in the case of a capital crime ? One partner is innocent , the other guilty - are they both imprisoned or do they both go free ? The mind reels at the complexity of the legal issue which inadvertently thumbs it's nose at the concept of justice . To be sure , the murder that Violet Hilton was accused of had none of the earmarks of pre-meditation as presented in the court case . To my mind it never would have occurred if the table with Andre's weapon hadn't been placed directly in proximity of the sisters . Just out of curiosity , what was the big deal with Andre's act anyway ? I'm watching and expect to see some some kind of fancy trick shooting , and who would have thought - he manages to hit a target ! I didn't get the fascination with that act . I got a bigger kick out of the Red Buttons looking guy juggling the plates and riding the bike . At least that looked like it required a little practice . I guess the thing to do now is get a copy of Tod Browning's " Freaks " from 1932 to get a look at the Hilton girls in their prime - something I never would have thought I'd be doing if I hadn't seen " Chained For Life " .
" Mr . Nick , you sure is one lucky white man . "	You might expect the only screen pairing of Edward G . Robinson and James Cagney to be a hard edged gangster drama on the order of Robinson's own " Little Caesar " or Cagney's " Public Enemy " . In fact , " Smart Money " isn't a gangster flick per se , though it has it's seamy under world characters like Sleepy Sam ( Ralf Harolde ) and Hickory Short . Robinson even has a colorful handle of his own - Nick the Barber . You would think he got the name from cutting the throats of his victims , but he's actually a barber by profession , and a mighty lucky one at that . When his buddy Jack ( Cagney ) comes up with the idea to stake him for ten grand to go big time , Nick sees it as an opportunity to rise above his meager Irontown surroundings . That's where the story gets a little sloppy for my taste . After Nick gets hustled in ' The City ' , there are no repercussions over the lost grubstake back in Irontown . Word of his embarrassing loss doesn't seem to faze a new group of financial backers who raise another fifty thousand dollars , which he uses to track down Sleepy Sam in ' Another City ' for revenge . I got a bit of a kick out of that actually , why not just call ' Another City ' New York , since ' Walter Winchell on Broadway ' headed one of his columns on the fast rising card sharp Nick the Barber . Which brings up another question - how would the results from a series of private card games ever make it into the newspaper ? Robinson gets to play against a number of pretty blonds in the picture as he fancies himself a ladies man , but boy , the lines they came up with in the 1930's were something else . How about his come on to Marie early in the story - " Say you're a cute little trick " ! There's also the blatant racism of the era ; when Nick tears a bill in half for the black porter on the train , he states that the other half would be " at the other end of the line , if you're a good boy " . Back to Robinson and Cagney together in this film . I almost hate to say it , but Cagney's character was a bit swishy in the story , getting touchy feely with Nick more than once . Any doubt of the homosexual subtext to their relationship is put to rest near the end of the story when they argue over Irene ( Evalyn Knapp ) staying at Nick's apartment . When Jack demands to know ' how long is this gonna last ? ' , Nick replies " She'll be gone in a couple of days , and then you can be my sweetheart again dearie " . Do you know how many times I had to play that over to be sure I heard it right ? The one thing that's kind of intriguing if you've seen some of Cagney's very first films , he had a commanding presence in those pictures even when second billed or in a bit part . Here it looks like he might have been asked to tone it down a bit in deference to his co-star . Not to say he was laid back , considering my comments above , but it didn't look like he was willing to upstage Robinson . It's a little surprising that the two actors worked only this one time together , considering they crossed paths with other Warner Brothers contract players numerous times , like Humphrey Bogart , Bette Davis and Joan Blondell to name just a few .
" You can't run a town with laws for some and none for others . "	The only other times I've seen Claire Trevor in a movie she was portraying a fallen woman ; as Humphrey Bogart's ex-girl friend turned hooker in 1937's " Dead End " , and as Edward G . Robinson's moll in " Key Largo " from 1948 . Her occupation of choice in " The Woman of the Town " is a ' dance hall belle ' , in an attempt to separate herself from a common saloon singer . Actually she does a fine job of winning over the citizens of Dodge City , Kansas with her professional manner and charitable works , even helping to fund the town's first hospital . The conflict in the film arises from her sharing feelings for the town's Marshal , Bat Masterson ( Albert Dekker ) , and the leader of a rowdy cattle gang named King Kennedy ( Barry Sullivan ) . I hadn't been aware of Masterson's real life newspaper career , so was caught off guard with the film's opening . The book ends of Masterson's flashback occur in New York City of 1919 , while he recalls his wild west days in Dodge of 1869 . I got a kick out of Clem Bevans ' portrayal of Bat's friend and former frontier partner Buffalo Burns . When members of the congregation at church get stingy , Burns takes up the collection at gun point , praise the Lord . I don't think I've ever seen a goofier outfit on a bad guy as the one worn by Sullivan's King Kennedy . He hardly had the demeanor or temperament of a villain , and often came across as comical . When he slapped Masterson near the end of the flashback portion of the story , I felt myself wincing from embarrassment . Though Masterson is never conflicted about his profession as a lawman , Dora Hand ( Trevor ) certainly is , and she spends a good deal of time trying to talk him out of it . She even strikes a deal with her uncle , the publisher of the Kansas City Clarion , to woo Bat away from Dodge with a job offer on the strength of his editorial for the Dodge newspaper . One thing must have led to another , as Masterson finished his career as a writer for New York's ' The Morning Telegraph ' , the way we're introduced to him as the film opens . " The Woman of the Town " probably won't appeal to fans expecting shoot outs , bar room brawls and stampedes . There's some of that , but by and large , it's a more thoughtful character study of a woman who helped build her community and how she impacted those around her . Every now and then , that's not such a bad story to see .
" You'll pray for death long before you die " .	Following the death of his brother , Dr . Lloyd Clayton ( George Zucco ) methodically destroys all of his books and papers dealing in Satanism , sorcery and demonology . The good doctor is not above a little malevolence of his own though , as Elwyn Clayton's ( also Zucco in a dual role ) death was at the hands of Lloyd , a fact known by Elwyn's assistant Zolarr ( Dwight Frye ) . In death as in life , Zolarr remains loyal to his master , and wages revenge against Dr . Clayton for his demise . Elwyn's earthly studies turned him into a vampire after death , and with Zolarr's help in playing musical caskets , he whiles away the daylight hours sleeping in different locations , while Dr . Clayton's niece Gayle ( Mary Carlisle ) does the same after being bitten by Elwyn . Gayle's fiancé David ( Nedrick Young ) is convinced that Dr . Lloyd is somehow responsible for her infirmity and that he wants to kill her . Meanwhile the town busybody Kate ( Fern Emmett ) seems to have the scoop on what's going on , though everyone thinks she's a bit loony . She's up on her vampire lore , and gives Gayle a silver cross to wear around her neck to thwart Elwyn's advances . She's also got the gumption to follow Zolarr and discover Elwyn's resting place . When Zolarr knocks her off to protect Elwyn , the town is up in arms and becomes a mob , believing that Dr . Lloyd is responsible for the murders . Elwyn is rather unique in vampire cinema , as he not only conducts nightly sojourns in his physical body , but is also able to maintain a ghostly presence when it suits him . Note in Elwyn's first appearance to his brother after his death , that Lloyd pulls a gun out of his desk and fires point blank at Elwyn , standing directly in front of glass paneled doors . With nothing to stop the bullets , the glass remains intact ! For me , the shocker of the movie turned out to be the brief appearance of Fuzzy St . John , a perennial sidekick to screen cowboy Lash Larue . His goofy demeanor seems out of place , and if intended for comic relief , it didn't work . For a poverty row effort from Producers Releasing Corporation ( PRC ) , I found the film's atmospherics and low budget production values to be dead on entertaining for it's subject matter . George Zucco's portrayal of both the good and evil twins was effective , pulling off the effort the way George Reeves managed the Superman / Clark Kent routine . He looked similar enough to be brothers , but unlike enough to make it seem like two different people . With the fiery finale taking place at dawn , the good doctor sacrifices himself to insure that his demonic brother meets his doom as well . Before concluding however , mention must be made of the opening scene with a great intro by uncredited Forrest Taylor . The ghostly face challenges the viewer's perception of satanic forces and the existence of witches , warlocks , and vampires . It's done with just the right touch of malice to propel the story forward . In it's way , it just may be the best part of the movie .
" If a man wants to hide himself from the world , isn't this an ideal place ? "	With a quick " I Do " and a hasty good bye kiss , Val Stevens ( Humphrey Bogart ) takes off to save a handful of sailors caught in a furious tropical storm off the island of Tankana , the " Isle of Fury " of the title . With a look that asks " Did I do the right thing ? " , wife Lucille ( Margaret Lindsay ) questions her circumstances even more following the rescue of Eric Blake ( Donald Woods ) , a handsome man who begins to fall for Lucille as the film progresses . In a desperate attempt to keep his pearl diving business alive and pay off their island home , Val is blind to his new wife's insecurity , and even encourages Eric to spend time with Lucille as he recuperates . The moral conscience of the film is provided by Doc Hardy ( E . E . Clive ) , a friend of the Stevens ' , who inserts sage advice at appropriate times , even recounting at one point the Biblical story of David and Bathsheba . It was David who sent Bathsheba's warrior husband off to war to be killed , so he could take up with the widow . In the film's back story , Tankana's nearby island natives are refusing to dive for Val , following the disappearance of two villagers in the waters off the island . To prove there is nothing to fear , Val himself dons diving gear and heads for open water as the watchful natives stare in anticipation . Pay attention as Val and Eric prepare to head off to the natives ' island . As Eric greets Val with " Good morning , Skipper " , Val responds to Eric with a hearty " Good morning Val " . Neither actor batted an eye , nor apparently did the director , as the scene remained in the film . Val's deep sea dive turns unintentionally funny as just behind him and unseen , a rather awkward looking octopus is revealed to be the cause of the natives ' fears . Going hand to tentacle in unarmed combat , Val is a sure goner when his lifeline and oxygen supply both rip free of the fishing boat . Eric proves heroic , diving into the deep to defeat the beast and save Val from certain death . In a gesture of generosity , Val offers Eric a partnership in the diving business to remain behind , but heeding the good Doc's advice , Eric knows he must return to civilization . After all , Eric is the law , and Val was his fugitive quarry , on the run from authorities following the death of a man , though it's not clearly established whether Val was actually guilty or not . What matters is that Eric doesn't think so , having seen Val act with honor and integrity on Tankana . Though still early in his career , Humphrey Bogart had appeared in about a dozen films by the time " Isle of Fury " was released . Following his career progress through the early films , one recognizes a more and more confident actor , though this film suffers from awkward editing at times . That's no less a recommendation though , do see it if you can find a copy of this unreleased Warner Brothers adventure , or stay attentive to classic movie cable listings .
" I'll tell ya , I get my orders from The Hawk " .	What might have ended up as a fairly standard Western programmer wound up somewhat more interesting due to a number of elements , chief of which was the identity of the title character . The ' Hawk ' of Powder River was the leader of an outlaw gang , and as it turns out , was a female , ably portrayed by Jennifer Holt . Daughter of Jack Holt , and sister of Tim Holt , both Western stars in their own right , her real name was Elizabeth Marshall Holt . She wound up in a batch of ' B ' Westerns in the Forties , co-starring with Johnny Mack Brown , Lash LaRue , Eddie Dean and others . Jennifer was really allowed to cut loose in this one , going for over the top villainy , and it was admittedly her favorite Western role . Eddie Dean isn't the most recognizable cowboy movie star today , but his importance to the genre consists in his being the first to appear in a series of films in color back in the 1940's . Others had appeared in color films , like Roy Rogers and Gene Autry , but Dean was the first to do a series wherein he appeared as the same character , using his own name . So the anomaly here is that ' Hawk ' is a black and white picture from Producers Releasing Corporation , made after his color series , also produced by PRC . As for the story , that's where it gets to be fairly routine . The Hawk's gang runs amok stealing gold , sacking towns , and generally terrorizing the area in which they operate . Jennifer Holt's character is Vivian Chambers , the niece of a local rancher who's spread she has designs on taking over for herself . Her cousin Carole ( June Carlson ) , becomes allied with Eddie Dean and his partner Soapy Jones ( Roscoe Ates ) , with tensions escalating after Carole's father is killed by the gang . Dean's suspicions as to the ' Hawk's ' identity are confirmed in the shootout of the finale . In another sit up and take notice moment , Dean guns down ' The Hawk ' with a shot to the chest , a rare moment in ' B ' Westerns when a female , heroine or villain , actually gets killed . The very next scene allows for some ambiguity however , as reference is made to Dean's rounding up the Hawk and her gang . But she sure looked dead to me ! The opening credits have Dean appearing with his horse White Cloud , a palomino , but trivia buffs might be interested to know that Dean shared equine billing with three other horses as well throughout his career - Flash , War Paint and Copper . White Cloud was third in the lineup before Copper . " The Hawk of Powder River " offers a lot of shoot ' em up action and a bunch of exciting riding sequences , but the thing you don't get to see is Eddie Dean mixing it up one on one with the title villain or one of his / her henchmen . For my money , the wildest fights in ' B ' Westerns involved Dean , and if you need proof , just check out his saloon fight in 1946's " Colorado Serenade " , or that wild bunkhouse brawl in 1948's " Tioga Kid " . He may not look like much on the surface , but get him riled , and you're in for a treat .
" Honolulu Police frown on choking bay with bodies . "	" Charlie Chan in Honolulu " opens with a view of the mailbox at the Chan family home , reading ' Chas . Chan ' - I never really thought of the Oriental Detective as " Chas " . The film is Sidney Toler's debut as the master detective , along with Victor Sen Yung's first portrayal of Number # 2 Son Jimmy , although he appears in the credits simply as Sen Yung . Layne Tom , Jr . is back , this time as unnumbered son Tommy ; he had appeared in " Charlie Chan at the Circus " and " Charlie Chan at the Olympics " as Number # 2 Son Charlie Jr . , but his age in those films does not coincide with the chronology of the Chan offspring , which is revealed in this film to be at thirteen . With Charlie off in a rush to the Maternity Hospital for the birth of his first grandson , Tommy intercepts a phone call from the Honolulu Police stating a murder has been committed aboard the freighter Susan B . Jennings . Tommy convinces brother Jimmy to get involved with the case , then manages to stow away aboard the ship to help with the investigation . Charlie meanwhile , about to view his first grandchild strikes a comedic note describing a nurse's mistake in bringing out a black baby - " wrong flavor " . By the time the elder Chan gets wind of the murder case , Jimmy is deeply embroiled in the effort , having been mistaken for the famed detective . There's a colorful cast of characters offered here , led by the sinister presence of George Zucco's character Dr . Cardigan , a criminal psychologist who reveals his penchant for nursing a live human brain ! The comedic chores of the film are handled by animal keeper Hogan ( Eddie Collins ) , who spends most of his time keeping the free ranging Oscar the Lion in check . The murder victim was to have received three hundred thousand dollars in a business deal , delivered by Miss Judy Hayes ( Phyllis Brooks ) . Fellow passenger Carol Wayne is eventually revealed to be the wife of the victim , seeking a divorce and in a pact with the ship's captain to steal the money ; Ms . Wayne / Hillman eventually becomes victim number two . Rounding out the passenger list aboard the freighter , and thrown in as likely suspects are a supposed Detective Arnold ( Richard Lane ) and his captive Johnny McCoy ( Marc Lawrence ) . Chan smokes out the phony detective , a McCoy accomplice , as he sets up the ship's captain ( Robert Barrat ) to reveal his identity with a rigged gun threaded to a hidden camera ; the camera reveals the person who made an attempt on Chan's life as he comes close to solving the mystery . As Charlie Chan films go , this one is probably about middle of the road in terms of interest , though a fine effort for Sidney Toler's first portrayal of Chan . For the viewer , there's a little more to go on to solve the murders than the earlier Warner Oland mysteries , so the revelation does not come off as a complete surprise . But the real payoff comes at the end of the film when Charlie receives word that he has become a new " grand pop " - his response to the news : " In present case am only innocent bystander . "
" The jungle's my house , it belongs to me . "	I can't bring myself to call this a bad film . Going by the title of course , I was expecting a huge helping of cheese to go with the story , but there was something intriguing to this tale of black magic and mystical animals . You'll have to get past the casting of Raymond Burr as a Spanish plantation worker , but that's really no worse than Warner Oland or Boris Karloff playing Chinese detectives . Lon Chaney , who's had his share of physical transformations is on hand as Police Commissioner Taro , investigating the death of the plantation owner , Klaas Van Gelder ( Paul Cavanagh ) . Brought down by the timely coincidence of Barney Chavez ' infatuation with Dina Van Gelder ( Barbara Payton ) and the appearance of a poisonous snake , Taro believes there's more here than meets the eye . The Van Gelder's servant Al-long ( Gisela Werbisek ) doesn't go for Barney's indiscretions , and puts her mystical talents to work casting a spell on him . Now here's what makes the film interesting for me . Instead of turning Barney into an ape , her voodoo curse makes him think he's turning into one . That psychological angle is played out throughout the film . As Barney begins to find himself at home in the jungle , his perceptions become ever sharper as he finds other jungle inhabitants afraid of him . The other workers on the Van Gelder plantation fear a " succarat " , a legendary demon at work . The one time the film breaks continuity comes near the end when Barney is shown picking up the body of the fainted Dina . It's done in full ape guise , whereas most other scenes referencing his gorilla delusion show him seeing himself as an ape or turning into one . Interestingly , no other person ever saw Barney as a monkey man . Barney manages to leave two damsels in distress by the end of the story . Right up until he marries Dina , he's been having a fling with Mrs . Van Gelder's personal servant Larina ( Carol Varga ) ; this guy gets around . I was waiting for Larina to follow up her little temper tantrum when Dina was getting ready to leave the plantation , but nothing ever came of that . For her part , Barbara Payton's talents were accentuated with very close fitting blouses and numerous shots in profile . If you take a minute to watch the opening scene again after viewing the movie , you'll wonder why it was handled that way . With the voice over narration of Lon Chaney , the screen scans the remains of the Van Gelder home in utter destruction , as if it was hit by a bomb . There's really no reason why the demise of Chavez would have resulted in that chaos , especially since the Van Gelder home had a willing buyer when the newlyweds first decided to head to Paris . Perhaps it was the jungle's way of bringing Barney Chavez to justice .
" I said Kentucky whiskey , and that's what I want ! "	I would be hard pressed to find an odder casting of co-stars in a movie than John Wayne and Oliver Hardy , but the arrangement seems to work in " The Fighting Kentuckian " . Both are members of the 2nd Kentucky Regiment , making their way home following the Battle of New Orleans ; it's 1819 and the setting is Demopolis , Alabama . They manage to muster out of their assignments , as John Breen ( Wayne ) catches the eye of the pretty Fleurette De Marchand ( Vera Ralston ) , and Willie Paine ( Hardy ) is given a pass to keep tabs on his buddy Breen . The movie follows the story of a band of exiled French soldiers who were loyal to Napoleon . Following his defeat at Waterloo and exile to Elba , many of his followers found safety in the new land , settling in the southern United States . Curiously , the French soldiers maintain full military dress as they attempt to assimilate into their new surroundings , but at least it makes it easier to tell the good guys from the bad guys . Kentuckian Breen allies himself with the French when he discovers that the village boundaries they have settled were switched at the bequest of George Hayden ( Grant Withers ) , who now plans to steal the land back for himself with the help of his river men allies . Standing between Breen and Madame Fleurette is her fiancée by arrangement , Blake Randolph ( John Howard ) . Randolph has done much to insure the success of the French settlement , and has the backing of Fleurette's father , General Paul De Marchand ( Hugo Haas ) . Needless to say , Breen has an uphill fight , and is constantly in mental discussion with himself as to what his battle plan should be . In the course of action , Breen and Paine find themselves a helpful ally in French Colonel Georges Geraud ( Philip Dorn ) . Watch closely , and you'll observe Oliver Hardy's character make three moves at once in a chess game against Geraud , proudly proclaiming to " crown it " as he manages to make it to the far side of the game board . Ever the vigilant sidekick , Paine rides after his Kentucky regiment when Breen is taken into custody by the scheming Hayden , now with a two day head start away from Demopolis . Needless to say , they arrive in time to settle the score with Hayden's river men and assure victory for the French settlers . I have to admit , I was constantly in anticipation of Stan Laurel walking out from behind some tree or boulder to cameo in support of his comic partner . For his part , Oliver Hardy affects many of the familiar comic mannerisms of the partnership he became famous for , and though for the most part appropriate for the situation , they seemed out of place without Laurel on the receiving end . As expected , John Wayne manages to win the hand of Madame Fleurette by film's end . That custom was established as far back as his mid 1930's Lone Star Film period , but in those days he didn't have to do much to get the girl . As " The Fighting Kentuckian " , he had to try hard , real hard to win his lady .
" Aw , poison ivy , now you made me say a rash word . "	Abbott and Costello follow up their first two service films ( " Buck Privates " and " In the Navy " ) with this comedy offering where they enter the U . S . Army Air Corps with fellow " woman hater " Jinx Roberts ( Dick Foran ) . Foran portrays a sideshow stunt pilot whose flying escapades usually get him in trouble , and his latest acrobatics get him fired from his job . With his buddies in tow , all three wind up at the Cal-Aero Academy where the fun begins . Notably absent from this Abbott and Costello installment are the Andrews Sisters and Shemp Howard . The singing duties are picked up by a trio of supporting stars , starting with Linda Joyce ( Carol Bruce ) who gives us " I'm Getting Sentimental Over You " . Martha Raye offers a spirited rendition of " Peg Foot Pete " and even Dick Foran gets into the act with " Let's Keep ' Em Flying " . Martha Raye is a welcome addition to the cast , actually portraying a pair of sisters , Gloria and Barbara Phelps . The lunch counter scene introduces her ( them ? ) when Blackie ( Bud ) and Heathcliff ( Lou ) order a turkey sandwich between them . Raye characterizes each sister with a different attitude and voice , and really keeps the boys on their toes . As the film progresses , the sisters strike up a romantic interest with the boys , with Heathcliff hilariously missing all the romantic signals sister Gloria throws his way . The movie wouldn't be complete without some sort of Abbott and Costello mayhem , this time out it's provided by a runaway torpedo and a barnstorming airplane finale where Heathcliff spends most of his time outside the plane hanging on for dear life . By film's end , Foran's character gets to redeem himself by coming to the aid of a parachutist in trouble , who's chute remained attached to the plane he was making his jump from . Grounded from flying earlier in the movie , Jinx disobeys orders once again by hijacking his own plane and charging to the rescue to save the man's life . Come to think of it though , when Jinx entered the Air Corps , how was it that his own personal plane signed up for the hitch too ?
" Well this is just a deal gone wrong , isn't it ? "	Sometimes I'll work an overnight graveyard shift ( like last night ) , and then stay up the next day making it about twenty hours straight without sleep . I'll usually catch a second wind around two o'clock in the afternoon , so figured that would be perfect to see this film with a 2 : 20 start time . Now I know I was fully awake for the entire movie , but when it ended , I had to question myself as to what I'd missed . With this movie's shooting star flight path to # 23 on the IMDb as I write this , I thought for sure that something must have eluded me or gone completely over my head . And then I heard the comment from another theater viewer as the screen went dark - " Is it over ? " At least I had company . But here's the thing . I can't really disagree with a lot of the reviewers on this board gushing the praises of this picture . The performances were riveting , the tension was unnerving , and there were scenes that come out of nowhere to knock you clear out of your seat . The character of Anton Chigurh is so unrelentingly evil that he comes off like an Earth based version of the Terminator . However when all is said and done , the randomness of the final act that brings the story to a close ( other than Tommy Lee Jones ' dream narration ) , leaves the fate of Chigurh entirely unresolved . OK , so maybe real life is like that sometimes , but something MUST have happened to Chigurh after he walked away with the bone sticking out of his arm . But in this case , it's just not interesting to consider the possible alternate endings when the REAL film doesn't even give you just one . It's too bad too , because I'm a Coen Brothers fan from " Fargo " , " The Big Lebowski " , " O Brother Where Art Thou " , and the brilliant " Miller's Crossing " . They've shown themselves to be competent writers and story tellers and each of their films grab you and they don't let go until the end . This one let's you go , and you wind up saying ' I'm not ready yet ' . For what it's worth , I like to think that Llewelyn's wife won the coin toss .
" If there's any hanging to be done , I'll take care of it . "	In the opening scene , a church notice states that a " Peace Meeting " will be held on Friday at 7 : 30 P . M . Right after the meeting ends , as sheriff Buck Gordon ( Buck Jones ) accompanies Dad Turner ( Will Walling ) to Charlie's Saloon , Dad states that it's Sunday ! " Range Feud " was much better than I was expecting . Seeing veteran Buck Jones with up and comer John Wayne is reason enough to catch this flick , but the story itself winds up being pretty decent as well , even for an oater from the early 1930's . Up to this point , Wayne had already appeared in about two dozen films , but mostly in uncredited or bit parts , so seeing him share almost equal screen time with cowboy legend Jones must have been a great feeling for him . In the story , Gordon is the sheriff of a small town , raised as an adopted son by rancher Dad Turner . Clint ( Wayne ) is Turner's other son , visually a good deal younger than Buck . In actuality , at the time of the film's release , Buck was forty two and Wayne was twenty four . Gordon establishes his presence in the film early , he stands for nothing short of strict law and order , and finds himself right in the middle of a simmering feud between Dad and rancher Walton ( Ed LeSaint ) . When Buck sides with Walton's claim over ownership of a parcel of land that he intends to restrict the grazing rights on , Dad Turner is ready to disown him . The thought just struck me that in virtually every ' B ' Western featuring a romantic interest , it turns out that she's the only girl in town . In this case , Judy Walton ( Susan Fleming ) intends to marry Clint Turner , but first she'll have to deal with her father's murder , Clint's frame up , the quick trial and the sentence imposed on her fiancée - death by hanging . Well , you know the formula , Buck figures it all out in due course and saves his pal , with your standard horse chases and shoot outs in between . The main bad guy pulling the strings behind the scenes is appropriately named Vandall ( Harry Woods ) . There are a couple of unusual scenes to keep your eye on in the picture . When Buck first arrests Clint and puts him in jail , he forgets to take his gun . Later , when a posse comes to hang Clint , he turns to the deputy and says " Here's a good hat I won't be needin ' Jack . " It's too bad this was the only screen pairing of Buck Jones and John Wayne . It came only a couple of years prior to Wayne landing more than a dozen lead roles over at Lone Star Pictures , where he would be joined on and off by Gabby Hayes and Yakima Canutt . " Range Feud " would have been right at home among them , though probably a tad better than most of those flicks . Though by no means rare , it might be tough getting your hands on a copy of this movie . I was lucky to pick it up as a double feature DVD with another Wayne film . It was worth every penny just to see all those little horseshoes on Buck Jones ' shirt .
" Sounds like a polite case of cattle rustling to me . "	From 1933 to 1935 , John Wayne made a series of sixteen sagebrush yarns for Monogram Pictures under their Lone Star production unit . In 1935 , Monogram along with Mascot , Consolidated Film Laborites and others merged into the Republic Pictures fold . Wayne , with producers Trem Carr and Paul Malvern moved over to Republic in the deal , and made another eight films there . Republic raised the bar ever so slightly over the Lone Star flicks , with bigger budgets and better production values . Better stories helped also , and " King of the Pecos " is an example . I was lucky to catch the film this morning on AMC's all star Western weekend ; I've never seen this movie available on tape or DVD . Set in 1870's Texas , it follows Wayne's character John Clayborn using the typical formula of a young boy growing up after his parents have been killed by the movie's villain , in this case , Cy Kendall as the land grabbing Alexander Stiles . Stiles ' ploy is making claim on all the available water holes in his stretch of the Pecos River Valley , and granting settlers cattle which he buys back with worthless notes when they can't afford to pay for the water . There's a neat scene where a lot of fuss is made over a newly designed safe Stiles brings in cross country . It's called a ' Salamander ' - it can go through the hottest fire and never melt ! Interestingly , Stiles is later referred to as Salamander by his henchmen a few times , which sort of works as he fancies himself immune to heat when the going gets tough . Wayne's character makes a rather questionable transformation from a boy of about ten witnessing his parents ' death , to a young man who's already a lawyer in the space of ten years . The math doesn't work , but that aside , Clayborn manages to hone his shooting skills along with his legal work to hang a shingle in the town of Cottonwood . There he collides with town boss Stiles and his gang in order to set things right for the local ranchers who've been swindled by the Salamander . Along the way , the territorial judge finds against Stiles , putting all but one of his water right claims back into the public domain . One of Wayne's good friends from the Lone Star days is along for this ride , Yakima Canutt in a low key role as a Stiles henchman . The female lead is provided by Muriel Evans , a mainstay in a bunch of Buck Jones movies . There's also a comedic tandem using a slightly overdone hard of hearing gimmick who back up Wayne's play at each turn . It's worth mentioning too that John Wayne is often seen riding atop his trusty white horse , appropriately named ' Duke ' , though that name isn't mentioned in the story . Speaking of horses , keep an eye on the team of white horses pulling Stiles ' wagon as he attempts to make a getaway during the shootout near the end of the film . Just before the wagon breaks away , the lead horses take about the nastiest spill you'll ever see in any movie to this day . I'm always amazed at how they managed to film those scenes . For anyone who hasn't sampled a range of Wayne's early work , " King of the Pecos " might come across as an uninspired Western , but if you've viewed his pictures from Columbia and Lone Star , you'll note the gradual progression of his skill , honed during the ten year span of the 1930's . Believe it or not , Wayne made just over fifty films during this period . Obviously the hard work paid off , and not just in terms of a future career . In the Lone Star flicks , Wayne's character usually got the girl at the end of the film , but here he winds up marrying her as well !
" You suppose you could , eh , go in and tell her you like her biscuits or somethin ' . . . "	The good news is that " Riders of Destiny " just might be the best of John Wayne's Westerns for producer Paul Malvern's Lone Star Productions . The bad news would be that this was the first one , meaning that all the rest went downhill from here . Now don't get me wrong , I'm a ' B ' Western fan from way back , but if you get a chance to view any of these , you'll have to take them with a good ole boy grain of nostalgia and an appreciation for simpler times . Actually , " Rider of Destiny " might have been the better title , since it's Wayne's show all the way . He portrays Singin ' Sandy Saunders and has a reputation as the most notorious gunman since Billy the Kid . That's somewhat ironic though , since it's later revealed that he's a special Secret Service agent sent from Washington to investigate a land swindle scheme under the direction of town boss James Kincaid ( Forrest Taylor ) . How would he have earned that nickname having just arrived ? Some other bits don't quite jive as well , like Saunders ' finesse with a six gun . In the only actual one on one showdown with a villain that I can recall in a Lone Star , Saunders neatly places a bullet in each wrist of Slip Morgan ( Earl Dwire ) , thereby making him a threat no more to righteous folks . One wonders how he might have learned to shoot like that . But you know what . It doesn't make too much of a difference , because if you're a fan of these oaters , you'll have a blast with this one as much as all the rest . You've got your crazy horse spills , wild stage coach rides , and villainous intrigue to pull it all together . You also have your obligatory romantic leading lady , here portrayed by Cecilia Parker . Her character is Fay Denton , daughter of George ( pre-Gabby ) Hayes , and she signals her interest in Saunders right from the get go . He helps things along by serenading her with a few songs with Daddy present , and boy , they just can't get enough , even if his singing voice is nothing at all like his speaking voice . Yakima Canutt is on hand as an unnamed Kincaid henchman , and of course it's Yak that's responsible for all the daring stunt work , including that trademark ' jump on the horse team and go under the stagecoach ' trick , simply remarkable if you consider the timing and logistics involved . His fellow baddies include a comedic pair of stage drivers also working for Kincaid , Bert and Elmer ( Al St . John and Heinie Conklin ) . It would be a few years before Al becomes ' Fuzzy ' . Modern day viewers might be left scratching their head over a line spoken by Wayne's character early in the film . When he discovers sheriff Bill Baxter wandering in the desert with a bullet wound , he tends him while adding - " I'll have you in Starbucks before night " . A lot has been debated over who the singer was who dubbed Wayne's voice in this movie and " The Man From Utah " . A couple reviewers on this board credit old time band leader and crooner Smith Ballew , although Ballew himself denied it consistently until he passed away . The odds on favorite seems to be Bill Bradbury , son of director Robert North Bradbury , and twin brother of another era cowboy star , Bob Steele . Bill had a fine baritone voice , and used his talent to make some extra money while going to medical school . For anyone who cares to learn more about the controversy , check out the following page - http www b westerns com jwayne1 htm You'll have to scroll down to the bottom part of the page , and it's a good read . Anyway , for old time Western fans , " Riders of Destiny " is as good a place as any to see how John Wayne learned his craft . Hard to believe that by the time he made his breakout film " Stagecoach " to become an overnight success , he already had fifty one movies to his credit ! Only one question remains though while watching ' Riders ' - where were all those geese hanging out when there wasn't any water around ?
" Speaking of politics , where we're going there are only two parties , the quick and the dead . "	It's interesting to follow John Wayne's career progress , from the early Lone Star Western days up through the leading roles he's most famous for in the Sixties and Seventies . Here , in " Dakota " , and in other films of the era , he probably appeared at his best in terms of rugged good looks and athletic skill . He cuts an impressive figure , particularly with leading lady Vera Ralston by his side to smooth out the rougher edges . The film itself isn't particularly noteworthy for it's story line , a theme that's been done time and again in the genre . Evil land grabbers attempt to swindle hard working honest folks out of their wheat farms just before the railroad comes through so they can cash in for the quick kill . Ward Bond portrays the main bad guy with subtle malice as he engineers the land swindle , while pro boxer / wrestler / strong man Mike Mazurki is his top henchman . Bond's character Jim Bender in particular is a much smoother characterization than one is used to seeing in these types of oaters ; more than one wheat farmer commented on how honest he seemed to be with his calm demeanor and dialog . The picture gets off to a wild start as John Devlin ( Wayne ) elopes with Sandy Poli ( Ralston ) , as they manage to outrun her father who disapproves of the already completed marriage . In a well crafted scene , Marko Poli ( Hugo Haas ) turns the tenor of the early story on a dime as he comically attempts to send off a telegram to the daughter that got away . The scene sets the stage for additional comic relief , primarily supplied by Walter Brennan in a wonderful portrayal of the ' River Bird ' Captain Bounce . Most of the time Bounce can be heard talking to himself in the colorful language he's known for , and it's a hoot to catch his antics , particularly in the grounded riverboat scene . Nick Stewart is the captain's sidekick , his gimmick is a constant handkerchief wipe of face and brow that signals a nervous twitch . His black character is somewhat stereotypical in presentation , but not as racially charged as mentioned elsewhere in this forum . Probably the worst that can be said about it is that it resembles a ' Step ' n Fetchit ' type of portrayal , though it comes in handy for Wayne's character later in the story to signal the bad guys on the move . There's a neat device near the finale when Devlin goes after Collins ( Mazurki ) . While pushing through the door of the cabin , Devlin pulls Collins ' hat down over his face prior to bashing him . That's a move I hadn't seen before . Probably the most unusual and in it's way most refreshing element of the story is the way Ralston's character keeps one step ahead of her new husband by pulling the strings on their future together . With his eye set on California , Devlin never makes it as the Mrs . manages to shanghai his plans every step along the way . It's also on that note that the movie ends , with the Captain's refurbished riverboat horn drowning out Devlin's protest against another one of her manufactured schemes .
" Would you stop acting like I'm a gangster or something . "	Here's an interesting little noir style thriller starring Steve McQueen , who through a series of bad choices winds up as the fall guy for a trio of hoods that plan the robbery of the St . Louis Southwest Bank . His senior partners are portrayed by Crahan Denton , James Dukas , and David Clarke , all of whom garnered a reasonable amount of film recognition during their heyday , but are all but unknown today . The story recounts the planning and strategy for the big heist , primarily by Boss Egan ( Denton ) . It seems to me though , with his experience , Egan should have shut things down at any number of points along the way , as the petty jealousies of his main henchman Willie ( Dukas ) , and the inexperience of McQueen's character stood directly in the way of a successful robbery . The other hitch in the caper relates to the sister of Gino ( Clarke ) , the remaining member of the quartet ; she was a former girlfriend of George Fowler ( McQueen ) . If this weren't a true story , I would have found the coincidence to be extremely contrived , but I'll have to assume her inclusion in the story to be portrayed as it actually occurred . Curiously , Steve McQueen's performance seems somewhat awkward , even unsure at times . A good example is the conversation in the bar with his old flame Ann ( Molly McCarthy ) ; it's disjointed and reaches a point where he just walks away , almost like he didn't want to be in the scene anymore . Though this was one of his first big screen appearances , he was doing the Western TV series " Wanted : Dead or Alive " during the same period , and there he seemed perfectly natural and comfortable as bounty hunter Josh Randall . Getting back to the story , it made me wonder why nothing ever came of Ann's lipstick rendered warning on the bank's window . The only follow up we ever see is a window cleaner removing it , though one might have expected some investigation from authorities , even if there was no conclusion . The bank job goes awry once a teller triggers an alarm , and from there , the bandits literally fall apart . For those who haven't seen the film , I won't spoil it here , but you'll wind up saying to yourself , ' boy , what a bunch ' ! It would have been nice if a trailer had been provided to explain what happened to the surviving principals after the legal proceedings . Steve McQueen fans would do well to get a hold of this one for an early look at the film legend's career , however beyond that , the movie itself isn't especially noteworthy . Generally somber to the point of being depressing at times , it's nowhere near as entertaining as 1975's bank robbery caper , " Dog Day Afternoon " .
" Now get this straight , when a guy is a pal o ' mine , I don't play around with his wife . "	Films from the early talkie era are always interesting , even fascinating , since it was easy to be innovative and creative with things that hadn't been done before . As the name implies , " Other Men's Women " suggests infidelity with possible dire consequences and so it is here . Jack Culper ( Regis Toomey ) and Bill White ( Grant Withers ) are best friends and railroad engineer partners who have a falling out over Jack's wife Lily ( Mary Astor ) . When an unanticipated kiss between Bill and Lily occurs , a torrent of emotion is unleashed between the two . Lily intends to protect her husband from this knowledge however , leading to a series of events that ultimately end in tragedy . My primary interest in the picture was to see James Cagney in another one of his early screen appearances . He had larger parts in two 1930 pictures - " Sinners ' Holiday " and " The Doorway To Hell " , but just as in those films , not being top billed meant nothing to the multi-talented performer . Cagney gives a preview of the self confident swagger you'll catch in later movies , and even gets to show off some of his fancy footwork as he takes to the dance floor in one scene . His character Ed Bailey doesn't have any bearing on the story's outcome , but when you see him , you'll be glad he's there . Joan Blondell is also on hand as a snappy diner waitress who knows the score , but she'll just as easily let you know she's ' A . P . O . ' - ' Ain't puttin ' out ' ! Generally I like Blondell in these early films , but there's an embarrassing scene midway when she and Bill get tipsy together , and they both over emote a bit . It's a cinch you won't catch it as one of her film highlights . As the movie heads for the finale , one has a pretty good idea how things will turn out for Jack , now suffering blindness as a result of an altercation with Bill . What one isn't prepared for though is the ambiguous way the relationship between Bill and Lily is dealt with , even if the suggestion of a happy ending between the two is apparent . It still leaves unresolved the earlier feelings of guilt triggered by that single , simple kiss .
" There's no swimming after seven . "	It's been three weeks since I saw the film , and I've been thinking about it off and on ever since . I had difficulty at first deciding whether it was a genuinely brilliant exercise in film making , or a contrived piece of self indulgence from Shyamalan himself . I'm ready to side with the latter and call it a wrap . Here's why . In and of itself , the fairy tale bedtime story concept might work on the fly in real life , but here it looks like the movie itself was made up in the same fashion . What would have happened , one might ask , if the box of frosted flakes was on the other side of the oat bran ? Would that have led to a different interpretation ? It struck me watching the film how brazen M . Night stuck it in the face of film critics everywhere with his character Farber , brilliantly portrayed by the way by Bob Balaban . As for creating the mythology about his own self importance as a writer , I was reminded of that ' real men of genius ' beer commercial - ' Nothing says I'm important more than a man shouting I'm important into his cell phone ' . Redeeming qualities - there are a few . Paul Giamatti's performance was once again a pure gem of a portrayal . And lest you believe a one sided bodybuilder is too improbable to be true , there is in fact a real life counterpart to the character of Reggie in the world of sports . Anyone who's seen ' The King and His Court " four man softball team can tell you pitcher Eddie Feigner's right arm is twice the size of his left . So at least that bit of whimsy was credible . In the end , ' Lady ' didn't do it for me , and quite honestly , the only M . Night films that did were " The Sixth Sense " and " Unbreakable " . The 1960's ' Twilight Zone ' TV series had an episode with a cookbook also , but that was made by an alien race with recipes for humans . Now that was an original concept . If Mr . Shyamalan goes back to making thrillers that thrill and suspense films that excite , he won't have to tell us how brilliant it is , I think we'll recognize it .
" I never thought I'd have to kill a man , but it may be that I will . "	Considering the release of this film on the early threshold of the talkie film era , and with the hindsight of a couple hundred Western films under my belt , I was rather surprised by the originality of some of the scenes presented here . The opening sequence almost suggests that it IS a silent film , until broken by the cry of an abandoned baby in a covered wagon , discovered by a pair of codgers named Cash Holbrook and Jeff Cameron ( William Farnum and J . Farrell MacDonald ) . At odds over who'll bring him up , Cash takes the baby and heads West with ' Bill ' . Fast forward some twenty years , the baby has grown into Bill Boyd , or at least his character , Bill Holbrook . At the time of the movie , Boyd at age thirty six looks somewhat heavier around the middle than he would as his alter ego , Hopalong Cassidy . Bill attempts to get the former friends to reconcile their disagreement that has grown increasingly bitter over the years . When Bill discovers tungsten ore on Cameron's property , he throws in with the Cameron's to develop a mining operation and get closer to Miss Mary Ellen ( Helen Twelvetrees ) . Most self references to " The Painted Desert " use the opportunity to promote the movie as the first speaking role for Clark Gable . The actor acquits himself reasonably well , though he's given the task of being a no good slimy polecat who attempts to further undermine the relationship of the former partners , and derail the budding romance between Bill and Mary Ellen . You can tell his acting is a bit forced , especially in the final confrontation with Bill when he outs himself . As others have mentioned , the lack of typical Western style action is apparent , but what makes the film difficult for a lot of viewers is that every . . . spoken . . . word . . . and . . . sentence . . . is . . . followed . . . by . . . a . . . pause . . . that's . . . so . . . looooong . With normal dialog , the film probably could have clocked in at under an hour . To my mind though , the final scene presenting the showdown between the senior Holbrook and Cameron is entirely original and one I've never seen before . Realistic too , in that handguns of the era depicted were never accurate beyond a distance of about twenty five feet . I won't spoil it for you , though Bill Boyd figures in the outcome . Let's just say he'll be a little late for his wedding .
" No Ranger retires perpendicular ! "	If you have a choice of watching only one Western and want to catch a corral full of great character actors of the genre , this would be a good choice . Not so much for the story , but just to get to see Walter Brennan , Edgar Buchanan , Chill Wills , and Andy Devine all in one picture , with a little help from Edward Andrews , Jack Elam and Myron Healey . It might be pretty close to one hundred percent accurate to say that one of these guys appeared in almost every Western made during the ' 50's and ' 60's . The puzzler is having Pat O'Brien in charge of the good guys ; I can't recall a single other Western he might have appeared in . The other interesting casting decision places Mr . and Mrs . Rick Nelson at the center of the story , with Rick's character Jeff Rose challenging crooked Mayor Lundy ( Andrews ) in the upcoming election . The story winds up fairly predictable , made somewhat interesting by Nash Crawford's ( Brennan ) idea to pit the bad guys against each other via insinuation and innuendo . It was a little too convenient with Jack Elam's deputies knocking each other off , with Mayor Lundy and Tucker ( Healey ) skipping town when things got a bit heated . A little more thought could have gone into the story to come up with a more dramatic show down between heroes and villains , but considering their ages , I'd say the good guys probably needed a pass just to finish the picture . Not a lot of substance here , but for a good old fashioned story one could do worse . It's got a pretty good balance of humor amid the skulduggery , and old time fans of TV and movie Westerns will get a kick out of seeing all the Rangers in one place at one time . Brazos !
" You mean that a woman of your culture and money and beauty and money and wealth and money would , would marry that impostor ! "	There are enough song , dance and Harpo routines in " The Big Store " to classify it as a musical , and that's just including the numbers done by the Marx Brothers . Throw in some additional tunes by co-star Tony Martin , and you've probably got more minutes of music than not in this 1941 frolic . The story involves Martin's character Tommy Rogers and his inheritance of half of the Phelps Department Store , and his intention to sell that share so he can pursue his musical career and marry his love interest Joan Sutton ( Virginia Grey ) . Store Manager Grover ( Douglas Dumbrille ) has other plans though , and they include doing away with anyone who'll get in the way of his taking over the entire enterprise . Pretty serious stuff , but with the Marx Brothers on hand , it'll take more than a couple of inept goons to win the day . Serious fans of the Marx Brothers will find this film to be one of their weaker entries , but this viewer managed to find it entertaining enough . The movie offers the only time when Harpo and Chico perform a piano duet in a movie together , and Harpo's three way mirror routine on his signature instrument is done with a series of effective double takes . However the action that I was more than willing to rewind for was Virginia O'Brien's rendition of " Rock It , Baby " , a highly energetic song done in complete deadpan style . I can't recall ever having seen a routine like it before , and it's hilarious . Rounding out the cast is perennial foil Margaret Dumont as Martha Phelps , widow of the deceased department store owner . She tries to balance her affections between the conniving Grover , and Groucho's character Wolf J . Flywheel . It probably doesn't matter much that Groucho's character is a detective , when reducing the store to shambles with the help of Ravelli and cousin Wacky ( Chico and Harpo ) is just a matter of time . Gags , one liners , music and destruction - what else could you ask for in a Marx Brothers movie ? - it's all here !
" Earth Man - your Mickey Mouse is one big stupid dope ! "	In the past week , I had seen this movie in the TV cable listings just about every day being offered on a variety of channels . Sensing that this might have been a mysterious calling out to me on some personal level , I decided to watch it . I stayed till the end , but I have to say , I can't for the life of me imagine whatever prompted the film makers to put this thing to celluloid . This would have been interesting if it had been done thirty years earlier in black and white , then it's camp value might have placed it among the revered sci-fi classics of the day . Something along the lines say , of " Creature From The Black Lagoon " , which I was immediately reminded of when ' Jerry ' was shown swimming underwater . Apart from that , the picture is entirely derivative of many sources of sci-fi that had gone before , most notably " Star Wars " , from the opening space battle to the copy cat Sarlaac pit that even burped after consuming an unfortunate victim . Even the confrontation between a human and a reptilian type alien had seen treatment before , almost twenty years earlier in episode # 1 . 18 of Star Trek ( ' Arena ' ) , with Captain Kirk doing the honors of course . And the dialog ? I can only point to my summary comment above - couldn't the writers have come up with anything better than this ? There was only one compelling scene in the picture for me , one that made me stop and think - that being Dennis Quaid's recognition of words from the Drak writings that reflected the spirit of the Lord's Prayer . Just about everything else had me groaning in embarrassment for the two principals . At least Louis Gossett Jr . was able to hide out in his lizard costume . And didn't it seem odd that after three years on the hostile asteroid , Dennis Quaid's character actually looked younger than when he started out ? Sorry folks , I just can't recommend this one , unless you're bombarded by your local cable lineup making it all but impossible to avoid . But I tried to warn you .
" You need a new Billy The Kid , ' aincha ? "	Western film fans will recognize the characters and locale of " Billy The Kid Returns " , though not the spin off tale that forms the basis of this story . Roy Rogers performs double duty as both the legendary badman and his good guy counterpart , a character sharing Rogers ' own name . When Billy is gunned down by Sheriff Pat Garrett , ensuing scenes depict Roy Rogers and pal Trigger riding into Lincoln County , New Mexico . Those who know Billy give a wide berth to Rogers , respecting the reputation of a gunman who had twenty one kills to his credit by the young age of twenty . I'd never seen it before , but here it was more than obvious . In the shootout scene at the opening , whenever Roy as Billy fired his guns he would close his eyes . This happened four times during the confrontation , and once more when a man challenged Billy for stealing his horse . Perhaps it was a convention used for this particular movie , and wasn't noticed when Rogers became the character Rogers in the rest of the film . The movie offers more than the usual share of musical numbers for a Roy Rogers effort . Roy himself performs four songs , and with the first , it looks like Trigger is keeping time with ' Born in the Saddle ' . Beyond that , Smiley Burnette and his boys turn in three additional tunes to keep things merry . In the story , Burnette's character is Frog Millhouse , utilizing that throaty voice every once in a while during his songs . I find it interesting that the fictional character Frog Millhouse played by Smiley was also used in movies starring other cowboy performers , primarily Gene Autry , but at least once with Sunset Carson in " Call of the Rockies " . Roy Rogers ' late 1930's movies usually found Lynne Roberts as the female lead , her character here is Ellen Moore , daughter of a general store owner . You'll see her listed in the film credits as Mary Hart , and she worked with Roy in eight films . The story itself has a plot used time and again throughout Western movie history , the conflict between homesteaders and range land cattle men . Rogers teams with Pat Garrett ( Wade Boteler ) to thwart a band of villain ranchers who intimidate homesteaders by stealing their horses and provoking general mayhem . The good guys prevail of course , as Roy and Miss Ellen close the film in a smooch with Smiley literally falling off the wagon . Roy Rogers wound up portraying a number of historical men of the West in his movies . If you liked this film , you might want to catch him as " Young Bill Hickok " , " Jesse James at Bay " , and " Young Buffalo Bill " , all from .
" If we're all playing showdown , I'd like to see the cards when they fall . "	With " Night Passage " , you get Jimmy Stewart uncharacteristically playing an accordion and singing a few songs , and Audie Murphy in another one of his baby face villain roles . You also have Dan Duryea in a co-starring effort , but you have to wonder if he might have been hard of hearing during filming . He shouts every single one of his lines except one , as I was so curious about his over the top manner that I started to keep track . It actually distracted me at times because I kept wondering why he was yelling all the time . I also had to wonder why Jimmy Stewart appeared to be out of breath after his first encounter with villain Concho ( Robert J . Wilke ) while saving young Joey ( Brandon De Wilde ) from a thrashing . At fifty one , perhaps he wasn't in as good shape as he should have been to be riding horses and chasing down bad guys . As for the story , it's fairly formulaic with Stewart and Murphy as brothers on opposite sides of the law , a theme done countless times in Westerns . There's not much new to add here either , and as I've noted earlier , Murphy doesn't have the face to be taken seriously as a villain , the same being true for his portrayal as gunman Gant in the 1959 film " No Name On The Bullet " . Try picturing Roy Rogers as a bad guy . See , it just doesn't work . It was cool to see veteran Jack Elam as part of the Whitey Harbin gang , and whenever I see Hugh Beaumont in a non-Ward Cleaver role I have to wonder what the ' Beav ' is up to . Not a bad film , with some great Colorado scenery on display , but truthfully , the most emotion this got out of me was seeing Grant McLaine's ( Stewart ) accordion go up in flames . That was hard for this Polish boy . Say , here's something to wonder about . As Miss Charlotte ( Dianne Foster ) pines for The Utica Kid ( Murphy ) throughout the film , and she finally gets to hear that he wants to marry her , why isn't she all torn up with the way the gun battle plays out ? And brother Grant just moves right in ? Ready for another good brother / bad brother match up with a railroad theme ? Try 1949's " The Last Bandit " with Wild Bill Elliott and Forrest Tucker . No accordions in that one though , you'll have to hum .
" Cats grow big up here , it's the mountain air " .	After watching and reviewing nearly three hundred Westerns on this forum , it's always a neat surprise to find one with an element or two that I haven't seen before . Not that " Man of the Forest " doesn't have one of the typically standard plots for a ' B ' oater , because it does . This is one of those flicks where the evil town boss ( Noah Beery Sr . ) attempts to steal a rival's ranch out from under his niece who's arriving from back East to help out her uncle . Isn't it interesting that most of the time it's a returning niece or nephew instead of a son or daughter - I wonder why that is ? Unless you've seen a bunch of these Thirties and Forties Westerns you might not give it a second thought , but it struck me enough today to comment on it , and believe me , I've seen a few hundred of these . As for something ' new ' , the picture catches your interest in the opening scene when it looks like a mountain lion is stalking our hero Brett Dale ( Randolph Scott ) , and attacks him from a rocky ledge . Surprise number one is that after wrestling the animal to a standoff , we find out that it's one of his pet lions . Surprise number two is that the mountain lion from the earlier stock footage is replaced by an African lioness ! Not only that , but another lioness portrays the male counterpart ! I was looking for a way to pluralize lioness ( lionesses , lionii ) , but I came up empty - neither one sounds like it makes any sense . ' Mike ' and ' Bessie ' had a trio of cubs that looked as cute as all get out , and I think they helped in some small degree to win pretty Alice Gaynor ( Verna Hillie ) over to Brett Dale's side . Before that happened though , Scott's character had to rescue Miss Alice from an attempted kidnapping by Clint Beasley's ( Beery ) henchmen . This is the second time now that I've seen a Western hero spank an uncooperative female in what many would consider to be a politically incorrect scenario ( the other was Gene Autry putting Barbara Pepper over his knee in 1935's " Sagebrush Troubadour " ) . For Western fans , this one is a veritable treasure trove of familiar character actors of the era . Besides Beery , you have appearances by Harry Carey Sr . , Barton MacLane , Buster Crabbe , and a slap dash comedy duo consisting of Guinn ' Big Boy ' Williams and Vince Barnett . The pair get some mileage out of an ornery mule , and have a stake in making the save for Brett Dale in the finale . Even though the picture is fairly run of the mill story-wise , I'd recommend it for a chance to see Randolph Scott in an early starring role . Interestingly , both Scott and director Henry Hathaway worked together on another Zane Grey based vehicle , " Heritage of the Desert " in 1932 . It was Scott's first lead role and Hathaway's first directorial effort . It also had Big Boy Williams in the cast !
" Man has learned much who has learned how to die . "	It seems as if " Dead Men Tell " is over just as it's about to get interesting , with Inspector Charlie Chan ( Sidney Toler ) solving two murders in virtually record time . The action takes place aboard a docked sailing vessel , The Suva Star , which has been chartered to host a treasure hunt cruise for sixty million dollars hidden on Cocos Island . Miss Patience Nodbury ( Ethel Griffies ) has divided the treasure map into four pieces , and has distributed them to members of the cruise party without each others knowledge . Miss Nodbury becomes the first victim , frightened to death by the " ghost " of the pirate Black Hook , an ancestor who escorts members of the Nodbury family into the " other world " . Victor Sen Yung again helps his " Pop " as Number # 2 Son Jimmy , and spends much of his time falling into and climbing out of the harbor , adding to the perception that as an aspiring detective , he's all wet . Before becoming the second victim , future TV Superman George Reeves makes an appearance as an escaped murderer and bank robber , posing as of all things , a newspaper reporter ! Milton Parsons plays his part as an anxiety suffering neurotic well , and skulks in and out of shadows enough to be considered a likely suspect . There are other characters as well , and as with most Charlie Chan films , a scorecard helps to keep track of who's who , but this one moves along so quickly that it's almost a moot point . So too do the pieces of the treasure map wind up in more places than a pea in a shell game . When Charlie finally reveals the killer , it comes rather quickly out of left field , with the generally obligatory Chan exposition left out . Nevertheless , " Dead Men Tell " offers a rather atmospheric setting and enough bumps in the night to keep one's interest for it's quick pacing . The pairing of Griffies and Parsons in the film also worked well enough to recommend them for another Chan movie the following year , " Castle in the Desert " .
" Subtle as a blast of TNT , isn't he ? "	The body count reaches an all time high of four in this Charlie Chan film , as Sidney Toler attempts to solve the murder of inventor Dr . Harper , apparently killed for a secret gas formula he was developing for the war effort . The continuity of the Chan films is maintained here , as Edwin Luke joins the cast as Number # 4 son Eddie , preferring to be called Edward . What starts out as a seemingly intelligent role for Edward evolves into what we've seen with the Chan sons in prior outings , although not as over the top as Victor Sen Young's portrayal of Number # 2 son Jimmy - " Every time you open your mouth , you put in more feet than centipede " . Mantan Moreland is on hand and more comfortable in his role as Chan's chauffeur Birmingham Brown , in this his fifth Chan film from Monogram Studios . I got a kick out of one of his lines - " I ain't curious about seein ' no zombies " , as he got to see plenty in two of his earlier films , 1941's " King of the Zombies " , and 1943's " Revenge of the Zombies " . Although nearly everyone in Dr . Harper's household has come to despise him , it's his nephew Archer , an unusually talented quick change artist / ventriloquist / strongman who turns out to be the evildoer . What's curious to me is why he would stick around in a house with a detective , policemen and a coroner all looking for clues as to the identity of the killer . It's standard Chan stuff though , as the outcome is made to seem believable after all the pieces are made to fit .
" I'm doin ' all the drinkin ' and you turn into a mouse . "	By the time they were through , Abbott and Costello got to mix it up with just about all of Universal Studios ' iconic monsters ; here they take their mayhem over to England to exchange pleasantries with Boris Karloff and his portrayal of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde . Karloff has a turn at a variation of the Wolfman gimmick , becoming the Hyde monster whenever he injects himself with a drug designed to do just that . He's been experimenting with concoctions that turn people into animals , and before it's all over , Lou Costello winds up as a large mouse and a derby wearing version of Hyde himself . As in many of their films there's also a romantic angle , this time with Helen Westcott and Craig Stevens doing the honors , to the consternation of Dr . Jekyll . Vicky Edwards ( Westcott ) has been Jekyll's ward since childhood , and he fancies himself a candidate to be her husband . This May / December match up is not going to work , so Jekyll figures to make things rough for Bruce Adams ( Stevens ) in the romance department . The London police department is turned on it's ear in search of monsters showing up all over the city after Tubby ( Lou ) takes a syringe full of serum . Having seen this film many years ago as a kid , the one bit I remembered best was the rooftop scene with Slim ( Bud ) , Adams , and the two Mr . Hydes doing the gag around the chimney . It was just one of the many scenarios requiring orchestrated timing , a hallmark of their comedies . This was Abbott and Costello's second screen pairing with the legendary Boris Karloff , the first time was in 1949's " A and C Meet the Killer " . Oddly , Karloff did not reprise the role he created for " A and C Meet Frankenstein " , believing that spoofing his creation wouldn't sell audiences . Even in the Jekyll and Hyde movie , he seems to carry an air that wants to rise above the slapstick . For Bud and Lou though , the gimmicks don't run out until the very end , when in the final scene the police inspector ( Reginal Denny ) and four of his men all become Hyde monsters after taking a " wolfman " bite from Tubby - Yikes ! !
" Texas is in safe hands again " .	I guess I've seen about a dozen Gene Autry films in recent months , but the hook for this one is that I happen to have the original theatrical poster for it , proclaiming that ' Gene's Rangers ride herd on the killers who tried to take Texas for a ride ' . In the story , Gene and his sidekick Pat Buttram put the word out to his former Ranger allies to band together once again to smoke out corruption in the Texas State Police in the decade following the Civil War . The affidavits they obtain from local ranchers are expected to discredit police adjutant General Slaydon ( Robert Livingston ) when presented to the state legislature at Galveston . That's the connection to the title , as Gene drives the stagecoach and the supporting documents to their destination in the finale . Did you notice something odd in that opening scene in the shop of the Galveston Sentinel ? Right after Pat's trousers get caught on the tray of newspaper type to send it all careening , Pat's face is shown with a face full of printer's ink . Nicely done for comic effect , but the way the scene plays out , that would never have happened . The other somewhat ' messy ' scene had to do with Pat commenting on young Cathy's ( Judy Nugent ) washing some clothes - he couldn't have been more chauvinistic in expressing that that's one of the reasons to keep women around . Gene has his share of singing chores in this story , showcasing such Texas themed songs as " A Heart As Big As Texas " and " Eyes of Texas " . I didn't realize that the melody to the latter tune actually had words , recalling it mainly as the theme song bookending episodes of the classic TV Western series , " Tales of the Texas Rangers " . Seems to me that the song for that show had a different set of lyrics specifically written for it . Fine supporting cast in this one , with Thurston Hall as newspaperman Colonel Bellamy , and Virginia Huston as his daughter Ann . Judy Nugent is called upon to witness the murder of her father to set up part of the plot whereby she's taken in by the Bellamy's , as Gene and Pat serve as her surrogate uncles . As Cathy Evans , she's got quite a lot to do actually , including a climb up the chimney escape to make the save for the good guys .
" There can be no haste before the eternity of death . "	Knowing that a hellbender is actually a large type of salamander , I was weirdly surprised to see that the flag draped coffin bore a likeness of a salamander on it . The Hellbenders were a Confederate outfit in the film , with leader Jonas ( Joseph Cotten ) and his three sons attempting to revive the Southern cause with a million dollars in stolen money . The story starts out rather unbelievably as Jonas , with only two sons , wipe out a thirty man Union convoy from behind rocks and trees . Now that there's a ten thousand dollar bounty on their heads , their march back home to Nashville is fraught with peril on all sides . Jonas himself is rather a vile sort , establishing his authority early in the story , and when he yells jump , his sons know enough to ask how high . The development of the story allows enough time for son Ben ( Julian Mateos ) to come to question his father's autocratic supremacy , in no small part aided by a newly hired stand in daughter after maniac Jeff ( Gino Pernice ) dispatches the gold digging Kitty . However high stakes gambler Claire ( Norma Bengell ) is more than a match for Jonas when she pulls a fast one and has the group headed for Fort Brant where she insists her manufactured husband be buried . The whole time you wonder what evil plan Jonas will cook up for his ' daughter ' . There were a couple of clever symbolic moments in the story which left me wondering whether they were intentional . When the Indians appeared to seek justice for the death of the chief's daughter , it provoked a family Civil War , brother against brother with the outcome satisfactory to the chief . Anticipating a " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " type of ending , I expected to see the coffin release it's contents to the desert winds . The twist of course was just as satisfying , and led directly to an understated definition to the film's title . With time running out and the mission at a collapse , it was fitting to see the wounded Jonas slither across the parched banks of the Rio Hondo looking just like , well , a hellbender .
" Oh I get it , we're going places . "	This is the first time I've seen a Lone Wolf movie , and I was struck by the similarity to the Bulldog Drummond series from the same era . Not only did the main characters have a canine nom de plume , but each featured a comic relief butler and a fetching female hanger on that can't wait to get married . In the Drummond franchise , the marriage just around the corner bit was carried from film to film , though I don't know how the Lone Wolf series handled it . I'll have to wait and see . The caper involving Lone Wolf Lanyard ( Warren William ) also hints at those encountered by Drummond , Charlie Chan , and Mr . Wong , to name a few other detectives of the era , even though Lanyard isn't a detective per se , but a retired safe cracker who appears to be on the right side of the law . I found it odd that he considered himself ' old ' at thirty five ; it gives one a sense of how far we've come as a society that puts a premium on perpetual youth . Can you picture George Clooney admitting that he's old ? The story involves a set of plans for a new anti-aircraft gun , with lead villain Gregory ( Ralph Morgan ) attempting to steal the prints and frame Lanyard for the theft . I couldn't shake the feeling that the whole thing was done pretty much tongue in cheek , as the Lone Wolf seemed to be the only competent character amidst a jealous girl friend ( Ida Lupino ) , bumbling henchmen , inept detectives , and an aspiring G-Man , er , Woman daughter ( Virginia Weidler ) who likes to stick up the butler in repeated scenes . You even get Rita Hayworth as a femme fatale , a pretty classy villainess I must say . It's too bad attempts at humor often fell flat , like the Charlie Fenton gimmick at the surrealist party . Speaking of which , you can see the folks behind this ' B ' grade mystery didn't have a big budget to work with , as party guests showed up with boxes or cellophane wrapped around their head , making Lanyard's tree branch outfit look almost creative . Hey , I did get a kick though out of that car chase around the coffee shop . By the third time around , someone figured out there should be a police car in front of it so the cops could give pursuit ! If you're a fan of the earlier mentioned mystery and detective flicks of the Thirties and Forties like I am , you'll be able to have some fun with this one . They're interesting diversions and offer a glimpse of what audiences considered entertaining at the time . Just don't hold them under a magnifying glass . $38 . 70 for lunch ! ! ! !
" The crew's below , all I have to do is sober them up . "	Not a bad little actioner here for a movie that doesn't go feature length . It doesn't start out as a pirate adventure but turns into one when Hook ( Gene Evans ) and Redlegs ( Rhys Williams ) learn of plans to smuggle ten million dollars worth of gold back to the States during the War of 1812 . Captain James Marshall ( Mark Stevens ) is commissioned to run a British blockade and head off to France to pick up the privately funded stash , and takes along disgraced former seaman Ben Waldridge ( Patric Knowles ) . The film really gets going when Waldridge stows his paramour Leslie ( Angela Lansbury ) aboard the Concord , setting up a tension that sails on for the rest of the story . The surprise of the film for me was Lansbury , never realizing she was as pretty as she appears here . That's balanced by how totally despicable her character is , a gold digger who'll use Waldridge and anyone else in her path to live a life of luxury . Her ' ten million or nothing ' ultimatum to rogue Waldridge hints at a suitable demise for her character when it's time , and this viewer found himself counting the minutes . But not before she attempts to write a little murder of her own into the script . The film's finale makes use of an early hand crank wooden submarine that's almost comical in it's concept except for the fact that it works . It provides the dubious opportunity for Captain Waldridge , in a redemptive moment , to go down with the ship . I picked up this film as part of a ten movie / three DVD compilation simply called " Pirates " from St . Clair Vision . The print of the film I viewed addresses the concerns of two other reviewers for the movie on this site . It appeared to be a pretty good print without the scratchy quality attributed to it , while also appearing in it's original Technicolor format . For a lazy rainy morning , it was just the ticket .
" There's something queer going on here . "	I was surprised to see the Warner Brothers / First National name attached to this film ; their many movies of the era often presented a social ill as a backdrop to a story headlined by one of their main contract players . " Shadows on the Stairs " seems to have been done with just entertainment value in mind , and it works , up to a point . Had the story finished as the mystery it set out to be I would have been much more satisfied . However the " twist " ending only insures that it never actually occurred , which leaves one feeling somehow cheated . With that off my chest , I'll agree that there were some interesting characters and a curious set up designed to keep the viewer off balance . The opening scene in particular had a Charlie Chan feel to it , complete with dark alleys and a dock scene involving some type of contraband . The denture challenged Miss Snell ( Mary Field ) and the comical constable ( Charles Irwin ) provided laughs both intentional and otherwise . The two questions viewers will ask themselves along the way are " What's in the box ? " and " Who's under the shawl ? " . At film's end they are both a moot point of course , but that still leaves one question . Why would the key of any occupant at the Armitage boarding house be able to open all of the rooms ?
" I pay for everything eventually . "	I've seen quite a few Randolph Scott movies , and the thing I notice about him as a Western star is the frequent number of outfit changes he goes through in a picture . It's more noticeable in color of course , but it occurs in his black and white films as well . The interesting thing about " The Nevadan " is that the story actually builds in reasons for those changes , as in the switcheroo with outlaw Tanner ( Forrest Tucker ) in an early scene . I've never really heard anyone mention it before , but the next time you watch a Scott picture , keep it in mind and you'll usually catch him in three or four different shirts at least . As for the story , Scott's character Andrew Barclay keeps his identity under wraps as a federal marshal , as he tries to find out where Tanner has stashed a quarter million in gold from a prior robbery . He finds himself competing with Red Sand town boss Ed Galt ( George Macready ) who also has his eyes on the prize as it were . Galt already has a hand in every business enterprise going in town , but as is usual in such cases , more is not enough . I always enjoy seeing Jock Mahoney in a Western , and in the ones where he doesn't have a lead role , he usually turns up as a villain . Same story here , he's Galt's main henchman Sandy , but with only a single viewing on Encore Westerns yesterday , it seemed that his face wasn't always clearly visible . Galt was always having him do some dirty work , so it probably doesn't matter much , but if you didn't know he was listed in the credits , it would be pretty easy to miss him . Mahoney started in pictures as a stunt man , and his riding skill is apparent in that scene when Karen Galt ( Dorothy Malone ) kicks his horse away . To really appreciate his skill on a horse though , try to catch a few episodes of his Range Rider series where he really gets to show his stuff . The only thing that bothered me about his role here was when he gave chase to another rider and wound up hitting a tree branch knocking him off his horse ; that looked just dumb . As for Dorothy Malone , I've seen her in back to back Westerns now , the other being 1955's " Five Guns West " . Competent in both , I'm still waiting to catch her in a role more like the one of the bookstore clerk she portrayed opposite Humphrey Bogart in " The Big Sleep " . It was only a minor role , but the scene crackled with double entendres that made it a hit of the picture . With all said and done , " The Nevadan " is merely an average flick , I really didn't detect much of a spark in any of the performances . Much of the supporting cast is composed of lesser known character actors , and the running gag between a pair of brothers ( Frank Faylen and Jeff Corey ) about a local saloon girl never amounted to anything . Encore Western fanatics like myself should be satisfied with a single viewing .
" Did you see the English he put on that bullet ? "	I'd seen any number of appearances by Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy back in the 1950's on variety shows , but never knew they appeared in film shorts like the one presented in " Pure Feud " . It's actually a pretty entertaining vehicle , and without the one on one banter between ventriloquist and dummy on a variety stage , it's almost easy to forget that McCarthy is a wooden character when set in an ongoing story . The backdrop to this one is a classic hillbilly feud between the McCarthy's and the Jenkins ' , and it's a bit curious to see the rules enforced in the proceedings . There's a strict eight hour time limit imposed on a daily basis with breaks for dinner when the feuding principals check their weapons before they can eat . For 1934 , this one reeler showed a lot more imagination and creativity than a whole host of films from the period . They even managed to squeeze in a pretty blonde ( Vicki Cummings ) impersonating Edgar Bergen's sister , Miss Appletree . I don't know how one would ever get around to seeing this short unless you were lucky enough to catch it on Turner Classics or a similar cable channel for vintage material . It just happened to follow a Jimmy Cagney film I obtained from a private collector , otherwise I never would have known it existed . I guess it goes along with being in the right place at the right time .
" Them fellas seem to be in a mighty big hurry ! "	When new Republic Pictures was formed in 1935 , they brought over a lot of talent from Lone Star Productions , including producers Trem Carr and Paul Malvern , director Robert North Bradbury , and box office draw John Wayne . All were involved in " Westward Ho " , their first picture featuring ' The Duke ' . Curiously , whether by accident or design , John Wayne's character goes by the name of John Wyatt , the same name he had in " Paradise Canyon " , the final release from Lone Star . You can notice the improved production values and generally better story quality with Republic , even if the picture offers one of your standard brothers separated during youth tales . In this case , John Wyatt's family is ambushed by cattle rustlers in an opening scene , and younger brother Jim is taken by the gang , who's leader Whit Ballard ( Jack Curtis ) considers him feisty . Jim grows up an outlaw , while John , with the passing of years , is determined to find and get revenge on the bad guys who killed his parents . The young Jim was played by Dickie Jones , who grew up playing a whole host of cowboy and sidekick roles , and was probably the best stunt rider I've ever seen while backing up Jock Mahoney's ' Range Rider ' in the 1950's . Probably the most unique feature of " Westward Ho " has to do with the idea of identifying John Wyatt's band of Vigilantes decked out in black shirts , white scarves and all riding white horses . My first thought was where did they ever get all those white horses from . They're an impressive sight , particularly when all lined up and ready to confront the bad guys . I had to stop and consider also how the term ' Vigilantes ' seemed to carry a positive connotation in this story , unlike the more accepted definition one is used to . These vigilantes operated right out in the open and under the umbrella of the law , and most of the time made it look just a little bit too easy capturing the bad guys . One scene that will jump right out at you is when John Wayne's character serenades Sheila Mannors , more than obviously dubbed in a much deeper voice than Wayne's . It's not the first time Wayne is shown performing a song , it happened way back in his very first Lone Star picture , " Riders of Destiny " . In fact , his character in that one was ' Singin ' Sandy Saunders . Wayne was dubbed by a small handful of extras on the set , but you have to take your pick by film , as the guys weren't credited back then . In this one , the most probable suspect would have been Jack Kirk , who's in the cast as an uncredited Singing Rider . Director Bradbury's son Bill was the voice in ' Riders ' , who used the money he earned to help put himself through medical school . Oh yes , and I can't forget to mention Yakima Canutt , a regular in John Wayne's pictures , sometimes as a sidekick and sometimes as a heavy . In this one , he's one of Ballard's henchmen simply named Red , and I believe it's the only time I've ever seen him with a mustache . Probably to underscore the passing of years from the movie's opening scene to a span of some seventeen years later . Canutt's polished stunt work is evident throughout the story , especially in the old rope across the trail trick that takes out four of the bad guy posse . I still wince whenever I see one of those stunts , never knowing if any of the horses ( or men ) ever came out of the scene with a permanent injury . Here's something curious - why was it that when Ballard's gang held up the bank , the ruckus didn't start until they started riding away with guns blazing ? They didn't shoot things up while robbing the bank , so why draw attention for the getaway ? Something to think about . Anyway , if you're a fan of John Wayne , this one's not bad , offering a somewhat more mature and solidly built looking actor , even it's only a couple of years beyond his starring roles for Lone Star . The finale of course by now is pretty standard , Wayne gets to hook up with his female co-star , and with Republic , he even gets to kiss her to close out the story !
" Of course me , I think banks is swell , I don't know what I'd do without ' em . "	" King of the Underworld " paces at a machine gun clip , with Humphrey Bogart as Joe Gurney , a crime boss who quotes Napoleon and fancies himself as the last of the public enemies . When doctors Niles and Carol Nelson ( John Eldredge and Kay Francis ) perform a difficult surgery and save one of his men , Gurney insinuates himself into their lives with money and power . Niles can't help himself , and welcomes the added income to support his gambling habit . Carol feels something amiss , but it's only when Niles is killed in a gang shootout with the police that she comes to understand how entangled her situation has become . This isn't one of Bogey's better gangster films , certainly not on a par with " The Roaring Twenties " or " High Sierra " . His characterization of mobster Gurney felt somewhat forced and uncomfortable . He does however take peculiar pride in reaching the top of his chosen profession , taking some delight in author Bill Stevens ' ( James Stephenson ) suggestion for an autobiography - " Joe Gurney - The Napoleon of Crime " . For an interesting scene that shows how far we've come from the movie's 1939 year of release , consider how amazed the shopkeeper was to receive a hundred dollar bill from Mrs . Nelson , the first one he'd seen in at least six months ! Ultimately , Mrs . Nelson turns the tables on Gurney's gang through a clever ruse using a chemical solution to temporarily blind them , on the pretense that they could actually go blind from an infection caused by a gunshot suffered by Gurney . But she couldn't have done so if she didn't make her way back to Gurney's hideout . When brought there the first time to treat Gurney she was blindfolded , but apparently wasn't blindfolded on the way back - not too clever for the Napoleon of Crime !
" Your perception as usual does you credit Mr . Holmes . "	Arthur Wontner does the honors as Sherlock Holmes in this 1935 film , while the non-Bond Ian Fleming portrays a dapper Dr . John Watson . This was my first experience of their pairing , and they play off each other well , though the running gag of Watson's nudging Holmes to be introduced to every new character wears thin after a while . Somehow , I think Holmes was sharp enough to get around to it eventually . The story is told in large part via flashback , taking us to America and a secret organization known as the Scowlers , a band of murderers and blackmailers in an area of Pennsylvania . It relies on the recollections of Ettie Douglas ( Jane Carr ) recounting the story of her husband John , who went undercover as a member of the Freemen Scowlers , infiltrating their number for the local police . In doing so , Douglas earned the wrath of Scowler goon Balding ( Ben Welden ) , who in present time has hired the evil Professor Moriarty to kill Douglas . Moriarty , here portrayed by Lyn Harding , is presented as somewhat of a magician , eerily appearing and disappearing in a compact room to Balding's amazement . Holmes ' unique powers of deduction include a scene where he turns his attention to Watson's shaving routine . So it shouldn't come as a surprise that he leads Watson down a path to decoding a numerical message pointing to a murder at Birlstone Castle . Since the murder already took place , it's up to Holmes to uncover the perpetrator . A lot of attention is centered on the rate of burning candles and a missing dumbbell ( not a human ) to solve the crime , and it's uncanny that Holmes knows enough to trawl the moat with an umbrella handle ( ? ) outside a castle window to find a clue . A better one would have been checking the dead body , since the actual victim ( Balding ) had a different build and was shorter than Douglas . I'm sure Holmes took that into account , it just wasn't mentioned . Though the story was interesting enough , and is recommended for Holmes fans , I was dismayed by the apparent death of Professor Moriarty . Granted , this film was released in 1935 , but I viewed it after seeing 1943's " Sherlock Holmes and The Secret Weapon " , and 1945's " The Woman in Green " . In all three films , Moriarty meets his apparent demise by falling from a height . I would have appreciated some originality , at least in the latter two .
" I'm the doctor now and I'm prescribing a little song . "	" Springtime in the Rockies " is probably one of the more romantic sounding titles in Gene Autry's filmography , but the story boils down to a fairly standard cattle men versus sheep men plot . Better make that sheep women though , as new college graduate Sandra Knight ( Polly Rowles ) heads West to assume her role as the head of the Knight Ranch , managed by Gene . Sandra brings along three of her college gal pals , all graduates with degrees in animal husbandry , but you'd think by their conversation that they have a different type of husbandry on their minds . While Gene tries to walk a tight rope between the cattle and sheep factions for the sake of the story , it's pretty clear he's on the side of the cattle ranchers . However to be sure Sandra Knight gets a fair shake , he makes sure she doesn't become the victim of a slick land grab by villain Briggs ( Al Bridge ) . Still , that was a pretty shady move with the mercurochrome trick . For a while there , I thought Smiley might become the victim of a smallpox ruse as well . What made me wonder though was why one of the college grads didn't figure out the whole ' hoof and mouth ' scheme . I haven't seen a whole lot of Autry's Westerns for Republic Pictures , so I can't say for sure if he was as lucky with the ladies as John Wayne was in his early films , where he almost always closes out a picture in a clinch with his leading lady . But Gene does so here , proving as he stated earlier in the story , that it was hard to sing and be mean at the same time .
" See her face , a real honest face , only disgusting thing about her . "	I'm sure this was the wrong choice for a first time viewing of the fabled Tracy / Hepburn team , about a third of the way in I was scratching my head over just about everything in the film . With awkward pacing , stilted dialog and prolonged sporting sequences that eventually wear out their welcome , I had trouble reconciling the inadequacy of the script with the presence of it's principal players , under the direction no less of the talented George Cukor . The set up is plausible enough , allowing an athletic Katherine Hepburn to show off her tennis and golf skills while building self esteem and confidence to make the break from a domineering fiancée . Considering their entire lack of chemistry however , that didn't require much of a stretch . I found Collier Weld ( William Ching ) to be no less than completely annoying in every scene , made even more so by his uncanny resemblance to Peter Graves . The trouble is , I really didn't detect any chemistry between Mike Conovan ( Tracy ) and Pat Pemberton ( Hepburn ) either . When the most he could muster in the way of a compliment was " That sure is a pretty dress covering you " , I managed a silent groan , later to be topped by Mike's dismissal of Collier - " You are the wrong jockey for this chick " . Can you imagine Cary Grant being given lines like this ; I'm so relieved that he didn't appear in this one . And was anyone else as uncomfortable as I was when Hepburn had those ' licking ' conversations with Davie Hucko ( Aldo Ray ) and her promoter ? Even the theatrical trailers for this film wouldn't have enticed me to catch this back in 1952 . The animated teaser trailer plays like an era toothpaste commercial , while the Aldo Ray introduced clip would more likely convince me to avoid the movie altogether . Speaking of Aldo Ray , I'm sure he must have had something that recommended him for future film work , he was hilarious in 1955's " We're No Angels " . However here he's co-billed as ' that new sensation ' , but quite honestly , he comes off as a big lug . Back to the trailer , if you watch Ray's eyes , you can see him moving them back and forth as he reads his lines promoting the film . Probably the best thing in the movie for me was catching a slew of future stars making spot appearances throughout the film , starting with Jim Backus in the golf shop . By this time however , Carl ' Alfalfa " Switzer is almost totally unrecognizable from his ' Our Gang ' days ( he's the busboy who makes it to the police station ) . Chuck Connors has a prominent introduction in his first screen appearance as the State Police Captain , while a young Chuck Bushinski shows up as one of Conovan's questionable business ' investors ' . It's a nice little role for the future Charles Bronson . Keep your eye on the back wall of the police station , you'll be able to make out a set of instructions for dealing with intoxicated drivers - " Establish Positive Identification When Using the Drunk Repeater Cards " . Don't take my swipe at the film as a total put down , it's just that I didn't find a lot in it that worked , even for the early 1950's . Especially having just seen the decade earlier pairing of Hepburn and director Cukor in " The Philadelphia Story " . I understand that Hepburn wanted Spencer Tracy as one of the leads in that film , but as it turns out , I think it's better they waited .
" Well you're really hooked on water , aren't you ? "	I was hip enough in the Seventies to consider David Bowie one of my favorite performers , and managed to catch him in concert a couple of times in major arenas . I guess what I was expecting in " The Man Who Fell To Earth " was something on the order of Ziggy Stardust , but if that was the only thing missing I wouldn't have been nearly as disappointed . It's not that I mind non-linear storytelling , but at least there should be a coherent story to tell . Nominally , the story's protagonist is on a mission to Earth to figure out how to bring water to his home planet where he's left his family . That never actually happens , and you have to wait out the entire story in all it's excruciating boredom to find that out . Unlike virtually all sci-fi stories involving aliens from another planet , this one doesn't go into a lot of pseudo-scientific rationale about how Thomas Jerome Newton ( Bowie ) arrives on Earth in human clothes with perfect command of the English language . Even though he reveals his true appearance later in the picture , I found it odd that he bleeds red blood , gets the heaves , and has the same reproductive organs as the male of the human species , thanks to an overly gratuitous sex scene with his female companion Mary Lou ( Candy Clark ) . Can someone explain this to me - how is it Bowie's character can whiz across the vast reaches of space to arrive on Earth , and then have trouble adjusting to a taxi cab speed of forty five miles per hour , or the erratic motion of an elevator ? That just doesn't make sense . I think the concept for the film was sound ; it reminded me a bit of the genre classic " The Day The Earth Stood Still " , particularly relating to the mathematical concepts that Oliver Farnsworth ( Buck Henry ) parlayed into a handful of patents that made Newton a rich man . That's about as far as it went though , as Bowie's character descended into the depravity and decadence that thwarted his original mission . The occasional flashbacks to the alien's home planet only added to my bewilderment , as it was made to seem that the only inhabitants that resided there were his own family , trekking around through the desert in that makeshift tent . All very maddening but boring at the same time , and just about enough to make a lad insane .
" Sure we know , we're just nuts looking for a padded cell . "	The plot of " Strange Illusion " can be summed up by main character Paul Cartwright ( Jimmy Lydon ) in conversation with his friend Dr . Vincent ( Regis Toomey ) - " This may sound kinda crazy Doc but , that dream is beginning to happen " . The story finds college student Paul , who's overly protective of his mother Virginia ( Sally Eilers ) , conflicted over her romance with Brett Curtis ( Warren William ) . Curtis ' manner is just a little too smooth , hiding the fact that his mission is to exact revenge on Paul and his family . It was Paul's deceased father , a former judge , who sent Curtis to jail years ago , but under his real name of Claude Barrington . Curtis becomes suspicious that Paul is on to him , and together with psychiatrist friend Professor Muhlbach ( Charles Arnt ) , they intend to take him out of the picture one way or another . Paul uncharacteristically agrees to be a ' guest ' at Muhlbach's Restview Sanitarium , where his own detective skills are put to the test . With cool self assurance and with the help of Doc Vincent , the pair begin to unravel the mystery behind the death of Paul's father and the sinister alliance between Muhlbach and Curtis / Barrington . Lydon's portrayal of young Cartwright is decidedly angst driven , though he manages to slip out of character every once in a while when conversing with friends . He caught me off guard with that phone call to would be girlfriend Lydia ( Mary McLeod ) - " Hello vixen , what's mixin ' ? " ; and he really went into Henry Aldrich mode when he learned his sister might be in danger with Curtis . It was after the film doing some research that I learned of an interesting fact about Lydon . In the movie , his sister Dorothy ( Jayne Hazard ) is talking with Curtis about moonlight and poetry , and they share a thought about Omar Khayyam . Dorothy remarks that most people her age wouldn't know who the Persian poet was , surmising that to them he could just as well be a Turkish wrestler . That remark seemed to come out of left field , but it turns out that Lydon's grandfather was professional wrestling champion Jim Londos ! When the opening credits of this film rolled declaring itself a PRC release , my guard immediately went up for poor production values and a disjointed story , however I was pleasantly surprised by the intelligent presentation of Paul's dilemma and it's resolution . It might have been more fitting if Paul's dream sequence to end the movie had him talking with his dead father . Other than that , I only found one other story element to be annoying . Why , one asks , would a grown woman allow her own kids to call her ' The Princess ' ?
" I'm afraid there has been an unfortunate accident , your host is dead . "	Boris Karloff follows up his 1938 film " Mr . Wong , Detective " , with this clever whodunit about the murder of a rare gem collector , who just the day before he comes into it's possession , receives a sinister written message - " The possessor of the Eye of the Daughter of the Moon rides swiftly to his death . " Brandon Edwards ( Morgan Wallace ) suspects who is out to murder him , and seals his secret in an envelope to be opened in the event of his death , entrusting this knowledge to the Oriental Detective . In the film , we learn that Mr . James Lee Wong is an authority on ancient Oriental art and literature , and a graduate of Heidelberg and Oxford Universities . As such , he recognizes the danger Edwards finds himself in , since the Chinese gem purportedly carries a death curse on anyone who possesses it . In the tradition of the best Charlie Chan films of the same era , " The Mystery of Mr . Wong " cleverly plants various suspects who may have it in for Edwards . Edwards ' death itself is uniquely staged , as he takes a gunshot to the chest while participating in a parlor game with a roomful of party guests as witnesses , with no one the wiser until it's time to credit the players . Wong is assisted in the investigation once again by Police Captain Sam Street ( Grant Withers ) ; this time around Withers plays it much straighter than the over the top , brash portrayal he gave in " Mr . Wong , Detective " . Nevertheless , it's Mr . Wong all the way in solving the caper . In a clever ruse , Wong suggests that he will soon be in possession of Edwards ' letter naming the killer , hoping to flush out the culprit . As the parties gather , Wong names the murderer and reveals the mistakes the killer made that led him to his conclusion . The killer is impressed , and even shakes hands with Wong before the police take him away ! In a fitting finale , the real letter finally arrives , but the confident Mr . Wong no longer has need of it , and tears it up without even opening the envelope .
" Tell me , is there any particular way you'd like to die ? "	I just picked up a 3 DVD / 9 Movie set of Spaghetti Westerns put out by St . Clair Entertainment and am getting an introduction to some neat Eurowest films . My only familiarity with the genre has been the Clint Eastwood movies , so these are proving to be a treat . " Minnesota Clay " is one of the entries , with a unique twist involving the main character - he's going blind . Cameron Mitchell portrays protagonist Clay , a gunslinger who escapes from a labor camp while waiting to be hanged for murder . The man who can clear him is now in control of Clay's home town , proclaiming himself sheriff and chief desperado . ' Five Aces ' Fox ( Georges Riviere ) and his band of five henchmen carries on a running feud with Mexican bandit Ortiz ( Fernando Sancho ) , while the town suffers in silence . If things weren't hot enough , the presence of Ethel Rojo as Estella turns up the action a few degrees . In turn , she manages to set up Clay and Ortiz for villain Fox , but when a townsman fingers her for Clay's escape , Fox makes her swear on a Bible without giving her a chance to say her prayers . The gradual loss of Clay's vision is handled cleverly , when he fires his weapon he relies more on hearing than sight to find his victim . This will come in handy for the final showdown when his daughter Nancy signals her own presence while Fox waits in ambush . Nancy ( Diana Martin ) only knew her father as Mr . Clay , having met him for the first time in the course of the film . However that seems at odds with the history of the town , since virtually everyone knew of Clay and his reputation as a fabled gunslinger . The town where the story takes place is never mentioned by name , which I found odd . Besides Fox's saloon , there were only a few other buildings and people in town that we ever see , which made me wonder about one thing . As his gang of outlaws begins to bear down on Clay , Fox demands that a handful of citizens pony up a tribute of a hundred thousand dollars in addition to their regular payment of protection money . Fox never mentioned any plans for leaving town , so what exactly would he have done with all that money ?
" Oh Jeepers , I'm cursed . A woman finds out I've got twenty million dollars and bad health she falls in love with me . "	Bob Hope and Martha Raye continually keep the viewer off balance with regard to their romantic intentions in " Never Say Die " , even though they start out by getting married and then go about falling in something like love by the movie's finale . In between , the story ping pongs back and forth between scenes of frustrated would be spouses who don't get their way . Andy Devine takes a wrong turn off the last stagecoach and winds up here as Raye's good old boy from back home who try as he might , never quite seems to get things right between himself and his fiancée . Someone should have thought of slipping him a Mickey . I had to rewind and listen closely a couple of times for a line Hope slid past the censors . When gold digger Juno Marko ( Gale Sondergaard ) tries to trap John Kidley ( Hope ) with her matrimonial snare , she alludes to what might have been an indiscreet night of passion . Hope's response - " . . . , well that was the elevator you see , I just went and I got off , it'll happen . " I probably got a kick the most from Kidley's butler Jeepers , played in great understated comic fashion by Ernest Cossart . His deadpan delivery was reminiscent of E . E . Clive's portrayal of Tenny in the Bulldog Drummond franchise . If all the hijinks wasn't enough , the story takes place at a health spa in the Swiss Alps named Bad Gaswasser . You just knew that Hope would get get some mileage out of that . Martha Raye's at her frenetic best trying to say good by to her beau Henry Munch ( Devine ) as she scrambles to catch the honeymoon rendezvous with Kidley . If you pay close enough attention , you might even be able to keep it all straight without benefit of a cross on a muzzle .
" Looks like we got all the foxes bottled up in one hole ! "	Well I don't know if there were more than three or four of the ten wanted men of the title to challenge Randolph Scott in this mid 1950's Western , which played a lot more like an oater from a decade or two earlier . This was not Scott's finest hour , which probably explains only a single outfit change from a plaid shirt to the standard black with white kerchief to wind up the picture . Probably the best reason to tune in is to catch some of the premier Western henchmen of the day chewing it up at the expense of the Stewart ( Scott ) clan . I think I prefer Richard Boone as a heavy , even though Paladin was a favorite character of mine . The best villain title of the picture goes to Leo Gordon in what could have easily been the second lead in the story to Randolph Scott himself . Gordon's character even turns on his boss Wick Campbell ( Boone ) , showing that you just can't trust a bad guy when it comes to money . Lee Van Cleef and Denver Pyle hadn't hit their peak yet as character actors , and it's cool to see them as part of Gordon's bad guy posse , even if they didn't last long . Skip Homeier makes quick work of Pyle , and Scott unceremoniously wastes Van Cleef's character in a quick gun battle . As for the main protagonists , I would have to say that the showdown between Randolph Scott and Richard Boone takes the prize as the shortest range shootout ever - about three feet across a wooden table ! They were so close they could have actually touched each other . Considering the way the picture started , that probably should have been the finale , but that was left to a Scott vs . Gordon confrontation that ended rather clumsily when the roof fell in . Seriously , Gordon went down under rafters and debris while Scott just stood there watching . I would have re-wound to see what I missed but I caught this on Encore Westerns , so there was no way for a do over . Oh yeah , there were a couple of romantic angles going on ( Homeier and Donna Martel , Scott and Jocelyn Brando ) , but the chemistry didn't seem right in either case . The picture ended with a double ring ceremony , but even that blew by pretty much off screen and you had to fill in the blanks yourself . All in all , a rather clumsy effort and not one of Randolph Scott's finest hours , though it might have been for Leo Gordon .
" I see no more than you , but I've trained myself to notice what I see . "	Arthur Wontner and Ian Fleming reprise their Holmes and Watson roles , once again foiling a plot by the villainous Professor Moriarty ( Lyn Harding ) and his top henchman Moran ( Arthur Goullet ) . This time around , the story involves a murder and the theft of a race horse in an effort to insure that a big time gambler doesn't lose his shirt if the opposition horse wins . Holmes achieves particular delight in putting down Scotland Yard Inspector Lestrade ( John Turnbull ) , but in this film , Lestrade seems to realize what Holmes is doing . His look of exasperation is evident when Holmes utters the line quoted in the summary above . On the flip side , what's missing this time around is the philosophical debate between the detective and his nemesis Moriarty . They meet only at the end of the film when Moriarty is discovered and captured at his secret hideout . Quite honestly , I was expecting Moriarty to fall to an expected demise in the empty elevator shaft , as he did not once or twice , but three times going up against the sleuth ( The Triumph of Sherlock Holmes , Sherlock Holmes and The Secret Weapon , and The Woman in Green ) . There are similar elements in this film that were also used in the prior year's " Charlie Chan at the Race Track " ( champion horse with an altered appearance , use of a weapon at the end of the race , big time money resting on the outcome ) , but the stories diverge from there . They merge once again though as the case is solved by each film's ranking detective . I'd be a little critical of Sherlock Holmes ' method in this one however . He relies on an old horseshoe belonging to Silver Blaze to make an exact match with a grassy outline in a moor a distance from the Baskerville Castle . Sure it fits , but so would just about any other horse shoe - sounds a lot like a ringer to me .
" I knew it , I knew it , you fool around with murders and you turn up a ghost ! "	In 1937 , Dan Van Horn was arrested in Shanghai for a murder in which the bite of a cobra was implicated . Van Horn escaped , never to be heard from again , although it's known that his face was badly burned in an accident . It's now eight years later , and three employees of the Sixth National Bank have turned up dead , all identified as victims of the " Cobra Killer " . The bank contains stores of radium for laboratory and hospital use , and is the center of all the skullduggery . As we've seen before , Inspector Charlie Chan is alternately aided and confounded by his assistants , Number # 3 Son Tommy ( Benson Fong ) and chauffeur Birmingham Brown ( Mantan Moreland ) - " You remain here until I find doghouse big enough to hold both of you " . There are just enough characters and victims here to need a scorecard , and truthfully , that's about the only way one can follow the action . Add to that the device of moving a laundry storefront one door down from it's original location to further confuse the investigation . Van Horn ( alternately referred to as " Dan " and " Jan " ) , is eventually revealed to be bank guard John Adams , who with his undercover daughter Paula Webb , have trailed the real Cobra Killer to the United States in an attempt to clear his name . The cobra device turns out to be not one , but two different gimmicks - a poisoned needle on the knob of a coffee shop juke box , and a similar set of needles on a cigarette lighter used to dispatch a detective working the bank building . The real Cobra Killer is a chemical engineer with an office at the bank , but as usual , his identity is only revealed at the end of the film , with only his profession providing a clue to the mystery . The Shanghai Cobra is a nifty entry into the Charlie Chan series at Monogram ( this is the 6th film ) , but view it with some suspension of belief , as any number of the scenes and elements in the film rely on a stretch of the imagination .
" Don't you know he could shoot the buttons off your shirt ? "	From Republic Pictures , " Range Defenders " is a Three Mesquiteers Western that teams up Robert Livingston , Ray Corrigan and Max Terhune . When George Brooke ( Thomas Carr ) is framed for murder by town boss John Harvey ( Harry Woods ) , it's up to his brother Stony ( Livingston ) and his buddies to clear his name and bring Harvey and his henchmen to justice . Though fairly formulaic , the film has a few unique moments to keep it interesting , along with the romantic angle provided by female lead Sylvia Ashton ( Eleanor Stewart ) and Stony . The good guys plan to challenge Harvey's grip on Green Valley by having Tucson Smith ( Corrigan ) run for sheriff against Dan Gray ( Earl Hodgins ) . Gray's in league with Harvey , so the boys will have to work fast to prevent George from being railroaded into a noose . Tucson and Lullaby ( Terhune ) round up the cattle ranchers to gain their support , while Harvey's henchmen , in a burst of civic pride , vote early and often . Max Terhune provides the comic relief for the Mesquiteers ; he does a clever ventriloquist routine with a dummy that puts crooked sheriff Gray on the defensive . That's in between trying to dodge a charging ram on the Ashton ranch . Pay attention during the scene when Harvey locks Sylvia in a back room of his office when the action starts to break . To escape from a window about three or four feet above her head , she climbs up on a table after breaking the window with a chair . However when she lands in the street standing erect , her head is above the lower window ledge ! In true ' B ' Western fashion , the good guys wear white and the bad guys wear black . That's particularly relevant when George breaks out of jail and runs into the bad guys wearing light colored outfits , thereby being captured once again . Town boss Harvey must have had a dress code for his bad boys , they all wear exactly the same thing , including the light colored band around their black hats . You won't see this very often , but near the end of the story , Tucson uses a stick of dynamite to stop Harvey on horseback in his tracks as he attempts a getaway . Tucson could shoot the buttons off your shirt , and he proved just as accurate with TNT . Republic Studios made quite a few Three Mesquiteers adventures , with a whole host of cowboy stars , including Bob Steele , Tim McCoy , Tom Tyler , Ray Hatton , and believe it or not , even John Wayne following his Lone Star film days . Livingston , Corrigan and Terhune seem to have appeared in most of them as a trio , though they did trade off with others as necessary . " Range Defenders " has a unique distinction in that it's title pretty much accurately describes the story , which wasn't always the case with Westerns of the era . It breezes by pretty quickly in just under an hour , and doesn't wear out it's welcome even if it uses a tried and true formula .
" My brother's the only man alive who can call me an idiot . "	When I first saw Elvis in the film as the bearded desperado Jess Wade , I thought Wow ! - what if his career had taken a turn like , say , Clint Eastwood's . Elvis Presley as Rowdy Yates on ' Rawhide ' . Back when Elvis was lean and good looking , the independent wrangler approach might have taken him into spaghetti Westerns , and since he could also sing , one can only imagine the possibilities . As it is , Presley provides a fairly competent presence to his character in " Charro ! " , but as the film wears on , so does he . Though arguably one of his better films , it seems like the thrill is gone at a time in his career when ' The King ' was attempting a major comeback . The bearded face does indeed create an amazing transformation of the Elvis persona , and is one of the highlights of the picture . It doesn't go far enough though ; without achieving that flat out Lee Van Cleef mean , and matched against an adversary who's also less than sheer malevolence , the movie loses much of it's potential . The film's finale in fact seems to blow up as quickly as one of those cannon fired dynamite packets . When Vince Hackett ( Victor French ) falls apart and simply gives up , what the heck happened to Gunner ( James Sikking ) and Mody ( Charles H . Gray ) ? I mean , they just disappeared ! Then , as the town re-groups and Jess prepares for the trip to Mexico , Mrs . Ramsey ( Barbara Werle ) plants a kiss on him , when in just the prior scene she was ready to beat the snot out of him , blaming him for her husband's death ! How exactly did the reconciliation take place ? Even with the disconnects , it was cool seeing Paul Brinegar once again as Doc Opie ( there's that ' Rawhide ' connection again ) . Ina Balin , looking radiant and very much like a high school sweetheart , doesn't have much to do here as Presley's romantic interest , but even that seems wasted by the end of the story . Do you think he ever sent for her ? If for no other reason , " Charro ! " is worth seeing for a non characteristic look at Elvis Presley in a role that would have served much better at the beginning of his career than near it's end . But that's a whole other conversation . I wonder how Clint would have been in " Jailhouse Rock " .
" Mrs . Hawkins , marriage is nothing but a three ring circus , first the engagement ring , then the wedding ring , and then suffering . "	Abbott and Costello managed to wreak havoc in virtually every type of movie genre , and the Western was no exception . They did it the first time in 1942's " Ride ' Em Cowboy " , and came back once more in " The Wistful Widow of Wagon Gap " . The boys are traveling salesmen for all of about five minutes in the film's introduction , before Lou's character Chester Wooley fires a gun into the air , claiming a victim by the name of Hawkins . When members of a hastily called jury arrive with nooses to determine his fate , Wooley is saved by a Montana law that requires the victor in a duel to provide for the departed's widow and family . In this case the widow Hawkins is Marjorie Main , not terribly upset by her new unmarried status , but determined to wed once again . Perennial Costello foil Gordon Jones is on hand here as outlaw gang leader Jake Frame , and as usual is largely ineffective in reigning in his nemesis . Eventually Chester is appointed sheriff to clean up Frame and his gang , on the assumption that no one will shoot him because then the wife and child support duties will in turn fall to them . Chester plays it to the hilt with a picture of Mrs . Hawkins and her brood close to his heart , or in his back pocket as it were , lending formidable support to his cause . If you've seen much of Abbott and Costello in other films , you'll sense something missing here . Their early films tended to include a host of musical numbers , and physical comedy punctuated by at least three or four well choreographed routines . The finale usually turned into a frenetic thrill ride on some appropriately misguided missile appropriate to the movie's theme , in " Ride ' Em Cowboy " it was a stampeding bronco . In this movie you find yourself leaning forward for the payoffs , but they're fewer and further between . The frog in the soup routine is the one recognizable bit , and he comes back for a quick cameo later on . Besides Marjorie Main , there's not much of a supporting cast here either . " Ride ' Em Cowboy " featured a pair of legitimate " B " Western movie stars in Johnny Mack Brown and Dick Foran . The best this film can do is give us a glimpse of gang members Glenn Strange and Rex Lease , with George Cleveland as Judge Benbow who by film's end winds up with the widow's hand in a Bud Abbott film flam that turns out to be real . Don't be put off by my lukewarm recommendation here , " The Wistful Widow of Wagon Gap " is an enjoyable vehicle for A & C fans , but they've been better in other vehicles . So was the frog .
" Anything further , father ? "	Professor Quincy Adams Wagstaff ( Groucho Marx ) is the new president of Huxley College , and you get the impression that he feels about it as much as his opening song - " I'm Against It " ! . Wagstaff's main and perhaps only goal at Huxley is to produce a winning football team , good enough to defeat arch rival Darwin University . To do so , the plan is to kidnap two ringers from the local speakeasy , but this is The Marx Brothers , so the kidnapees turn out to be Baravelli ( Chico ) and Pinky ( Harpo ) . Thelma Todd is on hand as " college widow " Connie Bailey , and she is romanced in turn by each of the boys , as she attempts to hijack the Huxley play book . My favorite line from the film from Groucho / Wagstaff - " Why don't you bore a hole in yourself and let the sap out ? " Sheer Marx Brothers lunacy , and a fun ride , but don't expect the referee to enforce the rules .
" I'll tell you this much , the next hitchhiker is s . . . outta luck , I swear to God . "	OK , so you thought this was a horror flick . Here for your consideration are the top ten reasons why " Texas Chainsaw Massacre " is a highly underrated educational film : 1 . Don't pick up hitchhikers for any reason , especially if they're going to kill themselves in your back seat . 2 . When you come across a strange house and you see body parts hanging from the ceiling , it's time to go . 3 . When you're ready to shoot a schizoid redneck sheriff , be sure the gun is loaded . 4 . Don't accept tea from strangers . 5 . When the man with the big chainsaw comes after you , JUST RUN AWAY ! 6 . If you're covered in blood and screaming hysterically , chances are you won't succeed as a hitchhiker . 7 . Bathtubs can hold a lot of blood . 8 . A plain old meat cleaver makes a perfectly good weapon and an acceptable choice for self defense . 9 . It's OK to cheer for the maniac who runs over the local redneck sheriff . 10 . If you have any fingernails left by the end of this film , find a good manicurist .
" That is my one permanent characteristic . "	My only prior experience with Peter Lorre's work was in two of my favorite Humphrey Bogart films , as Joel Cairo in " The Maltese Falcon " , and as the scheming Ugarte in " Casablanca " . Both characterizations were excellent and memorable efforts . His casting as a Japanese " International Police " investigator is almost as offbeat as Boris Karloff's portrayal of Mr . Wong in that series of mystery films of the same era . Lorre actually portrays two characters , besides Moto he operates undercover as antiques shop keeper Kuroki . From that vantage point , he tries to keep tabs on a band of international saboteurs who intend to blow up the French fleet as it enters the Suez Canal . The group is led by " Fabian the Great " ( Ricardo Cortez ) , who plays in theater shows as a ventriloquist , and includes Eric Norvel ( George Sanders ) , and Danforth ( John Carradine ) . Danforth is actually a British Agent attempting to hook up with Moto , and his knowledge of Fabian's plans is intentionally less than complete . Pay attention to the scene when Fabian first suspects that Danforth is not what he seems . He uses a pen to scribble a beard on a photo of British Intelligence Agent Richard Burke in a notebook dossier . The beard he draws ends in a straight line under Burke's chin . In a later scene , when Fabian shows the photo to Norvel , the beard is thicker and descends with a point toward Burke's collar . The actual beard Carradine wears in his role looks quite humorously phony , and makes one thankful for present day film makeup . The mystery here is rather straightforward , no murders to solve and no red herrings as in the Charlie Chan franchise . We know who the bad guys are right from the start , and the only revelation needed is how Moto will save the day . This he does by escaping from an underwater death trap and by prematurely detonating the mines intended for the French ships , thereby providing them with enough warning to turn around . As a murderous saboteur , Fabian proves rather inept , as he fails to properly dispatch Moto , and earlier his girlfriend Connie ( Virginia Field ) who discovers his plot . Too bad , as Connie does the honors of stopping Fabian during his tussle with Moto . Peter Lorre doesn't look like a very physical guy , small in stature and kind of mousy , so his first on screen jiu jitsu throw caught me off guard . I'd be curious to know if he did his own stunt work and martial moves depicted in the movie , as almost all were done in darkly shaded scenes . As a Charlie Chan fan , I was curious about the Sultana Theater playbill advertising " Charlie Chan in Honolulu " as one of it's attractions . That movie , released the prior year in 1938 , featured Sidney Toler in his first portrayal of the Chinese detective . However the playbill mistakenly states that Chan is played by Warner Oland . It seems to me that the movie should have gotten this right , as 1938's " Mr . Moto's Gamble " was originally begun as " Charlie Chan at Ringside " with Oland . However Oland's illness and subsequent death required it's rewriting as a Moto film . This movie , released a year later , came after Oland's death in 1938 . " Mr . Moto's Last Warning " was at least interesting enough to recommend looking up other titles in the series . I'll be looking forward to more adventures of the Japanese agent Kentaro Moto .
" You going out to detect somethin ' ? "	Like most of the Charlie Chan movies of the same era , it might help to keep a score card here to keep track of all the players . Mr . Moto ( Peter Lorre ) , true to characterizations in earlier films in the series , relies on his skills as an anthropologist as well as a detective to solve this , his final case . He's on the trail of a psychopathic criminal genius long presumed dead , coaxed out of hiding by the discovery of the crown of the Queen of Sheba on an Arabian dig . Not only does Moto don a disguise in the film , so does his adversary , the evil Metaxas , before the case is put to rest . The last couple of Moto films paired the Japanese detective with a comic sidekick , this time around it's G . P . Huntley as the Brit , Archibald Featherstone . His gimmick consists of outing Moto's undercover alias a number of times and taking numerous pratfalls . Someone like Reginald Denny might have been more effective in a less physical role , but hey , we take what we get in the Moto films , all of which are to be viewed for entertainment value and Lorre's understated portrayal . I got a kick out of the scene at the Fremont Museum in Professor Hildebrand's office when it's discovered the phone line has been cut . Instead of simply stating that , Moto offers - " Someone deprived this instrument of all utility " . Couldn't have said it better myself . It would have been cool to see Mantan Moreland show up in the Moto series , but instead Willie Best appears in this one as a driver with a few quick lines and a fender bender . He also had a few moments in the Moto adventure on Danger Island . The real surprise for this story is the appearance of one of the better known and respected veterans of the era , Lionel Atwill , usually cast as a villain or mad scientist . The finale almost has you hooked into believing him to be Moto's quarry , but of course that was just a red herring . I'm still thinking about how Moto solved this case , explaining that the scoundrel Metaxas ' footprints on the carpet changed from a walk to a limp when he entered the Professor's office . It sounds good , but how does one detect a limp in a footprint ? It might have made more sense to have the cane as part of that set up . Anyway , not to be too harsh , this film is just as much fun as any in the series , which in retrospect might have been all too brief . The Charlie Chan movies ran to forty two films , not counting a couple for which the prints seem to have been permanently lost . However three different actors portrayed the Oriental detective in most of those flicks , but one would probably agree that the only actor to own the Moto role would rightfully be the wonderful Peter Lorre .
" Even I , Lucas , have heard of the legend of a man fish . "	Just the name alone , " Creature From the Black Lagoon " conjures up all sorts of mental images of creepy , slimy monsters from murky underwater depths . And this 1954 Universal Film certainly delivers on that score , the legendary creature earning his place among the pantheon of Universal's all star lineup - Frankenstein , Dracula , Wolfman and The Mummy . The story however doesn't hold up as well as it's earlier classic counterparts , partly for it's lack of an enduring name star ( Karloff , Lugosi , Chaney ) , and partly for it's more modern look , having been released in 1954 . The film sets up the dramatic tension soon enough , within minutes we are treated to a quick glimpse of a fan shaped , webbed claw that eerily emanates from a swampy pool . In discussing the skeletal remains of an unknown creature discovered on a prior expedition , lead scientist David Reed ( Richard Carlson ) makes a prophetic statement about spaceships someday traveling to other planets . With financing provided by Mark Williams ( Richard Denning ) , the scientific group heads off to the upper Amazon Valley to try to unravel the mystery . Among the group is Reed's fiancé Kay Lawrence ( Julia Adams ) , providing the obligatory love interest for both Reed and the Creature . In fact , the Creature's obsession with Kay is craftily handled from the outset , it's first encounter resulting in a synchronized swim in the river and a playful tease of Kay's feet before she ever sets eyes on the monster . The underwater photography is deftly done , particularly since so much time is spent there . What does get somewhat annoying though is the persistent bickering between Reed and Williams on the goal of the expedition . Taking the scientific approach , Reed wants to catalog virtually everything to do with the Creature and it's habitat , while Williams wants nothing less than to capture the monster to make his mark in the scientific world . All bets are off though when the Gill-Man kidnaps Kay from the boat and brings her to his underwater grotto . In pursuit , Reed emerges into the grotto and is approached by a giant flying bat - did anyone else get the impression that it was about to turn into Count Dracula ? In somewhat of a standoff , Reed insures that the Creature is not harmed by the overzealous armed crew , as it makes it's way back into the safety of the lagoon . It appears to descend lifelessly into the murky depths , but even back in the 1950's the final fade seemed to scream sequel . And so it was , in two Creature follow ups , 1955's " Revenge of the Creature " and the 1956 film " The Creature Walks Among Us " , neither of which brought back any of the principals from the first film .
" That'll be one bandit less then Clayton , that I'll have to condemn to hell fire . "	" Any Gun Can Play " probably has more ' vamanos ' and ' andeles ' than any spaghetti Western out there , while mixing in it's share of black hats , stogies , beards and ponchos . The opening scene is a blast , it will make you sit up and take notice of some familiar , yet unfamiliar characters who aren't around long enough to worry about . The film keeps you guessing as to the relationship of it's three principals , as alliances are made and broken with tenuous regularity , with bandit Monetero's lady even switching sides when it suits her . I got a kick out of the way the self proclaimed ' Stranger ' ( George Hilton ) kept raising the ante on the reward for Montenero's ( Gilbert Roland ) capture , and wondered if the authorities were on the same page . Even though Edd Byrnes ' ' kookie ' persona kept intruding , he still managed to maintain a sufficiently duplicitous posture as banker Clayton . The slick move he pulled with the spilled drink to catch a reflection struck me as surprisingly clever . The best though was taking up the pugilistic stance to mix it up with the Stranger , that was hilarious ! The movie has some outstanding cinematography purporting to be the border of Mexico and it provides a great scenic backdrop to the action . The ' tres cientos mil ' dollars at the core of the story is never seen until the end of the picture when it showers the principals and even then , I had the impression that if the three hombres had it to do all over again , it might have gone an entirely different way .
" Ladies and Gentlmen , I give you the future of Boonesborough . "	Seeing the film today gave me an interesting perspective on our country's history , as the events took place one year before the Declaration of Independence . With the Revolutionary War in full swing , an entirely different battle was being waged on the near Western frontier of ' Kain-Tu-Kee ' , the Indian name for a ' dark and bloody ground ' . It was here the legend of Daniel Boone was born , and the film states it tries to remain true to the core of the frontiersman's legacy . I was intrigued by a number of the portrayals in the film that had nothing to do with the main characters . Women in particular were shown chopping wood , spading hard ground and fording rivers on horseback carrying babies in the cause of civilization . The film also depicted blacks respectfully , though in typically subservient roles ; it was the black character Pompey ( Clarence Muse ) who offered the suggestion for the name of Boonesborough . There's an interesting scene where Pompey and Black Eagle ( George Regas ) have a conversation about the similarities of ' black ' and ' red ' men . Pompey's take on it is that both were baked by the sun , but the Indian was ' underdone ' ! Boone is ruggedly portrayed by George O'Brien in a characterization that reminded me of George Reeves ' Superman , to me he looked like two different people with and without his coonskin cap on . His first encounter with the renegade white Simon Girty ( John Carradine ) offered a comedic touch with the knife swallowing gimmick . Later on , his shirtless physique takes center stage when captured by hostiles and relegated to a burning stake , most assuredly one of film's early recognitions of the beefcake factor in heroic movies . My prior introduction to Heather Angel involved her role as Miss Phyllis Clavering in the ' Bulldog Drummond ' franchise , a series of detective mysteries of the same era . Here she balances her affections between British royal Stephen Marlowe and the adventurer Boone until Marlowe realizes he's second string . Her young brother Jerry is played by Dickie Jones , who in the 1950's became Range Rider's sidekick and later starred as Buffalo Bill Jr . in a couple of early TV Westerns . For an early talkie " Daniel Boone " seems to handle it's subject fairly well with a nice blend of action , adventure and insight into early frontier life . It does seem to leave a question mark for an ending though , as the pioneers are shown heading out once again in search of new territory . One must assume that the governor in Richmond fully intended to deny squatters rights to the settlers , on land annexed to Virginia for the glory of the Crown .
" Dead men don't recognize anybody . "	" Frontier Pony Express " features an early starring role for cowboy Roy Rogers , one in which he acquits himself reasonably well . Set in 1861 , Roy's a Pony Express rider and acknowledged as the best in the business , so it would be a major victory for Senator Lassiter Calhoun ( Edward Keane ) to convince Roy to cast aside his Union loyalties and work for the Confederacy . Calhoun's plans however go beyond that , he's attempting to establish California as a separate republic , one which he will lead as it's president . Rogers can't be bought , and the dramatic tension is established early on a number of fronts . Virtually all of Roy Rogers ' films employ a sidekick , and this one follows the pattern . Ray Hatton portrays Horseshoe , a trapper whose running gag has to do with a brooch he acquires from Mrs . Murphy ( Ethel Wales ) for a valuable beaver fur made from jackrabbits ! Horseshoe spends the length of the story trying to get it back as it trades hands among different folks in the story . Roy's romantic interest in the film is portrayed by Lynne Roberts , going by the name of Mary Hart . She played opposite Roy for a number of films in the late 1930's , to be followed by Pauline Moore , Jacqueline Wells and Sally Payne before Dale Evans became a staple following " The Cowboy and The Senorita " in 1944 . Hart's character flip flops loyalties a few times before the story's over , but winds up getting together with Roy in the finale . Generally , Roy would get to do at least three or four songs in his later films . Here he does a couple , including the standard ' My Old Kentucky Home ' and another tune titled ' Rusty Spurs ' . I was curious as to the selection of the first song , since Roy was a Northern sympathizer in the film . Even more curious though was the role of Roy's horse Trigger in the film . It appeared that Trigger was a Pony Express horse that Roy used during the story and didn't personally belong to him . Nevertheless , Trigger had his own reputation of sorts among the Express riders , since he was often requested by name . A riderless Trigger winds up saving a pouch full of Union vouchers by diving off a cliff into a lake to escape a bad guy posse , thereby earning another gold star as ' The Smartest Horse in the Movies ' . I'm sure there are loads of ' B ' Westerns with the Pony Express as a focal point , though I've only come across a couple myself . For anyone interested , check out the 1936 film titled " Cavalcade of The West " . It explores the beginnings of the Pony Express , and offers Hoot Gibson in a featured role .
" Roy , you're dead . As long as you stay dead you won't get killed . "	It's only appropriate that the King of the Cowboys would appear in a movie of the same name . Roy Rogers was always my favorite Western hero , and he appears here as an undercover agent for Texas Governor Shuville ( Russell Hicks ) , investigating sabotage in the territory . The story itself however , turns out to be rather ordinary , as Roy and his crew of Pioneers bring the bad guys to justice . Roy's sidekick here is Smiley Burnette , in one of his few outings where he doesn't go by his own name . His character is Frog Millhouse in deference to the particular guttural sound he can produce at will ; fortunately it's not overdone . We're still a few pictures away from Dale Evans ' first appearance with Roy ( 1944 , Cowboy and the Senorita ) , so the female lead falls to Peggy Moran , a performer with the Merry Makers Carnival and Tent Show . " Following Merry " is the only clue Roy has , so when he hooks up with the traveling show as a singer , he hopes to uncover the plot . As with most of Roys ' films , there are a host of songs performed by the cowboy crooner , including the opener - " Ride ' Em Cowboy " . They're followed up by " I'm An Old Cowhand " , " A Gay Ranchero " and " Roll Along Prairie Moon " . All of them conjure up memories of a youth spent viewing hours of Western thrills following Roy , Gene , Hoppy and plenty of other stars getting the drop on the bad guys . So when you hear Bruce Willis mutter Yippie Ki Yay in " Die Hard " , it just doesn't ring the same . I always get a kick out of the perspective offered in these old films . How excited is the café cook when he sees the prospect of two paying customers at thirty five cents each ! I know I haven't seen it in a movie before , but what's with the giant mirror in the road trick ? Of course in the end , Roy races to the rescue aboard Trigger to save the day , defusing a bomb and saving a railroad train from destruction . The Sons of the Pioneers round up the baddies , and the Governor proclaims Roy " King of the Cowboys " for his heroic assistance . It should be so easy in real life , but this was a simpler time when the guys in white hats always won . Yippee I-O-Ki-Yay !
" Hold everything ! The next one's a knockout . "	Sadly , not so . I detected the enthusiasm in the reviews of other posters on this board , but I'm far from enthralled by this early effort from director Hitchcock . Admittedly , the Master shows a flair for some of the techniques that would gain him accolades in his later work . I particularly liked his use of the swaying camera to illustrate the rolling of the ship to the ocean waves . The view through the champagne glass was also a nice touch , and decidedly novel way back in the silent era . What I found most disconcerting however were the abruptness of the moods and facial expressions of the central characters , particularly Betty ( Betty Balfour ) and The Man ( Ferdinand Von Alten ) . Within seconds , their demeanor would go from happy to grim or vice versa , with no apparent change in circumstances within the scene . That only managed to convey an unusual amount of ' huh ? ' moments , as I tried to imagine myself in the same situation . So a lot of the picture didn't work for me . There was also the simplistic set up of having Betty chase down her boyfriend aboard ship to Paris . Later it's learned that Betty's father is ' busted ' due to his investment misfortunes , and The Boy ( Jean Bradin ) declares that he'll get a job to help them out . Well then , how did the well dressed , impeccably groomed traveler afford to go on an ocean cruise ? See what I mean ? The continuity of what Hitchcock was trying to convey doesn't hold up under close inspection . And then there's The Man . Hired by Betty's father , his on screen appearance suggested a lecherous womanizer who would use any means to conquer yet another victim . The scene in the cabaret that suggested just that turned out to be a mirage sequence of sorts with an abrupt turnabout . More confusing than necessary I thought , and a curve ball thrown at the viewer . Say , how did Father ( Gordon Harker ) get ' The New York Advertiser ' to post a headline that he was teaching his daughter a lesson ? I did get a kick out of his description of The Boy in the telegram he sent to The Man - it described The Boy as a ' boulevard sheik ' . As for a recommendation - see it for an early Hitchcock effort and as a curiosity piece . It will help one's understanding of the director's views on his way to greater film creativity and story telling .
" Move a little faster Sonny , I irritate real easy . "	Crown City , Colorado was born and built on gold , but by 1880 the town was tapped out , with the only remaining mineral left to mine located in the San Juan Mountains , right in the middle of Ute Indian Territory . Gary Brannon ( Audie Murphy ) is on the side of the miners , and wants to see his town survive along with it's citizens . But father Sam ( Walter Brennan ) has been able to maintain an uneasy peace with the Utes and their Chief Ouray ( Morris Ankrum ) , even after the death of his wife at the hands of a drunken Ute brave . Gary finds it harder to forgive and forget , and would rather consider all Indians his enemy based on the actions of a few . Heavy Frank Walker ( Lyle Bettger ) leads the mining faction and insists on creating havoc with the Indians , finding ways to undo the truce established with the Utes by the elder Brannon . He brings in a black clad gunman named Morgan , enthusiastically portrayed by Hugh O'Brian in an uncharacteristic role . The future TV Wyatt Earp plays his part with gusto until brought down by Gary . Ouray's son Taos ( Jay Silverheels ) becomes Chief when the elder Indian dies , setting the stage for what will figure in the movie's finale . With young Brannon present for the Chief's burial on sacred ground , Taos warns him never to return at the risk of death . Knowing this , and having been framed for murder by Walker , Brannon leads Walker and his men into the sacred mountain area to be ambushed by the Utes , thereby risking his own neck in order to save it . In 1954 , Jay Silverheels was still in the middle of his co-starring role as Tonto in the Lone Ranger Television Series . In this film though , he's brought to more regal bearing as the Indian Chief Taos , and looks particularly impressive in full war bonnet . For his part , the young Audie Murphy looks a bit out of his element among the heavies of the film , though he manages to prevail against every henchman presented . The film ends with the Utes and the Crown City citizens exchanging mining rights for hunting privileges on each other's side of the mountains , a reasonable enough compromise that probably could have been worked out without the bloodshed , but then , there wouldn't have been a story .
" . . . this is not just a dog , this is Johnny One-Eye . "	With one of the cooler sounding film titles going , I was surprised when the title character turned out not to be a gangster , but a down and out mutt belonging to a little girl . Johnny One-Eye gets his name from Martin Martin ( Pat O'Brien ) , victim to a former partner's bullet , and holed up in a run down alley where young Elsie White ( Gayle Reed ) discovers his presence . Martin concocts a story claiming to be Santa Claus , which seems off the wall at the time , but winds up making some sense to set up the picture's finale . It's always interesting to see Pat O'Brien in one of his villainous roles , so diametrically opposed to the haloed characters like Father Jerry from " Angels With Dirty Faces " that one is more accustomed to . Here however , he's outdone by co-star Wayne Morris , who endears himself to the audience by kicking Elsie's dog out of the house . That pretty much establishes that Dane Cory ( Morris ) deserves whatever he's got coming . With apartments in New York City going well north of a million dollars these days , that Park Avenue penthouse Martin bought for five grand sounded like a pretty good investment . As for Johnny One-Eye , his real name in the story was Skipper , which must have been a popular pet name in the 1950's ; my first dog was Skipper too , a fox terrier . The thing that puzzled me though was that after the dog's first appearance in the alley with that lame eye , subsequent scenes showed him with what appeared to be two good ones under all that facial hair . But then Johnny Two-Eyes wouldn't have summoned the proper pathos for a story like this . Yes it does get a bit melodramatic at times , especially when it comes time for the wind up . You might want to have a box of hankies around for the death of Santa Claus scene , maybe two if you have a youngster watching with you .
" . . . It's out of my hands , I was a mere instrument of the law . "	It was somewhat comical to see the full screen opening credit given Humphrey Bogart in this re-release version from Guaranteed Pictures . One of the mainstays of the public domain bargain bin , " Call It Murder " provides an early look at the future star in a limited role , which in retrospect could have been played by virtually anyone . Bogey's character is a minor hood named Gar Boni , caught in a predicament that requires him to leave town after getting involved with the daughter of a jury foreman . We don't find out much about his circumstances but they must be grim , an accomplice responds to Gar's penchant for baseball by asking - " Hey kid , they got any bulletproof grandstands out there ? " Throughout the trial , Stella Weldon ( Sidney Fox ) finds herself at odds with her father's role ; he was able to steer the jury to find Ethel Saxon ( Helen Flint ) guilty of murder by virtue of pre-meditation . The entire film is used to explore Weldon's ( O . P . Heggie ) resolve with the verdict in the face of public disapproval and mounting controversy over Saxon's execution . It provides the set up for his own daughter's circumstances when she pulls the trigger on Gar , a case of the jilted lover lashing out . Did she have time to think about what she would do , or was it an instinctive crime of passion ? Overall , the film could have used better pacing , there were moments that seemed to drag incessantly . I was intrigued though by an interesting use of camera angles in a scene where Gar's departure from Stella is reflected in a mirror at the bottom of the staircase in the Weldon home . The picture might also have gotten more mileage out of the device of cutting between scenes of Weldon's conscience bound pacing with that of the doomed Saxon in her prison cell . The idea was a good one but was buried too quickly to make the point it could have . In it's way , the movie is a viable pre-cursor to the noir films of the following decade , it's dark and brooding , with the female lead encountering desperation as her payoff , whether or not D . A . Plunkett ( Moffat Johnston ) succeeds in digging her out of a mess . Her father meanwhile is left to wrestle his own conscience over the quandary of whether justice for one ought to be the basis of justice for all . An interesting moral dilemma as well as a legal one , the story works to confound us all if faced with the same situation .
" There's something rummy about that chap tonight . "	Not too bad a story for a film I'd never heard of before , much less have a chance to see if not for a neat little compilation of ten movies on three DVD's from St . Clair Vision . The set has a pirates theme with bonus features including an except from a 1938 radio broadcast . " The Mutiny of the Elsinore " is based on the Jack London novel " Captain Walter Summers " . The Summers character is mentioned as a murder victim of one Sidney Waltham , a sailor who can be identified by a large gash on top of his head . He's aboard the Elsinore as a limping sailor named Mellaire ( Ben Soutten ) , and has a mind to do away with first mate Pike ( Lyn Harding ) before Pike can make the connection . What's interesting in the early going is that Pike seems to be set up as the bad guy of the piece , a hard nosed bully who rules by fear and the threat of irons . He's in the employ of ship's Captain West ( Conway Dixon ) , who sails with his daughter Margaret ( Kathleen Kelly ) aboard . Rounding out the main cast is writer Jack Pethurst ( Paul Lukas ) , who's sailing to gather information for a book he's writing . One thing for certain , political correctness was never a concern with films of the era . When a new sailor makes his acquaintance below decks with two men on board , Murphy tells Twist - " Kid , get that n - - - er up " referring to a black man named Roberts who's made to vacate his bunk . Once things get under way , Mullaire / Waltham heats things up by killing Captain West and putting Pike on the spot to smoke out the murderer . Pike orders any hands not on duty to be shackled until the killer comes forward , but you don't have to be there to see how this will go . Sailors loyal to Mullaire prepare to mutiny , while Pike's group stands to defend the Elsinore . It's all played out quite interestingly , with writer Pethurst lining up with Pike , not a tough choice as he's been eying Captain West's daughter for the entire voyage . A couple of minor sub plots are introduced that don't have much impact . There's a loony sailor named O'Sullivan who's jealous of Pethurst , believing that the pretty West girl should be with him . When he attempts to kill Pethurst , he cracks and is sequestered with a lazy sailor named Davis who manages to avoid work on ship at all costs . Confined to sick bay , he dispatches O'Sullivan overboard ( offscreen ) to get rid of the nuisance . Davis is always quoting maritime law in an attempt to intimidate Pike , as if the same didn't apply to him . He makes it to the end of the story , but one kind of wishes he gets his along the way . The mutiny of course doesn't fare well . Even though Pike is seriously wounded , Miss West names Pethurst the ship's man in charge , and he brings things around to a successful conclusion . She even gets into the act by shooting Mullaire as he battles the rejuvenated Pike ; funny how Pike roared back to life after being shot at point blank range by Mullaire . Interestingly , the Elsinore's destination was never mentioned in the story , even though it was going to be on a three month voyage , sailing out of Glasgow . Crates in the hold were marked for San Francisco , though that didn't seem likely . The other quirky item of note appeared to be Pethurst's sailing attire . Virtually the entire voyage , including his take charge duty during the attempted mutiny , he wore a suit and tie . Near the end he got a bit more casual by wearing a sweater , even though the suit remained intact . He never did write down anything for his book , not even a set of notes !
" Oh that place , take it easy Sonny , this rushin ' will come in handy after you get there . "	Perhaps to underscore the quick pace of life in New York , " Big City Blues " moves along at a hectic sixty three minute pace , and tries to cram as much action as it can into that amount of time . Willow Station railroad agent ( Grant Mitchell ) has been there and done that , and bets a ten spot with a buddy that anxious traveler Bud Reeves ( Eric Linden ) will be back within a month . For his part , Bud is flush with enthusiasm and eleven hundred dollars and ready to make his mark on the big town . He's met by fast talking cousin " Gibby " Gibboney ( Walter Catlett ) , who has a knack for getting others to pay his way , and completely monopolizes the conversation in every scene he's in . He's on a first name basis with a few up and coming showgirls , particularly cute Vida Fleet ( Joan Blondell ) , who immediately becomes fond of the rube from Hoopersville , Indiana . Things move a bit too fast though , as Gibby organizes a welcome party for Bud in his room at the Hotel Hercules , and all manner of show biz types begin to arrive , among them Shep Adkins ( Humphrey Bogart ) . Shep is about to move in on Len Scully's ( Lyle Talbot ) girl , Lenny objects with his fists , and a brawl breaks out that leaves the young showgirl dead . Not knowing what to do , young Bud follows the example of everyone else at the party , he high tails it before the law can arrive . Night watchman Hummel ( Guy Kibbee ) revels in his five minutes of fame for finding the dead victim , while detective Quelkin ( Thomas Jackson ) tails Vida who he hopes can lead him to Bud Reeves , guilty until proved innocent . By accident , Hummel solves the case by going for his whiskey bottle in the hotel linen closet , where he finds Scully's body , a suicide victim with a shard of the broken bottle that neatly fits with the piece recovered by the police . Back at Willow Station , it only takes the railroad agent three days to collect on his bet , as Bud gratefully touches down on home turf . He still has visions of grandeur for life in New York , but has grown up enough to have some patience for it . Maybe next time , things will work out a bit better . By 1932 , Humphrey Bogart had a handful of movie credits to his name , but nothing significant as of yet . That was about to change with his next film , " Three on a Match " , which also co-starred Joan Blondell . Both would work together two more times , in 1936's " Bullets or Ballots " with Edward G . Robinson , and the 1937 comedy " Stand-In " . All are recommended for fans of either , while " Bullets or Ballots " is a fine early example of the mobster genre made popular by films like " Public Enemy " and " White Heat " .
" Shoot your little stick my heathen friend . . . "	It's not likely you'll catch a Western like this again , good guys and bad guys have little meaning here . Martin Sheen and Sam Waterston are pitted against each other as an ex-foot soldier versus a Kiowa warrior , and the mismatch is palpable throughout . There's a great innovative scene where White Bull ( Waterston ) emerges from a waterhole to ambush Pike ( Sheen ) , in the tradition of your best horror film surprises . That's one of the highlights in a story that ofttimes meanders back and forth with little action . At one point , Waterston is featured in a great Iron Eyes Cody profile that attests to his regal bearing , which director Anthony Harvey uses to tease a possible romantic involvement between the Indian and his captive blonde beauty ( Caroline Langrish ) . That story line goes nowhere , but draws on more than a single exchange of amorous glances between the two . Martin Sheen gets to inject some humor into the cat and mouse game with some of the few lines of dialog the film actually uses ; for his part , White Bull remains entirely silent throughout . It complements his mysterious nature , and the ruse with the tricked out dagger that takes out the thieving Mexican was a nice touch . Sheen does a remarkable job convulsing from that arrow to the leg from White Bull , so much so that you feel his pain . In the set up for the horseback duel finale , one expects a decisive outcome without knowing who'll win , but again , your standard Western conventions don't bear out . White Bull acknowledges Pike's temerity and allows him to live , and his thundering dust cloud ride into the sunset sets both men free . The ending though , managed to elicit an unintended chuckle just like Vincent Price does in the closing sequence of " The Fly " , when Judith and Pike separately plead their case to the heavens - " Please , help me " .
" There's nobody in here but us monsters ! "	I just watched " The Blob " for the first time , having been too young at the time to catch it at a local drive-in or movie theater . Holy cow , what a blast , owing to the goofy pseudo sci-fi horror effects and Steve McQueen in an early starring film role . Although by 1958 , he was well past being a teenager , and it showed in those close-ups with crease lines already showing up on his forehead . Then to top it off , there was a fairly entertaining ' Blob ' theme song to open the picture which made me wonder why it wasn't ever released as a single . It was the same year after all , as Sheb Wooley's ' Purple People Eater ' and the tune seemed to be just as catchy . I got a kick out of the theatrical trailer on the Criterion Collection DVD that mentioned the film ' starring Steve McQueen and a cast of exciting young people ' . All throughout the flick it drove me crazy where I might have seen Steve's girl friend Jane before , until I discovered that she was Andy Taylor's girlfriend on the ' Andy Griffith Show ' . The rest of the exciting young people didn't make much of a dent beyond the opening scenes where Steve seems to upstage a trio of hot rod buddies , then has to talk his way out of a jam with Lieutenant Dave . Funny , but I remembered seeing Olin Howlin in a picture a while ago , noteworthy because he played Roy Rogers ' sidekick in a Western called " Apache Rose " . He was an old timer in that flick too almost a dozen years earlier . He got things rolling as the Blob's first victim , looking a bit like a disheveled Lloyd Bridges and setting the stage for all the rest of the gruesome fun to follow . Besides the story , the film is a great time capsule reminder of life during a simpler time , when watermelon cost four cents a pound , and twenty nine cents got you two bottles of catsup ( today it's ketchup ) . Then there was Tony lamenting that he just wasted eighty cents at the all night spook show , but was that for one ticket or two ? Either way , it makes you long for those good old days when all seemed right with the world when you weren't battling space monsters or doing ' duck and cover ' drills . If you remember the ending , the Blob was frozen and whisked away to the North Pole to remain in permanent hibernation , ' as long as the Arctic stays cold ' . Although there was a ' Blob ' re-make in 1988 and sort of a sequel with 1972's " Beware ! The Blob " , today might just be the right time to put together a follow up ; what with all the global warming hysteria it would be a natural . As an added bonus , maybe they could film it in a way that might have made the original even more camp - in glorious black and white .
" That , you don't want us to run that swayback coffee pot on wheels , do ya ? "	Jeff Connor ( Roy Rogers ) and Gabby Chapman ( Gabby Hayes ) find themselves in the middle of a three way competition between a stagecoach line , a railroad company and a third party Sacramento Navigation Co . in this rather well done Republic Film from 1941 . This was still the pre Dale Evans era for Roy , so the female lead duties were handled by Sally Payne as Jo Morrison , part owner of the Morrison-Liddell Stage Company . Roy and Gabby smell a polecat when both the stage line and the railroad wind up at odds with each other , figuring that outlaw Black Bart ( Fred Kohler Jr . ) is behind the attacks on both , while in league with shady businessman Amos Norton ( Pierre Watkin ) . The best lines in the film go to Gabby , hands down , who also shows some fancy hand work twirling his six gun , going by the name of Roarin ' Liza . Roy tries out his singing voice with " Stars Over the Prairie " , throwing in a verse penned by villain Black Bart . It was a poetry gimmick that led to Bart's undoing , a clue that the crafty Jeff Connor used to smoke out the bandit who used the alter ego of Jim Trevor . Sally Payne's character , pretty but tomboyish , spent most of the film trying to romance Connor , going back and forth between buckskins and a party dress . Her younger brother Chick ( Billy Lee ) was the one to discover the Trevor / Black Bart connection , putting the good guys in the right direction . Sally teamed up with Roy Rogers in a dozen ' B ' Westerns , virtually all between 1940 and 1942 . Prior to Sally , Roy's female lead in the late 1930's was Lynne Roberts , who also used the name Mary Hart . When you see Roy later in the film navigating his way atop the cars of a moving train , be sure to credit Yakima Canutt for the stunt work . He also appears briefly as a stagecoach driver . " Nevada City " has a pretty good mix of action , gunfights , and humor , with Roy and Gabby complementing each other nicely as a good guy tandem . Roy and Sally do hook up at the end of the story , tying up that plot line as well . A similar theme involving a three way competition for a postal route contract would be used some dozen years later in a 1953 Western called " Iron Mountain Trail " , starring Rex Allen . It shouldn't come as a surprise that it too was a Republic Picture .
" Of course we know the dead don't come back to life " .	With a title like " Terror Creatures From the Grave " , you would think the picture would be an exercise in campy horror and cheesy special effects . But you know , this was actually a pretty neat little creep fest , and for it's relatively compact run time of just under an hour and a half , the picture offers some of the best lines you'll ever come up with in a ' B ' grade horror flick . For example : " Are you putting me in the torture room ? " - Albert Kovac to Cleo Hauff " I've summoned them from their graves and now I'm among them . " - the voice of Jeronimus Hauff " The corpse collectors always come when somebody's doomed . " - the library clerk " The living I may fear , but certainly not the dead . " - Kovac againTop all of that off with one of the most innovative suicide / hari kari scenes ever , and you've got a unique little excursion into dementia cinema that would be hard to top . I read with some interest the other reviews on this film by other posters , and I have to wonder why I'm in the minority on the following point . Most take it as a given that Jeronimus Hauff was actually dead , and came back from the beyond to take out his revenge on the five witnesses to his purported death a year earlier . But what about that scene when the servant Kurt laid the body of Hauff on the stone tablet , bewailing the loss of his master ? Hmmm .
" You know you saved my life today , you ought to do it again . "	Buster Crabbe is top billed in " Drift Fence " , though it seems that honor should have gone to Tom Keene who has more screen time and is at the center of the story most often . Keene's character is undercover Texas Ranger Jim Travis , who trades places with an Eastern city dude when it looks like it might help him track down notorious cattle rustler Clay Jackson ( Stanley Andrews ) . Jim Traft ( Benny Baker ) would rather be in college studying art , but his uncle's will sets him in the direction of Prescott , Arizona where he's about to inherit a ranch , as long as he learns the cattle business . Buster Crabbe portrays Slinger Dunn , a quick draw artist who sides with the local ranchers against the Traft outfit . The Traft's are building a drift fence on their land to put a stop to their cattle losses , but in siding with Jackson , Slinger's only willing to go so far and won't have any part of rustling . Crabbe's character takes an unusual amount of derision from Grandma Dunn ( Effie Ellsler ) who hounds him into taking a harder stance against the Traft's . Complicating matters is the presence of Slinger's sister Molly ( Katherine DeMille ) , who initially opposes Traft , but softens up throughout the story until Jackson makes his final play . The film adds in some humorous light spots every now and then involving the Traft's Chinese cook , along with the real Jim Traft's decidedly non Western attire . Right after Travis appears for the first time as Traft , he raises an eyebrow with ranch foreman Windy ( Irving Bacon ) as he shoots a tomato can off a post with a ' lucky ' shot . Later in the story as some of the ranch hands ride up on an injured worker at the fence line , Travis remarks - " That's as neat a job of creasin ' I've ever seen " . That to me should have been a dead giveaway to the rest that he was more than an Eastern transplant . Though the story itself is fairly standard , there's just the right mix of action , romance , humor and shoot ' em ups to pace it along to a satisfying conclusion . To complement my enjoyment of the movie , I've been able to acquire it's original theatrical poster . The slogan across the top of the poster appropriately reads - " When The Shootin ' Starts . . . Count Me In ! "
" The point of origin becomes the point of return . "	If you're a fan of cheesy sci-fi flicks from the 1950's , there's no way you can pass on a title like " The Brain Eaters " . Truthfully , this wound up pretty interesting , and I'll get into that in a minute . The flick got me hooked with Dr . Kettering's statement after firing his gun into the cone shaped object , which is the basis of my summary line above . It's so basic that it sounds like it might have some usage in actual science , but I've never heard it before . Very clever , but if it were actually true , that bullet would have come back to injure Kettering , so I'm thinking it was all made up . What really impressed me when the whole story was over was how much integrity the story line maintained . The whole idea of an alien life form searching out a useful host to take over required no more thought than a lot of films of the era did , but showing a dead dog on the way to the site of the cone helped convey the idea that other life forms were tried and discarded ; that was pretty unique . The instances where the host humans were shown with bulging backs was also a neat device to allow the viewer to know that danger was imminent , even if the characters on screen were oblivious . So you had some building of suspense that coincided with the modus operandi of the brain eating parasites . But come on , the best part of all of this was the goofy stuff going on that flew right in the face of real time continuity . Like the alternating day and night time scenes that defy any concept of time management . And how about Senator Powers ' mustache , it seemed to come and go from scene to scene ! I'm also kind of curious as to the selection of Riverdale as the location of the story , that was also the home of Archie and his pals , but I don't know if their Riverdale was ever mentioned to be in a particular state . I guess one of the cooler items this film has to offer is future Star Trekker Leonard Nimoy in the role of a professor who disappeared with a colleague five years earlier and had his life form taken over by the aliens . If you don't know he's in the picture , his appearance on screen won't really help since his face is obscured by a beard , but if you listen closely there's no mistaking the voice . I wonder if he was upset that his name was mis-spelled in the credits . Usually with these kinds of pictures , I'm not willing to rate them much more than a four or a five because really , they are pretty dumb . But with this one , I've got to say that with the hero Kettering sacrificing himself at the finale for the good of all mankind - that's got to be good for at least a bonus point . Look , it's not " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " , but for a mere sixty minutes of your time , it's worth at least a single viewing to be able to say - I just watched " The Brain Eaters " !
" Will crime never cease ? "	The best thing about " Dick Tracy vs . Cueball " is the great cast of characters , all of whom were probably even more interesting than the title villain . I'm thinking of names like Percival Priceless ( Douglas Walton ) , Filthy Flora ( Esther Howard ) , and that strangely wonderful Vitamin Flintheart ( Ian Keith ) . Even that creepy little guy named Rudolph played by Skelton Knaggs , I wish he had more screen time . You really couldn't take your eyes off him the few times he appeared . As for Cueball ( Dick Wessel ) , there wasn't very much of a gimmick to his character - he had a bald head , and he didn't seem particularly frightening most of the time , always second guessing himself about how much he wanted for the stolen diamonds and how he was going to get it . The other cool thing about the picture was all those great period details . Come on now , could there really have been a bar named ' The Dripping Dagger ' ? With the neon outline of a knife and a simulated drop of blood - you just have to love that touch ! With a proprietress to boot - Filthy Flora ! You know , I don't doubt there could actually be a character like that for real , but I sure wouldn't want to run into her . I just saw Morgan Conway for the first time a few days ago in " Dick Tracy Detective " where he didn't make much of an impression . I liked him a lot better in this one , maybe because he seemed more in control . But that whole business about the murder weapon hat band was a little weak , Tracy having been set in the right direction by Junior Tracy ( Jimmy Crane ) . Say , I'm curious about something . The ad for the hat band gave an address of Box 520 , Desert City . You think the post office would know where to send correspondence ? Keep an eye on an early scene when Mona Clyde places a note under the shop door to the Priceless Antiques shop . It appeared that she placed it entirely under the door , but when Tracy comes by to retrieve it , a large portion of the note is visible before it's picked up on the other side . At just over an hour , the film breezes by pretty smoothly , almost too quickly to enjoy the great atmosphere and impressive assortment of filming angles that add to the mystery . Just don't be too hard on the story for it's use of too convenient coincidences to solve the case , and especially that lame ending when Cueball gets his foot caught in the train tracks . Come on , don't you think even you could have gotten free ?
" I can't get it out of my mind Gaines , we're crooks . "	Just about sixty years before the Enron scandal , " The World Gone Mad " appears to be a strangely prophetic film of personal scandal and corporate greed . When a District Attorney is murdered and discovered in a " love nest " , the front page headlines leave all those close to him bewildered and doubtful of the circumstances surrounding his death . In short order , a new D . A . is assigned , and Lionel Houston ( Neil Hamilton ) is determined to get to the bottom of a tangled financial scheme . Unfortunately , the investigation involves the father of his fiancée , the head of the Cromwell Investment Corporation ( John St . Polis ) . Pat O'Brien heads the bill here , as a less than scrupulous newspaper reporter , who's not above a bit of gambling , drinking and womanizing himself . In a darkened scene meant to be highly suggestive , his character Andy Terrell finds himself in a very uncompromising position with the mob connected Carlotta Lamont ( Evelyn Brent ) . It's done very much tongue in cheek , but for 1933 , let's say it was risqué beyond belief . How about crass commercialism . There's a great scene at a newspaper stand , in the background is a poster for the same year's film , " The Vampire Bat " starring Lionell Atwill and Fay Wray . At a run time of about eighty minutes , there are moments that seem to drag , but overall , the film brings it's victims to justice admirably . It will help to keep a scorecard though , there are a lot of characters introduced in a short time , and it would be easy to lose track of things otherwise . And was it just me , or did the widow of D . A . Henderson ( Geneva Mitchell ) look the spitting image of Seinfeld gal pal Julia Louis Dreyfus ?
" I don't want any part of any kind of war . . . , it has a bad smell . "	I found it interesting that the film's original working title was " The Rebel " , since some of the early footage was also used in the opening sequence of the 1959 Civil War TV series , " The Gray Ghost " . I'm pretty sure I've also seen it recycled in other movies with a Civil War theme . John Ireland stars as tired ex-soldier Jefferson Waring from Virginia , heading West without a gun and a vow to never use one against men again . Of course that's just the set up for the eventual finale when he does just that to take the side of settlers against scheming landowners led by Artemus Taylor ( Lon Chaney ) . Chaney's character is wheelchair bound throughout the story , but that doesn't prevent him from looking about as spooky as he did in any of his horror flicks . The most complex , actually frustrating character in the story for me was Marshal Harding ( Wayne Morris ) . He's in the pocket of villain Sam Tobin ( Lawrence Tierney ) , but is on the fence most of the time trying to keep a level playing field for Waring and his new friends . Curiously , he never uses his six gun , and actually seems to have an aversion to firing one ; he isn't even part of the finale when the settlers stand up for their rights . Where the film gets really gritty has to do with the treatment of Taylor's daughter Nora , who's every bit as ornery as her father . Following the ambush on Taylor's hired gunmen , she attempts to make a getaway with money from the local bank , and shoots banker Stone ( Charles Trowbridge ) in the process . Now it's not unusual for a woman in a ' B ' Western to get shot , even killed , but here , when Stone recovers , he shoots her IN THE BACK - Wow ! That was something I never thought I'd see , in fact , never even thought about it , even though it happened all the time when men were involved . A couple of things to keep an eye out for - early in the story when Waring first meets Peter Sharpe ( Frank Marlowe ) , they sit down , and Sharpe begins his conversation with " You know Randall . . . " . Ireland's character looks at Sharpe as if to say , ' hey , that's not my name ' , but the scene continues . Later on , I got a kick out of the funeral service being held in the local saloon for a couple that was killed by Taylor's goons . Right there on top of the bar was a sign stating - ' Bar Closed During Services ' !
" Someday the master will catch you , then you'll be sorry . "	I'm surprised at the rather low rating IMDb viewers have given this film , as I rather like the set up for this one . Beautiful young brides wind up dead at the altar just as they are about to recite their wedding vows , and their bodies are stolen shortly after . Mad scientist Dr . Lorenz ( Bela Lugosi ) is behind the mayhem in this low budget Monogram creep fest ; he uses glandular and spinal fluid from the victims to inject into his haggardly wife ( Elizabeth Russell ) to keep her young and beautiful . Countess Lorenz is rather one dimensional in her role , but at least she mimics Lugosi's speech pattern rather effectively . Lorenz is surrounded by a veritable menagerie of sideshow outcasts , including the wizened Fagah ( Minerva Urecal ) , and her two sons , one a hulking brute and another a freakish dwarf named Toby ( Angelo Rossitto ) . Hot on the trail of the missing bride mystery is reporter Pam Hunter ( Luana Walters ) , who follows up on her theory that the brides died from inhaling the sweet but deadly odor from a poisonous orchid developed by Dr . Lorenz . When Lorenz becomes wise to the reporter's initiative , he sets out to make her yet another victim , but alas , he's done in by his own sweet Fagah , in revenge for killing her brute son who had a penchant for stroking the hair of the doctor's corpses . " The Corpse Vanishes " offers just the right blend of atmospheric sets and bump in the night action to keep things interesting , a nifty little vehicle for Bela Lugosi's talents . You can have some fun with this one , made to order for that clichéd dark and stormy night .
" OK , I'll give him a present , and it won't be Brooklyn . "	With " The Last Gangster " , I was expecting more in the tradition of Cagney's " Public Enemy " or his much later " White Heat " , or something along the lines of Edward G . Robinson's own early contribution to the gangster genre , 1931's " Little Caesar " . The early going seems to be heading in that direction , until Joe Krozac ( Robinson ) is arrested for income tax evasion . With a young pregnant wife knowing nothing of his criminal past , Joe's appeals run out and he finds himself with a band of less than sympathetic convicts heading for an unknown destination - Alcatraz . There he comes to understand that his status as a Napoleon of the crime world carries no weight at all . Robinson brings a fairly wide range of emotions to his portrayal , particularly in the callous disregard for his wife's situation , giving all the attention to his newborn son during Talya's ( Rose Stradner ) prison visits . When Krozac's final appeal is denied , the prospect of ten years of prison suddenly carry an intolerable weight , both for Joe and Talya . Talya moves away with her son Joey , changes their names , and winds up marrying a sympathetic newspaper reporter ( James Stewart ) who earlier wrote an unflattering story with the headline " Public Enemy Jr . Toys With Gun " . When we hear young Joey / Paul say " Good night Daddy " to his new father , we know there's no turning back for Krozac's family aspirations . It's when Joe's prison stretch is completed that the movie heads into unrealistic territory . His former gang welcomes him back only long enough to work him over for the money they feel they're owed for ten years of loyalty . When that doesn't work , they kidnap Joe's son , appealing to his fatherly instinct to give in to their demands . So far , so good . But once Joe leads the gang to his stash , they simply let him and the boy go ! Had they never heard of REVENGE ? In what turns out to be an extended camping trip on their way back to Joey's home , Krozac learns about his son's new life . The confrontation with Talya and Paul North never plays out , and Krozac leaves with his tail between his legs , until confronted by a surviving member of a brother gang that Krozac had rubbed out years ago . Acey Kile proves to be entirely inept as a rubout artist ; after pumping two bullets into Krozac , Joe wrestles the gun away from him and shoots him in return ! Fatally wounded , the film zeroes in on the fallen Krozac's outstretched hand clutching a memento from his son , a badge for " An Outstanding Achievement " . I like Edward G . Robinson , his crime films helped establish a genre for himself and contemporaries Jimmy Cagney and Humphrey Bogart . As mentioned earlier , this movie allows him to show off his range as an actor better than most of the dozen or so movies of his I've seen . But for that classic sneering braggadocio and " What's with you , wise guy ? " sarcasm , get your hands on " Key Largo " , where his portrayal of mobster Johnny Rocco is a real treat . And for a truly offbeat characterization , try " The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse " , not one of his better regarded films , but a blast nevertheless .
" You ought to make a pretty fair meal for a vampire . "	Six deaths in six weeks and the residents of Kleinschloss are getting jumpy , particularly since all the corpses have had their bodies drained of blood . Burgermeister Gustave Schoen ( Lionel Belmore ) and police chief Karl Brettschneider ( Melvyn Douglas ) are at a loss as to explain what's going on , though hints of a vampire at work seem to be on everyone's mind . It looks like the fall guy will be the mentally challenged Herman Glieb ( Dwight Frye ) , who admits to keeping bats as pets and playing with them . What's really going on is that the good doctor Otto Von Niemann ( Lionell Atwill ) , in his quest to create life a la Frankenstein , has developed a mass of living tissue that needs human blood to sustain itself . His " creation " laughably resembles not much more than a large sponge in a lab jar , not very horrific and certainly not very threatening . Von Niemann has an unexplained telepathic link to an assistant named Emil , who does the doctor's bidding in providing a reliable blood supply , complete with the signature dual puncture marks on the throat of the victims . Before it's all over , a posse of citizens chases down the pitiful Herman , who jumps to his death in a mountain cavern known as " Devil's Well " , rather than allow himself to be captured . Dwight Frye created quite the niche for himself with knock offs of the Renfield character he portrayed in the original 1931 film " Dracula " . In this one , he's particularly effective , complete with crazed look as he fondly strokes one of his many furry bat friends . Fay Wray is on hand as romantic interest Ruth Bertin for police chief Karl , just a few short months away from the release of the film that forever defined her signature role as the love interest for " King Kong " . She also teamed up with Lionel Atwill a couple more times , in 1932's " Doctor X " , and " Mystery of the Wax Museum " which closely followed " The Vampire Bat " . In the film's finale , Von Niemann attempts to pin the bat murders on his assistant Emil , but Emil turns the tables on his mentor , with both antagonists meeting their end to the sound of gunshots off screen . Shortly after in a priceless scene , hypochondriac Aunt Gussie frantically comes calling for the doctor , complaining of symptoms she's suffering from the doctor's prescription of hydrous magnesium sulfate . Calling a spade a spade , Karl and Ruth share a laugh as the Epsom salts the doctor provided have Aunt Gussie " on the run " . If by the end of this film , you haven't yet had your fill of the bat genre , drive yourself even more batty with Bela Lugosi's 1940 entry " The Devil Bat " , or Vincent Price's 1959 horror mystery " The Bat " . Better yet , wait for Halloween , and watch all three in a row for a major bat attack !
" Come on sheriff , we don't wanna keep that bandit waiting . "	The interesting twist to this story is that Lin Vanner ( Lew Ayres ) becomes the man he pursued and killed at the opening of the film . Not literally of course , but figuratively , in that he became entangled in a set of circumstances that made it look like he was guilty of a crime . It's the kind of irony , as another reviewer pointed out , that would have worked well as an episode of ' The Twilight Zone ' . The middle part of the story explains how Vanner discovered the identity of the villain who engineered a payroll holdup and framed Sam Tevlin , the man who Vanner tracked and killed because he ' couldn't ' surrender . What's difficult to buy about the story is how Vanner persisted in his effort to win over the widow Tevlin ( Teresa Wright ) in his quest for the truth about the man he killed . You know , as I think about the picture now , it might have been better served by reversing the roles of Ayres and Victor Jory , but my opinion might be shaped by having seen Jory in more movies . At that , I've probably seen him more times as a villain than a hero , and he would have given the character of Vanner a harder edge . Not that there's anything wrong with being introspective , but Ayres ' interpretation made him too submissive to Mrs . Tevlin once she found out the truth about his identity . Once the story is well under way , you have a pretty good sense of what's coming up in the finale , the only question being whether or not Vanner would be able to successfully surrender . The intervention of Father Gomez ( Jory ) helped decide that outcome . You know , I had to chuckle to myself during the scene when Vanner confronts the Mexican laborer who was the payroll escort that got robbed to set up the story background . His name was Juan Valdez , and after seeing that Colombian coffee commercial dozens of times over the years , it's a name that's become synonymous with coffee breaks , not payroll robberies .
" Meet . . . . my monster ! "	Trying to deal with time travel stories often makes my head hurt , because it sets up a whole set of ' what if ' scenarios . For example , when Dr . Buchanan ( John Hurt ) produces Mary Shelley's ( Bridget Fonda ) book " Frankenstein - or , The Modern Prometheus " , wouldn't natural curiosity have compelled her to read the story she hadn't written yet ? And in doing so , wouldn't she have changed certain parts of the story , or even added the character of Dr . Buchanan into it ? One's mind reels at the possibilities . Focusing on that aspect of " Frankenstein Unbound " would have been provocative enough , but the film gets deeper into science fiction territory with Buchanan's particle beam weapon and it's side effects of missing persons , time slips and weather disturbances . The number of throwaway scenes that did nothing to propel the story forward surprised me , starting with that warrior on horseback that appeared when the youngsters were burying the outmoded bicycle . Buchanan himself hallucinates a couple of dream sequences that don't connect to anything and have no bearing on what eventually happens . Dr . Frankenstein ( Raul Julia ) is an interesting character . Disturbed and protective of his creation at the same time , it's ironic that he takes no responsibility in the face of an innocent girl's death by hanging for the murder of his younger brother . To him , his only rationalization can be - " I'm a scientist , I cannot sin . . . " Probably a plus , the film doesn't dwell on the creation of The Monster , he's certainly creepy enough without appearing to be a patch job of multiple bodies ; to this viewer he calls to mind my vision of the Swamp Thing . Ironically , the transformation of Elizabeth into the Bride of Frankenstein is visually stunning and a closer tribute to the original in her brief appearance . Ultimately though , it seems the film stumbled around to come up with an appropriate ending and I'm not so sure that was achieved . The character of Buchanan was just as much a villain as Frankenstein and The Monster itself , so having him wend his way far off to the futuristic city just left me with question marks . Perhaps that was meant to be his punishment , along with making him walk instead of taking his trusty talking carriage .
" The only man who can catch an Apache is another Apache . "	An opening title card stated that this was a true story , but I would certainly hedge my bets on that score . The only accurate take away from the film is the fact that Katawan / Apache Kid ( Keith Larsen ) once served as a scout in the U . S . Army and for some reason turned renegade against the white man . The movie implies that this occurred after killing his Apache enemy Chato ( George Keymas ) , who earlier had murdered Katawan's brother Chikisin . It certainly looked like self defense in the film , but Katawan refused to speak up for himself and was about to be sent to Yuma Territorial Prison for murder . Escaping his Army guards , he leaves his former partner Ben Ziegler ( Jim Davis ) for dead , but you'll do a double take when that scene occurs . To make sure Ziegler is dead , Apache Mahteen shoots him after Katawan fires wide feigning a killing shot . Ziegler does a half sit up to see what's going on , and at the same time , Mahteen looks in his direction . Proper editing could have prevented the contradictory looking scene , but instead , the Indians simply rode away . The movie leaves it entirely unclear as to when the Apache Kid went on his murderous rampage across the Southwest . Presumably it was after Ziegler helped him escape bounty hunters at the end of the picture , but that would have left out a major portion of the Kid's history . I was intrigued enough by this to search out the episode dealing with the Apache Kid on my DVD set of ' Stories Of The Century ' , with episodes from the 1954 TV series . I wasn't too surprised that the stories didn't match up very closely , except for the basic outline of Apache Kid as an Army scout who went bad . No reason given for the turn , but the episode offered a colorful description of the Kid as ' a stalking werewolf with a blood lust ' . His rampage began after escaping from his Yuma bound guards , and over the next few months went on a killing spree totaling over a hundred whites and red men . Although ' Stories Of The Century ' purports to be based on actual newspaper accounts of the Old West , the ending of this particular story ends ambiguously as well , with the only three eyewitnesses to Apache Kid's death agreeing to a cover up . So how did they make the story ? Ultimately , " Apache Warrior " is merely an OK Western , with not as much action and suspense that one might expect . You'll probably wonder about that ending too ; all those rifle rounds flying and no one getting hit . It almost seemed gratuitous that one of the bounty hunters got shot in the finale . I would like to have heard actor Jim Davis's take on the Apache Kid saga , oddly , he appeared in both the movie and as the lead character , railroad detective Matt Clark , in ' Stories Of The Century ' .
" Are you satisfied with your present circumstances ? "	Like Hitchcock's earlier film " Blackmail " , " Rich and Strange " contains elements of silent film as a holdover from an earlier era . It features extended scenes uninterrupted by voice , and the use of inter title cards from time to time . Considering the lack of a murder victim , the movie plays out interestingly as it follows the infidelities of a married couple on board a round the world cruise . Some of it works , and some of it doesn't . What I enjoy in the early Hitchcock films is the experimentation with themes that will become a hallmark of the director's style in later years . The use of humor is abundant in the early going , starting out with the choreographed umbrella routine in an early scene . There's also the three shipboard friends that appear from time to time that walk and gesture in unison . Elsie Randolph's running gag as the Old Maid is also a frequent comedic break , that just about runs it's course by the story's end . The troubled marriage at the heart of the story is believable enough , as Fred Hill ( Henry Kendall ) and wife Emily ( Joan Barry ) find comfort in the arms of shipboard strangers . It's when The Princess ( Betty Amann ) ditches Fred and absconds with his money that he's finally confronted with the sham and phoniness of his life by Emily . Why Emily goes back to him is a question mark though , that's not explored sufficiently , especially since she found her own soul mate aboard ship in Commander Gordon ( Percy Marmont ) . Maybe it was Gordon's age , he appeared to have about twenty years on the disarmingly attractive Emily . I don't know about you , but I would have certainly made more of an effort to escape my cabin once I realized the cruise ship was sinking . Fred and Emily didn't strike me as being too panic stricken , with voices not much above normal . The black cat that passed by once they managed to escape was nice touch , though the bad luck fell on the unlucky feline . I guess Chinese food had a reputation even back in the 1930's . The first time I saw the upside down drowning technique used in a movie was in the 1970 spaghetti Western " Cry Blood , Apache " , but here it's used some forty years earlier , and with no malice involved . However it seems to me that the crew of the Chinese junk might have made an effort to save their buddy . The trade off for a newborn baby was a redemptive moment . If you watch the film again , pay attention to the Gordon photograph that Emily draws herself into with a marker . It's shown at three different times , and each time the drawing is slightly different . I wonder why they do that ; was it a precaution against the possible loss of one of the pictures ? A similar situation with an altered photo occurs in " Mr . Moto's Last Warning " . I rather enjoyed " Rich and Strange " , it's informative and fun to see the early work of a director of Alfred Hitchcock's stature . It's not often the title of a film also describes it's own action , this one is indeed both rich and strange .
" Nothing like a ship wreck to change a man's sense of values . "	Interesting little programmer that builds it's intrigue with slow , deliberate revelations of what's going on aboard the self described bucket , ' The Merman ' . I liked the way steward Dawson ( Alec Craig ) and passenger Nita Paxton ( Phyllis Brooks ) took an interest in Joe Beck's ( Robert Lowery ) welfare up until the point he was too deep into the thick of things to let go . All the while it seemed like his impending inheritance was behind the nefarious events , until Nita's revelation about the insurance scam . Too bad about Dawson , he seemed like a nice guy . The print I watched was a pretty dark and scratchy affair , though that lent the picture some atmosphere , along with the creaky night time and seasick worthy ocean shots . All except for the shore scene at St Angel , which made me wonder about Beck's choice of beach attire . Sneaking some smooch time with Nita under the beach umbrella , didn't it seem like he could have relaxed a little better without the suit and tie ?
" It's easy enough to talk when you got a gun in your hand . "	This is only my second viewing of a Terrence Hill / Bud Spencer collaboration , the other being 1972's " La Collina Degli Stivali " or " Boot Hill " , the title I saw it under . I've yet to see a Trinity film , so maybe my opinion will change , but I don't see a whole lot to be enthused about regarding their output . " God Forgives . . . I Don't ! " was better than " Boot Hill " , an almost unintelligible affair made more complicated by a dark and muddy appearance that contributed to it's being hard to follow . This one for the most part took place during the light of day , and even though the story had a decent continuity , I didn't find it all that special or intriguing . What's more , I don't recall either Hill or Spencer mentioned by their credited characters ' names , that of Cat Stevens and Hutch Bessey . Maybe they were , but the story didn't make it clear enough for me , and mentally I had to keep referencing them as Pretty Face and the ' fat guy ' . On the other hand , outlaw Bill San Antonio ( Frank Wolff ) stood out nicely villainous in contrast . He might be the best reason for tuning in . The other troubling issue with the film version I saw today on the Encore Western Channel had to do with some clumsy editing . The best example I can think of was right at the finale when San Antonio was about to face a showdown with Pretty Face and Bessey . Somehow Bill took down the fat man ( ? ) , whereupon the Face caps him in the knees forcing him to a crawl . With time running out , Bill attempts to disarm the explosive with his teeth , there's a clumsy cutaway and then all of a sudden an explosion and it's all over . Not too suspenseful and definitely not too satisfying . I don't know , maybe back in the heyday of spaghetti Westerns , this might have been something new and different , but there are still enough better ones around , particularly Eastwood's trilogy . In fact , now that I think about it , that's kind of how Terence Hill's character strikes me , sort of a poor man's Clint Eastwood , who's own take as the Stranger leaves just a little something to be desired .
" One small wind can raise much dust . "	Three former convicts have served time in States Prison together . At one time or another , each has been convicted of bank robbery based on fingerprints found at the crime scene . Charlie Chan's hunch is that the fingerprints were forgeries , and the victims were all set up by the real thief . Only one of the three is still alive , and he's just been arrested for the latest bank heist . If you're keeping score , " Dark Alibi " is the eighth installment in the Monogram Studios series of Sidney Toler Charlie Chan films . Benson Fong is Number # 3 Son Tommy ; and after a one film hiatus ( Red Dragon ) , Mantan Moreland is back , this time sharing equal billing with Ben Carter . The two reprise their " Pidgin " English escapades from " The Scarlet Clue " with three different conversations that are the comedic highlights of the film . As usual , there is a lot of misdirection with the introduction of the suspects , but one good clue comes with the identity of States Prison inmate # 8251 - Jimmy Slade , a fingerprint file clerk . But rather than being the master criminal , he winds up being a victim , as does his wife , known to us as Miss Petrie . It's interesting how many times the same gimmicks are repeated in the Chan movies . Back in the 1940 film " Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise " , Chan throws a coin to test the hearing of a man who claims he's hard of hearing . He does it here as well , and again uncovers the subterfuge . As we've seen before , the mastermind behind the bank robberies and the murders is revealed at the end with no fanfare or buildup , only the convincing explanation by Charlie Chan himself . The film almost had me though , I thought the warden was in on it ! For a Monogram , this is a fast paced fun film , made even more enjoyable by the Moreland / Carter dialog . It's a good enough reason by itself to watch " Dark Alibi " .
" A man who knows what he wants is worth a lot . "	I would have lost a bet on whether Burt Reynolds ever appeared in a spaghetti Western , but you know what , this is actually a fairly entertaining flick once you get past the unbelievable body count by Reynolds ' title character , Navajo Joe . My unofficial count was twenty nine by the time the film was over , and when you throw in what had to be a dozen or so by the soldiers defending the money train , bandit leader Duncan ( Aldo Sambrell ) lost more guys than he started out with . I got a kick out of the scene when the Duncan brothers ride up on a pair of posters showing the reward for their capture , dead or alive . For Jeffrey Duncan ( Lucio Rosato ) , the two hundred dollar reward included ' murder , robbery , and other acts against the people of the U . S . ' Kind of makes you wonder what Mervyn Vee Duncan must have done to deserve a thousand dollar bounty . Incidentally , it was pretty cool how the elder Duncan crumpled up his brother's poster , but neatly secured his own after he took it down . Other reviewers on this site give high marks to the Ennio Morricone soundtrack , and it does have a catchy Indian themed spaghetti score . But I couldn't help noticing the repetitious ' Na-Va-Ho-Jo ' , ' Na-Va-Ho-Jo ' refrain , which if you think about it , would be a great scat line for a Howard Johnson in Arizona . Keep an eye on the opening scene when Duncan reaches to scalp the Indian woman he killed ; her eye twitches slightly before the camera cuts away . I managed to pick this film up on a four disc Western DVD set put out by Direct Source Special Products , a neat little package with additional films starring Telly Savalas , Martin Sheen and Clint Walker . Check your local Walmart bargain bin .
" Every time I meet a Chan , I meet trouble . "	This second Charlie Chan offering from the Monogram Studios is an improvement over " Charlie Chan in the Secret Service " . Back again are Sidney Toler in the Chan role , Benson Fong as # 3 Son Tommy , and Mantan Moreland as Yellow Cab driver Birmingham Brown . Monogram remained true to the 20th Century Fox sense of continuity from film to film , as Birmingham refers to the last time he met the Chans in the previous movie . What starts out as an unsolved murder case eventually winds up with two additional corpses . A few elements we haven't seen in prior Chan films occur - Charlie takes one on the chin from one of the baddies , and later gets physical himself , knocking out one of the villains with the butt of a gun . Additionally , Charlie places a bet on the outcome of the case , liking the odds of 10 to 1 given him by the doctor / author who claims to have solved the mystery himself in a book published following the original murder . The ending is rather lame , as son Tommy subdues two bad guys with nothing more than a fire extinguisher ; I sure wouldn't want those two in my corner , good or bad ! The title of the film comes from a large statue of a black cat , which conceals a secret compartment with a stolen diamond . All in all , The Chinese Cat is a worthy addition to the Chan series , made more entertaining by the amiable presence of Mantan Moreland .
" You're a mighty dangerous woman to us , you'd better break down and explain a lot . "	" Cowboy and the Senorita " is the very first screen pairing of Roy Rogers and Dale Evans , and it comes across surprisingly well . The film title is also the name of the opening and closing musical number , and even if not meant to be prophetic , the eventual marriage of Roy and Dale proved to be a wonderful union for film goers and fans of the Western duo . The story involves a missing runaway Chip Williams ( Mary Lee ) , who is revealed to be Ysobel Martinez ' ( Dale Evans ) half sister . Chip needs to find out what her deceased father left her in a box buried in an abandoned mine on the Martinez property . The mine is soon to be sold to Ysobel's fiancé Craig Allen ( John Hubbard ) , and that should give you an idea where the story is headed . Allen and his henchmen have already begun excavating the mine for it's hoard of gold , while busily setting about to frame Roy and his sidekick Teddy Bear ( Guinn " Big Boy " Williams ) for Chip's disappearance , and later for the theft of two thousand dollars from his personal office safe . To be sure , there are manufactured elements that defy coincidence in the story ; Chip discovers her father's missing treasure on the eve of her sixteenth birthday , the day on which her father specified it should be opened . In a letter accompanying the discovered box , it states that a bracelet she already owns ( and lost , conveniently found by Roy and Teddy Bear ) is her only inheritance , but she should examine it closely for the treasure to reveal itself . Bad guy Craig Allen , Ysobel's fiancé furiously denies his complicity in any cover-up scheme . In an interesting response by Roy , the film's date is put into historical perspective - there's enough gold in the assayer's office to make Allen the biggest liar in 40 states ! Since most of Roy's films offer Gabby Hayes or Andy Devine as the comedic sidekick , it's a refreshing change of pace to see Guinn " Big Boy " Williams in that capacity here . The clumsy Williams spends a lot of his time falling down , but he also has a highlight line in the film ; when Craig Allen's henchman Ferguson wavers in admitting their role in the mine cover-up , Big Boy offers to " take him to the memory room " . The film ends on a quite lavish musical number that starts out with dancers circling a huge sombrero . It's a fitting end to an engaging story , with Roy's arms clasped around not one , but two pretty senoritas - Dale Evans and Mary Lee .
" An interesting example of antediluvian Americana . "	My experience of " The Phantom Empire " comes from the two hour movie pieced together from the twelve chapter serial , so admittedly , there is much I didn't get to see . To say that the film is unique is an understatement ; where else do you have a Western blending with sci-fi and dating back to 1935 ? Gene Autry stars in one of his earliest films , hosting a daily broadcast adventure with his Radio Riders . He's also assisted by Frankie and Betsy Baxter ( Frankie Darro and Betsy King Ross ) , who are the young leaders of the National Thunder Riders Association . The group is fashioned along the lines of the Boy Scouts , taking their name from the thundering sound of horses ridden by an underground race called the Muranians . Viewers are also treated to an early pairing of Gene with a very young Smiley Burnette , though his screen time is limited as one of Gene's Radio Ranch singers . As typical with " B " Westerns and serials of the era , the emphasis is on action and danger , here provided by unscrupulous men who invade Gene's ranch because of radium discovered there . Meanwhile underground , the action on the ranch is monitored by Queen Tika of the Muranians ( Dorothy Christy ) , who must protect her stronghold from the people of the surface world , while at the same time fending off a revolutionary advance by one of her ministers , High Chancellor Argo ( Wheeler Oakman ) . Science fiction tangles with science fact at all levels here , and it's a hoot trying to make sense of it . For example , the elevator that transports the Muranians back and forth travels a distance of 25 , 000 feet in about three seconds , that translates to about 6 , 000 miles per hour ! However there's one very interesting statement made by Queen Tika that proves to be entirely prophetic - " Get the captain of the Thunder Riders on the wireless cell phone ! " Before it's all over , Gene escapes from such terrors as the D-Ray Lithium Gun and the Chamber of Death , while impersonating a Muranian himself along the way . He obviously takes his role seriously , pay attention to an early scene when he's shot off his horse ; he hangs on to his hat while tumbling all the way down a hillside . If you don't have the patience for the five hour serial , the recently made available DVD from Digiviews offers a reasonable alternative , though purists may not think so . However the gist of the Phantom Empire experience is presented well enough here with acceptable quality , and enough songs by Gene Autry to make your viewing time worthwhile .
" Please , patience big sister to wisdom . "	If you were to say at the outset " The butler did it " , you'd be right . On the brink of World War II between Nazi Germany and the European Allies , Charlie Chan finds himself in Paris , the " City in Darkness " of the title , deriving the name from the precaution taken for German air raids against the city . The film plays more like an espionage story , though businessman Petroff does wind up a murder victim , amid clandestine arrangements for phony passports and implications of embezzlement . Inspector Chan investigates this one without the aid of offspring , though in conversation with wannabe detective Marcel Spivak ( Harold Huber ) , admits to having five wannabe detective sons of his own . Marcel is the secretary to Prefect of Police Romaine ( C . Henry Gordon ) , but dives headlong into the case wanting to make his mark in police work . His antics are a bit over the top , and his character is quick to jump to errant conclusions about the case . Era veterans in the cast include Leo G . Carroll as Louis Santelle , a locksmith by day and forger by night ; Douglas Dumbrille as murder victim Petroff , and Lynn Bari as Marie Dubon , arranging passage for her fiancé Tony Madero ( Richard Clarke ) to Panama . The observant viewer will also catch Lon Chaney Jr . in a minor role . When Petroff's killer is finally revealed , the sympathetic Chan offers butler Antoine ( Pedro de Cordoba ) and Prefect Romaine an extenuating circumstance defense , allowing that Antoine acted in self defense , as Petroff was dealing arms to the enemy Nazis . Earlier in the film , the butler was shown escorting his nineteen year old son off to the war effort , en route to the threatened Czech border . Petroff's salient remarks to Antoine and his son at that time were enough to cast him as one villain you wouldn't mind seeing get his due .
" Notah's brother talks like the white man he thinks he is , he's afraid to be Comanche . "	I had more than a little trepidation approaching this film , but you know what , it wasn't that bad . Casting William Shatner is a little like putting Lorne Greene in command of a space ship , but for the most part it worked , sort of . He pulled off the part of Johnny Moon decently enough , the brother who went off to grow up as a white man . However as Notah , the psychedelic Comanche warrior , Shatner whoops it up a bit embarrassingly , but then again his character regularly got high on peyote buttons and mystic visions . Funny , but it seemed to me that Notah looked about ten years younger than Johnny . Joseph Cotten is the only other major name here , portraying Sheriff Logan of Rio Hondo . He had a kind of watered down Gary Cooper look , but at least he stood for law and order and wasn't afraid to mix it up when the bad guys hit town . He didn't get very far preventing the gunfight between the General Garcia and Grimes gangs , even taking a bullet for his trouble . Ultimately though , his presence in the film didn't seem to add up to much . There are a couple of scenes you ought to keep your eyes on . When Johnny shoots Garcia's brother following an ambush , he begins rolling toward a cliff . As his body makes its ' way over , note how he uses his hand to ever so slightly push away from the rock . The other is an outright result of the director and his crew not paying attention . In the duel on horseback between Johnny and Notah , Johnny rides a black horse and Notah is on a brown horse . After it's over , the wounded Johnny rides into view and falls off a brown horse . Then when it's time to lead the Comanches back to the reservation he's back on a black horse again . At least as a white Comanche there was no guesswork . Though not on a par with Clint Eastwood's Italian Westerns , this flick is still entertaining enough , if nothing more than to see William Shatner go where he had not gone before . Except for appearances in a number of TV Westerns , I can't think of another cowboy movie he might have been in . The picture has taken a few hits from other posters on this site , but if you're inclined to dismiss it as one of the worst Westerns ever made , try making it through " Cry Blood , Apache . "
" I guess next time you leave big monkey alone , huh ? "	When I was a kid back in the 1950's , the New York television market had a channel ( WNEW , I think ) , that offered a single movie every night , Monday through Friday around the dinner hour . It was the ' Million Dollar Movie ' and it's where I wound up catching some of the films that remain among my favorites to this very day . Needless to say , " King Kong " was at the top of that list , and my appreciation of great ape pictures only increased with " Son of Kong " and " Mighty Joe Young " . Whenever they appeared in the rotation , rest assured I watched them each five nights in a row . Fast forward to today , as I casually perused the titles at my local library , imagine my shock when I noticed a DVD release of " Son of Kong " . There was never even a question about it , that was the title I'd be watching today . Curiously , I couldn't remember anything about the picture other than Robert Armstrong's reprise of his Captain Denham role from the original , and that climactic ending that always had me shedding a tear as a youngster , even when I knew it was coming . Oddly , the picture had more of a camp feel to it than I would ever have picked up on back in the day , owing to the fact that I'm a lot older now , and recognize that the picture , released in the same year ! ! ! as " King Kong " , was essentially a sure fire way to cash in on the success of the original . Little Kong was played to almost caricature effect , and what added to that atmosphere was the presentation of his pseudo-prehistoric counterparts - the hulking cave bear , the goofy looking brontosaur type lizard , and the sea monster of the finale . Only the triceratops that appeared early to challenge the Denham party seemed to have the kind of stop motion professionalism that appeared throughout the original ' Kong ' . Certainly the politics and finances of this sequel required more with less , so on balance , I guess the finished product is worth a viewing . However you'll have to make amends for the rushed feel of the picture , and the contrived ending that managed to produce an earthquake and a typhoon , literally out of the clear blue sky . It's too bad Fay Wray wasn't on hand for Kong II , as Armstrong was joined by the returning Captain Englehorn ( Frank Reicher ) for this excursion . Helen Mack was generally OK in her role as the female lead and erstwhile romantic interest for Denham . But gee , wouldn't you think Denham would get to kiss her at least once in the picture ? All he could muster in the closing scene was a romantic gaze and a little bit of a clinch with his girl before fade out . I think Little Kong would have been disappointed . Which brings me around full circle to the actual origin of " The Son of Kong " . For that , you'll have to search out a copy of the 1986 picture , " King Kong Lives " , produced as something of a sequel to the 1976 re-make of " King Kong " . There you'll find out how the King met the Mrs . , complete with honeymoon retreat . You might think I'm kidding about this , but chances are if you get to see it , you'll shake your head in complete disbelief .
" I have my own way of dealing double crossers " .	I wouldn't have bet a plug nickel that " Sucker Money " would wind up as entertaining and interesting as it turned out to be . It had the look and feel of those 1930's era ' educational ' films that purported to warn the viewer about the dangers of illicit drugs , alcohol or sex , but in this case the film was an attempt at exposing the psychic racket . The story actually had decent continuity , even if some of the players presented were extremely over the top , starting with the phony Swami ( Mischa Auer ) , and including characters like Princess Karami ( Mona Lisa , why not use her real name ? ) , and the two black bodyguards dressed in their own set of Indian Hindu garb . Seeing them , I knew it was only a matter of time before the flick fell into racial stereotype , and they're shown throwing dice in a subsequent scene , as reporter Jimmy Reeves ( Earl McCarthy ) notes to the one rolling a winner - " Yo ' sho ' is lucky , Big Boy " ! The thing is , while watching , I got a sense that old Swami was a truly evil guy , and it wouldn't take much for him to dispose of anyone who got in the way of his making a really big score . Which got kind of wasted when he discovered Reeves ' real identity as a newspaper reporter , and then just let him roam around fairly freely within the confines of the operation . You would think that Jimmy would be a quick goner , and the Swami and his crowd could have pulled off the twenty thousand dollar heist of old Walton without any further trouble . It also seemed pretty convenient that the law showed up in time to make the save , but this was over seventy years ago , and there wasn't a whole lot of time and effort that went into making a story believable if put under a microscope . Which is OK if it passes the entertainment test , and I think this was a good try if one's not too critical . I really have to thank Mill Creek Entertainment for putting out a package that makes pictures like this available to old time film junkies like myself ; without them one would never even know that they existed . This one was part of a two hundred fifty movie set on sixty double sided DVD's as party of their Mystery Collection . The great thing is , by the time you get around to viewing all the movies in the set , you wind up forgetting what the first ones you saw were all about , and you can go ahead and do it all over again !
" Hugh , that car you heard fires bullets through the heart . "	Well , Hugh Drummond ( John Howard ) and Miss Phyllis Clavering ( Heather Angel ) finally tie the knot in this finale to the Bulldog Drummond series , but not without the usual share of mishaps that interrupted their union more than a half dozen times in the past . This time it's a slick bank thief that diverts Drummond and Scotland Yard's Colonel Nielson ( H . B . Warner ) , with the misadventures making their way from London to France . Henri Armides ( Eduardo Cianelli ) is eventually fingered as the mastermind behind an explosion at the London and Southminster Bank , masking the theft of ten thousand pounds in British notes . His escape involves a clever ruse as a painter , winding up in a London flat recently rented by Miss Clavering . His bit borders on insanity , especially when he boldly takes a paintbrush to Algy Longworth's tie in an effort to better match his suit . Watch carefully when Armides dumps an entire bucket of paint on Algy's head ; as both slip and slide on the wet floor , the thief drops the bucket and even more paint comes splashing out of it ! With Drummond's repeated declarations that the wedding is still on , and Miss Clavering doubtful as ever , she takes off for Targemont , France , the proposed site of the nuptials . When Armides learns that Drummond has sent Phyllis ' radio to Targemont , he makes his plans to follow as well ; the stolen notes were hidden inside the radio . It's in this film that Colonel Nielson suffers the most indignity at the hands of the script writers . Usually Nielson , especially when portrayed by John Barrymore , kept his professionalism intact while Drummond and Company rode herd on the target villain . Here he comes across as somewhat inept , though his assistant Inspector Tredennis ( John Sutton ) manages to throw Drummond a zing when he wires the French authorities claiming that Drummond is really an international spy . It only works long enough for the proverbial all hell to break loose . The frenetic chase for Henri Armides coincides with the marriage ceremony , and in a rather innovative sequence , the wedding begins in a jail , proceeds to a French village rooftop , and concludes at the home of Phyllis ' Aunt Blanche ( Elizabeth Patterson ) . But at least Miss Clavering got her man ! With the late 1930's Drummond series complete , the only actors to have made it through the entire stretch of nine films were Bulldog's sidekicks , Reginald Denny as Algy Longworth , and E . E . Clive as butler Tenny . Phyllis Clavering was depicted by Louise Campbell and Heather Angel ; Colonel Neilson was variously portrayed by John Barrymore ( 3X ) , Guy Standing ( once ) , and H . B . Warner ( 3X ) . Even Drummond himself was played by John Lodge and Ray Milland one time each before John Howard settled in to take on the role in seven films . Each mystery was done in a light hearted and comedic style , contrasted with the usually serious dramas presented in the Charlie Chan and Mr . Wong films of the era . However if you're a fan of the genre like me , you'll have fun with each movie , no matter which detective is doing the sleuthing .
" Be careful that applejack don't put your lights out . "	The Arch Strobie ranch is in the business of growing beef , though the aging cowpuncher has left the duties of running the ranch to his foreman and adopted son Owen Daybright ( Burt Lancaster ) , and his ne'er do well biological son Lee ( Robert Walker ) . For all of their fifteen year association , Owen has covered for Lee's immaturity and mistakes , but things are about to take a decidedly sinister turn . The brothers share a secret , and even though he's married , Lee has fathered an illegitimate son with Lily Fasken . The Fasken Brothers ( John Ireland and Hugh O'Brian ) in turn are gunning for the man who did their sister wrong . With this premise in place , the film then begins to explore the characters of the brothers until the reckoning of the finale manages to set things right . Burt Lancaster gives a good accounting in his first movie Western , but it's Robert Walker who surprises with his evil underside , masked by a good old boy surface demeanor that he plays to the hilt in an effort to take big brother Owen out of the picture . Particularly effective is the scene when Owen and Lee ride together , presumably to a telegraph office to correct another one of Lee's mistakes . Sharing small talk and boyhood memories , Lee's plan is to lead Owen into an ambush that will leave him dead , and Lee in full control of his father's ranch . This was the second time I was surprised during a movie's closing credits to learn that Hugh O'Brian was part of the cast . I didn't pick him out in early scenes as one of the Fasken Brothers , but in reviewing those clips , he's definitely recognizable , though with some effort since he appears unshaven . One of my favorite TV Western Cowboys portraying lawman Wyatt Earp , it's ironic to see him cast as a heavy . He also appears a few years later in 1954's " Drums Across the River " as a black clad gunman in another uncharacteristic role . A pair of lovely ladies help round out the cast , with Joanne Dru lending her talent as Jen , the wife of no account brother Lee , while Sally Forrest portrays the single mother Lily . Both roles are limited but effective to move the story along . Western movie fans will also recognize Stanley Andrews and Glenn Strange in minor roles ; I'm fairly convinced these two appeared in practically every Western ever made . " Vengeance Valley " is one of those public domain films that one can find very inexpensively on VHS , however I ran across a recent copy on DVD along with Randolph Scott's " Rage at Dawn " . The quality of both films was very good , and both movies acquitted themselves favorably in my view .
" The only question is , does a man die in his own time or on the map ? "	While it's all going on , the story manages to build suspense and intrigues the viewer with how the whole thing will turn out . However the idea of Robert Kraft's ( Richard Boone ) black pin voodoo exercise resulting in the deaths of seven victims goes well beyond the realm of coincidence . Still , there aren't a lot of suspects left beyond the crusty old cemetery caretaker Andy McKee ( Theodore Bikel ) , but when you get right down to it , even that explanation isn't all that plausible given the circumstances of some of the victims . The W . Isham character is seen slumping over his desk of an apparent heart attack , and two of the three cemetery committee members are described to have died apparently with no foul play involved . I guess all the others could have actually been murdered by the old Scotsman , but geez , how did the old geezer get around so quickly ? Especially when it came to digging up all the graves near the finale of the picture to make old Bobby boy think he was losing it . Speaking of Boone , it stuck me while watching the picture that at least in this one , he bore an uncanny resemblance to Vincent Price , who might have given the story a bit more of a maniacal malice like he did in " The Bat " or " House on Haunted Hill " . Boone wasn't bad mind you , it's just that you don't associate him with the kind of creepy atmospherics needed to pull off a picture like this one . The other connection I made was with the decade later horror thriller " Night of the Living Dead " ; it would have been cool to see all those victims come back in a zombie style sequence to induce McKee to spill his guts . Still , not a bad little flick to watch in the dark of night with all the lights out , a little thunderstorm in the background for added effect .
" I told you they'd make the next move ! "	One of the things that caught me by surprise in this Gene Autry outing was a spill he took astride Champion in the early going . Knowing that Gene would never put his prize horse in jeopardy like that , it made me wonder how often the lead horse ( Champion , Trigger , Silver , etc . ) might have had a stand-in . Something to think about . On the flip side , that was a pretty sad excuse for a horse that was used at the center of the story , an old swayback that was already pretty worn out in the middle even before Smiley Burnette climbed aboard . I felt pretty bad for him , the horse that is . But it was a pretty neat gimmick , and one I haven't seen in an old Western before , where the subject horse knew the location of it's murdered owner's gold mine . As such , the old nag was the subject of an intense bidding war to start things off , and then wound up being hijacked by the baddies to bring all the villains and Gene's Vagabond Troubadours together for the finale . Otherwise , you have a pretty standard story here , with Joan Martin ( Barbara Pepper ) providing a romantic angle for Gene as he croons a handful of guitar ballads throughout the picture . See if you agree with me on this , but she sure could have passed for a Sally Struthers look-a-like in my book . Her introduction to Gene atop the runaway buckboard made me consider whether if made today , Gene could get away with spanking her for being reckless . Seems to me he would have been brought up on charges . I guess that's why it's so frustrating today to have every little thing micro-managed through the lens of political correctness . Not that I agree with Gene's course of action , I just think you have to cut these films some slack for it being a way simpler time . A lot of the usual suspects are on board with this one - familiar recurring actors in Gene's films and TV shows , like Frank Glendon , Hooper Atchley , Tom London , and even a young Dennis Moore as a handsome bad guy , something you don't see very often . Smiley's character starts out most sentences with his guttural frog voice in a bit of a different take on his personality . All in keeping with a good natured victory for the heroes by the time it's all over .
" Anyone can build a bridge over water , I'd like to see some guy build one under . "	Danny ( Bobby Jordan ) accidentally gets a murder rap pinned on him in this East Side Kids outing , and the rest of the gang are out to find the real killer . It's a fairly standard adventure for the boys with a few surprises thrown in . Noah Beery Jr . makes an appearance as a former ' charter member ' of the gang , which is a little unusual since this is the only film of the series he appeared in . It's convenient though as he turns up to become the romantic interest for Sylvia ( Ann Gillis ) , the stepdaughter of the murder victim . Marc Lawrence appears as the villain of the piece , a hood named McGaffey who tries to enlist Muggs ( Leo Gorcey ) in a warehouse heist in exchange for the murder weapon and a chance to clear Danny . If you really think about it , there wasn't much to his plan at any step of the way ; he could have been easily outed , and was , by the time the film ended . Such was Lawrence's fate in most films , with over two hundred movie credits , he almost always appeared as a heavy , be it Westerns , mysteries , sci-fi , or the occasional Charlie Chan flick . As in many of the East Side films , Danny's big brother is portrayed by Dave O'Brien . Here they have an extended one on one scene that goes a bit heavy on the melodrama as Phil tries to get Danny to tell what he knows . Loyalty is a gang member's best trait , so he's not saying anything , but then again , he was basically in the wrong place at the wrong time . I always enjoy Sunshine Sammy Morrison as Scruno . He doesn't have a lot to do in this one , but the good thing is he doesn't wind up on the end of any stereotyped black references . Glimpy ( Huntz Hall ) fires off a few nifty one liners like the one in my summary . He even has one brief shining moment when Muggs promotes him to Vice President of Miscellaneous Stuff . It lasts less than a screen minute , but hey , it was a moment in the sun . I see this flick rated relatively high for an East Side Kids film , but don't see it as a cut above most . I always felt they did their best work when supporting a name actor , be it Cagney , Bogart or Garfield in vehicles from larger studios . Sill if you're a fan , it won't hurt to take this one in . They even manage to focus in on the Brooklyn Bridge a couple of times , just to make sure there's some connection to the title .
" Gee , no wonder Ed took a licking , that's Roy Rogers . . . , and Trigger !	I was curious about the premise of this picture , since an early scene reports that it's Roy Rogers ' Tenth Anniversary in movies . Sure enough , a check of Roy's film credits shows " Under Western Stars " as his first feature role for Republic Films back in 1938 . He had appeared in about a dozen films before in bit parts , usually as a member of the Sons of the Pioneers , and usually credited as Dick Weston or by his real name , Leonard Slye . It was a bit odd to note that Dale Evans wasn't around for this flick with the female lead going to Jane Frazee . Another reviewer on this board posits that Dale may have been in a motherly way at the time of shooting . Frazee's character is a cousin to Andy Devine's ' Cookie Bullfincher ' , and the story gets some comic relief from additional Bullfinchers on hand who Cookie has hired during Roy's absence . Ever the softie when it comes to his close pals , Roy takes it all in stride . The story reminded me a little of the 1946 picture " My Pal Trigger " , as that one also involved a kidnapped horse . In that story it was Trigger's dad , going by the name of Golden Sovereign , and Roy was framed as the kidnapper ! The villains this time though were a much more dastardly lot , as they threatened bodily harm and even death to Trigger , Roy , and a young boy who figures in the story's outcome , played by Michael Chapin . A hundred thousand dollar ransom for Trigger doesn't sound like a whole lot today , but sixty years ago I'm sure it was a pretty big deal . " Under California Stars ' winds up being a fairly standard Western for Roy and his sidekicks as they outwit the bad guys during the run for the ransom money . There's the usual share of double crosses that trips up the bad guy bunch , as the ' Smartest Horse in the Movies ' spends a fair share of his time doing battle with the baddies as well . Fans of Rogers might notice as I did that the ten years of working for Republic must have been pretty good , as Bob Nolan and his partners all seemed to have added a few pounds around the middle . Roy however looks as trim and fit as ever , even though it's fairly evident a stand-in took his place for a running rear mount in the latter part of the picture .
" Brother , the next time I miss will be the first time . . . "	Scanning the cable TV listings I came across this title , and it summoned up a mental picture of a Mel Brooks knock off like " Blazing Saddles " or one of Richard Pryor's movie spoofs . Then I saw it was from 1938 , which made me even more curious . What I stumbled upon was my very first all Black cowboy Western , courtesy of Turner Classics . It precedes by two years another film that many regard as the first all black cast movie , " Son Of Ingagi " , a horror film that's more comical than scary . Oddly , there's a connection between the two films in that a four man singing group appears in each . The picture in fact opens with a song by top billed Herb Jeffries portraying cowboy Bob Blake . When I first heard him I was reminded of Gene Autry . Quite honestly , Jeffries could have held his own with the best of the Western crooners like Autry , Roy Rogers , Tex Ritter and Eddie Dean with his opening rendition of " I'm a Happy Cowboy " . Mantan Moreland , one of my favorites of the era appears as Blake's brother Bill , a camp cook who provides the story's comic elements . His best bit takes place later on in the story when he recounts the Biblical story of Lot , and how his wife melted to create the Great Salt Lake . He also proved to be a dead eye with a skillet , as good as his brother with a six gun . As far as the story goes , it's no better or worse than any of the hundreds of ' B ' Westerns that came out of the 1930's and ' 40's , with a typical plot involving a greedy rancher and inept henchmen attempting to swindle an honest woman and her young brother out of a ranch after their father dies . Marguerite Whitten becomes the romantic interest for Jeffries ' character Blake , while her brother Jimmy will be recognized by Little Rascals fans as ' Stymie ' , Matthew Beard . If you're paying attention , a couple of scenes will probably confound you as they did me . For one , the logistics of Bob Blake as his look alike , The Deacon , lighting Butch Carter's match with a gun shot goes well beyond probability . Also , where did the second two thousand dollars come from during the set up of the bad guys ? Those quirks aside , this is an entertaining film , whereas if done exactly the same with an all white cast , would have been relegated to just one of a thousand others that aren't very memorable . Jeffries is quite competent in the dual role of hero and villain , and Moreland is always fun to watch . What you really want to get hold of is the 1948 Charlie Chan film where Moreland dons a cowboy hat and a pair of buffalo inspired jodhpurs in a pseudo Western mystery adventure called " The Golden Eye " , he's simply hilarious . Hey , wait just one minute - Two-Gun Man only had ONE GUN ! ! !
" The Reno's are worth a lot of money . . . . . dead ! "	Set in 1866 in Southern Indiana , " Rage at Dawn " is based on the true story of the Reno Brothers , purportedly America's first band of train robbers . In the opening sequence , the citizens of North Vernon lie in silent wait for the Brothers , tipped off to a bank job they intend to foil . Though one brother is killed and left behind , the Reno's return to exact revenge on the Peterson Detective Agency contact who placed them at the bank with unique precision . Enter Randolph Scott as Peterson Agent James Barlow ; his mission , along with fellow agent Monk Claxton ( Kenneth Tobey ) , is to infiltrate the Reno Gang , gain their confidence , and put an end to the operation . Faking a thirty thousand dollar train holdup , Barlow attracts the Reno's attention , and gradually gets around to whetting their appetite for a hundred thousand dollar payday . The film boasts a top notch cast of TV and big screen Western veterans , including Forrest Tucker , J . Carroll Naish , and Myron Healey as the Reno Brothers , Denver Pyle as the honest Reno , and Mala Powers as sister Laura providing a romantic interest for Scott's character . Fans will also recognize Ray Teal as a dishonest sheriff in league with the Reno's , and Edgar Buchanan as what else , but a greedily smarmy judge who coordinates Barlow's entry in the Reno circle . The story itself proceeds rather smoothly for the Peterson agents ; for his part , Barlow's plan moves along virtually without a hitch . There are no cliffhanger scrapes for him to get out of , unless you count the relationship with Laura he uses to get close to her brothers . The shootout with the Reno's does leave his partner Claxton dead , chalked up to one of those hazards of the trade . Scott's character gets a chance to exhibit some heroism in the face of a lynch mob , but fails to stop the town of Seymour's citizens from hanging the Reno's . I would stop short of hailing this film as a great Western as some other posters have noted . It's a passable film , though not as good as some of Randolph Scott's other Westerns , including " The Bounty Hunter " , " Ten Wanted Men " or " The Stranger Wore a Gun " . Filmed in Technicolor , the print I viewed was rather garish at times , offering orange colored gunshot bursts and blue hued night time scenes . As a chronicle of the actual story of the Reno Brothers I would have to reserve judgment , as I don't know enough of the historical facts to have an opinion .
" If we go out some evening , you'll see more of my shoulders than I see of yours . "	Filmed in 1932 , " Love Affair " has traces of the silent film era coming to a close , particularly in the wide eyed and innocent faces of the two female leads , Dorothy Mackaill as free wheeling socialite Carol Owen , and Astrid Allwyn as struggling actress Linda Lee . Linda is the sister of Humphrey Bogart's character Jim Leonard , a former flight instructor with bigger things on his mind , as he seeks financial backing for his new airplane motor that he touts as the " greatest motor in the world " . The only trouble is , wealthy businessman Bruce Hardy ( Hale Hamilton ) , who's willing to back Leonard , is also backing the penniless Carol Owen , who is completely in the dark about her financial situation . Hardy wants to marry Owen , even as he entertains an occasional dalliance with actress Lee , all without the knowledge of any of the other players . When Jim Leonard meets Carol , he is immediately smitten with her looks and charm , and begins spending time with her at the expense of the new company he's just formed . But there's a nagging feeling in the back of his mind that he's just not worthy of big spender and girl about town Carol . There's a well done counterpoint at the beginning of the film when Carol first meets Jim . She requests him for her first flying lesson , and he obliges by performing some daring flight stunts , chock full of rolls and dives . As Carol turns green ( you can tell , even though the film is black and white ) , she returns the favor once on the ground by giving Jim a harrowing ride into town in her roadster . At sixty eight minutes , the film is probably just a bit too short to effectively tell it's tale . There are a number of quick cuts and fades that create a somewhat choppy feel , though they are coherently done and maintain the flow of the story . In what could have been a disastrous ending , Carol , unwilling to marry Hardy for his money , and too embarrassed to come crawling to Jim , leaves a suicide note for airport manager Gilligan . As can be guessed , Jim races after Carol who's about to take off for a one way solo flight , and manages to create some tension as he hangs on for dear life of his own before scrambling into the cockpit of the airborne plane . The movie closes on the two lovebirds as they head off into the skies , Bogey thumbs up to indicate everything will be A-OK . Humphrey Bogart had five films under his belt by the time " Love Affair " was released . This would actually be his first leading role , and though capably done , it would be a few more years before he got to portray real meaty characters like Duke Mantee in " The Petrified Forest " ( 1936 ) , and " Bugs " Fenner in the gangster drama " Bullets or Ballots " ( 1936 ) . As a Bogey fan , I recommend them all , even if you're not .
" Well , stabbing Mr . Block was serious , wasn't it ? "	I can't say I wasn't entertained by this Westinghouse Studio One presentation , but thinking about it now , the story leaves one with a lot of head scratching . The stolen letter at the heart of the story ( along with the murder ) was never recovered , and the murderer was too dumb to move away from the boarding house before the police closed in . Stuff like this passed for quality entertainment back in the early days of television , and this was certainly an imaginative story with it's twists and turns , but ultimately , it's value today lies in being a curiosity piece . Think about this for a minute - the landlady's husband , Mr . Gerard , returns home after being gone for six years , and surreptitiously ' borrows ' clothes from the rooming house tenants . Later , police lieutenant Henley reveals that Gerard , for all that time , was living three blocks over and nine blocks down from his wife and son . Gerard brushes it off to amnesia , and says he'll write a book about it ! The cool thing for me here was seeing Robert Sterling a couple of years before his run on the ' Topper ' TV series in which he portrayed one half of a comedy ghost couple with the lovely Anne Jeffreys . The other redeeming feature of the presentation was Robert Emhardt as the apartment bound tenant , Otis Block , victim of the ' murder over cheese ' mystery . Cheese it was , even if the world's best Edam . Story aside , if you pick this up as part of the Mill Creek Entertainment Mystery Collection , you'll be treated to a couple of the most eye opening commercials ever from the early Fifties . Westinghouse was it's own sponsor of course , touting the likes of it's line of air conditioning units . But for pure grins , wait till you get a load of the ' Biggest Bargain of the Year ' - the NEW big screen TV set , available with trade-in allowance on your old set ! - and costing you only the price of two theater tickets per month in payments ! Who could resist that offer ?
" Never understand why some folks do what they do . "	What - that's it ? I'm trying to take away something meaningful from this picture , but it's not working . Let's see - Beth Colter ( Lana Wood ) is kidnapped by the title character ( Alex Cord ) , and it's ultimately revealed that he did so in order to introduce her to her biological father , a dying chief of the Cheyenne tribe . So how is it that John Colter ( Ben Johnson ) might not have figured this out and been a little more realistic about Grayeagle's intentions ? Without a back story about the origin of Colter and his daughter , how is the viewer supposed to react when her paternity is revealed ? I mean , we see Colter going to pray at the grave of his wife , who Beth acknowledges as her mother . Colter's friend Standing Bear ( Iron Eyes Cody ) knows all about Beth's Cheyenne background , but all this time he's kept that secret ? I mean , she didn't just fall from the sky at birth , but the whole time Colter played it like his wife was Beth's mother . Am I missing something here ? Without trying to figure it all out , probably the best one can expect from this picture are the characterizations . Alex Cord as Greyeagle is sufficiently regal in his bearing and demeanor , and he adequately filled the role ( for a white man playing an Indian that is ) . Charles Pierce as the demented bugler was something of an anomaly for a Western character , and I always enjoy seeing Jack Elam in any kind of role . As well as Iron Eyes Cody , but gee , couldn't Colter have treated him with a little more respect as a purported friend instead of bossing him around the way he did ? The Lone Ranger considered Tonto an equal partner even when he asked him to go into town to scout out the bad guys . You'd think that Colter could say please once in a while . Then you have Paul Fix in the opening credits as Running Wolf , so when it comes time for Running Wolf to appear on screen , I'm asking myself , where's Paul Fix ? That didn't look like any kind of make up job , and I had to wonder if the real Paul Fix sent a stand in that no one noticed . Just another question mark that pops up along with all the others . What it comes down to is that this is one baffling movie that could have really made it if a little more thought went into the story to clean up some of major sticking points . What I might have to do is watch it again the next time it hits Encore Westerns to see if I missed something . But I'm betting I didn't .
" I want their heads ! "	In her heyday , the 1960's , I don't think any actress was hotter than Raquel Welch in the looks department . Unfortunately , that didn't translate into meaningful movie roles , perhaps because her physical assets outshone her acting ability . Just surmising on that point mind you , since I haven't seen a lot of her pictures . Here she seems effective as the strong willed Yaqui woman who comes to the aid of her people following the hanging death of her father in an opening scene . Fellow Yaqui , Joe Herrera ( Burt Reynolds ) is being pursued by ex-footballer Jim Brown , who's character Lyedecker is after a two hundred dollar reward and a permanent job for capturing the Indian bandit . I couldn't help feeling that the almost two hour film could have been done in half the time like a ' B ' programmer from the 1950's . Then of course , you wouldn't have needed the three principal stars to tell the story , or the strong supporting cast headed by Fernando Lamas as the bloodthirsty Mexican General Verdugo . Not knowing him by his real name , Eric Braeden , I would have sworn Hans Gudegast turned up for his role straight off the set of " Rat Patrol " - I'll have to go back to some of those episodes to see if there's a uniform change . He's a very similar character here , but certainly second string to Lamas . I'll have to admit I was a little impatient for things to get going here , once they do there are a few interesting moments . There's a real tough looking descent down a cliff side on horseback by both the Indians and the Mexican rurales . The love scene between Brown and Welch had me wondering if this might have been the first time an inter-racial match up was attempted in film , if so , it was a ground breaking move , even if tame by today's standards . Still , it was a moment to be noted for the late 1960's . For Raquel Welch , the show stopper was the train stopper , if you know what I mean .
" Oh my , I see trouble lookin ' us right in the face ! "	The science behind the plot of " Western Jamboree " is probably somewhat suspect , dealing as it does with the discovery of helium on land that Gene Autry ramrods for an absentee owner . Additionally , Gene and his hired hands agree to cover an old timer's tall tale to his daughter that he's the owner of a thriving dude ranch . Most of the story wouldn't hold up under a strong magnifying glass , but Gene makes it work with the help of his sidekick Frog Millhouse ( Smiley Burnette ) and a whole passel of tunes throughout the picture . Gene even goes for a traditional Mexican ballad sung in Spanish - " Cielito Lindo " - making me wonder if I've ever heard him do that before ; I don't think so . Without even trying , Gene also manages to move in on Dad Haskell's ( Frank Darien ) daughter Betty ( Jean Rouverol ) . She arrives on the scene with high society fiancé Walter Gregory ( George Walcott ) and his mother ( Margaret Armstrong ) in tow , precipitating one of the flick's genuine insightful moments from one of Gene's partners - " The only difference between us and society is they wash more often " . I had to think about that for a while . Most of Gene Autry's pictures have their share of run ins with the outlaws , but this one wound up truly creative . When Gene and Smiley finally discover the location of the helium reserve , Smiley uses a gas pipe that the villains engineered to turn a standard kid's toy into a miniature hot air balloon . From his vantage point aloft , Smiley manages to gun down a couple of the charging outlaws before they figure out where all the shooting is coming from . One thing about Smiley , he always had that hot air thing going for him . Autry fans will take it all in stride , made entertaining by the liberal use of tuneful melodies and the light hearted give and take between Gene and Betty through a number of misunderstandings . Gene even uses the old rope across the trail trick to inadvertently knock her off her horse . That seemed a little rough , but she handled it pretty well , making me wonder how a girl from ' back East ' ever got to be so accomplished trading her society duds for Western gear .
" By the looks of you , I'd say you hired a gunman . "	This was my first look at Macdonald Carey and I can't say I was very impressed with his role as the gunman who cleans up Dutch Flats . He showed none of the charisma of a Western hero , and it didn't help that the mystique of his quick gun hand was regarded as some kind of supernatural hex placed on his Colt Wesson . 44 . The film could have gotten a little more mileage out of that plot element but it really didn't get the right treatment . I got the same impression as a prior reviewer on this board , and quite independently came up with a ' Twilight Zone ' type link between the gun and the spooky music that celebrated each victim . The romantic link with Audrey Totter's character also didn't seem quite right to me ; at least Smith ( Carey ) figured out that she was really the one pulling the strings against the Corleys . You know what really struck me as supernatural though ? How did old man Corley know Smith / Yancey gunned his boys down when he just got in to town ?
" I suppose you have never met a homeless kind of maniac before . "	" Bowery at Midnight " conjures up for me an expectation of the East Side Kids , but the closest we come to that is the brief appearance of Leo Gorcey's dad Bernard as a shopkeeper . That's OK though , because I got a kick out of this tale featuring Bela Lugosi in a dual role - college psychology Professor Brenner by day , and neighborhood soup kitchen proprietor Karl Wagner by night . Lugosi's character uses the mission as a hunting ground for criminals on the run from the law , who he lures into his web to commit jewel robberies . Only trouble is , his escapades leave the body of a dead accomplice at each heist . With good help hard to find , this will surely come back to haunt him . Back at the mission , Wagner utilizes a doctor who disposes of the bodies , however Doc ( Lew Kelly ) has one up on his boss ; he's found a way to bring the victims back alive . That would make it kind of unnecessary to bury them , but the graves in the basement are clearly shown more than once , and at least one time with identifying names on the markers . Bela Lugosi looks like he's having fun in this film , his early appearance is marked by an ear to ear smile , and is kind of disarming if you're used to most of his roles . He also displays the ability to turn his personality on a dime , showing a warm and caring side as he feeds homeless men at the mission , and coldly ordering their execution if they dare cross him . The Olympic body throw off the top of a building was a nice touch . You can tell not much thought was put into these Poverty Row programmers . Consider the scene when the cops are closing in on Wagner's mission ; as henchman Frankie Mills ( Tom Neal ) makes his way out of a side door in an alley , one of the cops shoots him as he comes out the door , with no warning and no questions asked . I mean , maybe the guy would have given himself up . Hey , why was there a map of Australia in Wagner's private office ? Mention should be made of Wagner's assistant Judy , portrayed by Wanda McKay . She's really persistent to find out what's in the mission's inner sanctum , and entices old Doc to bring her down there . As loyal as she was , Wagner would have had her rubbed out too if not for Doc's intervention . As the cops close in , Doc lures Wagner through a trap door in the floor and into the waiting arms of a zombie horde - yikes ! " Bowery at Midnight " is a blast , with so many goofy plot points making it even more fun to watch . But with all the murder and mayhem , what would you think to be the creepiest scene ? I'll put my money on the movie's finale , with Judy making wedding plans with her zombie boyfriend Richard Dennison ( John Archer ) . After all , his was one of the clearly marked graves in Doc's basement cemetery !
" What do you care whose gun it is as long as it isn't aimed at you ? "	It's interesting to see who Humphrey Bogart is paired up with in his films following the Warner Brothers days . This time out it's Lee J . Cobb as a French colonel and Swedish actress Marta Toren . The story takes place in 1925 Syria , as French forces operating under a United Nations mandate have a difficult time containing Syrian insurgents bent on governing themselves . The comparisons to " Casablanca " are unavoidable , but at least in that film , one has a general sense of history and can lay a finger on the Nazi villain . In " Sirocco " , it's difficult to empathize with either side in the conflict as neither is particularly sympathetic or likable ; perhaps in hindsight that's one of the strengths of the film . Bogey's character is a gun runner with a checkered past and without hint of morals or principles . While Rick Blaine might have been a ' citizen of the world ' , Harry Smith's political convictions don't carry him that far - he's up for the highest bidder . As such , he's not very sympathetic or likable either , receiving a back handed compliment from Toren's Violette - " How can a man so ugly be so handsome " . It would have worked the other way around too . Dingy underground catacombs give the movie a claustrophobic feel as Harry takes it on the lam following a grenade bombing in a café . Violette invites herself along to Cairo , and the way Smith caved in to her request seemed a stretch , it was like no , you can't go , you can't go . . . oh , alright let's go . The lack of urgency and any remote chemistry between the two wasn't convincing enough for this viewer to have her along for the ride . In any event , you won't think of dried apricots in the same way again . If the film's ending was meant to capture a particular poignancy , it's meaning was lost on me . Smith's demise seemed senseless and unnecessary , and then the story ends in a heartbeat . The fate of Violette is a loose end which just adds to the unsatisfying conclusion . " Sirocco " could have been much more and certainly had a cast capable of pulling it off , but putting a checkered bow-tie on Bogey was just asking for trouble .
" . . . sheriff here's got my number but he's on the wrong street . "	You've got to give Monogram some credit for the catchy Rough Riders theme song , it captures the spirit of the cowboy trio of Buck Jones , Tim McCoy and Ray Hatton rather nicely . Even though each of the cowboy stars was over fifty when the series was formed in 1941 , the boys had a nice chemistry going that kept them popular with fans through eight pictures until World War II intervened ; McCoy was an Army Colonel who returned to active duty ! As far as ' B ' Westerns go , " Below The Border " is a fairly entertaining story given the standard formula it's operating with . Working undercover , Marshal Buck Roberts ( Jones ) infiltrates a cattle rustling gang by impersonating an outlaw , while Sandy Hopkins ( Hatton ) poses as a hired hand in bad guy Scully's ( Roy Barcroft ) saloon . McCall's ( McCoy ) cover is that of a cattle buyer , and as each partner takes his position , the outlaw scheme begins to unravel . There's some suspense when Slade ( Charles King ) , one of the baddies , fingers Buck Roberts as an impostor but he's taken down in a rather awkward showdown . Even more awkward is the way Roberts brings down Scully attempting to get the drop on him in a cave . Actually the scene is downright lame considering Scully had the entire advantage , but then the good guys would have been down to two . If you stop to consider that the characters of Buck Jones , Tim McCoy and Ray Hatton went back home respectively to Arizona , Wyoming and Texas in between adventures , in an era before motorized transportation , it's a virtual impossibility that they were able to complete eight investigations in the span of less than two years . But that certainly didn't bother theater goers back in the 1940's , who didn't really worry about those kinds of obstacles . Especially when that theme song started up again - ' The Rough Riders ride , beware . . . '
" How come I'm not getting ' any more answers out of the back of your head than I was out of the front ? "	The first half of the movie has a compelling set up that will remind you of " In The Heat of The Night " , a film made five years earlier . The story diverges pretty rapidly though in the second half , preceded by an ominous breathing pattern that heralds the first hint of the title character . By that time , you should have had enough hints to figure out who the " loup-garou " was , though for the life of me , I could have sworn old Hugh was talking about a ' lucaruk ' . No matter , when Louise Rodanthe ( Barbara Rush ) reaches for her brother's scholarly text on lycanthropy , you know it's only a matter of time before Andrew ( Bradford Dillman ) reveals his hairy side . The story makes use of some tried and true werewolf lore , like death by burning and silver bullets , and throws in some new ones like sulfur induced seizures . I particularly enjoyed the reference to Black Water Fever as an offshoot of malaria to describe Andrew's medical problem . However I don't recall Lon Chaney ever being this strong ; those iron jail cell doors were ripped right out of their brick wall moorings with no effort at all . If there were to be a remake of this made for TV flick , I would suggest they tone down the werewolf wardrobe a bit . The pressed slacks and fitted shirt were suitable attire for the daytime Andrew , but didn't really go with his after hour activities . Ditto for the well groomed facial hair and manicured nails . But then again , this was a refined Southern werewolf , so maybe it makes sense . " Moon of the Wolf " has some well known folks doing a pretty good job in their respective roles . David Janssen is suitably methodical in his investigation as Sheriff Aaron Whittaker , and unwilling to rush to judgment . Fine character performances are turned in by Geoffrey Lewis and Royal Dano , who look as comfortable in their bayou locale as in any of the Westerns they appeared in . With a stronger second half , the film might have achieved a more memorable name recognition than it has today .
" Let the other guy die for his country , you'll live for yours . "	The problem I have with most war movies is that they usually get involved with too many side stories dealing with personal relationships , romance , or issues not related to the battle or conflict of the title . That would be the case for " Sands of Iwo Jima " as well , as John Wayne's hard boiled performance as Sergeant John Stryker is tested along the way by Privates Al Thomas ( Forrest Tucker ) and Peter Conway ( John Agar ) . Granted , the scenarios allow us a glimpse into the mind and temperament of Stryker , and the reason for his attempts at solace in a bottle of whiskey . Stryker's one track mind does not allow for slip ups , because in battle , a slip up can cost lives . That point is demonstrated when Thomas delays bringing back ammo for his buddies during the Battle of Tarawa ; his buddies wind up dead . On the plus side , the battle scenes of the movie are interspersed with actual war footage , and though not seamless , they are effective . In particular , the flame throwing battle tanks are particularly impressive . There are some hand to hand combat scenes , brief but realistic , that give meaning to a Marine's definition of battle - " That's war boy , tradin ' real estate for men " . Put in that context , the futility of war as a means to an end seems especially true . I always thought the term " Lock and Load ! " was an overworked cliché in modern films , but here it is in a movie made in 1949 . John Wayne does the honors , not once , but twice before the story is over . As for the march of time putting things into perspective , I got a chuckle out of a line uttered by the bar fly Mary ( Julie Bishop ) attempting to cozy up to Stryker - " Sixty five cents for a drink , too much ! " With one of the more famous outcomes in World War II history , I was looking forward to the climactic action of the U . S . flag being raised over Surabachi . That moment was recreated for the film while honoring three surviving members of the original battle who appear in the film with Wayne , in a patriotic scene enhanced by the strains of the Marine hymn in the background . Unfortunately , Stryker doesn't live to see victory ; with new found admiration for his commanding officer , Private Conway offers his men encouragement to continue the fight when he shouts out - " Saddle Up ! "
" London must not laugh on Saturday . "	Watching Alfred Hitchcock's early British films is a treat for this viewer , particularly in seeing the director's experimentation with themes that will become better known in his more famous American movies . " Sabotage " becomes an intriguing psychological drama even after the early revelation of the parts his key characters play in the story . Particularly vile is Karl Anton Verloc ( Oscar Homolka ) , a terrorist conspiring to plant bombs in association with an underground cadre . He uses a London cinema house as a front for his activities , while his antagonist , a Scotland Yard detective named Spencer ( John Loder ) attempts to get enough evidence to expose him . Verloc is married to an American woman ( Sylvia Sidney ) who is unaware of his activities . With tense precision , Hitchcock visually reinforces the timing of Verloc's next bombing , even though the actual target is never mentioned by name . To carry out his mission , he enlists the services of his wife's young brother Stevie . As Stevie gets sidetracked by the distractions that would affect any teenager , he becomes the victim of Verloc's plot when the bomb detonates , destroying a London bus . Mrs . Verloc's consolation comes in the form of revenge . The moment of retribution takes form almost immediately after she catches herself laughing at scenes of a Disney cartoon playing in the cinema - " Who killed Cock Robin ? " indeed . In classic Hitchcock style , the director makes use of quick cuts to the saboteur , the wife serving dinner , plates of food , and of course , a knife . Needless to say , the knife finds it's mark , and with it , a cold satisfaction for the audience . As in Hitchcock's first talking film , 1929's " Blackmail " , the director uses deft sleight of hand to shift blame for Verloc's death to a surrogate . In the earlier film , a case could be made that the female killer was acting in self defense . Here , the event was achieved with spontaneous calculation . In both movies , the female lead was just on the edge of making a confession when abrupt dismissal by the authorities led them to a different conclusion about the murders . The film left me curious about a couple of things , the main one being how audiences of the time reacted to the death of an innocent teenager . It seems to me that this would have been a particularly controversial subject for the time . On a very different note , I was left wondering whether the appearance of a rather large billboard directly behind the bombed bus was intentional or not ; it was an ad for Coca Cola . Though it's been stated otherwise by other reviewers on this site , the movie does have it's light moment even if only one , the Disney sequence notwithstanding . In an early scene at the pet shop , an old biddy tries to return a canary that doesn't sing . The shop owner has no trouble getting the bird to warble , implying that maybe it's the lady's fault . Strange though , that the shop would also have chickens and a rooster !
" You sure must like a bad gamble . "	It didn't take too long into the picture to realize that I had seen it before , the first time being 1963's " Gunfight At Comanche Creek " starring Audie Murphy in the George Montgomery role . In checking the film credits , it surprised me to learn that different writers are listed for each film , even though ' Gunfight ' is a virtual scene for scene re-creation of the original picture ; both were released by Allied Artists . The 1963 film scores a bit higher by IMDb voters , and I'll tell you why - Murphy in the lead role , and ' Bones ' McCoy himself , DeForest Kelley in the lead villain role as the outlaw gang leader . Not to say that Montgomery wasn't just as effective in his role as the undercover agency plant , but Murphy was the war hero . On the plus side for the earlier version , at least for me , was James Best as the conflicted outlaw who befriends Montgomery's character . There's really no point in going into any more detail here , my review of " Gunfight At Comanche Creek " pretty much tells the story . I did get a kick though out of the sign outside the barber shop in ' Badmen ' - " Up To Date System - Hot Towel " - who could pass up a come on like that ! Otherwise , depending on which film you might have seen first , you'll know what's coming in the second . At least Reed Hadley was credited for the voice over narration in ' Comanche Creek ' , incessant as it was , and totally unnecessary to follow the story .
" One way or another , you die in the end . "	It was curious to me that ' Willie Boy ' came out the same year that " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " did . Redford looks so much younger here ; it must have been the mustache as The Kid . Curiously , he had a similar scene here with Susan Clark as Sundance did with Katharine Ross , a kind of surprise bedroom attack that was used as misdirection before the true relationships became known . Robert Blake does a convincing job as Willie Boy , on the run from the law with his ' captured wife ' after killing her father in self defense . The film offers varying degrees of the racial divides and tensions between whites and Native Americans during turn of the century America . Sheriff Chris Cooper ( Redford ) treads that line carefully , as he knows he must bring Willie Boy to justice , but is keenly aware that it wouldn't take much for his search party to turn into a lynch mob . All the while , one wonders how the final confrontation might take place , knowing that Willie Boy is not the type to go down without a fight . The prelude to that showdown is perhaps even more of a shocker , as Willie's girl Lola commits the ultimate sacrifice so her man has a better chance of escaping . I haven't seen Robert Blake in a lot of films besides this and " In Cold Blood " , though I was a regular viewer of ' Baretta ' . I liked that show , which had a reasonably authentic ' street ' feel to it back in the Seventies . I often wondered why Blake never broke out to greater mainstream success until I saw him once on a late night talk show . His entire stint consisted of a rambling rant on government conspiracies and assorted complaints against authority , and he came across like a nut case . It's sad that he wound up at the center of his wife's murder mystery in recent years , a far cry from the once cute kid who graced the screen with the Little Rascals and as Red Ryder's sidekick .
" Here lies The Bat - Threatened with exposure he destroyed himself . "	If you're a fan of 1950's " B " horror AND Vincent Price , there are three films on your must see list - " House on Haunted Hill " ( 1959 ) , " The Fly " ( 1958 ) , and this one - " The Bat " . Movie posters of the era proclaimed " when it flies . . . someone dies ! " Perhaps not as dire as the hype portends , nevertheless " The Bat " is a tasty little morsel for a dark and rainy night . Vincent Price is cleverly introduced as Dr . Malcolm Wells , enjoying a hunting trip with Zenith Bank President John Fleming ( Harvey Stephens ) . When Fleming reveals that he's embezzled a million dollars from his bank and offers Wells half interest to find a suitable patsy , Wells simply reaches for a shotgun and declares himself the keeper of the entire fortune . Agnes Moorehead portrays murder mystery writer Cornelia Van Gorder , and she's just rented an estate mansion owned by Fleming from his nephew . It's a suitable venue for Miss Corny's purpose , the home has been the site of unusual events and murder , and is purported to be the haven for a mysterious character known to local folk as " The Bat " - a man with no face . Of her entire staff , only loyal maid Lizzie Allen ( Lenita Lane ) accompanies the writer because of the mansion's fearful reputation . Depending on your mood , The Bat's first appearance strikes one as menacingly diabolical or fiendishly hokey - a black gloved hand with razor sharp claws reaching into the mansions ' front door after cutting into the door glass . The fiend leaves a calling card , releasing a real bat into the master bedroom where the writer and her maid huddle in fear . The good Doctor Wells responds to the emergency call , he himself having been interrupted during an experiment of his own on - you guessed it , a bat ! Now if you're really perceptive enough , there can only be one real suspect who turns out to be the bat killer . Since the Fleming fortune is rumored to be in the house , you know it can't be Dr . Wells ; Fleming himself told Wells the money was stashed in his dead father's tomb . And even though Miss van Gorder's chauffeur turned butler Warner ( John Sutton ) is cast as a prime suspect , it can't be him because the murders began before the writer and her staff ever came on the scene . Detective Davenport ( Robert Williams ) , who abruptly appears on screen as house guardian finds himself drugged , and is summarily dismissed as a viable suspect . With no attempt at maintaining secrecy , " The Bat " searches for the missing million dollars by noisily banging holes into walls of the mansion in the dead of night . Did he not realize that he might wake somebody up ? It could only be - hold your breath - police lieutenant Andy Anderson ( Gavin Gordon ) , who earlier dispatched Dr . Wells in his lab , thereby eliminating the golden tomed Vincent Price as a suspect . Trivia fan alert ! - Darla Hood of Little Rascals fame makes her final film appearance in this horror gem , but only briefly - she falls victim to the slashing claws of The Bat ! I may get a kick out of lampooning these 1950's horror flicks , but it's with a genuine fondness for the genre . Even with limited screen time , Vincent Price casts an enigmatic aura in " The Bat " with his lyrical voice and mysterious presence ; the fact that he killed banker Fleming in the opening scene with no malice aforethought is a forceful jolt to the unsuspecting viewer . In the end , mystery writer Van Gorder sums up " The Bat " drama rather perfectly - " No matter how clever you are , you can't hide murder . "
" This babe , is she a canary with steam ? . . . "	This is not the type of movie I would usually tune in to , but with the Turner Classic Movie channel as a new addition to my cable line up , I thought I'd give it a try . It turned out to be a fairly entertaining little number , showcasing Kathryn Grayson and June Allyson as runaways from Boston society and all its ' hoity toity poofery . Throw in Jimmy Durante as a saloon owner in the Bowery , and you get a funny , fast paced musical comedy , that throws in a bit of opera just to maintain a proper snob level . In the story , the Boston Chandler's receive dubious word of Abigail in New York City where she's top billed as High ' C ' Suzie , a dance hall girl at The Golden Rooster . It's supposed to be a quick job to raise money for opera lessons , but you know how things go . Sister Martha ( Allyson ) attempts to set Abigail / Suzie on the right path , but all bets are pretty much off when Spike Merango ( Durante ) weaves his way into various scenarios to protect his headline girl . Spike's forte is feigning past associations with various influential characters in the story , and dismantling their composure with an oft repeated " I don't know nothing ' " . He gets more results by not knowing anything than anyone I've ever seen . If you're an opera fan , you'll know of Lauritz Melchior , famous Danish opera star who made his mark at the Metropolitan Opera and became a character player for MGM in his later years . He gets to sing quite often in the story , though he manages to get upstaged by his pet dog once , who impersonates the RCA Victor canine in a funny scene . In case you're wondering , he sings quite well for this layman's ear . Peter Lawford provides a bit of a romantic element in the story as he becomes smitten first with Abigail and then Martha . His character isn't fully fleshed out , with most of his time attempting to evade the prim and proper eyes of his upper crust parents ( Thurston Hall and Nella Walker ) . Part of the story's fun comes from the mistaken notion that his father keeps a mistress , though that angle plays out pretty quickly . Besides being entertaining , I found the film to be educational too , or at least I was intrigued enough to follow up on something . When it was mentioned twice that Aunt Harriet ran off with the hurdy gurdy man , I began wondering whether Donovan made that whole thing up or if there really is such a thing . It turns out that a hurdy gurdy is a musical instrument dating back to twelfth century Europe correctly known as a ' vielle ' . It's a stringed instrument that also has a keyboard and a wooden wheel to make music , which sounds like a cross between a fiddle and a bagpipe , with a kazoo like sound keeping time . Can you imagine that ? And all the while as I watched the movie , I thought the hurdy gurdy man might be somebody like Jimmy Durante .
" Only a man that carries a gun ever needs one . "	An injured Quirt Evans ( John Wayne ) is taken in by a peaceful Quaker family , among them the lovely daughter Penelope Worth ( Gail Russell ) . For Penelope , it's virtually love at first sight , her facial expressions and eyes doing almost all of the talking for her . Evans is an amiable patient , but he has scores to settle , and this sets up the tension of the film . The longer he stays with the family , the more they cut away at his rough edges , providing an anchor in an otherwise lawless West . There are a couple of back stories going on in the film , for one , outlaw Laredo Stevens ( Bruce Cabot ) is a thorn in Evans ' side . He and his gang attempt to rustle a herd of horses , only to be foiled by Evans and his partner Randy McCall ( Lee Dixon ) . Randy is enthralled by the Bible given to Quirt by the Quaker congregation , and takes to reading it in any spare moment . Then there's the territorial marshal Wistful McClintock ( Harry Carey ) , who it seems has made a career out of bringing Evans to justice . His remarks are some of the highlights of the film - " I'm patient , that's what hangs all you fellas in the end , I'm patient " . His regard for Evans ' reputation though is almost respectful - " You know Quirt , I always figured on usin ' a new rope in hangin ' you " . Evans is respectful of the Quaker family's ways , he hangs his holstered gun outside , never allowing it inside the home . When he takes Penelope on a wagon ride to pick blackberries , he leaves it behind in deference to her wishes . When Quirt shows up in town to call out Laredo Stevens , the Worth family arrives on the scene , and in what could be a fatal mistake , Evans gives up his gun to face Laredo weaponless . It would have been a tragic finale , if not for the vigilant Marshal McClintock . As Evans makes his way home with the Worths , the Marshal picks up Evans ' gun and proclaims to hang it in his office along with a new rope , in memory of the adversary who never was . Released in 1947 by Republic Pictures , " The Angel and the Badman " comes some dozen years or so after Wayne's Lone Star films which all followed a similar formula . Although a " B " Western , it's got a quality to the filming and story line that make it rise a considerable notch above his mid 1930's films .
You better get another story Carney , this one sorta needs crutches . "	The film starts out as if it were a documentary , the voice over narration describing New York City's reputation as a major maritime port , along with the burgeoning problem of a growing drug trade . It heats up from there with a million dollar drug deal in the works , masterminded by drug kingpin Paul Vicola ( Yul Brynner when he had hair ) . The story consistently references the ' Florentine Case ' , named after the cruise liner from which the drug bundle was hijacked , and it made me wonder if the story was based on a true crime case ; that was never made clear . Yul Brynner was particularly malevolent in his role , foreshadowed by the way he relates to girl friend Toni Cardell ( K . T . Stevens ) - " Please darling , you must not become a nuisance " . Unfortunately , he perceived her in just that way , she didn't make it to the end of the story . Nor for that matter did Scott Brady , who was actually top billed here for his performance as customs agent Mickey Waters . You'd be hard pressed to find the lead actor of any film make his exit as quickly as Brady in this one , thanks again to Vicola's henchmen . That leaves narcotics officer Jim Flannery ( Richard Rober ) to make the save for the good guys , with a few twists and turns thrown against him along the way . William Challee and Neville Brand have just the right look for their roles as the top henchies , their craggy features make them almost a caricature . This one's actually a fairly gripping crime drama , made especially atmospheric and moody with all the great shots of the city coastline and East River traffic . Surprisingly , I found myself recognizing a lot of it from one of those leisure cruises around Manhattan made not long ago , even though this movie is pushing near sixty years old . I think some of those boats in the film might have made it till today . Best of all , the film turned out to be a real bargain as part of a sixteen movie DVD package from Platinum Disc , simply titled ' Mobster Movies ' . Though every film in the package is all but unknown , each , like " Port of New York " , is turning out to be a minor gem from the 1940's and ' 50's .
" You think changin ' your uniform means anything , you'll still be wearin ' stripes . You may not be able to see ' em , but they'll be there alright . "	George Raft and an unrecognizably young William Holden are top billed as brothers Cliff and Tim Taylor in this 1939 gangster genre film that has both brothers skirting opposite sides of the law as they try to make a life for themselves . The story opens with Cliff Taylor and fellow Sing Sing inmate Chuck Martin ( Humphrey Bogart ) about to leave prison with their sentences completed . Taylor is determined to go straight , Martin can't wait to get back to his criminal life . As Cliff tries to settle back into his former life with his family , events conspire against him making it difficult to stay on the straight and narrow . Additional pressure comes from brother Tim , who wants to make a better life for himself and fiancée Peggy ( Jane Bryan ) , but earning twenty dollars a week as a mechanic makes him fantasize about " taking what he wants " . The film see-saws it's way back and forth for Cliff , who alternately tries to play it straight and then gets mixed up with Martin's gangster pals . In that regard , George Raft really gets to portray a con man , hiding his involvement from Tim and his mother ( Flora Robson ) , until events spiral out of control during a botched robbery attempt by Martin's gang . If you're into film nuances , this one offers a number of treats . For starters , there's the scene where Bogey's character Martin is shown coming out of a movie theater with his blonde girlfriend Molly ( Lee Patrick ) ; the film that's playing - 1939's " You Can't Get Away With Murder " , starring Humphrey Bogart ! Speaking of Molly , she's almost a dead ringer look alike for Bette Davis , making me do a couple of double takes . And then there's the brief uncredited appearance of Dead Ender Leo Gorcey as the head stock boy for a general store where Cliff briefly finds a job . I found myself enjoying this film , even if uneven at times . George Raft and Humphrey Bogart went on to make one more film together in 1940's " They Drive By Night " , where they share equal billing as brothers involved in wildcat trucking , one might call them brother truckers . For it's own part , " Invisible Stripes " may be hard to come by , not available as a studio release , but many of these Warner Brothers films find their way onto classic movie TV channels like TCM or are available through specialty video houses . This one would be well worth your time , especially if you're a fan of Raft , Bogey , Holden or the gangster genre itself .
" I believe they elected you and paid you good wages for killin ' the kid , huh ? "	I only became aware of this film recently from a documentary on Sam Peckinpah's career , and managed to call it up rather quickly via my local library's request system . I'm left with mixed feelings , mostly due to the slow pacing of the story and Kris Kristofferson's casting as The Kid . " Young Guns " gets panned by a lot of folks , but Emilio Estevez's characterization captures a lot more effectively my personal vision of the Wild West's most famous outlaw . James Coburn seems to be adequately cast as Sheriff Pat Garrett , and his quest to bring in Billy seems appropriately conflicted , but in the end he did gun him down . So much for past friendships . You have to say one thing , the supporting cast is a veritable who's who of great Western character actors . There aren't many places you'll find Chill Wills , Slim Pickens , R . G . Armstrong , Katy Jurado and Jack Elam all in one place , and just as you're done taking them all in , you've got some quick but effective cameos by the likes of Dub Taylor and Elisha Cook Jr . And oddly , it actually looks like Bob Dylan belongs in this picture . It would have been cool if Barry Sullivan was given a line that recalled his own portrayal of the Lincoln County lawman from the early ' 60's TV series " The Tall Man " , but his " Glad to be of service Garrett , but don't overuse it " was effective enough . The Slim Pickens river scene seems to be the one most fans find memorable , and I have to admit I got a slight chill when Dylan's " Knockin ' On Heaven's Door " faded in and out along with the lawman . I thought the scene was setting us up for the sung version when Billy met his end , I think that would have been a most effective touch . Not nearly as famous as Peckinpah's master work " The Wild Bunch " , I can see how the movie will find it's devotees who prefer this picture . The director's trademark touch of violence is ever present , even if some of the graphic bloodletting seems more for effect than realism . Still , Peckinpah was one of the first directors to take the glamor out of Western gun battles and show them for their down and dirty grittiness . Best line of the film , and it's still ringing in my ears as I write this - Deputy Bob Ollinger ( R . G . Armstrong ) to Billy after he roughs him up while under arrest - " I'll take you for a walk across hell on a spider web " . I just love the imagery .
" Sister , you wanna bless ' em , you bless ' em dry . "	" Two Mules for Sister Sara " is actually a pretty cool sounding name for the story , cooler I suppose than ' Disabled Mule and Replacement Burro for Sister Sara ' would have been . Western movie titles as late as the 1950's often had nothing to do with the story , but this one at least came fairly close . Close also in identifying the character of Sister Sara ( Shirley MacLaine ) , I don't think Hooker Sara would have cut it . All in all though , this one's a fairly entertaining Western , made so by the banter between the good sister and Clint Eastwood's character Hogan . I lost some interest toward the end of the film when attention turned to the hostilities between the Mexican Army and the French Cavalry , probably because of unfamiliarity with that piece of history . By that time , and with the revelation of Sara's real identity , I started questioning why she went to all the trouble of those intricate masquerades in honoring religious custom , like praying at the shrine , when Hogan would have been none the wiser . It made for good filler , but the question for a pretender like Sara would have been - why bother ? For his part , Eastwood tones down the Man With No Name menace effectively to pull off the relationship with MacLaine . I thought the dialog between them relating to sexual awareness by religious was handled rather maturely , with neither character having to resort to cliché or embarrassment . Still , I can't quite picture MacLaine as a prostitute for the story's twist , she just doesn't have the face for it . Let's picture Jane Fonda in the role , shall we . If you're on the fence about watching the flick , the opening Ennio Morricone score might just be the grabber , with the electronic donkey bray calling to mind that ersatz holiday jingle , Dominic The Christmas Donkey . It resurfaces from time to time again in just the right spots . That , along with Sister Sara's colorful riding technique , gives me a pretty good idea why Don Siegel's name appears on a headstone in " High Plains Drifter " . Hey now , can you REALLY do that with a dead rattlesnake's tail ?
" Well I don't believe in villains Mr . Graselli , no , not even in real life . "	File this one under films you probably never heard of , but once you've seen it , it occupies a nice warm place in your movie library to help remind you of a simpler time and place . The title comes from Mrs . Nora Taylor's ( Jessie Busley ) romantic dream of having her son return home as a rich man to marry his childhood girlfriend . The happy ever after ending takes some time getting there , but it's fun to see how things work out , especially since it's gangster Chips Maguire ( Humphrey Bogart ) who helps make it all come true . The movie gets it's energy from free spirited Sarah Jane Ryan ( Ann Sheridan ) , displaying her usual sassiness and snappy banter - " Why I've been discovered so many times they call me Miss America " . Like Tommy Taylor ( Jeffrey Lynn ) , the breaks in life haven't come her way just yet , but there's always tomorrow . That break might become a reality when Maguire , on the run from the law at the Taylor / Ryan boarding house , gets a little bored and comes up with the idea of turning it into a ' Roaring 90's ' style night club . Under cover as Graselli , the gangster ingratiates himself with the elderly ladies who operate the home , gradually coming out of his seclusion to become their angel in disguise ( a tune by the way coming out of the film ) . The boarding house features it's own cast of memorable characters as well . There's The Great Baldini ( Felix Bressart ) doing magic assisted by Fanto the Wonder Dog , and Zasu Pitts , on the run from imaginary assailants who winds up smoking out Maguire after seeing his picture in a " Perfect Detective " magazine . You'll really sit up and take notice though when on opening night at the boarding house , a group of nine elderly ladies takes the stage and breaks into a spirited song and dance routine . Hey , remember that great old Warner Brothers cartoon that features Bugs Bunny and a whole bunch of musical numbers ? - ' Rosie O'Grady ' , ' Pretty Baby ' , ' Oh You Beautiful Doll ' , ' Ain't We Got Fun ' , ' Just an Angel in Disguise ' and ' When Irish Eyes are Smiling ' . This has got to be the film that's being parodied . Even Bogey gets into the act with a few lines from ' Strolling Through the Park One Day ' . Now I've got to get my hands on that cartoon again ! Ultimately , Bogart's character is caught dead to rights , and does the honorable , if not realistic thing of giving himself up without any further ado . His earlier plan of fingering Tommy for a gambling murder goes by the wayside , under the spell cast by Sally / Sarah and the boarding house citizens . OK , so it's not an award winner , but there's enough entertainment here to brighten your day and provide an hour and a half of music and fun . Even if you have to force yourself through Salmon's poetry reading .
" Mister , the stork that brought you must have been a vulture . "	Between 1934 and 1940 , James Cagney and Pat O'Brien appeared in an incredible nine films together , taking a forty year break before working together for one more time in 1981's " Ragtime " . But if you're accustomed to the stereotyped roles of Cagney as a gangster and O'Brien as a warm hearted and benevolent confidante , you're in for a surprise in this 1940 Warner Brothers gem , " Torrid Zone . " O'Brien in particular catches you off guard as scheming , conniving banana plantation owner Steve Case . Case is accustomed to demanding his own way , and is not above bullying everyone else who he considers to be subservient . But then again , about the only way the other lead characters in this movie survive is to be conniving in their own way , from Cagney's itinerant foreman persona , Nick Butler , to Ann Sheridan's turn as card shark and saloon singer , Lee Donley . Throw into the mix the guerrilla outlaw Rosario ( George Tobias ) , inept police chief Rodriguez ( Frank Puglia ) , and Nick Butler's forlorn former lover Gloria Anderson ( Helen Vinson ) , and you've got the makings of a fast and furious comedy where the verbal barbs fly . Some of the more memorable ones : Chief Rodriguez , prior to the attempted execution of Rosario - " After a good night's sleep , a man doesn't mind being shot . " Rosario La Mata , following a shootout between his guerrilla band and Cagney / Butler's crew - " Senor Butler , I congratulate myself on your bad shooting . " Rosario to Sheridan's Donley character following his capture for the second time - " Always before I am killed you come into my life . " The story itself is almost secondary to the characters , but quite briefly , Steve Case convinces Nick Butler to take over operation of banana plantation Number 7 in order to make it profitable and get the goods to market while still fresh . Butler , who's womanizing reputation is put to the test , must overcome railroad sabotage , Ann Sheridan's " oomph " factor , Mrs . Anderson's plans to return with him to the States , and outlaw Rosario's efforts to win his land back for the natives . Along the way , he's aided by sidekick Wally Davis , portrayed by Andy Devine . For trivia fans , keep a watchful eye out for future TV Superman George Reeves as Rosario's henchman Sancho . When originally offered the part for " Torrid Zone " , Cagney declined because the portrayal called for a character too similar to one's he had already played in prior films . George Raft was up for the part , and Cagney changed his mind on one condition , that he he get to wear a mustache - " No mustache , no Cagney " . Obviously , Warner Brothers relented , and the rest as they say , is film history .
" In our business , a man should never stop and think . "	With the Brad Pitt / Casey Affleck film ( The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford ) still in limited release at present , this picture managed to temporarily satisfy my curiosity about the death of Jesse James and see it from a 1950's perspective . Since the title of the picture doesn't hint at the story line , I was surprised to hear the names James and Ford used early in the picture . Putting two and two together came pretty easily at that point , and even better , the story managed to rise above the level of a lot of the Western genre output of the period . Oddly , the lead character in the film is neither James OR Ford , but an unknown member of the James Gang going by Victor Rodell ( Stephen McNally ) . Rodell resumes a romantic involvement with Bob Ford's ( Robert Vaughn ) sister following a botched bank hold-up in Muncie , and the story continues to follow events that lead to the governor of Missouri offering clemency to Ford if he agrees to turn in Jesse . The climactic scene is similar to the finale of 1939's " Jesse James " , with a Christmas tree scenario replacing that of Jesse hanging a picture on the wall . There's an interesting scene near the end of the movie when Frank James ( Douglas Kennedy ) and Cole Younger ( Myron Healey ) come gunning for Rodell . Bob Ford's father ( Harry Shannon ) , expecting his son to help Rodell escape , frustratedly remarks when it looks like Bob won't interfere - " Why you coward , you dirty little coward " . Fifty years later , the coward tag comes full circle to describe the man who killed the most famous and notorious Western outlaw . In addition to the players already mentioned , it was cool to see Barton MacLane on hand as a Pinkerton agent , and Peggie Castle in the role of Paula Collins , the sister of Bob Ford . A couple of years later , Castle appeared as a regular on the classic TV Western series " Lawman " , as saloon owner Lily Merrill . It's always a treat to come across a movie I'd never heard of before , and even better when it exceeds expectations . Though I presume a lot of the film to be fictional , it's still an engrossing story and worthy of a recommendation .
" It is not easy to know where loyalty ends and love begins . "	This is really quite a remarkable picture , reminiscent more of the Warners Brothers films of the era than something Republic Pictures might have put out . Nominally it's considered a Western ( I saw it today on the Encore Western Channel ) , but the only connection to that genre it has would be it's setting , as itinerant farm workers battle Dust Bowl situations in their settled home land only to be forced to move once again when conditions conspire against them . Leading the charge as it were , is John Wayne in a role that has him confronting the elements , along with a hostile contingent that opposes his choice of destination ( Oregon ) for the sunny climes of California . The story is wrapped around a budding romance between Wayne's character , and that of Sigrid Gurie as Leni Braun , daughter of an Austrian refugee , both of whom escaped the rise of Naziism in 1940's Europe . The story is complicated even further when it's discovered that Leni's former fiancé ( Roland Varno ) , presumed dead the past two years , resurfaces to place his claim on Leni's heart once again . That last aspect of the picture just mentioned is somewhat troubling when one considers the initial premise of the story . Dr . Eric Von Scherer ( Varno ) presumably gave his life to help the Braun's escape from tyranny to the United States under a sanctuary program for refugee doctors . He turns up in the latter part of the picture attempting to convince the Braun's that life now under the Reich would be highly advantageous if they returned to Europe . The disconnect blows by pretty quickly , but if you know anything about history , the scene will have you going ' huh ? ' more than once before it's over . However it leads directly to Leni and John Phillips ( Wayne ) reconciling their feelings for each other , thereby allowing the movie to close on the Duke and his girl exchanging nuptials for the happy ending . Followers of John Wayne's early films will note that this was one of the rare occasions that you got to catch the up and coming legend in a jacket and tie ! I've only seen that once before in 1933's " His Private Secretary " . Once in his element though , Wayne's character is pretty much as you would recall him from his early Lone Star and Republic Days , dressed in pioneer attire and ruggedly individualistic . The romance with Sigrid Gurie's character plays a lot more emotionally than virtually all of his prior pictures , and it's rather intriguing to see him remain stoic through the heart wrenching scenes . Gurie was quite convincing as the torn lover between a loyal past and a bright future ; her decision was made somewhat easier by the developments described earlier . One has to assume that the title of the movie represents Wayne's character along with the Braun's , otherwise it doesn't make much sense , though that didn't stop the naming of dozens of era pictures with no connection to their title . I managed to catch this one today on Encore Western's self proclaimed ' John Wayne 101 ' celebration in honor of his 101st birthday . I don't know if the film is commercially available , but it would be worth your while to scour the cable channels for this listing if you're a Wayne fan . It steps just outside of the early mainstream for The Duke , and offers a more introspective character than one is used to seeing in his earlier films .
" You have seen the sign of the fiery Naga . . . "	The fourth in the series of Twentieth Century Fox films featuring Japanese detective Mr . Moto ( Peter Lorre ) opens with jungle stock footage right before aviatrix Victoria Mason ( Rochelle Hudson ) sabotages her own airplane and parachutes to safety in the Cambodian wilds of Tong Moi . The logistics of that plane crash and her parachute landing practically right on top of Mr . Moto on an archaeological dig isn't very believable , but it does set up a fast paced adventure involving native revolutionaries and a secret munitions base . As in the first two Moto films , Lorre dons a disguise for part of the story , this time as an aged Hindu wise man . You know it's Lorre all the while , but it adds some melodrama to the occasion , and he does get to spout some appropriately sage advice to friends and foes alike . There's an early tribute to Lorre's brilliant portrayal in the 1931 Fritz Lang film ' M ' . As the two newsreel reporters continue on their way following the first encounter with Moto , Marty Weston ( Robert Kent ) comments to partner Chick Davis ( Chick Chandler ) - " If I was casting a horror picture , I'd have him play the murderer " . If you pay attention the first time Moto reaches for a carrier pigeon to relay a message to his government contact , you'll note that the cage door is already open . Makes you wonder why the pigeon stayed put ! J . Edward Bromberg adds to the colorful proceedings as Rajah Ali , walking a fine line between Bokor's ( George Regas ) native upstarts and his French government superiors . This time around , in addition to Moto's clever detective work and martial arts skill , he also shows he can be deadly with a machine gun . Unlike his Oriental counterparts Charlie Chan and Mr . Wong , Moto can mix it up pretty well with the bad guys , and leaves a trail of dead bodies in his wake that would make Dirty Harry proud . All in all , an offbeat and different kind of mystery for Mr . Moto , reminiscent somewhat of the much later Charlie Chan film , 1948's " The Feathered Serpent " which takes place in an Aztec jungle setting . In that one , Roland Winters portrays Chan , and scurries around the steamy wilderness in the trademark white suit , tie and top hat . At least Moto looked more comfortable in a safari suit . Oh , and lest I forget , let me get my vote in now for Rochelle Hudson , the actress with the sexiest shoulder of the 1930's !
" . . . there's no situation that science and skill cannot master . "	Those familiar with the background of this movie know that it started out as " Charlie Chan at Ringside " , and was hastily re-cast when Warner Oland died . Keye Luke maintained his role as Number # 1 Son Lee Chan , and Harold Huber appeared as head of the homicide department , similar to the roles he played in a pair of Chan films just prior to " Mr . Moto's Gamble " . They included a New York City police inspector ( Charlie Chan on Broadway ) , and a French police officer ( Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo ) . In this outing he plays it just a bit straighter , though his character gets a little erratic as the film progresses . What was interesting to me was how the film makers managed to get in a reference to Charlie Chan , as son Lee extends his regards to Mr . Moto from his ' pop ' , and Moto graciously praises the masterful work of the senior detective . All the while I was trying to catch a hint of recognition in Keye Luke's facial manner for a reaction to Oland's passing , but that did not materialize . Also interesting , and maybe more so , was the way this film maintained the continuity of the early Twentieth Century Fox series of Charlie Chan films . The movie completed by Warner Oland and Keye Luke just prior to this one was " Charlie Chan at Monte Carlo " , and in that story , Lee Chan had a painting on exhibition in Paris . In ' Gamble ' , Lee is an aspiring detective taking one of Mr . Moto's classes , however officially he's enrolled as a university art student . I always found those subtle and clever inserts into the pictures to heighten my enjoyment of the films . As for the story itself , Mr . Moto becomes involved in the ' poison glove ' killing at the request of Lieutenant Riggs ( Huber ) , and is only too happy to oblige . He solves the crime in a more linear fashion than Charlie Chan would have , with enough clues along the way to help the viewer hone in on the killer - " To reveal a snake one must overturn a rock " . Along the way , ' Slapsie ' Maxie Rosenbloom provides some comic relief as a scatterbrained kleptomaniac , and it was cool to see Ward Bond as boxing champ Biff Moran . There was one element though that just didn't make sense . When it was agreed to lift boxer Steele's ( Dick Baldwin ) suspension so he could fight for the world title , THAT VERY SAME NIGHT ! ! ! , newspaper headlines around the country carried the story ! Just how fast could news possibly travel back in the 1930's ? Hey , when was the last time you could get ringside seats to a main event for $4 . 40 ? Obviously 1938 , but you'd pay more for a hot dog at the matches today . " Mr . Moto's Gamble " was the third installment in the Moto series at Fox , and once again , Peter Lorre blends his insightful analysis and martial arts skill into an effective effort . You might feel at times he's putting up with the clunkiness of Lee Chan and detective Riggs , which is what Charlie Chan would have had to do , but in the end you have a satisfying story that paces solid detective work in a sports setting .
" There , you ought to have been more careful , might have cut somebody with that . "	Alfred Hitchcock's first talking picture leaves one disoriented for quite a few minutes into the story before any words are spoken . There are scenes where people are speaking to each other , though no word screens appear , and this viewer was left wondering if the description on the slip cover of my DVD was in error . However , after reading other reviews of the film , it now makes sense that the film was originally commissioned as a silent , but was then given the go ahead as a talkie . Elements of the silent film style abound , and not just in the opening scenes . Prominent are the full screen facial closeups of the principal characters and the wide eyed demureness of leading lady Anny Ondra . Ondra portrays Alice White , daughter of a shopkeeper and keeping company with Detective Frank Webber ( John Longden ) . An admiring artist who's hand written note requests her presence at a local restaurant leaves Alice searching for ways to break off her date with Frank . I was rather amused by Crewe's ( Cyril Ritchard ) attempt to entice Alice with his etchings ; I always thought that was a lame pick up line , and here it's being used in 1929 . What begins innocently enough quickly spirals into disaster , as Alice must fend off Crewe's advances , and with a knife at arm's reach her defense causes Crewe's death . Shades of " Psycho " , the scene is conveyed off screen as an earlier silhouette shows the couple struggling wildly . That's only one of the Hitchcockian conventions used here , there's also the repeated use of a long stairway , it's downward view a precursor to what we'll see again in " Vertigo " . Getting back to the knife though , perhaps it might have been too shocking for film audiences to accept back then , but after the struggle , Alice clearly displays the weapon , which has no blood on it ! Also , she was wearing only a light colored slip , and there was no indication of a struggle or bloodstains to add grimace to the proceedings . Donald Calthrop is convincing as the blackmailing schemer Tracy , whose bold plan is to extort both Alice and Frank who has been put on the case . The detective already knows who the killer is , his conflicted willingness to help Alice receives an unwitting boost when Tracy is fingered as a possible suspect in the artist's death . Taken into custody by Scotland Yard , one has to do a double take when the police van has to make a stop , and Tracy simply gets out and runs away ! He receives his due though , as he meets his end falling through a skylight at the British Museum . Loose ended plot points notwithstanding , I found " Blackmail " to be an intriguing film and a worthwhile effort from Alfred Hitchcock . It's not well known and that's unfortunate , as this early look at his directing style is peppered with elements for which he would later become famous , not the least of which is Hitchcock's own cameo on a train in the early part of the story . It's also educational , for example , I learned that in England , a police lineup is called an " Identification Parade " !
" To the Rangers ! "	A reasonable enough entry to be included as part of AMC's Saturday morning Western lineup , the film brings together the somewhat unlikely trio of William Holden , Macdonald Carey and William Bendix in a tale of villains and Texas Rangers . The boys start out as amiable bad guys who get separated following one of their adventures , with Jim Dawkins ( Holden ) and Wahoo Jones ( Bendix ) eventually joining the Rangers , while their amigo Lorn ( Carey ) schemes to replace Charley Calico ( Alfonso Bedoya ) as the main desperado in the vicinity of Laredo . As formulaic as Westerns can be , I can't say that I've seen another quite like it before , especially when Lorn Reming does a Han Solo like bushwhack on his former ally Wahoo later in the picture . Even though Wahoo was planning to turn in his ex-buddy , the vicious turn of Carey's character was a sit up and take notice moment . The story offers a few other novelties as well . Alfonso Bedoya gets a bit more screen time here than he did as ' Gold Hat ' in " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " , though he'll never have as great a line as the one about those ' steenking badges ' from that movie . I was really caught off guard to see Ray Teal as Calico's henchman Cantrel , virtually any time you see him in a Western he's playing a sheriff . I don't want to forget mentioning Mona Freeman as the story's romantic interest , first intrigued with Lorn Reming , and then when his true nature reveals itself , casting an eye for Jim Dawkins . Because the story spans a couple of years , her character Rannie Carter advances from a cute teenage cowgirl to a mature frontier woman . Bendix ' character had a great line when they first met - " You're mighty pretty if you're a her " . Though the Texas Rangers as an entity are part of the story , the film doesn't necessarily rely on that connection to work . However it does offer a convenient way for Jim and Wahoo to go straight while their partnership with Lorn falls apart . Of course the ending does submit to a fairly standard formula , but perhaps not in the manner in which it's carried out . For that though , you'll have to keep your eyes peeled for your local cable listings , as I'm unaware of the movie's availability elsewhere .
" A gala day is enough for me , I don't think I can handle any more . "	Marx Brothers films aren't so much about telling a story , rather they are a barrage of gags , one liners and clever vignettes . " Duck Soup " is right at the top of the list of their funniest and most frenetic films . In a loosely developed plot , the country of Sylvania is attempting to steal the war plans of neighboring Freedonia . Wealthy widow Gloria Teasdale ( Margaret Dumont ) will come to the financial aid of Freedonia only if Rufus T . Firefly ( Groucho ) is crowned the new leader . Chicolini ( Chico ) and Pinky ( Harpo ) alternately oppose and side with Firefly's cause . Straying somewhat from conventions of other Marx Brothers films , Harpo doesn't get to perform a complete musical number here , but does get to strum a few piano strings . There are some trademark Marx Brothers skits displayed here , the peanut / lemonade stand routine and the famous mirror sketch that Lucille Ball honored in one of her " I Love Lucy " episodes . For sheer visual delight , pay attention during the war scenes near the end of the film - Groucho's military uniform changes from scene to scene . " Duck Soup " is the most highly regarded Marx Brothers film . Funny it is , as was it's importance to the developing genre in the 1930's . Realizing that it doesn't work for a lot of movie fans , one should at least give it a critical try .
" He must have gone to join the herd . "	The absurdist nature of the film doesn't hide the basic premise of the story - conformity to a herd mentality is to be resisted at all times if one is determined to remain an individual . The rampage of the rhinoceros ( es ) / rhinocerii ( ? ? ) may serve to distract the disengaged viewer , but if you're paying attention , you'll get it pretty clearly . Even Stanley ( Gene Wilder ) , seemingly immune to rhinocerization , in a way falls victim to his own brand of conformity - getting drunk on weekends to escape the fact that he ' can't get used to life ' . My question would be - where did Zero Mostel get the energy to pull off that rhinoceros transformation ? That was a pretty challenging and inspired piece of work . Can you just picture him over at the Bronx Zoo rhino pit evaluating the huge animal's every movement and idiosyncrasy ? They were all incorporated into that magnificent characterization that had to go on for a significant portion of the story . It seemed that even Wilder was entranced by the performance . As for Karen Black , I wonder whose idea it was for her to wear that front slit skirt to distract the audience ? Herd mentality at work , right ? It worked on me , along with those long , leggy shots in every imaginable contorted position . It's too bad she became a rhinoceros too , she had such promise . I had never heard of this movie before until spying the title on one of the cable channels today . The story description hooked me right off , leading me to schedule my day so I could catch it . I guess that could be a submission of sorts as well , but it was worth it to catch the principals in their prime in the sort of inspired lunacy that was considered their trademark .
" It seems so simple the way you explain it Mr . Holmes . "	" Find the murderer and you'll find the diamond " is uttered by Sherlock Holmes ( Basil Rathbone ) more than once in the early going , however the diamond is in Holmes ' possession the entire time . That would be the Star of Rhodesia , a 422 carat diamond , whose ownership over the years has resulted in unfortunate circumstances . The current owner , Margaret Carstairs , has hired Holmes and his bumbling companion Dr . Watson ( Nigel Bruce ) to protect the bauble on a train ride from London to Edinburgh . Carstairs ' son Roland is the first murder victim , and the hunt for the killer and the diamond is on . Director Roy Neill uses some deft sleight of hand by introducing a suspicious elderly couple uttering self incriminating remarks and nervous about the presence of a Scotland Yard detective on the train . When their crime is revealed as a stolen teapot from a London hotel , it momentarily breaks the tension , but why one asks would Inspector Lestrade ( Dennis Hoey ) find the need to perform an official follow up . Come to think of it , everyone on board the train acts rather suspiciously , but then again , that's the point . With a limited cast confined to a handful of compartments on board , Holmes needs to act rather quickly before the train reaches its destination and discharges its passengers . The brains behind the jewel heist is known to the viewer before Holmes breaks the case . Shades of Moriarty , it's a former ally of the nefarious villain , a self styled math wizard , which coincidentally is the profession of another passenger . It seems to me though that Major Duncan-Bleek , alias Colonel Sebastian Moran ( Alan Mowbray ) was established in the film as a long time friend of Dr . Watson . How would he not have been recognized by members of the law enforcement community , including Holmes himself ? Therein might be cause enough for a re-viewing . That aspect aside , the film was intriguing enough to keep this viewer entertained . I have often found the dialog in Sherlock Holmes films to be hard to follow due to a tinny sound quality , though this one fared well enough . The coffin ruse was an effective device as well , keeping one guessing until Holmes pieces it all together . Cleverly done and well recommended .
" I don't know what he's up to , but he's got that Rogers and Hammerstein look again " .	Often , repeat viewings of a movie will reward me with a greater appreciation for it , however in the case of " White Christmas " , the effect may be the opposite , so I might better ' count my blessings ' and stop with today's screening . Don't get me wrong , I'm all for nostalgia , but this one appears to have aged rather poorly , perhaps for no other reason than the passage of time and changing tastes . Probably the thing that works against the film the most is the choice of songs that have nothing to do with Christmas or the holiday season . Yes , there's the title song and repeated lines from ' Snow ' , but what's up with the ' Mandy ' dance number and the ' Choreography ' routine . Rosemary Clooney's Carousel Club song , " Love , You Done Me Wrong " seemed particularly troubling , even though it momentarily fit her situation with the Bingster . Also , another poster on this board had it right about " What Can You Do With A General " - I actually picked up the video sleeve to remind me what I was watching . Apart from the actual story , there's no reason not to admire the talent on display by the principals . To my mind , there's no finer singing voice than Bing Crosby's . Danny Kaye is spirited as Bing's partner , but he does tap that arm a bit much in the later going . Clooney's charm manages to come through her reserved character , but the showstopper if there is one would be Vera-Ellen in that ' Mandy ' routine , watching leaves one almost as breathless as she should have been while doing it . Except for the title and the packaging , " White Christmas " has no claim on the truly great holiday films like " It's A Wonderful Life " or the Alastair Sim " A Christmas Carol " . The only thing I WOULD like to know is if Emma ( Mary Wickes ) ever DID resign from ' Busybody's Anonymous ' .
" Now we'll find out if he's as good a man as they say he is " .	Watching " Santee " on the Encore Western Channel wound up leaving a lot more questions than answers for me on a number of different levels . The most troublesome aspect of the story was young Jody Deakes ' ( Michael Burns ) willing team up with Santee ( Glenn Ford ) following the confrontation and killing of his father . That seemed like just a little too much of a stretch from both sides of the coin . Putting myself in Jody's shoes , and even if my old man was an outlaw , I think at the very least I'd be looking to ride off and be glad I didn't catch a bullet myself . From Santee's perspective , there was always the distinct possibility that Jody could turn on him at a moment's notice , particularly after Jody made it an obvious threat . So there's that . But even before the showdown that took out the elder Deakes ( Robert J . Wilke ) , I was left wondering how much of a bad a - - Santee could possibly be that Deakes preferred to take it on the lam rather than have his gang mount a stand against him . There was ample time and distance to set up an ambush , even if Santee could have taken out a couple of them which would have seemed likely . I don't know , the whole story didn't seem to be set on a firm foundation , and I found myself scratching my head more than once . But it was cool to see Jay Silverheels in a non-Tonto characterization as Santee's friend and hired hand . He showed a much greater range of acting ability than we ever got a chance to see as Lone Ranger's sidekick . When he got misty eyed at the thought of Santee riding off to face the Banner's , I was reminded of that memorable anti-pollution commercial of the era in which Iron Eyes Cody shed a tear for a troubled environment ; seems to me that Silverheels might have been just as effective . And speaking of Silverheels / Tonto , I was intrigued by the appearance of John Hart's name in the opening credits . Though I couldn't pick him out in the picture as the character Cobbles , I was hoping to catch a glimpse of him and Silverheels in a scene together . Not many fans know that Hart appeared in a little over fifty episodes as The Lone Ranger when Clayton Moore sat out a season in a contract dispute . Another puzzling aspect of the picture had to do with the cinematography . As gorgeous and bright as the the daytime landscape scenes appeared to be , they were offset by the murky , almost muddy night time and darkened interior photography . I think a few other reviewers on this board might have offered an insight into that , as this was an early attempt to film with videotape . It wasn't enough to distract from the picture too much , but it did leave another one of those question marks . And for the biggest question mark of all - what was with that song ' Jody ' ? ? ? It sounded so out of place in a Western drama that I had trouble containing a compulsion to laugh out loud . Performed by Mark Lindsay of Paul Revere and the Raiders no less , not the creative association I would have come up with if I were producing this picture . But I didn't , so that's that . Anyway , Glenn Ford fans will want to catch him in one of his final leading roles , but that might be the single reason to recommend watching " Santee " . Even so , I had to wince a few times , that is , whenever he got up on his horse - I didn't think he'd make it . In addition to his arsenal , he was packing on quite a few pounds at this stage of his career . He may have had a feared reputation as a bounty hunter , but he sure was no Josh Randall .
" If I'm gonna die , at least I'll die with the only friend I ever had . "	I've seen this movie three or four times now , and I can't shrug off the feeling that it wasn't anything special . Along with legendary names like Billy the Kid and Jesse James and locales like Tombstone , the historic gunfight at the O . K Corral is one of those events that just keeps getting larger and more infamous with time , certainly far out of proportion to the event itself . Perhaps it was best expressed by one of the closing lines of another Western film , 1962's " The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance " - " When the legend becomes fact , print the legend " . Probably more interesting for me than the actual gunfight itself was the way the movie focused on the relationship between Wyatt Earp ( Burt Lancaster ) and Doc Holliday ( Kirk Douglas ) . By the time they make it to Tombstone , Earp is able to sum up his feelings for the former dentist and gunfighter by calling their friendship a case of a square deal when confronted by brother Morgan ( DeForest Kelley ) . Good enough for me , and by the way , I wonder why no Western about Holliday , at least to my knowledge , ever showed him pulling a tooth . Just wondering . I'll say one thing for Doc though , I wouldn't have minded too much if somehow he might have had an ' accident ' with his gun around Kate ( Jo Van Fleet ) . Wasn't she just plain annoying ? As for Earp's romance with Laura Denbow ( Rhonda Fleming ) , that too didn't serve well to advance the story , and probably wasn't necessary . You know , if you take the major films about the gunfight at the OK corral , " My Darling Clementine " and " Tombstone " come to mind , it appears Earp was quite the womanizer with a different girl in each picture . Just another example of poetic license taken with films like this . Maybe the film's best contribution to the Western genre is that grand walk by the Earps to meet the Clanton's and McLowery's at the OK Corral . It's always an impressive sight , no matter what the picture , whether done by the good guys ( Open Range - 2003 ) , or the bad guys ( Pale Rider - 1985 ) ; even more impressive with the long , black trench coats pulled aside to reveal the firearms underneath . Throw in some slow motion and it hooks me every time . I've read quite a few of the reviews and message board posts on which of the OK Corral movies does the best job from a historic standpoint . It makes me more curious to get my hands on a copy of the last three episodes of the classic TV Western series , " The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp " which starred Hugh O'Brian . I seem to recall that in those episodes , O'Brian's Earp is shown testifying to a court about the events as they occurred , with the show's flashbacks based on those same court records , or at least that's what seemed to be implied . As for " Gunfight at the O . K . Corral " , it was O . K . , but I would have liked for it to have been more .
" I'm not a great believer in doin ' nothing . "	The highly improbable logistics of the opening scene with the exploding stove top sets the viewer up for a fun ride , one in which you don't know what to expect as the opening credits roll . Kevin Kline and John Cleese - is it a Monty Python Western ? Scott Glenn looking like a misplaced Carradine brother . Kevin Costner way back in 1985 - with not a thought of " Dances With Wolves " or " Open Range " in sight . Brian Dennehy , Danny Glover , Rosanna Arquette , you have to pinch yourself over the names that back then weren't household words , but combined here make up one of the more eclectic casts in the genre . It's too bad actually that Cleese didn't have more to do here . His first appearance on screen as Sheriff Langston is so out of place that it adds another layer of ambiguity to the film . I couldn't restrain myself from cracking up over his line after Mal ( Glover ) breaks up the barroom - " I don't tolerate this kind of thing , it's hard on the peace and hard on the furniture " . The on again , off again relationship of the four companion protagonists is nicely balanced with focus on the characters as individuals as well . Kline's character Paden is probably the most rounded , particularly in his relationship with Stella the Midnight Star ( Linda Hunt ) . His final showdown with Cobb ( Dennehy ) relives the classic falling out of partners seeking vengeance and justice in a gunfight with only one outcome possible . Still , the film winds up confusing at times , like in the treatment of Rosanna Arquette's character . She starts out married , feigns a flirtation with Paden , is eyed by Emmett ( Glenn ) , and then winds up without a partner by the time it's all over . There's also the separate rivalries between the good guys and Cobb's men , as well as the good guys and the McKendrick bunch . I kept wondering how all the elements would eventually tie together , but they don't . It seems to me the story's flow would have been better served by a buildup to a single confrontation in the tradition of your standard Western . However I don't think director Lawrene Kasdan was going for standard in his homage to the genre . If you go with the flow of the story , you're better served by the action scenes , gorgeous cinematography , and exciting music score when each take their turn .
" Motive like end of string , tied in many knots ; end may be in sight but hard to unravel . "	" Charlie Chan in Shanghai " opens with a playful Oriental Detective aboard ship entertaining a group of young children , to the point of singing the saga of Ming Lo Fu . We learn Charlie's age in this film as he states to the ship's captain - " Sixty summers young , sixty winters old . " The tone of the film changes quickly though , as a note is secretly passed to the detective : " Shanghai is an unhealthy place for you . If you are wise , you will not leave this ship . " Of course , Charlie Chan does not heed the message , and disembarks in the land of his ancestors . Quite coincidentally he runs into Number # 1 Son Lee ( Keye Luke ) , sent to Shanghai by his firm to look into trade matters . Of course , we never get to see Lee in his official capacity , he's too busy getting into trouble helping his " Pop " . The mystery begins at a testimonial dinner for Charlie . Sir Stanley Woodland , about to toast the invited guest , is shot to death by a rigged jade box meant as a gift for the honoree . Soon we are introduced to a host of characters , including Woodland's daughter Diana ( Irene Hervey ) , her fiancé Philip Nash ( Jon Hall ) , Police Commissioner Watkins ( Halliwell Hobbes ) , and U . S . special agent James Andrews ( Russell Hicks ) . Nash appears to be the fall guy in the early going , as he had unlimited access to Woodland as his personal secretary , and his movements are sufficiently suspicious . But as in every Charlie Chan film , not everything is as it seems - " Spider does not spin web for single fly . " Number # 1 Son Lee tries to get some investigative work done in between lengthy phone calls to a romantic interest named Sun Wong . His effort as a feeble street beggar is actually rather well done , although it obviously gets him into trouble along the way , providing the film's comic relief . Ultimately , we learn that Chan's mission in Shanghai is an investigation into an opium smuggling ring , masterminded by the phony agent Andrews . Leaving no stone unturned and trusting no one , Chan had learned earlier that the real agent Andrews never smoked or drank . The giveaway occurs early in the movie , although the viewer is not privy to the information until the case is solved . In that respect , " Charlie Chan in Shanghai " is rather typical , as the ending brings us full circle to a conclusion that could only be guessed at until the final details are revealed by Chan . Others will disagree , but I regard " Shanghai " as one of my more favored Chan films . It's intelligently laid out and involves the viewer in the mystery with enough blind alleys to keep one guessing . Granted , one does need to overlook the fact that there are no other significant Oriental characters in the movie besides Chan and Son Lee , given the exotic locale . That aside , the film does it's job in presenting a credible mystery on it's way to a satisfying conclusion .
" I beg your pardon , but this murder has been a great shock to me . "	" Charlie Chan in Paris " opens with sufficient intrigue ; a disguised beggar on crutches is suitably mysterious as Charlie disembarks from his plane . Very soon , a rock with a note attached is thrown through Chan's cab window warning him to leave France or his life will be in danger . The strong continuity from film to film in the Charlie Chan series begins here , as there are two references to his just concluded investigation from " Charlie Chan in London " . Arriving in Paris under pretense of a vacation break , Charlie is on a case for a London banking house investigating fraud at the Banque Lamartine . Forged bonds have surfaced with the actual signatures of the bank president and portending a potential bank crisis . The investigation begins at the Cafe de Singe Bleu , where the Chan party encounters the mysterious beggar once again , and at this point one begins to wonder why this character chooses to be so conspicuous . Once inside , Chan acknowledges his partner , the cafe apache dancer Nardi working undercover , and after a thrilling performance she is dispatched by a knife thrown by the beggar in dark glasses . With his contact gone , Chan must now use other devices to uncover the murderer and the bank fraud . It's in this film that the first of the Chan offspring make an appearance ; Number # 1 Son Lee ( Keye Luke ) turns up at Charlie's hotel room following a business trip to Rome , and eagerly entreats " Pop " to join the case . Pop's reluctance is minimal , and Charlie warmly accepts his help . When bank executive Albert Dufresne ( John Miljan ) is murdered , the daughter of the bank president Yvette Lamartine is framed . Believing in Dufresne's complicity in the bank fraud and Yvette's innocence , Chan now begins to unravel the identity of the mysterious beggar , Marcel Xavier . It turns out that the beggar is actually portrayed by two separate individuals , the lush sketch artist Max Korday ( Erik Rhodes ) , and bank teller Henri Latouche ( Murray Kinnell ) . Along with Dufresne , all three have conspired in the bond forgeries , until Dufresne attempted to cheat the other two . It occurred to me as the story ended that this movie would be an excellent candidate for a modern day retelling , as the concept of two different individuals impersonating a fictional character comes across as quite clever . It's different and it works , although the way the fictional character Marcel Xavier draws attention to himself could probably have been toned down to maintain more suspense . Nevertheless , the ruse is effectively carried out , and makes " Charlie Chan in Paris " an effectively entertaining mystery .
" Insignificant molehill sometimes more important than conspicuous mountain . "	Charlie Chan arrives in Egypt at the bequest of the French Archaeological Society to investigate missing relics that have turned up in the hands of private collectors and rival museums . When he discovers the body of expedition leader Professor Arnold in a sarcophagus , the case turns into a murder mystery . Charlie Chan in Egypt does not have as many suspects or red herrings as Warner Oland's two prior films , " London " and " Paris " . Chan allies himself with archaeologist Tom Evans ( Thomas Beck ) to uncover a series of clues pointing to the real murderer , that being an Arnold associate who was in on the discovery of a secret treasure room in the tomb of Ahmedi . Setting a trap for the killer , the case is wrapped up rather cleanly at film's end with not much of a surprise as to the identity of the murderer . The film is notable for an early appearance of future star Rita Hayworth , here billed under her real name of Rita Cansino ; her character is a servant girl Nayda . Stepin Fetchit portrays a black servant named Snowshoes , in a role that is almost painful to watch . His dialog is unintelligible at times , and he gets pushed around verbally by members of the expedition , a racist role that would be widely denounced today . For it's rather exotic locale , " Charlie Chan in Egypt " is not one of the better entries in the Chan series . For completists though , it's a must see , and a not too bad way to spend a quick hour of mystery entertainment .
" Don't apologize , it's a sign of weakness . "	" She Wore a Yellow Ribbon " may not be the best title that this film could have had ; the yellow ribbon stands for a sweetheart , and the movie doesn't dwell on romance , unless it's the symbolic romance of the Old West in the days following Custer's defeat at Little Big Horn . That's where the movie picks up , as Captain Nathan Brittles ( John Wayne ) facing retirement in just six more days , laments the two hundred and twelve dead at that battle , having known many of the fallen . Brittles ' last assignment will be to escort his commanding officer's wife ( George O'Brien , Mildred Natwick ) and niece ( Joanne Dru ) to a rendezvous with a stagecoach East at Sudrow Mills . At the same time , the Captain must avert the sale of firearms to hostile Indians who have come to heed Sitting Bull's call for a holy war against the white man . Filmed in color as the middle leg of director John Ford's cavalry Western trilogy , " Ribbon " is set in Monument Valley , a favored Ford locale . You'll recognize formations from the prior year's " Fort Apache " , and on them rest the year's Oscar for Best Color Cinematography . Wayne's character plays out admirably against strong performances by a host of young actors . Ben Johnson is Brittles ' right hand man , Sergeant Tyree , who offers strong advice for the Captain to consider , even when it's not " his department " . Lieutenant Flint Cohill ( John Agar ) and Second Lieutenant Ross Pennell ( Harry Carey Jr . ) vie for the proverbial yellow ribbon worn by pretty Olivia Dandridge ( Dru ) , and at one point it takes Brittles ' intervention to prevent fisticuffs between the two officers , complete with a verbal dressing down as befits their station in the military . You'd be hard pressed to ever see John Wayne cry in a movie , but he comes close here . When presented with a silver watch upon his retirement , his character holds back tears as he battles the sniffles , choking for the words to thank his men . As was his custom , director Ford sprinkles this movie with moments of comic relief , and the best comes near the end of the film . Wishing to protect Top Sergeant Quincannon's ( Vicor McLaglen ) pension in retirement , only days following Brittles ' own , the Captain orders his men to arrest Quincannon for being drunk and out of uniform . Earlier , Brittles encouraged Quincannon to try on a civilian suit to see how he would look dressed as a gentleman . Seven soldiers attempt to bring him in , but halt in their mission long enough for the sergeant to buy them all a round . With a politically incorrect line you probably wouldn't hear in a film made today , one of the soldiers states " I'd love to throw that big Mick into the cooler " . Ultimately , events conspire against Captain Brittles , as he accepts blame for the failures at Sudrow Mills , and for the Indians acquiring firearms . With the combined might of the Kiowa , Comanche , Arapaho , Cheyenne and Apache putting aside their differences to make war together , Brittles makes a last ditch effort to insure peace by riding into the Indian camp to parley with Chief Pony That Walks . He like Brittles is an old man , and has been overruled by the young chiefs . With the minute hand of his retirement watch showing twelve minutes to midnight , Brittles leads a charge to scatter the Indian horses so they have none to make battle - " No Casualties , no Indian war , no court martial " . The feel good ending of the movie comes when Brittles , riding off into the sunset , is retrieved by Sergeant Tyree , bringing him news of a civilian assignment to Chief of Scouts from President Grant . The closing words of the narrator puts the sacrifices of the U . S . Cavalry into both human and historical perspective - " Wherever they rode , and whatever they fought for , that place became the United States " .
" Your objective is to deal a death blow to the Allies . "	Considering the era and the subject matter , this one is actually quite good . The misdirection with the characters is done in such a way as to keep you constantly guessing , and the revelation of Margaret Lindsay's character actually came across as a surprise to me , even though in retrospect it might have been telegraphed earlier on . In true Warner Brothers fashion , the film capitalizes on patriotism and World War II propaganda to tell the story of spies and counter spies during World War I , a clever enterprise which worked for this viewer . It helped that Boris Karloff was on hand as an undercover German spy operating in a British official's home as a butler . It turns out that Karloff's character Valdar was in fact the German master spy Von Strendler that was constantly alluded to but never introduced , another excellent example of misdirection . The only single element that felt contrived was the insertion of the British flier Frank Bennett ( Bruce Lester ) , who falls in love with Helene Von Lorbeer / Frances Hautry ( Margaret Lindsay ) . The coincidence involved with Bennett being the son of the British official who takes in Miss Hautry defies most laws of probability , but stuff like that is done in movies all the time , so taken as a given , I guess it's not so far fetched . Given the right material , Karloff can be genuinely good as an actor , and this is probably one of his finer efforts . His character Valdar / Von Strendler is genuinely pro German all the way in his portrayal . At least I didn't get the impression that he would turn into a double agent the way Lindsay did in her characterization . This is one of the better ' B ' programmers you're likely to come across , and works well as an espionage thriller . With slight alterations , it could have been a World War II story if not for it's year of release , and on that score , winds up being unusually prophetic after history had dealt it's cards .
" Why you old cinder , you couldn't kill a dead fish with a cannon . "	I must say , " Iron Mountain Trail " is one of the better " B " Westerns coming out of Republic Pictures in the 1950's . It stars a spirited Rex Allen in a tale involving not two , but three competing factions for the rights to a U . S . postal contract between San Francisco and San Diego . The leading contender at the film's opening is the McCall Shipping Lines , using a sea route between the two cities , while the Brockway Stage Line has been feuding with the Sawyer Express Company on land . Allen's character is a government postal inspector , not exactly impartial , who attempts to find a quicker and safer route for the mail to travel . A contest develops between the three companies , with the winner to receive a two hundred thousand dollar contract to deliver the mail . The obligatory bad guy in this piece is Roger McCall ( Grant Withers ) , owner of the McCall Shipping Lines , who first attempts to disrupt his opposition by stampeding a herd of horses needed to make the long distance between cities . Allen and Brockway driver Slim Pickens manage to salvage twenty horses , more than enough to make the run , so McCall gets more deadly . Having the Brockway owner killed and pinning it on Sam Sawyer ( Forrest Taylor ) , McCall positions his captain , Mate Orrin ( Roy Barcroft ) to win the race . Smelling a rat , Rex Allen gets to work , enlisting the aid of Nancy Sawyer ( Nan Leslie ) , while taking charge of a stagecoach riding the Iron Mountain Trail . With Pickens as his sidekick , the pair are unsuccessful as a bad guy posse herds the stage over a damaged bridge and into the drink . But it gets worse - Nancy's father is railroaded by a quick hanging judge , based on public demand for justice and to avert the threat of a mob . Before it's all over , Rex and Slim ( appearing under their own names ) uncover a shady operation McCall uses to staff his ship ; a crooked bartender slips unsuspecting cowboys a mickey and they wind up hijacked . Allen's too sharp though , and rides to the rescue just in time to prevent an innocent man from hanging and to win the mail contract for the good guys - whew ! Rex Allen was one of the few " B " movie cowboys to continue his career in TV . There were Roy , Gene and Hoppy of course , though Allen's character was Dr . Bill Baxter , " Frontier Doctor " for one season in 1958 . As a medical practitioner , Allen didn't get to mix it up much with a six gun , and the stories were so laid back as to be almost boring . By contrast , his portrayal in " Iron Mountain Trail " is energetic , complemented by a no nonsense aim and shoot style with his firearm . Virtually all the movie cowboys came co-billed with their horses . Roy Rogers ' Trigger is the most well known as " The Smartest Horse in the Movies " . By contrast , Allen's mount Koko was nicknamed " The Miracle Horse of the Movies " . Unfortunately , he doesn't perform any in this flick , though he's mentioned once by name . On the other hand , Koko plays second fiddle to a sneaker wearing chimp named Marie in this one . Too bad Marie is owned by bad guy Barcroft , though she winds up on the right side of the law by film's end - you can't make a monkey out of justice , even in a " B " Western !
" You can do a lot of things in thirty minutes . "	I would never have thought that Alfred Hitchcock had a strict Roman Catholic upbringing , including training with the Jesuits . It's one of the interesting things revealed in a special feature on the DVD release of " I Confess " . The movie allows Hitch to explore the sanctity of the Catholic sacrament of Penance , and a priest's holy vow to maintain the confidentiality of the confessional . At times , the way Father Michael Logan ( Montgomery Clift ) remains true to that vow seems awkward and hesitant , casting suspicion on himself as a murderer , especially when it's revealed that he had a personal relationship with one of the church's parishioners before he became a priest . There was one point when I thought Hitchcock was throwing the audience a curve when the real murderer Keller ( O . E . Hasse ) taunts Logan with - " You can't tell them as long as you are a priest , can you ? " It struck me at that point that the look on Logan's face might have had him consider giving up the priesthood , adding even more torment to his dilemma . Of course that was not to be , and rightly , as it would have been a cheap way out . In fact the revelation of Keller's guilt could probably not have been handled in any other way than the manner in which it occurred . But if Keller's conscience couldn't convince him that he was doomed to hellfire for the initial murder , and then setting up a priest for it , how was he going to reconcile himself with the Lord for killing his own wife ? Cleverly , Hitchcock keeps the viewer's attention shifting in different directions ; when Ruth Grandfort states to Father Logan ' We're safe " after learning of Villete's murder , one imagines all kinds of clandestine intimacies between the two . The revelation of the back story clears Logan on that count , but he still remains on the hook for the crime as long as he maintains his priestly obligations . This would not be the only film in which director Hitchcock would explore Catholic themes , his 1956 film " The Wrong Man " would make use of overt religious symbolism in telling the true story of a man accused of a robbery and how his faith was a factor in exposing the real criminal . Both movies are among Hitch's less well known , and hence under-appreciated gems . Both capture a noirish feel that isn't generally a characteristic of his American films , with a sense of uncertainty and discomfort that pervades throughout . Both are recommended , Hitchcock fan or not . While watching , keep an eye out for the poster promoting Humphrey Bogart's " The Enforcer " at the movie house . It too happens to be a murder mystery where we know the identity of the killer up front , as the story's protagonist searches for a way to expose him .
" We have no leader , we're all equal , we're a group of free men . "	The exploits of the Free French Air Force is the subject of this 1944 Warner Brothers Film . It follows events shortly after French capitulation to the Germans during World War II with the signing of an armistice following Nazi routing of the Maginot Line . More specifically , the movie covers the exploits of a band of convicts sworn to France , though paying for their crimes in the jungle swamps of a French Guiana penal colony . Once under way , you'll have to pay attention , as the story is told using a flashback within a flashback style . When we first meet star Humphrey Bogart , his character Jean Matrac is a French press reporter who's newspaper has the guts to call out the government on it's seeming betrayal . As one of the prisoners doing hard time in Cayenne , he's the one considered indispensable in leading his fellow patriots to freedom . Successfully escaping , they're doomed in the open ocean if not for the good fortune of passing near a steamer that takes them aboard . This film might have passed into oblivion if not for the stellar cast , with four principals from " Casablanca " on hand to add a colorful note to the proceedings . Sydney Greenstreet offers an autocratic portrayal as French Major Duval , while Claude Rains portrays Captain Freycinet . Both characterizations are quite similar to their " Casablanca " counterparts . Peter Lorre gets much more screen time here as one of Matrac's prisoner band , a pickpocket and safe cracker by reputation who's portrayal here complements his casting as a smarmy and evil worm . Putting it all together is director Michael Curtiz , rounding out the " Casablanca " connection , though mention should also be made of singer Corinna Mura who is credited here for her role . Trivia fans will note a glaring similarity to a scene from " Casablanca " , one in which Bogie's character and his wife Paula ( Michele Morgan ) share a happy ride in an automobile prior to Matrac's arrest . It's so similar in fact that I'm surprised it was used for just that reason , as if to invite the comparison . Of all the characters presented , it's Bogie's Matrac , demoralized by France's capitulation , who seems a few times like he might waver from the cause and break from the patriots . He crosses his own Maginot line however when aboard the Ville de Nancy , he opposes Duval and later helps destroy a German bomber intent on sinking the ship . The scene was controversial in it's day , as Matrac opens fire on the downed bomber crew after they've been shot out of the sky and then attempt to escape drowning . Though I'm unfamiliar with the origins of the Free French Air Force , it was interesting to see how they performed as a squadron operating out of an English countryside . This account of wartime subterfuge was probably one of the more colorful stories coming out of World War II . " Passage to Marseilles " has plenty of action and isn't as confusing as accounts of it's flashback style might make it seem . Fans of Bogart will relish seeing him back together with his " Casablanca " co-stars , with no apologies for his lack of a French accent . Hearing him say " oui , oui " might have been a real downer .
" Monsieur , words are what men live by , words are what they mean " .	It didn't take me long to get beyond the opening scene's mention of it being 1843 , and the idea that Paul Regret ( Stuart Whitman ) got to walk away from a hanging for killing the son of a ranking official in a duel . After that it's all entertainment value in the pairing of Whitman and John Wayne in a lively Western that introduces additional colorful characters along the way . There's not much chance of forgetting Lee Marvin as the rabble rousing Tully Crow ; you couldn't bet going in that he wouldn't have lasted much more than a few minutes the way his character was presented . Then there was Edgar Buchanan in the kind of role he was born to play as the conniving Circuit Court Judge who gets to see it the Ranger way . I was also impressed by Big Boy Guinn Williams in his last movie appearance , looking a lot older than I'm used to , but delivering the ' real ' Ed McBain in a credible role . The interesting thing about the picture is that it keeps twisting and turning in different directions , and you never quite see what's coming clearly . There's a good mix of action , humor and camaraderie with Wayne playing off his co-stars as well as any picture I've seen him in . And of course , the Utah and Arizona location filming is pleasing to the eye . " The Comancheros " is one of those films that seems to make regular rounds of the cable channels , so catching it shouldn't be much of a problem . It's worth a viewing if you can disregard the historical inaccuracies and concentrate on the performances of the principals . Wayne and Whitman have a great chemistry together , and along with the scenery , Ina Balin does a commendable job as the daughter of a Comanchero renegade and Paul Regret's love interest .
" My dear lady , you must appreciate that this radio station is a great impersonal machine dedicated to the public good . "	After a couple years of searching for the Humphrey Bogart film , " Two Against the World " , it unexpectedly showed up as a TCM offering under the title " One Fatal Hour " , a First National film from 1936 . Bogey's character is Sherry Scott , the man who runs WUBC , a radio station whose program lineup is losing listeners . The owner Bertram Reynolds ( Robert Middlemass ) , is a pathetic executive who calls the shots at the station , but hides behind his decisions by pawning them off on Scott . In an effort to boost the audience base and revenues , Reynolds has the idea of reviving a twenty year old murder case , and offering it as a fifteen chapter radio play . Scott enlists the aid of Dr . Martin Leavenworth ( Harry Hayden ) to write the play and present it on the air . The Pembroke Murder case involved a woman who was acquitted of murdering her husband , the circumstances of which are not made clear . However Gloria Pembroke has married , and is now living as Martha Carstairs ( Helen MacKellar ) , married to a successful banker ( Henry O'Neill ) , and their daughter Edith ( Linda Perry ) is about to be married ( on the same day no less as the radio play is to reveal the identity of Gloria Pembroke ) . About to be faced with the devastating effects of this revelation , Martha and Jim Carstairs embark on a crusade to have the program stopped . Simultaneously , Edith's future in-laws respond by demanding that the marriage not take place . Without revealing the final outcome , the film takes a devastating turn to jolt the viewer . Edith Carstairs confronts the principals of the radio station , vigorously admonishing Scott and the sniveling Reynolds . While accepting his share of the blame for the outcome , Scott partially redeems himself by quitting his job , firing his secretary , and hauling her out of the office , recognizing her for the conscience he once had . With an entirely abrupt finish , the film leaves one as disoriented and unsettled as any movie that doesn't have a happy ending . With about a dozen films under his belt , Humphrey Bogart gets a chance to take center stage here with intriguing results . With no name supporting players , Bogey rises to the occasion by taking charge in the confines of the radio offices , and runs the show as if it was his own . In an interesting bit of characterization , he expresses his exasperation by crossing his hands over his bowed head , predating by a half dozen years a similar effect we'll see him do in " Casablanca " . For Bogart fans , it's a genuine treat to catch an unexpected nuance like this .
" When I get excited about something I give it everything I have , I'm funny that way . "	Mysterious strangers keep popping up at just the right time to aid Vincent Parry ( Humphrey Bogart ) , convicted for the murder of his wife and on the lam from San Quentin . Watching this film requires a healthy dose of detachment from reality as the situations presented all feel like contrivances to keep the story moving along . Now don't get me wrong , I enjoy the film as a noirish thriller , but when unbelievable elements get in the way they have to be acknowledged . The first half of the movie is told in a first person narrative style that has the viewer looking through Parry's eyes , a device necessary to avoid showing the face we'll recognize later as Bogey's own . I've got to admit that after repeated viewings , the film's style has me subconsciously recalling Christopher Walken's turn as The Continental on ' Saturday Night Live ' , and with it an involuntary chuckle . The feeling reaches it's crescendo with the appearance of Dr . Coley ( Houseley Stevenson ) , the back alley surgeon who performs Parry's transformation . Where else can you get your face changed at three in the morning , and arranged no less by a cab driver on a first name basis with the doc ? Why haven't we seen Stevenson in more mad scientist films of the era , he looks perfect for the job . Bogey's third team up with the Mrs . , Lauren Bacall , is probably the one that most dramatizes the differences in their age . One almost questions what Irene Jansen sees in Parry , other than her belief in the innocence of his wife's murder ; her father was framed the same way . Jansen's obsession with Parry's case has her giving him shelter during the post op . Did you wonder as I did why Bacall's character might have had a man's razor in her bathroom ? Consider if you will how inept the authorities were in tracking down their man . Parry really shouldn't have been so hard to find , like Clint Eastwood , he leaves dead bodies wherever he goes . If you pause your video player and proceed frame by frame , you'll notice how the detective who accompanies Parry out of the diner doesn't really get hit by a car , he actually jumps into the side of it as Vincent makes his getaway . I wonder why the scene was left that way , a retake or better editing job would have made it more believable . The one superb casting decision was Agnes Moorehead as the vile scorned woman Madge , a former flame of Parry who epitomizes the description of a match made in hell . Wasn't she great ? That look on her face when Vincent slowly turns the knife on his identity should be acting school required viewing . But come on , didn't she know the window was there ? OK , maybe it was a suicide , but she should have needed a hammer to break it ! The movie's final curtain lowers in a café in Peru , but not the one in Indiana - Bogey and Bacall in a clinch , just the way they were meant to be . One good reason for Bogey to keep talking to himself .
" There are too many rats in this house , they should be done away with . "	I couldn't help thinking about half way through this film - Charlie Chan could have used one adventure like this one ! Played very lighthearted , the film is a hoot that maybe suffers from being a tad too lengthy . An eccentric millionaire with a penchant for astrology has died , specifying in his will that he be entombed in a glass vault and placed atop his mansion which houses an observatory . The will also stipulates that the prospective heirs must stay on site until the vault is completed or their share of the inheritance is forfeit . Enter insurance salesman Albert Tuttle ( Jack Haley ) with an appointment to sell the dead man a policy . Mistaken for a detective , the antics begin when he's assigned to guard the casket . Along the way , he develops an eye for one of the heirs , Carol Dunlap ( Jean Parker ) . Tuttle manages to find himself in a number of humorous if contrived situations , but they are funny enough to earn a chuckle or two . I'll admit , my motivation for viewing the film was Bela Lugosi's name on the credits , but his screen time is sporadic and quite minor , even though third billed . His running gag consists of a tray of coffee purportedly laced with rat poison , which he and maid Matthews ( Blanche Yurka ) are unsuccessful in serving throughout the proceedings . Lugosi actually does appear to be having fun in the role , perhaps allowing himself time to relax while the top billed Haley goes through his paces .
" Well corn my pone and chit my chittlins . . . "	The thing I noticed about thirty minutes into the picture was how complicated the plotting got for a movie from the early Fifties . Not what I was expecting from a title like " The Lemon Drop Kid " , whose title character is wonderfully performed by one of my all time favorites - Bob Hope . Hope is his trademark self most of the time with the snappy quips and one liners , but it wasn't just Hope playing Hope , indeed it appeared that Bob actually got into his character based on a Damon Runyon story . With any other actor , The Lemon Drop Kid might have come across as the smarmy con man that he was written to be , but Hope makes him a likable chap , even when he's robbing you blind . The other major curve that the picture throws at you about mid-way through is that all of a sudden , it becomes a Christmas story ! I wasn't really ready for that , and yet right from the opening sound of " Silver Bells " , it all seems to fit together perfectly around a con game to bring home the bacon for Nellie Thursday's Home For Old Dolls . Hope has just the perfect cast of characters to pull off this grift - Jay C . Flippen , Ben Weldon , and Tor Johnson among others , and it was especially cool to catch William Frawley in a role apart from his Fred Mertz character . I'm not so sure this bunch could have pulled off the caper in real life quite so easily , but I think you can cut the film some slack in that regard ; getting there was all the fun it could be . With any of these older flicks , I'm always on the lookout for reminders of simpler times gone by - how about a hot pastrami sandwich for fifty cents ! Say , I wonder too , if you can still get a salami gift wrapped for the holidays ? There's also the era preoccupation with getting as many profile shots of the picture's leading lady into view as possible . On that score , Marilyn Maxwell's figure never disappoints , strategically positioned whenever possible in conversation with Lemon Drop or Oxford Charley ( Lloyd Nolan ) . After a while I began to wonder why she ever stuck it out with The Kid , but I guess every heel has some redemptive qualities . I don't know if I'd make this a must see every year at Christmas time , but then again , it might not be the worst choice out there . It takes you back to a way simpler time than say , " Bad Santa " , and you won't have to screen out the language for young viewers . All in all , a fun picture and a fine effort from Bob Hope and his gang of usual suspects .
" Maybe she was alright , and maybe Christmas comes in July , but I didn't believe it . "	Shades of " The Big Sleep " , another and better known Bogart film , " Dead Reckoning " may not be as convoluted as it's precursor , but it will leave you asking just as many questions . Can you really come away from the film knowing who killed Stuart Chandler ? By the time it's over we have three confessions over ' who done it ' , and each is patently logical , so take your pick and have some fun with this one . As a cab driver and Army Captain , Warren ' Rip ' Murdock ( Bogey ) makes a great detective . As in " The Maltese Falcon " , when a guy's pal is killed , a guy ought to do something about it . The pal in question is introduced as Sergeant Johnny Drake ( William Prince ) , a fellow paratrooper whisked out of Germany along with Murdock to receive a ' Congressional ' upon his Captain's recommendation . Trouble is , that might reveal his true identity , that of John Joseph Preston , Yale 40 as established by a university pin that Murdock sees by accident . When Preston / Drake winds up burned to a crisp in an auto wreck , the sordid trail leads Murdock to a sultry blonde , a gangster style club owner and a police lieutenant who seems to be everywhere . All the characters seem to be stand ins for more familiar Bogart supporting players ; Lizabeth Scott for Lauren Bacall , Morris Carnovsky for Sidney Greenstreet , and Charles Cane for Barton MacLane or Ward Bond . Sanctuary Club owner Martinelli ( Carnovsky ) even employs an over-sized Peter Lorre type named Krause ( Marvin Miller ) , who's main talent seems to be inflicting bodily harm . Most of the film employs a single flashback told in largely narrative style by Bogart's character , and to a priest no less while he's on the lam from mobsters and the law . It's generally done effectively , but I would have preferred more of the trademark ' Falcon ' repartee from Bogey's character , though there is plenty of that too . The film hits stride when it catches up to real time right outside the Southern Hotel as the German lug Krause belts Captain Kincaid allowing Murdock to beat a hasty retreat ; it's at that point where the movie started . You'll be hard pressed to come across a more chauvinistic description of women than the one Murdock shares with Coral ' Dusty ' Chandler ( Scott ) . In an odd way , she seemed to buy it , the analogy to a four inch pocket pal notwithstanding . The writers seemed to like it too , the comparison was used at least a couple more times in the story . That , and the old ' Geronimo ' line , a not so subtle reference to Murdock's paratroop days . Though the movie's comparisons to " The Big Sleep " and " The Maltese Falcon " are transparent to Bogart fans , how about the short scene in the convertible with Dusty driving and Murdock a passenger ? That one looked like it was ripped from the Paris auto scene in " Casablanca " , though I don't recall Ingrid Bergman tossing her hair around so much . Later , Murdock finds a way to throw in a casual literal analogy - " My bet's on you , kid " . For film noir fans , " Dead Reckoning " is a story full of the old cross and double cross , splendidly told in a way that leaves more questions than answers . By the time it's over , you're invested enough in the characters to be put off balance by the way it ends . Murdock turns out to be every bit as effective as a Sam Spade or a Phillip Marlowe , even if he does have to rely on a bag with a persuader and a couple of coaxes .
" Coincidence like ancient egg , leave unpleasant odor . "	" Murder Over New York " is an entertaining entry in the Charlie Chan series of films , but if you're paying attention , a lot of plot holes reveal themselves to the observant eye . While traveling to New York City for an annual police convention , Chan ( Sidney Toler ) meets former Scotland Yard investigator Hugh Drake ( Frederick Worlock ) on the same flight . Now employed by military intelligence , Drake is tracking Paul Narvo and his Hindu servant , suspected for acts of sabotage around the world . Drake believes that by contacting Narvo's elusive wife , he'll be able to pin down the whereabouts of the master criminal . When Drake winds up dead in the library of George Kirby , president of the Metropolitan Aircraft Corporation , Charlie theorizes that he was killed by a recently discovered poisonous gas called " tetrogene " , administered via a glass pellet that releases the poison when broken . Summoning Kirby to bring all of his dinner party guests together , Chan and Police Inspector Vance ( Donald MacBride ) question those in attendance , as one of them may be the killer . Among them are Herbert Fenton ( Melville Cooper ) , a fellow Oxford student of Drake's , actress June Preston ( Joan Valerie ) , unknown to Drake but requested by him to attend , Ralph Percy ( Kane Richmond ) , the chief designer at Kirby's aircraft company , and Keith Jeffrey ( John Sutton ) , Kirby's stock broker . Kirby butler Boggs ( Leyland Hodgson ) is also a suspect , especially after Number # 2 Son Jimmy ( Victor Sen Yung ) catches him steaming open a cablegram , the contents of which concern Boggs himself . There are some other cleverly planted characters in the proceedings as well . Mrs . Narvo turns up as Patricia West ( Marjorie Weaver ) , and contrary to Drake's suspicion that she might lead him to Narvo , is actually on the run away from her former husband and a disastrous marriage . She's involved with David Elliott ( Robert Lowery ) , principal of a chemical research firm , and thereby a suspect in the tetrogene angle . As with many Chan films , racial comments must be taken in stride with the proceedings . This one offers two glaring ones . When Kirby's black servant is brought in for questioning , he states that he doesn't know anything about Drake's murder , that he's completely " in the dark " . Chan's response : " Condition appear contagious " . Later , following Inspector Vance's order to round up all the Hindu's in New York , Jimmy Chan comments on their arrival with " They're all beginning to look alike to me . " Actually , the scene provides one of the elements of comic relief in the movie , as Shemp Howard impersonates Hindu mystic " The Great Rashid " , but is actually uncovered by the police to be con artist Shorty McCoy . Before the movie's over , two more victims fall to the clever Narvo - his confederate Ramullah , and aircraft magnate Kirby himself . To uncover the killer , Chan , in concert with Elliott , arranges for a test flight aboard a newly developed TR4 Bomber after discovering a poisoned capsule planted by mechanics on the plane the day before . Before it can release it's deadly poison , the Brit Fenton catches the falling capsule in mid-air , revealing that he knew about the plant . Arrested and brought in for questioning , Chan asserts that Fenton is not Narvo . The real Narvo reveals himself when he offers a poisoned cup of water to the nervous Fenton , anxious to maintain Narvo's secret . But Chan was clever enough to be wary of such an attempt , and reveals the real murderer - Narvo now in the guise of stock broker Jeffrey , having undergone reconstructive surgery following a car accident . Now for the plot holes . When first investigating Hugh Drake's murder , it was maintained by the police that fingerprints found in the library did not match those of any of the dinner guests . However Jeffrey / Narvo was present at the dinner party . It had already been established that Drake had one non party visitor in the library , chemist Elliott . If the fingerprints really did not belong to Narvo , then making them an issue was pointless . Also , at the end of the film when Narvo offers Fenton the poisoned water , how did he think he would get away with it with everyone there as a witness ? But going even one better than that , how would a world traveling saboteur like Narvo have the time and wherewithal to establish himself as a New York City stockbroker , it just doesn't make sense . For trivia fans , a few more points bear mentioning . In the film , Number # 2 Son Jimmy is a college student studying chemistry as he comes to " Pop's " aid to solve the case . In the prior Chan film - " Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum " - Jimmy was a law student . The poison gas formula would get reworked in a later Chan film , this time by Monogram with Roland Winters in the Chan role in " Docks of New Orleans " . In that story , poison gas is released from shattered radio tubes in similar fashion to claim its ' victims .
" Live fast , die young , and have a good lookin ' corpse . "	Columbia Pictures borrows a page from the Warner Brothers play book with this 1949 film , but where the WB would present a social commentary and let the viewer decide his own opinion , this film hits you over the head repeatedly with the notion that social ills are the cause of every youth gone wrong . Even Bogart's character , attorney Andrew Morton seems ready and willing to accept a major share of the blame for his client's behavior . Sorry folks , not buying it . Said client , the rebellious Nick Romano , is shown in a number of situations where instead of making the right decision , his choices end up getting him in trouble with the law . Or worse . Having found a good woman ( Allene Roberts as Emma ) to offer encouragement and support , Nick continues to spiral out of control with a hot head and hot fists . That she commits suicide is only one of the more melodramatic moments in a film that won't concede that just maybe " Pretty Boy " Romano is a career hoodlum by choice and not by chance . Bogart's character may not have added much in the way of role model either . When Nick steals a hundred dollars from Morton while away on a fishing trip , the attorney's response is to ' jackroll ' the kid in an alley back in the city , while both are on dates with their gals . I wonder what the attorney / client privilege has to say about that one . Meant to be a breakout movie for John Derek , " Knock on Any Door " is sometimes noted to be his debut film , though he had a couple of credits to his name by this time . Instead , the film further enhanced the directorial career of Nicholas Ray , who went on to create one of the defining films of the mid 1950's - " Rebel Without a Cause " . He and Bogey teamed up once more for " In A Lonely Place " . For Bogart , this one doesn't seem to be one of his better performances , he seems a bit unaccustomed to being on the right side of the law . With limited screen time in the second half of the picture , George Macready as the prosecuting attorney , and Barry Kelley as Judge Drake offer solid support to the courtroom drama , particularly Kelley who's called upon to rein in the opposing lawyers who viciously snipe each other . John Derek plays out the ' pretty boy ' angle right out to the closing frame , a bit unnerving to see him prepare for the electric chair by slicking back his hair one last time .
" It isn't easy to speak the truth once the lies start . . . "	It would be easy to characterize the film as a brother out for revenge Western but it's more complex than that . In fact the movie surprises with a whole lot more attention to detail than you'd expect from a 1950's effort , from Brock's extended barroom brawl to the place names depicted on the businesses of Showdown Creek . I was particularly intrigued by the presence of the Lin Yee Chinese Dining Room , even if the Mitchell brothers never made it there . They thought about it though . What IS standard is the set up between town lawyer Deasey ( Gage Clark ) and Brock Mitchell ( John Derek ) , recently released from the Buckhorn County Jail for killing Deasey's brother in a forced gunfight that occurred before the picture opens . Derek portrays the same kind of hot head he played in 1949's " Knock On Any Door " , his first lead role in company with Humphrey Bogart . Deasey is clever enough to use just about any mis-step by Brock to turn town sentiment against him , beginning with the Tom Williams incident . Brock simmers in a slow boil for most of the story , as more rational younger brother Tracy ( Nick Adams ) tries to steer him to make the right decisions along the way . The pairing of Adams and Derek as brothers was really quite a neat casting decision ; they complemented each other nicely and appeared believable as siblings . More on that barroom brawl - it's probably one of the longest one on one fight scenes you'll ever see in a Western , and it looked authentic from start to finish . You wondered how the smaller Brock Mitchell would come out against Deasey's hired henchman Miley Sutton ( John Smith ) , but there was enough furniture on hand to provide the equalizer . The spill out into the street leading to the buckboard drag is probably the most creative finale you'll see , but then they still kept going at it . You know , I had to chuckle when the fight got started , the first thing to go was the large mirror behind the bar . Watching the picture on the Encore Western Channel , one of the True Western Moments iterated by Bob Boze Bell in between movies talks about how scenes just like that were more the stuff of Hollywood invention than the real thing . As the story progresses , the viewer learns just how greasy a character Chad Deasey is ; say now , greasy Deasey , that works . Not only was he constantly undermining Brock , but he detained railroad man Phelps with a phony letter and indirectly caused the death of Tracy . It was fitting that he didn't die in the movie's finale , but would have to face the music after all the facts became known . Good ending , but did you notice ? - Miley Sutton's small bag of payoff money turned into enough coins on the street to fill a small strong box !
" Death is a black camel that kneels unbidden at every gate " .	Filmed in 1931 , " The Black Camel " sets the stage early for a long string of Charlie Chan films to follow , with it's large cast of characters and murder suspects , and more twists , turns and red herrings than you can shake a stick at . Warner Oland does the honors here as the Oriental Detective operating on his home turf of Honolulu , with an opening scene of surfers testing the waves and offering an island flair to the proceedings . The cast is enhanced by the presence of Bela Lugosi , portraying a mystic named Tarneverro , who's real identity once revealed makes him a prime murder suspect in the stabbing death of actress Shelah Fane ( Dorothy Revier ) . However Fane's past is a dark one , once we learn she's withholding a secret in the murder of her fiancé Denny Mayo three years earlier . Using your own scorecard to keep track of the other players , you'll be entertained and rewarded with the identity of the murderers and victims in this well plotted mystery . Count among them a very youthful Robert Young ( Father Knows Best , Marcus Welby , M . D . ) in his first credited screen role . If there's a downside to the film , it would be the comic relief attempt on the part of Otto Yamaoka as Chan's inept assistant Kashimo . His characterization goes over the top in following Chan's direction , helplessly offering the words " clue , clue " when questioned about his frantic efforts . It would be a precursor to later Chan films when his assistance would be provided by Numbers # 1 , 2 and 3 Sons as the series progressed . Speaking of which , the size of the Chan family is shown at a dinner table , with nine young offspring and " mother " clearly visible . The film takes it's name from the Chan quote offered above . True to Chan tradition , this early film is replete with Charlie's insight and axioms . One of my favorites - " Always harder to keep murder secret than for egg to bounce on sidewalk " . The movie also sets the stage for a familiar device to be seen in later films , the old lights out trick , in which a portion of a letter holding a murder clue winds up missing . Fresh the first time , it would wind up being monotonous and non original as the series progressed . With all of the plot twists and misdeeds fully resolved at the end of the film , Charlie Chan has the last word as clueless Kashimo bursts on the scene one last time with his last bit of evidence . Chan's response : " Too late , save for next case " .
" I can just see it now , blood all over my nice clean floors . "	Get past the unlikely premise of " Gunsmoke " and you've got yourself a pretty good Western . Reb Kittridge ( Audie Murphy ) is a hired gunslinger who arrives in Montana on an as yet unknown job prospect . Unknown that is , except to most of the rest of the town , including intended victim Dan Saxon ( Paul Kelly ) . Heavy Matt Telford ( Donald Randolph ) wants Saxon's ranch , and needs him out of the way so he can take over the entire valley basin . So far , it's a pretty typical set up , but Kittridge isn't biting just yet , particularly since he's already met Saxon's pretty daughter Rita ( June Cabot ) . In an unusual turn of events , Reb wins the Saxon ranch by cutting cards with the owner , now finding himself on opposite sides against Telford . To pay off the thirty day note due on the Saxon ranch , Kittridge must round up all the scattered cattle in the territory , and get it to railhead while Telford does all he can to prevent it from happening . It was more than a surprise to see this film had been recorded in Trucolor , the print I viewed was outstanding . Another surprise was the choice of song by saloon singer Cora Dufrayne ( Mary Castle ) - " See What The Boys in the Bathroom Will Have " , to great applause by the cowhand audience . For a 1953 oater , the film offers some great lines : Jesse White as the Professor ( camp cook on the cattle drive ) - " Come and get it , before I throw it to the hogs . " Bill Radovich the bartender - " Just name your poison gentlemen , if we haven't got it , we'll make it ! " Charles Drake , as Reb's former partner Johnny Lake , later hired by Telford to take him out - " I never did like to shoot my friends . " , in the movie's finale . Keep your eyes peeled for brief appearances by a handful of " B " Western character actors and veterans - Edmund Cobb as the stage driver , William Fawcett as the crusty hotel clerk ( " I can just see it now , blood all over my nice clean floors . " ) , and Denver Pyle as a Saxon ranch hand , all in uncredited roles . As a fan of the genre , I was prepared for a rather run of the mill story here , but it came across as rather well done and entertaining - recommended for Audie Murphy and Western fans of all types .
" In Panama , walls equipped with eyes as well as ears . "	Prior to having his cover blown midway through the film by overzealous Number # 2 Son Jimmy ( Victor Sen Yung ) , Sidney Toler masquerades as Panama Hat shop owner Fu Yuen , approached by U . S . government agent Godley ( Addison Richards ) on the trail of an enigmatic spy known only as Ryner . When Godley dies in Fu Yuen / Chan's hat shop after inhaling a poisoned cigarette , the stage is set for a fairly entertaining mystery , more of an espionage thriller than a murder who-done-it , although the body count does reach three before it's all over . Lionel Atwill provides an enigmatic presence as English novelist Cliveden Compton , though I feel he was better suited to portray Dr . Rudolph Grosser ( Lionel Royce ) , a Viennese scientist and expert on tropical diseases and plague , who is later discovered by son Jimmy to be harboring " Twenty Rats Bubonic Infected " . Compton becomes victim number two in the story , shot by the same gun that the murderer intended to use on Chan himself until Jimmy's baseball throwing right arm properly found it's mark . The colorful cast also includes cabaret owner Manolo ( Jack La Rue ) , Chicago school teacher Miss Finch ( Mary Nash ) , cabaret singer with a secret Kathi Lenesch ( Jean Rogers ) , and Richard Cabot ( Kane Richmond ) , superintendent for the Miraflores Power Contol . With the clock ticking , Chan and son are pressured to locate an explosive device that threatens the Panama Canal Zone planted by agent Ryner . The hunt eventually brings them to a cemetery and tomb of the still very much alive Egyptian tobacco shop owner Achmed Halide ( Frank Puglia ) . In a clever ruse , agent Ryner still under wraps , has the Chan party and himself ( herself ? ) trapped in the tomb while accomplice Manolo plants the device right in the Power Control complex . Shortly after , Chan does a little trapping of his own , as he seals the suspects in the same room with the bomb , until Ryner identifies himself ( herself ? ) attempting to get away . Charlie Chan in Panama rates highly in the Chan series with it's exotic locale , lush sets and atmospheric scenes . Though some of the story aspects are retreads we've seen before and after ( handgun appears from behind a screen , lights out scene to cover confusion ) , it's still done well enough to be entertaining . And the payoff is just clever enough without seeming forced , the revelation of agent Ryner who gives away his ( her ? ) identity with one word - " nitroglycerine " .
" Will please explain presence of one dummy inside another dummy . "	Sentenced to death for robbery and murder , Steve McBirney ( Marc Lawrence ) shoots his way out of court by grabbing a deputy's gun , making his way to an accomplice's getaway car . He prevails upon Dr . Cream ( C . Henry Gordon ) , of Cream's Crime Museum to make him a new face so that he can get his revenge upon Inspector Charlie Chan , whose evidence helped put him away . Dr . Cream was once a successful facial surgeon , who now uses the cover of a wax museum to double as a mob hideout . " Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum " has great atmospherics ; most of the story takes place at Cream's museum with it's macabre displays of famous killers . The set is creepy and creaky , providing just the right tone for a murder mystery . One exhibit in particular portrays mobster McBirney rubbing out a former confederate , Butcher Dagan . Adding to the suspense , Dr . Cream hosts a weekly radio broadcast by the Crime League , focusing on famous unsolved murder cases with prominent guests , hoping to shed new light on old crimes . Chan is invited to participate in one such broadcast , the famous " Rock Case " - Charlie has always believed Rock to have been an innocent man framed for a murder he didn't commit , but convicted upon evidence provided by criminologist Dr . Otto von Brom . Chan accepts the invitation to square off against von Brom - " Knowledge only gained through curiosity " . Behind the scenes though , mobster McBirney is pulling the strings , first having his face rearranged by Dr . Cream , and then having a chair rigged to a high voltage wire that will eliminate Chan when the detective participates in the radio broadcast . McBirney's henchman talks the dimwitted night watchman Willie into throwing the switch at exactly 8 : 20 P . M . , but plans go awry when von Brom insists on switching seats with Chan . Von Brom dies , but not by electrocution ; he's the victim of a poisoned dart , delivered by a makeshift blowgun , and carrying Tonga poison used by Dayak headhunters of Borneo - huh ? The film gradually introduces the usual cast of colorful characters and suspects , notably Mrs . Joe Rock ( Hilda Vaughn ) , out to avenge her husband's execution , Dr . Cream's suspicious assistant Lily Latimer ( Joan Valerie ) , Crime League radio host Tom Agnew ( Ted Osborne ) , and radio engineer Edwards ( Harold Goodwin ) . Victor Sen Yung is also on board , taking a break from his law school studies to assist " Pop " as Number # 2 Son Jimmy . As far as Chan mysteries go , this one is entertaining enough , but upon close examination reveals a number of elements that weren't very well thought out , the first of which is criminal McBirney's escape from authorities at the beginning of the film . Then , when he forces Dr . Cream to give him a new face , it's done with Cream's assistant and the night watchman present to know of the details . One would think a criminal mastermind would be a little more discreet . The Dayak tonga poison ruse comes way out of left field as a murder tool , but no more so than the ultimate revelation of the murderer - it's Butcher Dagan , believed to have been dead for many years ! It was Dagan who framed Rock for murder , and presumably had a lookalike pumped with thirteen bullets by McBirney - how'd he do that ? Now he's turned up as the unassuming radio engineer Edwards to exact his own revenge on Dr . von Brom and McBirney , the films's two victims , and the only parties who might conceivably reveal his identity - other than the ever perceptive Charlie Chan . It's interesting that unlucky number thirteen carries more than passing significance in the movie . As mentioned earlier , thirteen was the number of bullets fired by McBirney into supposed victim Dagan ; and the airing of the Crime League's radio broadcast of the Rock Case was the thirteenth episode of that series . And one more - it's mentioned that Charlie Chan's offspring still number thirteen , although that will change as soon as Monogram Studios takes over the Chan series from Twentieth Century Fox after four more Fox films . " Charlie Chan at the Wax Museum " moves along at a brisk sixty three minute pace and presents a lot of information to the viewer ; keeping a scorecard helps . It does entertain , though one may have to overlook some of the inconsistencies mentioned earlier . But in the end , as Charlie Chan himself would say - " Justice , like virtue , brings it's own reward . "
" Outside a snort o ' hooch now and then , I ain't got no bad habits . "	With a budget of seven hundred thousand dollars , " Dark Command " was Republic's costliest film , and it wound up being their biggest box office hit . It shows too , the production values are quite good and the entire film is crisp and clean . I've been waiting quite a while to catch this movie on one of the cable channels , so it was easily worth getting up early for a four thirty showing this morning on AMC . The intrigue for me was in the casting of John Wayne and Roy Rogers in their only team up together , and I was actually quite surprised to see how much screen time Rogers had with the bigger box office name at the time . Rogers ' character is Fletch McCloud , brother to the story's romantic interest ( Claire Trevor ) for both Bob Seton ( Wayne ) and school teacher turned border raider William Cantrell ( Walter Pidgeon ) . Pidgeon's character is nominally based on William Clarke Quantrill , a Confederate sympathizer who led raids on local farms and Union detachments during the days of the Civil War in Kansas . Though not historically accurate in most respects , the picture does hold one's interest , both for it's historical leanings and certainly for it's well staged action scenes . One of those action scenes is a definite sit up and take notice event . While attempting to escape a Cantrell posse , Seton and Doc Grunch ( Gabby Hayes ) are faced with nowhere to go at the edge of a cliff facing a river . I'm thinking to myself ' no way ' , but sure enough , the pair of horses , buckboard , and the daring duo make their way end over tin-cups into the water in a remarkable display . Now it's not unusual to see similar gimmicks in other ' B ' Westerns , including some of Wayne's earlier flicks for Lone Star Productions , but this has got to be one of Yakima Canutt's finest efforts . I really can't imagine how they got the horses to do that , unless they were blindfolded . Canutt's handiwork is also evident in one of his signature moves later in the picture , straddling the middle ground underneath another wagon as it careens along . Because of the nature of the story and Roy Rogers ' secondary billing , there aren't any songs here , but that doesn't prevent Roy's frequent screen partner Gabby Hayes from getting into the act . Gabby's sort of a jack of all trades when it comes to the healing arts , and he's got a unique philosophy on the practice of dentistry - Wayne can loosen a tooth with a sock to the jaw while Gabby can finish the job by pulling it out . Hayes teamed with both cowboy stars in his career , so it's not unusual to see him here as Wayne's mentor and partner in the opening scenes . Mustn't forget Claire Trevor , who's actually top billed over Wayne . This was their second screen pairing following the previous year's " Stagecoach " which turned out to be Wayne's ' overnight ' success film after appearing in over fifty prior movies , mostly Westerns . Mary McCloud's ( Trevor ) allegiance swings between villain Cantrell and sheriff Seton over the course of the story . I was actually a little surprised that Wayne's character propositioned Mary to run off with him while still married to Cantrell , taking some of the bloom off the hero persona he otherwise conveyed . Not a big thing , but something to think about . Something else I thought about after hearing some of John Wayne's dialog was how patriotic his character was . During an early scuffle between pro and anti-slave factions in Lawrence , Wayne intervenes remarking - " A man born in this country is an American " . That might be the first instance in one of his pictures where he champions America , along with individual freedom and liberty . If you enjoyed " Dark Command " , you might want to try a couple more films with a similar setting and theme . 1940's " Santa Fe Trail " is a take on John Brown's abolitionist movement and it's parallel dissolve into lawlessness , also set in pre-War Kansas . 1950's " Kansas Raiders " deals with Quantrill and his band , and stars Audie Murphy in a somewhat dubious role as Jesse James riding with Quantrill . That story has an interesting cast , but the story itself is a bit of a mess , so if faced with a choice , stick with Wayne and Rogers .
" We each want half of the same romance . . . "	Based on the novel " Love Insurance " by Charlie Chan author Earl Derr Biggers , " One Night in the Tropics " is the 1940 debut film for comedy team Abbott and Costello , although they are third billed after stars Allan Jones and Nancy Kelly . The story involves Jones ' character Jim " Lucky " Moore writing an insurance policy on the too close to call marriage of his buddy Steve Harper ( Bob Cummings ) to Kelly's character Cynthia Merrick . If Steve and Cynthia don't get married , Lucky's firm , headed by his dad , stands to lose a million dollars . Up till now , Lucky has been just that , never having to pay off on a policy , but this scheme gets complicated when Lucky begins to fall for Steve's girl . Night club owner Roscoe ( William Frawley ) finances the policy for Steve and has a vested interest in the marriage going off on schedule , and has his employees Abbott and Costello keep their eye on Steve and Cynthia . As for the comedy team , Abbott and Costello get to try out an abbreviated version of their " Who's on First " routine , along with their Jonah and the Whale story , the mustard routine , and a money changing bit . Obviously , Universal Studios and the fans liked what they saw , as the boys went on to star in their own film the following year in " Buck Privates " . The film takes it's name from the exotic destination of San Marcos where the romantic leads are headed for the wedding showdown . By this time , the tables have completely turned , with Jim / Lucky making his play for Cynthia , and Steve being lassoed by his long time admirer Mickey ( Peggy Moran ) . It's all played fairly light hearted , with a Leo Carillo appearance thrown in for good measure as Escobar , the mayor of San Marcos performing the wedding ceremony , but you'll have to watch the film to know which one . The only unresolved part of the film is what happens to the insurance money - presumably Lucky's firm has to pay off , but by this time it has gone belly up over some bad investments and chancy policies . If it didn't bother the writers and director , I guess it's not that important . The film ends on a final Abbott and Costello gag , discussing the meaning of the word husband - Costello : " A husband is what's left of a sweetheart after the nerve has been killed " !
" I knew that tonight , I'd be afraid of the dark . "	It's hard to separate DeForest Kelley from his Star Trek persona as Dr . Leonard " Bones " McCoy , so it's always a blast to see him in a totally unrelated role . He guest starred in many T . V . Westerns of the 1950's and 60's , but to see him actually playing the lead in the 1947 noir film " Fear in the Night " was a veritable treat . Kelley's character is Vince Grayson , a rather meek bank clerk who has a dream that he kills someone . As circumstances suggest that he actually might have done it , he confides in brother in law Cliff ( Paul Kelly ) , a police detective who at first dismisses Grayson's ramblings , and then begins an investigation when a rain shortened day trip brings them to the scene of the crime . Major suspension of belief is required here , as Grayson locates the house where his dreams took place , and why one asks , would the day tripping foursome seek shelter in an unoccupied house just because of a little rain ? I got a kick out of a goofy conversation on an elevator when DeForest Kelley's character asks if it can go any faster ; the operator's response - " I've got it wide open " ! Long story short - Vince Grayson DID kill someone , but he was hypnotized into doing so . If you just go with the flow , this is an entertaining and provocative mystery , but not to be taken too seriously . The print I viewed on DVD had some annoying cuts and jumps , though it didn't appear that the story was affected . The early narration by Kelley's character had a Peter Lorre quality to it that got my attention . View it for DeForest Kelley's performance , all the more memorable since it's also his very first credited movie role !
" We're scientists , we have to do things we hate , that even sicken us . "	Even without the presence of Vincent Price , " Curse of the Fly " turns out to be quite the effective sci-fi horror thriller , and for me , a welcome treat courtesy of my local library , since I didn't know this third entry in the " Fly " series even existed until today . The picture effectively follows up on events of the original Price thriller , which I remember to this day as one of the all time great horror flicks to leave it's indelible impression on my youthful upbringing . Even if it doesn't have the audacity of ' Pleeeasee , help meee " , I thought the picture did a real fine job of spanning the generations utilizing the original teleporter gimmick . But gee , what's with the whole VE3TTF Montreal / G2FRR London business ? Did the Delambre's really have to go through all that protocol just to talk to each other ? It seemed pretty clever the first couple of times , but wore thin after awhile , and after all , who else would it be on the other end of the line ? But I guess that's part of what gives this flick it's unique character . What's really unique though was the way the picture opens . That was a head scratcher actually , I had to check the DVD sleeve to be sure I was watching the right movie . Escaping from the Fournier Mental Hospital ( nice set up ) , Pat Stanley traverses the Canadian countryside in her underwear until rescued , so to speak , by Martin Delambre ( George Baker ) on his way back home to Montreal . Now think about this - without ever questioning why she might have been traipsing around in her undies , the couple spends a week together before Martin pops the question . Not exactly the best recipe for a lasting marriage , but then again , there have probably been odder scenarios . The fact that you never even see a ' Fly ' in this movie shouldn't come as a let down ; the whole idea of the picture supports the premise of a Delambre legacy that resulted in tragedy the first time around , and continues to rear it's ugly head , or other mutations as the case may be . The creature effects are reasonably daring enough without going over the top , thereby helping to maintain suspense throughout . If I were rating the trio of pictures in the ' Fly ' series , I'd place this second to the original starring Vincent Price . Brian Donlevy is convincingly conflicted and creepy enough to take up the Delambre mantle as he tries to keep his sons in line with the scientific mission . Besides the principals , Burt Kwouk and Yvette Rees are convincing as the loyal Asian servants , but one has to wonder - Tai and Wan - Taiwan ? Who makes this stuff up ?
" I think this American captain is no amateur . "	Not as claustrophobic or psychologically haunting as the German film " Das Boot " , this film is still an intriguing war time drama with plenty of action . Richard Widmark is perhaps too confident in his role as Captain Murrell , as there is rarely the hint that the Americans are at risk , particularly after the clever maneuver to avoid the first two German torpedoes . Even though it made me wonder how naval commanders could be so in tune to their opponents ' strategy , that was one of the elements of the story that kept things interesting right up to the finale . Another reviewer rightly mentioned the point of Von Stolberg ( Curt Jurgens ) consistently returning to a heading of one hundred forty degrees ; steering off course during maneuvers would have required the use of a different vector to get back on track . That had me wondering too , perhaps it was done to emphasize Von Stolberg's intent to remain on course for home port . Alternatively , citing different degree headings would probably have wound up confusing the viewer , so having the two captains stay consistent with the same direction probably made sense . The movie serves as a fairly effective anti war statement , both commanders express sentiments in that regard . Von Stolberg's conversation with Heinie ( Theodore Bikel ) laments that the technology aboard the sub has not only taken human error out of war , but the human as well . Later in the film as the confrontation escalates , Murrell acknowledges the impersonal nature of his mission - " I don't want to know the man I'm trying to destroy " . Both men have been hardened and disheartened by war . It's one of the reasons Murrell and Von Stolberg are able to have mutual respect for each other as warriors when circumstances conspire for them to meet on a personal level . Another point bears mentioning relative to comparisons with " Das Boot " , interestingly , Von Stolberg demonstrates a low regard for Hitler in a number of instances just like Jurgen Prochnow's character did in the other film . In the scene showing the Nazi slogan on board the sub , ' Fuhrer Befiehl Wir Folgen ' , Von Stolberg summarily throws a coat over the word ' Fuhrer ' to demonstrate his contempt . His reactions to officer Kunz , who never misses a chance to glorify the Fuhrer , also indicate that he's no fan of the old Schickelburger . For a production dating back to 1957 , the movie holds up well in the action department , the scenes of the American vessel attacking with depth charges are especially effective , and without the use of computer enhancement . Certainly as picture making technology and realism in film advanced , subsequent movies like " Das Boot " ( 1981 ) and " The Hunt For Red October " ( 1990 ) offer a lot more tension and adrenaline rush . Even though comparisons among them might not be entirely fair for that reason , you can still manage a pretty good thrill ride from " The Enemy Below " .
" Look mister , why can't you leave this intelligence work to us professionals ? "	Every once in a while I like to go into a movie cold , without knowing what it's about or reading the DVD or video sleeve for a quick synopsis . That's the way I approached " Torn Curtain " , along with a preconceived notion that that it might have some similarity to " Psycho " , with the image of a slashing knife going through a shower curtain or some similar parallel . The surprise of course is the play on words in the title that does service to the era's preoccupation with the Iron Curtain , a concept that's already fading to the consciousness of those too young to remember the historic events of late 1989 when the Berlin Wall actually came down . The other surprise had to do with the picture's lead actors , I didn't know that Paul Newman and Julie Andrews had ever worked for Alfred Hitchcock . The early going was somewhat disorienting for me , I just didn't want to believe that Newman was cast as a traitor to his country . That set up was cleverly handled , particularly with Professor Armstrong's ( Newman ) double agent status kept a secret from his fiancée Sarah Sherman ( Andrews ) . As the story unfolds however , it becomes increasingly difficult to believe that Armstrong's mission had any chance of success . Especially after Gromek's disappearance and the recovery of the motorbike at the farm . Speaking of which , I got a kick out of that scene where Armstrong and the farm wife dispatched the German bodyguard . While being strangled , Gromek rather calmly advised Armstrong that he ought to stop because he ( Gromek ) was a trained professional . Like that was going to have an impact on Armstrong's decision to try and stay alive , hmm . Hey , how about the line Gromek used earlier to Armstrong while in the museum - " Strictly for the birds , huh ? " I wonder if Hitchcock was paying tribute to his 1963 suspense film . Overall , I rather liked this film despite it's disapproval with the critics . Curiously , it seems that I wind up on the opposite side of most viewers for Hitchcock's pictures , as I don't particularly think " Strangers On A Train " and " Shadow Of A Doubt " deserve the reputation they have for reasons expressed in my reviews of those films in this forum . I guess that's one of the benefits of going into a picture cold as it were , there aren't any prejudices as to whether one should like the picture or not .
" . . . he who digs a grave for somebody else , usually falls in himself . "	With most of James Cagney's early films , his character portrayal is generally a bit flamboyant , even over the top at times . In " Frisco Kid " , it appears that Cagney found a way to take command of his role with some reserve , as his character rises from itinerant sailor to one of the most powerful men in San Francisco of the mid-1850's . He does it with both his fists and his charm , and at times it's easy to overlook the fact that he's the main villain in the story . The setting is the three block section of San Francisco known as the Barbary Coast at a time when the proper citizenry is just about fed up with the way the local underworld bosses rule their corner of the city . Early in the picture it appears that Bat Morgan ( Cagney ) might actually convert to the good guy side when he first meets Jean Barrat ( Margaret Lindsay ) , managing editor of the San Francisco Tribune . But it becomes clear enough that they live on opposite sides of the tracks , even as Morgan's interest in Barrat becomes more than social . What makes the picture a bit troublesome for me is the lack of accounting for the story's chronology . While Morgan states that he'll build the biggest and most lavish gambling house in San Francisco , it seems like the ' Bella Pacific ' virtually appears in the very next scene . His rise to the top of the Barbary underworld also seems like it happened overnight . Granted , the events are compressed for the sake of the story , but it's hard to imagine how all of a sudden , a sailor takes over an entire town just because he set his mind to it . One might also wonder why he hadn't done something more on a grand scale before arriving in San Francisco , but then I guess there wouldn't have been a movie . There were some interesting casting decisions made for the film , particularly Ricardo Cortez as the suave but menacing saloon owner Paul Morra . Barton MacLane appears as a roughneck named Spider Burke , and George E . Stone is effective as Morgan's best friend Solly Green . It was also cool to see a number of character actors that one usually finds in the era's Western pictures , like Addison Richards , Joe King and Fred Kohler . The one thing that struck me some time into the picture had to do with the story taking place in 1854 . I had to keep reminding myself that it was still a few years before the outbreak of the Civil War , with no context in the story as to what was taking place in the rest of the country . It was just a bit disorienting , especially when most of the scenes played out like they would have been from the latter part of the century .
" Appears to me you've been seventeen kinds of a damn fool . . . "	Movie fans who recall Sam Peckinpah as a writer and director of violent Westerns will see something quite different in " The Ballad of Cable Hogue " . The film , much like " The Wild Bunch " and " Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid " , makes a statement about the passing of the Old West , a favorite Peckinpah theme . Of the three , it's the one with the least amount of blood letting and the most humor and as it turns out , was cited by Peckinpah as his personal favorite . I find myself in the middle on this picture , entertaining enough in it's way , but often times it seemed the story was rambling aimlessly in search of a real plot . Then , every time the director attempted some novelty , like the winking currency or the Keystone Cop run around , I was left a little perplexed regarding the integrity of the story . Actually , it seemed like one of the director's preoccupations here was with outright titillation , with the camera fondly zooming in on Stella Stevens ' substantial assets , along with those close-ups of her strategically placed name badge . The presence of David Warner's preacher character only added to that perception , he of the Church of the Wayfaring Stranger . At least he was right out there with his unbridled lust , but it seemed just a little too convenient that Mrs . Jensen agreed to such comfort in her time of grief . One thing I CAN say with some confidence is that this is probably the finest performance I've seen by Jason Robards . He takes the viewer through a fairly wide range of characterizations and emotions quite effectively . I would like to know though how he managed to get through the scene while washing Hildy's ( Stevens ) back ; on screen it looked like he was in complete control . Anyway , this won't make my list of favorite Westerns , or even favorite films by Peckinpah . I guess it has it's place , but given all the diverse elements in the story , one might ask why the director didn't go all out for genuine spaghetti .
" My Lord , if it's possible to disregard treason , I offer my sincere regrets . "	I'm probably going about this in reverse direction , this is the first sword wielding epic of Errol Flynn I've been able to watch . As such , I can't make the comparison against the athleticism and youthful enthusiasm of his earlier films as others on this forum have competently done . For me , the adventure played out decently enough , as Flynn's character Jamie Durie needed a cat's nine lives worth of luck to make it through the picture . He always appeared to bounce back after being shot , stabbed , or sworded , and rebounded just as mightily from the travails of his lost loves in the picture . Would that his personal life had gone as smoothly . Roger Livesey's Colonel Burke was the surprise of the movie with his scene stealing manner and discourse . Without the accent he would have made a great sidekick in Flynn's Western films . Following an introduction that might have come to blows , Burke proves to be a loyal accomplice to Durie's schemes , whether escaping from the British or hijacking a pirate ship . Warner Brothers ' Technicolor format holds up quite well today and has that vivid look and feel of early color films , even though some of the renditions look a bit out of place . It reminded me of theater experiences back in the Fifties and early Sixties when most TV shows were still being done in black and white . On the strength of this film , I'm encouraged to seek out Errol Flynn's earlier swashbuckling efforts , most notably " The Adventures of Robin Hood " and " Captain Blood " . Approaching fifty years since the actor's death , Flynn's personal legacy remains one of the most mysterious and convoluted histories that Hollywood has to offer .
" I got it in me , you put it there . "	I don't know how movie goers in the Fifties reacted to this film , but viewing it today makes the events in the story seem pretty preposterous . Not that it didn't have it's moments of psychological drama and tense confrontation , but it seems to me that Dan Hilliard ( Fredric March ) and daughter Cindy ( Mary Murphy ) had way too much freedom to go about their normal routines without attempting to reach out for help . Granted there was the element of danger to the remaining family members , but the do nothing approach of playing along with gangster Glenn Griffin ( Humphrey Bogart ) and his cohorts wore thin on me as the story unfolded . Back that up with all of the unsupervised time that Ellie ( Martha Scott ) and son Ralph seemed to have , it just left me wondering why they didn't take advantage of all the windows and doors in their large suburban home . As an experienced con , Griffin didn't seem to have that much control over brother Hal ( Dewey Martin ) and the big lug Kobish ( Robert Middleton ) . That was most evident in the back to back scenarios where each refused to give up his gun to the boss . Allowing Hal to leave was another tactical mistake , at least he could have left his weapon . For all his macho bravado , Griffin wasn't thinking very clearly . Even boyfriend Chuck managed to bother me ; why take the hard line stance with the Feds when they're about to break the case ? Getting to the Hilliard home before even one police car arrived also seemed to defy credibility . Credit Fredric March for rising above the source material to provide a reasonably compelling performance as the put upon Ward Cleaver stand in . Now there's a thought - with the film shot using the same exterior set as the one used in " Leave It To Beaver " , wouldn't it have been great to see the Beav put one over on the Griffin's and Kobish ? OK , I seem to be getting unduly harsh on " The Desperate Hours " . I guess the best way to view the film is to tuck away the criticism and get caught up in the flow of the story . In his last gangster turn , Bogey's still credible as a movie tough guy , and wired about as hair trigger as Duke Mantee , Baby Face Martin and Mad Dog Earle . This was the only time he and March appeared in a film with each other , and their scenes together are stand out .
" I have come to claim what was taken from me " .	I always liked Burt Reynolds , but have generally seen him in self effacing roles that allow his humorous and devilish side come through ; that's probably why " The Longest Yard " is my favorite Reynolds film . I think he handles his movie Western roles well enough , but it's not the genre I prefer seeing him in . In " The Man Who Loved Cat Dancing " , Reynolds ' character is a driven man on the trail to retrieve his two children from a Shoshone tribe , left behind we come to learn , after he killed the man who raped his wife , the ' Cat Dancing ' character of the film's title . That he also killed his Indian bride in a jealous rage is a point that seems to be glossed over in the story , and doesn't square with the sense of honor and justice that Indian tribes maintain for their own personal conduct . I was left wondering why Jay Wesley Grobard ( Reynolds ) was even allowed to return to the Shoshone camp , and once there , why he wasn't called on to atone for his past . In fact , Grobard wasn't even an honorable character at the start of the movie , but a train robber who's gang is disrupted by the intrusion of a woman on the run from her husband . The story's twist is that her own name is Catherine / Cat , thereby completing the connection with the title character . Of course , Catherine's ( Sarah Miles ) husband hires on a tracker ( Lee J . Cobb ) to find his wife who he believes is kidnapped . You never get the impression that Crocker ( George Hamilton ) isn't a decent enough guy in his own right , only that his wife doesn't love him enough to want to stay married . With Grobard's gang , Catherine gets more than she's bargained for , having to fend off the lecherous likes of Bo Hopkins ' Billy , and Jack Warden's Dawes . Dawes in particular turns out to be the vile snake of the bunch , just check how many kidney shots he gives to old Billy Boy . Reflecting back on that now , the arrival of Catherine turns out to be the undoing of just about everyone in the picture . It was cool to see Jay Silverheels in one of his last movie roles , but gee , they went kind of heavy on the old warrior makeup to portray him as Shoshone Chief Washaki . The Chief had one of the better lines in the picture as he parleyed with Grobard - " The cigar was one of the white man's good ideas " - an interesting observation . But probably the best was Billy's description of Catherine after she cleaned herself up on the trail - " Well , if she don't look as fresh as a daisy next to an outhouse " ! What wonderful imagery .
" A son becomes the father , and a father becomes the son . "	With an initial smattering of information about " Superman Returns " , mostly positive , I had a pretty good feeling about going to view it today . Though it fills the bill as an action packed super hero adventure , I came away with a sense of dissatisfaction after it was all over . This may have to do with a classic view I have of the ' Man of Steel ' , developed in the late 1950's / early 1960's during comics ' Silver Age . My biggest question about the film would be - Where was DC Comics regarding it's own established continuity ? I recall what a big deal it was during the late 1990's when DC gave their blessing to the marriage of Lois Lane and Clark Kent in " Lois & Clark : The New Adventures of Superman " . The TV wedding coincided with the comic book wedding even though the details differed , and it appeared to be an official part of DC continuity . In this film , even though Lois is not yet Mrs . Richard White , neither is she Mrs . Superman . Complicating matters further , Lois is raising a son , later revealed summoning up some super strength of his own in a real eyebrow raising scene . I've been away from the comic book stories for over a decade , but this one was more than a surprise . Other concerns have to do with the kryptonite issue , in more ways than one . When Luthor ( Kevin Spacey ) stabs Superman , I can allow for his weakened state to be affected by the injury , but the uniform is supposed to be impenetrable . And after getting out of that jam , how is it Supes can carry off Luthor's man made island into space with shards of kryptonite just inches from his face ? Not to be entirely critical , there were some great effects , starting with the rescue of the space shuttle launch ship by gently landing it in the baseball stadium . When the crowd jumps to their feet to applaud the save , it was a great reaction to the return of Superman . For his part , Brandon Routh did a credible job of filling Superman's cape , with effective gestures and mannerisms recalling the late Christopher Reeve . Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane - too young . Parker Posey as Kitty - unnecessary . Sam Huntington as Jimmy Olsen - just the right goofy look without being goofy . Frank Langella as Perry White - ' Great Caesar's Ghost ! ' , he had a ' Superman Dead ' headline ready to go just in case . So much for believing in your city's hero . Speaking of which , Metropolis is definitely established as a coastal city in the film . I had always believed it to be a stand in for New York , though the early comic stories placed it in the Midwest . As for Lex Luthor , I thought Kevin Spacey scored a few points over Gene Hackman , probably putting me in the minority . He played it with just the right balance of humor and malice , and the scene where he works over Superman is pure evil . The cameos by Noel Neill and Jack Larson - just the best way to pay tribute to veterans of an era gone by . Perhaps my best takeaway of the film were the scenes that to me appear to be directly inspired by the artwork of Alex Ross . Fans of Ross will know what I'm talking about , those subtly shaded and back lit scenes , particularly with Superman hovering erect in flight with leg bent and contemplating his place among mere mortals . Without actually knowing it to be true , I would bet that Bryan Singer was influenced by Ross ' depiction of the majestic Superman . All in all , " Superman Returns " is a worthwhile film experience , but if you've invested a lot of personal energy into the Superman mythos , you may come away dissatisfied and scratching your head . Even so , you ought to be reasonably happy that a man can fly once again .
" Fellow jack-asses - - and ladies ! Lend me your long ears . "	Most of the silent films I've seen have been serious in nature , so it was fun to see one with a comic touch . The setting and some of the scenes for " The Beloved Rogue " were reminiscent of 1923's " The Hunchback of Notre Dame " relative to the Paris street scenes and the celebration of the ' King of Fools ' . John Barrymore portrays France's greatest poet Francois Villon in a characterization that ranges quite broadly from virtual slapstick to romantically tender ; that ' water into wine ' bit early in the picture was rather amusing . It seems that times never change , and it's interesting to see the movie make a cogent observation nearly a century ago - Paris has it's fool to reign for one night , while everywhere else has one all the time . How true . The appearance of Conrad Veidt in the film was a little surprising for this viewer , I've only seen him as Major Strasser in " Casablanca " , oddly one of his very last movies . As King Louis XI , he's a monarch obsessed with astrology , crafty but suspicious , and it was a bit unnerving to see how closely he resembled Brad Dourif's Wormtounge character from the final chapter of the ' Lord Of The Rings ' trilogy . Not exactly exuding the confidence a King of France might be expected to bear . Which is why the ascendancy of Burgundy's duke ( Lawson Butt ) seemed all the more plausible , until Villon rises to the occasion to put one over on both rulers . I found it interesting that the use of inter-title cards was exceedingly spare , used only when absolutely necessary to advance the story . Without them though , one would have missed a curious nugget . It seems Villon carried out his exile from Paris at the Hostel of the Lame Flea ! The print I viewed was of exceptional quality , the very first film presented in a one hundred Action and Suspense movie DVD set from Mill Creek Entertainment , that's saying something for a film that's now eighty years old . It's great that movies from the silent era are now finding a wider distribution in this type of commercial format , making them accessible to an entirely new generation of movie lovers . One question - did it seem like Conrad Veidt's King Louis picked his nose on purpose , or as an inadvertent gesture that simply remained safe from the cutting room ?
" Kill the brain and you kill the ghoul " .	A threatening musical score counterpoints a tranquil country road setting in the opening scene of " Night of the Living Dead " ; that road appropriately leading to a cemetery . Very soon , a childhood torment becomes a reality as brother Johnny repeats to his sister - " They're coming to get you Barbra . . . " The first undead creature they encounter results in tragedy , as Johnny stumbles and cracks his head on a stone . Barbra ( correct spelling as listed in the credits ) for her part breaks the first rule of zombie escape as she heads for a confined space , a lonely country home in the middle of nowhere . We learn that others have beaten her there , having retreated to safety in the wake of mass revivals of dead corpses , the story gradually revealed via a series of radio and television broadcasts . Apparently , radiation on an earthbound satellite that was part of a Venus probe has triggered some kind of awakening in the brains of the recently deceased . The victims have become a " virtual army of unidentified assassins " , having a penchant for the flesh of living human beings . It would be easy to dismiss NOTLD as a trash zombie flick , but if you follow it closely , an intelligent exposition of the story transcends the film's limited budget and it's skimpy production values . In fact it's the dark and grainy aspect of the movie that gives it a character and a step up on the typical " B " grade horror flicks of the preceding era . The classic scene of the nighttime advancing corpses is one that will stay with you long after the movie is over . The movie maintains it's story line consistency as well ; when the Cooper's young daughter succumbs to her illness and dies , she comes alive hungry for human flesh and without regard for her closest target , dear old mom . In turn , Helen Cooper comes back none the worse for wear after young Gina hands her a thrashing in spades . As the zombie horde finally breaks into the farm house , protagonist hero Ben barricades himself in the cellar against his own earlier advice , killing the Cooper's a second time , as advised by news reporters covering the countrywide phenomenon - " Kill the brain and you kill the ghoul " . It's the little things that writer / director George Romero pays attention to as well that make this a horror classic . Remember brother Johnny - well he shows up later in a quick cameo as a member of the zombie horde , returning for his sister . I recall how " Night of the Living Dead " created a stir upon it's original release in 1968 . Now almost forty years later , movie making technology has advanced to the point of leaving virtually nothing to the imagination . But your first glimpse of the bloody skeletal head at the top of the stairs in NOTLD is the kind of image that nightmares are made of , after your imagination takes over .
" Counterfeit Feds , must be very expensive .	The ' blood on the hands ' opening sequence along with the movie's title virtually assures a successful hostage resolution by the time it all ends . This time out , Bruce Willis shows some vulnerability that wasn't as apparent in his yippie-ki-yay Die Hard days , and it works for the most part . Still , you have to work through some of the less believable elements of the story , like why wouldn't Walter Smith's gazillion dollar home security system have audible and flashing alarms along with all those monitors . Well maybe next time . If you've seen enough modern day action thrillers you had to know that the three young toughs out for a joyride wouldn't wind up as part of the main plot . Smith ( Kevin Pollack ) telegraphs that one when he burns the " Heaven Can Wait " disc - appropriate title . Another good one would have been " Up In Smoke " . The mob connection of the bad guys was never made really clear , so one wonders whether all of them were taken out by Willis ' Jeff Talley character , or was there someone calling the shots from an even higher level . Leaves room for a sequel , don't you think ? Granted , it's not an award winner and you know how it will end from a mile off , but the thrill is in the build up and tension along the way and that counts for something . One thing I DIDN'T see coming was that slip of the knife into the face of Mars ( Ben Foster ) , even on film that hurt . It's all played out pretty much to the standard Bruce Willis formula , and I've enjoyed his work all the way back to the Blue Moon days . Kick back without your thinking cap on , and everything will be OK .
" The road to Santa Fe was on iron rails to Kansas , and pure nerve from there on . "	" Santa Fe Trail " only nominally lives up to it's title , serving as a backdrop to it's story of abolitionist John Brown ( Raymond Massey ) and his zealous mission to ban slavery in pre Civil War America . Most of the action takes place in ' Bloody Kansas ' , still a territory in 1854 and home of Fort Leavenworth , the U . S . Army's most dangerous outpost . It's where hot headed members of West Point's graduating class of the same year wind up being assigned , including J . E . B . Stuart ( Errol Flynn ) of Virginia and George Custer ( Ronald Reagan ) of Ohio . Though the military men would find themselves on opposite sides in the Civil War , the film finds itself in the middle , straddling the line of dedication to duty and leaving matters of policy to civil authority . Depending on one's point of view , that's either noble or a cop out , as the soldiers face no moral quandaries . Their mission is simply to bring John Brown to justice , dead or alive . It's interesting to reflect on the film from a historical perspective today , some sixty six years after it was made , while only seventy five years after the end of the Civil War . The portrayal of blacks in movies often found single characters in subservient or comedic roles , but here a slave family on the way to freedom is portrayed as human , terrified of confrontation aboard a train bound for still neutral Kansas Territory . Their plight is given even more meaningful resonance later in the film when John Brown finds he must leave Kansas to avoid capture . " Does just sayin ' so make us free . . . ? " one of the former slaves wonders , fearing he may not be equipped for that privilege . Historical inaccuracies aside , I found the film to be exciting and entertaining , assembling many of Warner Brothers ' stars and stock players , along with masterful director Michael Curtiz . Flynn and Reagan generally share equal screen time , vying for the attention of Kit Carson Holliday ( Olivia DeHavilland ) , whose father Cyrus ( Henry O'Neill ) lends credence to the story's backdrop financing the construction of the Santa Fe Railroad . As in the same year's " Virginia City " , Flynn is supported by those two flat footed rum-pots , Guinn " Big Boy " Williams and Alan Hale , whose comedic camaraderie is injected at just the right moments . However when the spotlight is on Raymond Massey , it's difficult to turn away ; the energy and zeal he brings to the character of John Brown is totally absorbing . His performance is reminiscent of an earlier portrayal , that of the unwavering protagonist Cabal in the 1936 film " Things to Come " . I'm surprised it took me so long to get around to " Santa Fe Trail " , since it's a public domain staple and available virtually everywhere as a single film or in compilation with other Westerns . For those who find it enjoyable , I'd also recommend " They Died With Their Boots On " , another Errol Flynn feature in which he's cast as General George Armstrong Custer . He gives Custer some of the flamboyance and arrogance that the history books recall , traits not acknowledged in Ronald Reagan's take on the character .
" Out of my way , I'm a Harvard man ! "	What a great team-up - my favorite ' B ' Western movie cowboy , Roy Rogers , getting together with probably my favorite all time humanitarian , Bob Hope . Adding Jane Russell to the mix was just the icing on the cake for this zany and off beat comedy Western . And before I forget , this has GOT to be Trigger's finest performance , always billed as ' The Smartest Horse in the Movies ' - but here he does it all . He dances , runs up and down stairs , and even gets to do a bedroom scene with Bob Hope . Wait a minute , that didn't really come out right , but yes , it WAS a bedroom scene , and it was just hilarious . Can't give it away though , you'll just have to watch it for yourself . You really have to keep an eye on Roy every time he has an encounter with Junior Potter . It looks like he doesn't really know how to take him , so just kind of grins and goes along with the master . Case in point , the saloon scene when Roy sets his guitar up on the bar ; Hope's rejoinder - " Aren't you glad you wrote that letter to Santa ? " You know , I had a Roy Rogers guitar once , maybe even got it from Santa . The story itself is probably secondary to all those great Hope quips and one liners . His scenes with Jane Russell sizzle in a way only Hope could provide , and I get just the biggest kick out of his brand of humor . I could never miss one of his TV Christmas specials entertaining U . S . Troops around the world ; even now I think back on those shows with great fondness . The bonus here of course is that the film was done in color , and the newly restored print on the five DVD , ten film ' Legends of Hollywood ' set looks just great . So you have all those colorful outfits on Roy looking splendid , and Russell looking especially sexy in her singing number at the Dirty Shame Saloon . Even with the all black outfit , she cuts quite an impressive sight as the story's lead villain . And you couldn't help but laugh every time Bob came out in that over the top floor length coat with the huge ' H ' on it . It might have stood for ' Harvard ' , but in one of those great coincidences where fact and legend collide , it could just as well have stood for Hope !
" He stole my watch , my girl and my car . . . , yeah , serves him right . "	It's always a good feeling when a movie delivers the goods when you weren't expecting it . The Dead End Kids / Bowery Boys found themselves in a lot of uneven films , and usually did better when in a support role , as in " Angels With Dirty Faces " . Here , their presence as a backdrop to the story of a boxer framed for murder gives them a lot of screen time without distracting from the main action . John Garfield is light heavyweight champion Johnny Bradfield , a southpaw hitter who's a lot different from the image he portrays to the sports world and the press . When a newspaper reporter inadvertently learns that Johnny's a party loving womanizer , his plans to spill that information in a column is interrupted by a whiskey bottle to the head from Johnny's manager Doc Ward ( Robert Gleckler ) . In turn , Doc talks Johnny's girlfriend Goldie ( Ann Sheridan ) into running off with him to avoid the legal hassle of dealing with the reporter's death . As both flee , a police chase winds up in a fiery car wreck , and Doc's body is misidentified as Johnny from the gold watch he was wearing . Claude Rains adopts an Edward G . Robinson sneer that doesn't quite work as a detective who's been reassigned to morgue detail after a bad arrest years ago . His character is Monty Phelan , and he has a pretty good hunch that the body in the car crash wasn't Johnny . He pesters his boss to hand over the closed case to him , and is given the assignment to get him out of town and out of the way . Meanwhile , Johnny looks for advice from his lawyer , and winds up being screwed even worse when he gets conned for most of his ten thousand dollar savings . Making his way cross country , Johnny winds up at the Rancho Rafferty Date Farm in Arizona , run by a crusty Granny Rafferty ( May Robson ) . The farm is the legacy of Granny's brother , a deceased priest from Brooklyn , and is now the home of a band of rag tag street boys ( The Dead End Kids ) who work the farm . Billy Halop is the nominal leader of the boys in this one , and his sister Peggy ( Gloria Dickson ) becomes the romantic interest for Johnny , now going by the name of Jack Dorney . I get a kick out of the historical perspective offered in these pre-War era films . When Johnny and the boys take a joy ride in the farm's truck , they fill up at a gas station for a $1 . 28 ! Tommy ( Halop ) gets the idea that a gas station on the farm would be a good way to earn some extra money , and with that thought , Jack Dorney decides to take on a barnstorming boxer offering $500 a round to anyone who can stay in the ring with him . The clichéd premise is turned on it's ear somewhat when Jack gets knocked out in the fifth round , but by then he's earned enough to give the fruit farm a fighting chance of it's own . Maybe Grandma Rafferty should have been in the ring , she just about took out everyone sitting around her at ringside . As Johnny / Jack comes around in the locker room , Detective Phelan is on hand to take him into custody . Knowing that he can redeem his reputation with this collar , it's a toss up as to whether Phelan follows through on his arrest - you'll have to watch the film to find out . I like the Dead End films where Leo Gorcey's in charge , but he doesn't have a lot to do in this one . However he does a great film flam on the ticket taker at the gate of the boxing match . Another thought - wouldn't it have been great if the ever present picture on the wall of the priest had been that of Pat O'Brien ? All in all , this is a pretty good entry in both the John Garfield and Dead End Kids filmography , and an entertaining way to spend an hour and a half . If there's one downside , it's not enough screen time for pretty Ann Sheridan . The film might have wound up even more satisfying if the roles of Sheridan and Gloria Dickson were reversed , as the on screen chemistry between Dickson's Peggy and Jack seemed more forced than natural .
" Only an imbecile could have won this war , and he did . "	I find myself with mixed feelings and in the middle on this flick . It has it's funny moments , but overall I found myself looking for more in the way of satirical dialog and inspired sight gags . For Peter Sellers , his first starring film role was a good warm up for the characters he would portray in 1964's " Dr . Strangelove " , a much bolder and biting vision of Cold War hysteria . The Museum of Ancient Tortures is merely a blip on the screen compared to the ironies of Strangelove's ' War Room ' . For me , the movie more than anything was a neat time capsule reminder of life almost a half century ago , with America's population ' only ' a hundred seventy five million , the Yankees defeating the Milwaukee Braves ( remember them , Warren Spahn and Lou Burdette ) in the World Series , and another British film " Look Back In Anger " making the rounds in theaters . The Sellers character Montjoy did get my attention with a clever line about a prospective international ally - " It's not from Red China , it's from the other one . " Perhaps in keeping with the movie's subdued satire , the construction of the Q-Bomb as a gadgetized football helped with it's symbolism as an object to be precariously balanced among the world powers . You just knew that at some point the game would have to be played out in gridiron fashion , to be capped by Tully's goal line heroics . Chalk one up to Columbia Pictures for a bit of unabashed self promotion ; when the Grand Fenwick welcome home reception got under way , there was a momentary glimpse of a reveler carrying a hand made sign with the declaration - ' Hail Columbia ' ! I caught the film today on Turner Classics , and one of the trivia bits revealed was how much Peter Sellers admired the work of Sir Alec Guiness as an actor . Sellers was inspired by Guiness ' 1949 film " Kind Hearts and Coronets " , in which the British icon portrayed eight different characters . In that regard , Sellers does an admirable job and always keeps you guessing with his versatility .
" Look , don't fool with the fun flute unless you check with the master . "	Lots of great sound and sight gags in this one ; credit Paramount Pictures with a willingness to take it's share of shots ( along with Bing's brother Bob ) in the story along with allowing the boys to do those clever asides and comments directly to the viewer . The inclusion of cameos by Martin and Lewis in Lala's dream scene , Bogey's " African Queen " swamp scene and Jane Russell's appearance at the end of the picture all add touches of whimsy to the film , and help us baby boomers take part in a little nostalgia . The flick even managed to work in the era's fascination with gorillas a couple of times . If you're thinking the story doesn't have much in the way of reality going for it , I wouldn't be too critical . Abbott and Costello's movies didn't either and they got along just fine . In fact , I was surprised by how accurate they got the ' boga-ten ' squid scene , the creature wasn't too much different from the one I saw on the National Geographic Channel a few nights ago . Except for the exaggerated giant eye and the triangular tipped tentacle , Hope's ' deep sea claw machine ' looked pretty authentic , right down to it's red coloration - who would have thought ? Keep a close watch in the scene near the end when the tribal chief orders a twenty one gong salute , you can catch the bell sounding before it's hit ! Modern audiences may not have the patience for " Road to Bali " or the antics of legends like Hope , Crosby and Lamour , but I'll never get tired of their work . It's been a while since I've seen any of the other ' Road ' films , but today's viewing of Bali was a reminder of just how much fun they were . I think it's time to look those up once again .
" I'm broke without a woman and you're rich without a man . "	The word " Bandolero ! " rolls off the tongue so nicely you would think the film would have a more upbeat feel to it , especially with that exclamation point as part of the title . However the word in Spanish means bandit , and as the film heads into the second half the action gets pretty grim . Dean Martin and Jimmy Stewart are unusually cast as brothers who meet up in the town of Val Verde , Texas . Stewart's character assumes the guise of a hangman called upon to dispatch outlaw Dee Bishop ( Martin ) and his renegade bunch after a botched bank holdup that left a prominent citizen dead , shot by Dee . I was hoping to see more of Jock Mahoney when I saw his name in the credits , but he was that unfortunate victim , leaving behind a Mexican bride . I had almost forgotten how gorgeous Raquel Welch was , but this film showcases her looks to maximum appeal , without resorting to various stages of undress . Although there is one time during a battle with Mexican bandits where her blouse is ripped from the back , but the scene is played out more for it's savagery than for titillation . George Kennedy provides a competent but heavily understated portrayal of July Johnson , the Val Verde sheriff who puts together a posse to track down the Bishop gang after they flee from the gallows with Mace Bishop's ( Stewart ) intervention . I thought it was a clever idea for Mace to provide the weapon , but if you think about it , someone would probably have noticed the exchange of the gun in real life , so the way that's handled is prominently done off screen . That actually surprised me somewhat , as I was wondering how the ' break ' would occur , and suddenly there it was . The other thing I wondered about throughout the picture was how Raquel maintained her makeup and wardrobe while trekking through the desert with the bad guys . I know you're not supposed to think about those things with escapist entertainment , but the way current films go for reality , the difference is easily noticed . Never a hair or eyelash out of place , even in those extreme close ups . Probably the biggest surprise by the end of the picture is the idea that Dino and Raquel fall in love ( remember , Dee Bishop killed her husband ) , but it took some prodding from big brother Mace to insist that he talk to her . So in the end , Dino gets the girl , but he dies ! , leaving a bittersweet feel at the closing credits .
" Heaven takes care of drunks and children . "	" Come Fill The Cup " might actually be the first film to realistically describe alcoholism as a disease , and the surprise here is how the story tackles the idea that no one can help an alcoholic get sober except the alcoholic himself . For Charley Dolan ( James Gleason ) , the road to sobriety began when he heard the sound of ' angel feathers ' . Lew Marsh ( James Cagney ) described it like more of a whirring sound , when he took a peak into the void and realized that he was afraid to die . It's pretty unusual to get all of this kind of psychological insight in a 1950's Warner Brothers flick ; most of the time they were simply portraying the ills of society while allowing the viewer to make up their own mind about things . But here , the story makes it fairly clear that there's really no cure for alcoholism , and that most drunks have to hit rock bottom fairly hard before climbing back up . In Cagney's case , his character probably made it look a bit too easy , going cold turkey after five lost days in a drunk tank . A fired newspaperman , he claws his way back to respectability with the help of friend Charley , returning as a reporter at the Sun-Herald . Eventually , he's asked by his editor Julian Cuscaden ( Larry Keating ) to get involved with the publisher's nephew , a would be composer ( Gig Young ) who's having his own troubles with the bottle . Complicating things is the presence of Paula Copeland ( Phyllis Thaxter ) , Lew's ex-girlfriend , now married to Boyd Copeland ( Young ) . Perhaps as a nod to Cagney's success in the gangster film genre , the story introduces a criminal element as a result of Boyd's extra-marital involvement with the girl of big time hood Lennie Garr ( Sheldon Leonard ) . I think the story could have been effective without the mobster angle , as it kind of drew your attention away from the main plot , but I guess it served it's purpose . A critical scene near the finale had the ex-drunks facing down the thugs , giving the good guys a chance to redeem themselves on a number of different levels . There was a fairly clever scene , I thought , about midway through when it became apparent that Boyd Copeland was on the way to staying sober . His only friend was a dog he called ' nameless ' , but through no effort on the dog's part , he earned the name of Corky . That was a pretty insightful comment on an alcoholic's new found sense of self worth . At some point in the picture , I was reminded of 1962's " Days Of Wine And Roses " , another movie dealing with alcoholics hitting rock bottom and then trying to get straight . In that one , it was a couple ( Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick ) that had to deal with their personal demons . Coming a decade later , it's probably the stronger of the two stories , but that doesn't diminish the effect that " Come Fill The Cup " will have on you . The story draws you in quickly and you find yourself totally engrossed in the characters , making it's almost two hour run time breeze by pretty quickly .
" . . . poor boy , you're bound to die . "	Wow - I'm surprised at the handful of reviewers on this board unwilling to catch the film a break ; either that , or one hasn't seen enough ' B ' oaters prior to the late 1950's to realize that this one isn't that bad . In fact , as far as Michael Landon's second starring movie role goes , you can already see his self confidence as an actor following guest shots on such TV Westerns as " Tales of Wells Fargo " , " Cheyenne " , " Wanted : DOA " and a handful of others . Now I'm not saying that the story didn't have it's share of faulty plot elements , I can think of a few myself , but I was more than willing to see the story play out to the strains of The Kingston Trio . It wasn't until I saw the flick today that I learned the movie was built around the song instead of vice versa . Some of the things I wondered about had to do with the Rebel uniforms that Tom ( Landon ) and his fellow Confederates wore , it seems to me they should have been more inclined to ditch them quicker once they knew the War was over and trouble began mounting . Then there was the keeping to the main trails while traveling , making it easier for the Union followers and Grayson ( Jack Hogan ) to track them . But on the plus side , you had a measure of authenticity with the reluctance of the local deputies to go after the Rebs , believing it was a military matter . And the Dooley / Grayson fight scene - one of the best , especially framed by the fall of timbers and block of the burned out farm house - nice touch . The thing is , if you know the words to the song , you also know that this one had to end badly , so you had to go along with the story to see how it would all pull together . Come on now , even if you're one of the film's detractors , you had to be rooting for Tom and Laura ( Jo Morrow ) to make their getaway . But they all don't end happily ever after , and this was one of those - but not so bad that you have to hang down your head and cry .
" From now on , you ain't got nothing to worry about " .	If you're a Western movie genre fan , you've probably caught the classics " Shane " and " 3 : 10 to Yuma " , with Van Heflin in prominent supporting roles . The surprise in " The Ruthless Four " is that Heflin leaves both of those prior characterizations firmly in the dust with a strong lead role as Sam Cooper , a grizzled gold prospector who's saddled with a trio of partners when his plans called for only one man he could trust . Coming near the end of his career , Heflin pulls out all the stops to give a noteworthy performance , and I'd be hard pressed to come up with another that was any better than this . Rounding out the ' ruthless ' quartet finds George Hilton portraying Cooper's adopted son Manolo , Klaus Kinski as Manolo's enigmatic former companion , and Gilbert Roland's Mason , hired on by Cooper to keep the others honest while he's trying to cover his own back . The homosexual subtext between Manolo and Brent the Blonde ( Kinski ) is the subject of a couple of quick teases in the story , and is never fully developed . However there's not much more explanation for Brent's intrusion into the expedition , which gives Cooper some pause as to Manolo's reliability . It's also not immediately apparent that Mason ( Roland ) will prove honorable by the time the film winds down , so that gives the picture another hook to keep the viewer interested . On top of all that , you've got a pair of brother bad guys hovering around on the fringe of the action hoping to cash in by the time the picture's over . However it all could have gone down hill with a puzzling opening scene when Sam Cooper's original partner in the gold dig turns on him with the idea of taking it all for himself . Those kinds of scenes always bothered me when I was growing up - here was a gun man who had the drop on his partner with the intention of killing him , and then he doesn't kill him . I mean , why leave anything to chance when you can win the whole ball of wax right there . But instead , in an attempt to what , be fair ? , the guy challenges his foe to draw down . When anything can happen , and it usually does , the villain loses , and it serves him right for being such an idiot . And how about when Cooper was waylaid by the bandits who stole his horses but left the gold sacks ? What movie were they watching ? Come to think of it , how did one of the bandits get behind Cooper to knock him out with a rock ? Cooper had his back to the river and it wasn't like he couldn't keep an eye on all of his attackers . Just a very clumsy scene that didn't make very much sense to me . But get beyond those couple of examples , and the rest of the story is pretty intriguing , with some interesting twists and turns that move the picture to a climactic showdown . This had to be the only time I ever saw a cowboy on horseback use an umbrella in the rain ( Manolo ) , and Kinski ordering up a glass of milk in the saloon was definitely an oddity . The only sure thing , if you can call it that , would be that Van Heflin would come out pretty much as he went in , as last man standing . How each of his partners fared , well , that's for you to find out , as this wasn't called " The Ruthless Four " for nothing .
" This is a story not yet told . . . "	I caught this one on Turner Classics on New Year's Day as part of their all day sci-fi programming of flicks from the 1950's . Unlike another offering , " The 27th Day " , I had heard of " Red Planet Mars " before , but didn't know that it's subject matter tied America's fascination with Martian invasions together with the threat of Communism . The film has more than it's share of twists with a head scratcher or two among them , and what had me fascinated was the way it all seemed possible ( within the context of the story ) as the movie unfolded . However by the time it's all over , you've got to wonder why the outcome had to leave a couple of innocent kids orphans , and why above all that was made to look like a good thing . Growing up in the 1950's recalls vivid memories of all the ' duck and cover ' drills in parochial school , and the film rekindled those kinds of recollections of the ' red scare ' days . Hearing the Soviet General state " We will build our world on the ruins of the West " brought to mind the image of Nikita Kruschev's ' We Will Bury You ' rant at the United Nations a decade later . The movie even throws in a Nazi connection to the Soviets to further it's right wing paranoia theme . What comes off somewhat goofy is the Man of Mars / Man of Nazareth counterpoint to the enemies of freedom threat . It's about at this point where I can see uncommitted viewers dropping out . Yet if you're willing to go the distance , " Red Planet Mars " can be a fascinating look at a period in the country's history , even if bewildering at times . The movie even takes a stab at a clever ending , as the final scene offers it's hope for humanity with the words " The Beginning " . One other thought bears mentioning , and only because of my timing in catching the movie . Seeing it on New Year's Day , one was already inundated with TV images of Gerald Ford who passed away on December 26th . In a somewhat unlikely coincidence , the character of The President in the movie , portrayed by Willis Bouchey , seemed to bear an unusually uncanny resemblance to the 38th President .
" I ain't sayin ' there is , and I ain't sayin there ain't . . . "	" Hold That Ghost " was Abbott and Costello's fourth feature film , and the third in which they were headline billed . Also going three for three with the comedy duo were The Andrews Sisters and Shemp Howard , who previously appeared with the boys in " Buck Privates " and " In the Navy " . The film style differs somewhat from the military based films in that Abbott and Costello stay away from the skit routines and go more for the sight gags and one liners . In the story , Chuck Murray ( Bud ) and Ferdie Jones ( Lou ) inherit an abandoned inn from mobster Moose Matson ; as stated in the will , they were with Moose at the time of his demise . Of course , Moose's cronies have an interest in the place because the money from his robberies are believed to be hidden there . Moose's assurance that the location of the money is " in his head " proves to be truer than we realize when first uttered . All of this serves as the basic premise for Bud and Lou to deliver their zany antics in what turns out to be a " haunted " house , replete with a dead body , levitating candles and observing ghosts . Adding to the fun of the film is Joan Davis , a wonderful foil for Lou's character who has just the right blend of good looks and snappy attitude . Richard Carlson is the nerdy Doctor Jackson who misses all the romantic signals thrown his way by pretty Norma Lind ( Evelyn Ankers ) . The opening of " Hold That Ghost " left me considering whether today's concern with political correctness would have allowed the scene to be made today . Crooner Ted Lewis offers a rendition of " Me and My Shadow " with a black actor ( uncredited Ralph Brooks ) mimicking his movement , ostensibly as his " shadow " . As always , The Andrews Sisters are delightfully entertaining , though not as animated as in the Service films . After 1941's " Hold That Ghost " , Abbott and Costello didn't venture into another " horror " type film until 1948's " Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein " , possibly their best comedy and my personal favorite by the boys . But then they really got into high gear with the genre with a host of offerings in which they paired with a number of Universal's characters - the Invisible Man , Jekyll and Hyde , and The Mummy . All are a treat and come recommended for Abbott and Costello fans .
" And a gift to the Church you know , is tax deductible . "	Two preconceptions I had of the film were summarily dismissed after my initial viewing ; it's not technically a Christmas movie , and the ' battle ' of wills between Sister Mary Benedict ( Ingrid Bergman ) and Father O'Malley ( Bing Crosby ) is never more than a shadow of the main event I expected . That's not to say it's a bad thing , I just expected more fireworks between the two . The thought occurred to me that the film is one that probably would never be made today , with it's overt depiction of the Roman Catholic faith and people committed to a life of service to God . Politically correct times may allow for the parody of a " Sister Act " , but not an honest exploration of religious themes , as they might ' offend ' someone . As for myself , I can't be persuaded to choose Happy Holidays over Merry Christmas to appease the liberal left . Which makes Crosby's line all the more funnier when he reacts to a student's name - " Luther , how'd he get in here " ? I was listening attentively to the children reciting the Pledge of Allegiance early in the story . The words ' under God ' had not yet been made part of the Pledge as we know it today . You'll encounter the same situation in the 1938 Humphrey Bogart movie " Crime School " , when the Pledge is recited in a prison yard . It wasn't until Flag Day , June 14th , 1954 , that the additional words were added upon the approval of President Dwight Eisenhower . Hey , wasn't that a great scene with the kids performing the Joseph and Mary skit ? I wonder if that was done in one take , as Crosby and Bergman took great delight in surmising that the next time around would produce different results . Der Bingle's O'Malley had it right I think , it was perfect as it was . Which only adds to the charm of this period piece , as do so many other scenes that convey the spirit and warmth of a time gone by . Still , one thing puzzles me - how did they get the cat to do that hat trick ?
" I got faith . . . in God , President Roosevelt , and the Brooklyn Dodgers , in the order of their importance . "	Raymond Massey and Humphrey Bogart head the cast of this World War II epic detailing the role of the U . S . Merchant Marine , a film apparently convincing enough that it was used as a training film for the real military branch of that name . In fact , the action sequences are very real and convey a sense of what it must have felt like to be under fire and in peril most of the time the men were at sea . Bogart is Chief Officer Joe Rossi , and Raymond Massey is Captain Steve Jarvis , first of the ship " Northern Star " , and later aboard the more modern ship the S . S . Seawitch . The Northern Star was blown out of the water by a German submarine , the villainous Nazis shown ramming the survivors ' life boat and casting them adrift for eleven days before being rescued . Curiously , when the men are found aboard a raft , the remains of their ship is seen still smoking behind them in the background ; it seems to me this marker should not have gone unnoticed by search parties for almost two weeks . Bogie and Massey both have love interests back on dry land , actually Rossi has a girl in every port as his character is portrayed . Though in a whirlwind romance he manages to meet , marry and leave his wife Pearl ( Julie Bishop ) for active duty , all in what seems like a matter of days . Jarvis on the other hand , has had a long marriage to an understanding wife , capably played by Ruth Gordon . She has an atypical reaction to his next assignment - " To a sailor's wife , war is just another storm " . On the opposite side of the spectrum , Alfred " Boats " O'Hara ( Alan Hale ) finds refuge at sea ; he's been married a number of times and finds war safer to matrimony - " Those Liberty boats are sure well named " . He's part of a colorful supporting cast that includes a hot headed Polish seaman named Pulaski ( Dane Clark ) , and a dedicated cat lover who stows his pets aboard ship each time out . Probably the most curious thing about the film is how the whole rag tag bunch manages to stay together throughout the war . I'm curious as to the accuracy of the scene where the boys all sign up for a hitch together aboard the Seawitch . The second half of the movie offers an interesting cat and mouse game between the German sub and the Seawitch . With Captain Jarvis severely wounded , Rossi takes over command and hits upon a clever ruse to defeat the Germans . Setting his ship on fire to make a torpedo hit seem more disastrous than it really was , he directs the ship to ram the surfaced U-Boat , destroying the sub and it's occupants . As the Seawitch makes it's way into the Russian port of Murmansk , an American commander comments on their cunning - " It's not a miracle , it's American seamanship . " Not that it's all guts and glory for the Amercicans , the tragic side of war is conveyed effectively as well . For an early 1940's film , there are a number of battle scenes depicting bodies flying in the air quite realistically amid explosions and torpedo strikes . The poignancy of death is handled discreetly with a burial at sea presided over by Bogie's character . War time audiences must have found some solace in films like this , at a time when patriotism was still a respected ideal .
" Who said anything about crime , this is a business . "	Billy Halop led the Dead End Kids in three other films that paired them up with Humphrey Bogart - " Dead End " which gave the gang their name , " Crime School " , and the memorable " Angels With Dirty Faces " . Here , Halop co-stars as the conflicted Johnny Stone , a nineteen year old impressionable young man who looks up to petty hood Frank Wilson ( Bogey ) . It's a fairly typical Warner Brothers era film , taking a dim view of crime and poverty , and makes you stay till the very end to find out whether Johnny can win out over his conscience . Bogart's character is a vile sort , though he takes Johnny under his wing he's really all for himself . When a botched pawn shop robbery results in the murder of the owner , Wilson plants Johnny's gun at the scene . But Johnny's gun was " borrowed " from his sister's boyfriend , cop Fred Burke ( Harvey Stephens ) , so now Burke is framed for the robbery and the murder . Winding up in Sing Sing prison for an unrelated caper , Johnny spends his entire time agonizing over whether to rat out Wilson or do the right thing . There's a great cast of Warner's B stock players on hand to move the story along . Henry Travers is " Pop " the prison librarian who tries to help Johnny see things straight . Pop's in for life though we don't get to know what his crime was . When introduced to Johnny , the P . K . can't even remember his real name - " Pop will do , I'll never need another name " - one of the first serious hints to Johnny that maybe a life of crime isn't such a good thing . Joe Sawyer , George E . Stone and Harold Huber are all on hand as prison inmates , with Toad ( Stone ) regularly making book on whether death row inmates will be executed . Huber's Scappa is totally unrecognizable compared to his roles in the Charlie Chan films of the same era . The one big surprise in the movie , and you'll recognize his voice before you even see him , is Eddie " Rochester " Anderson in an uncredited role as inmate Sam . He provides a touch of comic relief every time he visits Pop in the library for a new dessert recipe . I always get a kick out of these early films for the perspective they give on the value of money . Wilson gets five gallons of gas for ninety cents , while Fred Burke plans on buying a house in Boston with his promotion that carries three hundred dollars a month - Oh for the good old days ! Though " You Can't Get Away With Murder " winds up being fairly formulaic , it's still a decent film with a lot of screen time for Halop , and Bogie building up a head of steam for his gangster sizzler " High Sierra " . With only a couple of viewer comments to it's credit in this forum , the movie deserves a wider audience , especially if you're a fan of the principal players .
" In my opinion , modern journalism has descended to a deplorable level . "	The entire premise of " Picture Snatcher " is pretty weak , but put Jimmy Cagney in the lead role and you have the makings of an entertaining flick . Cagney shows all the energy and grit that made him a star as early as the 1930's , and here he's top billed as a former mobster going straight as of all things , a tabloid photographer and reporter for " Graphic News " , described by journalism student Sterling Holloway as a ' filthy blot on American writing ' . That pretty much sums it up , as Danny Kean ( Cagney ) uses all the street smarts and professional contacts he can muster to get the latest scoop . Before I ever saw the picture , I wondered what the term ' picture snatcher ' might mean , and I guess I was pretty close . The story makes it clear that the job had to do with getting photos of down and out people who can't fight back , and in that regard , Cagney's character is a whiz . His very first job involved stealing a wedding picture of a couple that made front page news when the bride was caught cheating by her fireman husband . Stories like that wouldn't even raise an eyebrow today , but it sure looked sensational back in the day . We've come quite a way in seventy plus years . You know , I was curious about that invitation to an execution angle that revolved around the death of an inmate at the State Prison at Ossining , New York . The letter Danny Kean steals from a fellow reporter mentioned ' Sing Sing ' by name in the letterhead ; I wonder if that was for real . New Yorkers like myself , especially those from Westchester County will have fun with the place names and street addresses mentioned in the story . The harder part is trying to visualize them as they might have been back in the Thirties . It was way back in 1931's " Public Enemy " that Cagney gained notoriety for that grapefruit smackeroo in the kisser against Mae Clark . If anything , he's even rougher here sending Alice White flying into a chair using her face as a launch pad , and knocking her out and flipping her into the back seat of a car when his ' real ' girlfriend ( Patricia Ellis ) approaches . Then of course there's all the sexual innuendo and banter that's strictly pre-code ; how about " Keep in step , bedroom eyes " . I had to rewind that one to be sure I heard it right . All in all , the whole tenor of the story is pretty unrealistic , even if you get past the part where Danny tells his mob he's going legit . But even so , it's vintage Cagney and that's good for something . Without him , the picture wouldn't even garner enough IMDb votes to give it much more than a five rating , but put the wise cracking hoofer in the lead and that's good enough for bonus points !
" Of all the slummocky blackguards ! "	I'm always pleasantly surprised at how entertaining some of these era films turn out to be , and with it's stellar cast , " Captain Kidd " is no exception . As the title character , Charles Laughton is at his finest , playing both sides of the sea lanes as it were , in the employ of the King of England while marauding the King's treasure at the same time . I got a kick out of one of Kidd's lines as King William ( Henry Daniell ) wishes him God speed for the voyage to Madagascar ; the response - " I am but his unworthy sparrow " . Shades of Pirates of the Caribbean ! All the while , Kidd plans on waylaying the Quida Merchant , laden with treasures from India . Those plans also include dispatching his closest pirate accomplices , celebrating each victory with a pen stroke through their names in his personal diary . I'm always amazed by that sort of plot device , as if the villain couldn't remember keeping track of a handful of his associates . It makes for mysterious intrigue though , as well as finality , though in the case of Orange Povey ( John Carradine ) , his name had to be rendered twice . Fans of Randolph Scott's Westerns will be aware of his many outfit changes during the course of a film , and it's no different here . Starting out in tatters as an imprisoned pirate , by the end of the story he's in a nobleman's attire with the lovely Barbara Britton on his arm . In between , we learn of Adam Mercy's masquerade as the King's informer to uncover his father's murderer ; who else but ? Rounding out Kidd's luckless original band are Gilbert Roland and a virtually unrecognizable Sheldon Leonard , who's character Boyle is sent to his reward following a flattering eulogy by Kidd , and then an unceremonious ' pop him over ' - beautiful ! If you set your history books aside , you'll have some swashbuckling good fun with this one . In particular , I enjoyed the language used by Kidd and the upper crusts , especially the scene at Hampton Palace . But for sheer delight , get a load of those pirate uniforms on board the ' Adventure Galley ' - didn't they look good in stripes ?
" You don't know me well enough to hate me that much . "	This one turned out a lot better than I was willing to give credit for going in , so much for first impressions . The hook in the early going is Yellowleg's ( Brian Keith ) never removing his hat , and that interest builds after he saves Turkey ( Chill Wills ) from a lynching . Turk and his partner Billy ( Steve Cochran ) are invited along to take out the bank in Gila City - " Beats cheatin ' at cards , don't it ? " . So that remains on the viewer's mind throughout much of the film , even though they never get to do it on screen , though in a stroke of irony , they wind up foiling a robbery of the same bank by another gang . That's where the main plot kicks in , as a stray bullet from Yellowleg kills the young son of dance hall girl Kit ( Maureen O'Hara ) . In atonement for his misdeed , Yellowleg is compelled to accompany Kit to bury her son in Ciringo next to her dead husband . The trail goes straight through Apache territory , but that doesn't seem to be the main danger they'll face . All the while you're wondering when the Yankee Yellowleg will come to blows with his ornery partners . Keep an eye on the scene when Billy attempts to make a ' social ' call on Kit during the first night's camp on the trail . He's wearing a black shirt with a white scarf , but after the fight with Yellowleg , his shirt is missing . When Yellowleg and Kit are left to continue the journey alone , they're taunted along the way by a single Apache brave who's interested in a bit of mind games before he goes for the kill . Though she stands alone in a cave keeping a watchful eye , Kit winds up killing the Indian quite by accident , the camera trained on her long enough to make the point , now she knows what it feels like . I was surprised to learn that Sam Peckinpah directed the film in the early credits , so was unduly prepared for some harsh Western justice along the way . Though you get some of that , it's not the trademark Peckinpah one's used to , but then again , it was his first feature film . I would steer readers to other viewer comments regarding the back lot politics involving the production of the film . They offer some insight into the story's outcome and resolution . Peckinpah seems to have had his hands tied here a bit , but he certainly was able to cut loose by the time he got to " The Wild Bunch " and the film I first remember seeing by him - " Straw Dogs " .
" Row faster Louise , if I die there's nothing in it for you . "	By the time this film was over , I couldn't help thinking that if it were made today , using modern technology and special effects , " Dementia 13 " might be one of the all time great horror and psychological thrillers . Add to that the fabled directing of an experienced Francis Ford Coppola , and you would have a modern day classic instead of a 1960's era " B " grade programmer . Even so , the movie stacks up remarkably well , dated or not , particularly in the creepy edge given to it by the dysfunctional Haloran clan and it's setting in an old Irish castle . Early on , we're led to believe that the scheming Louise Haloran ( Luana Anders ) will play a primary role in the Haloran saga , out to secure a sizable fortune upon the death of her mother in law ( Eithne Dunn ) . She's not above a bit of skulduggery when her husband John dies of a heart attack while rowing on an estate pond ; she merely weights his body down and sends it overboard . Blaming his disappearance on a business trip , Louise prepares to deal with the annual ritual of honoring the memory of John's deceased sister Kathleen , now dead for seven years . Mother Haloran presides over the austere gathering under black umbrellas , just as the original ceremony was conducted in the rain , a very effective touch . John and Kathleen have two surviving brothers , Richard and Billy , ( William Campbell , Bart Patton ) , and as the movie progresses , one begins to understand that something is not quite right with either one of them . Through deft storytelling and misdirection , Coppola guides our way through an intricately weaved mystery that plays out among suffocating underwater scenes and well timed ax thrusts . The appearance of a very lifelike doll in the image of young Kathleen keeps showing up in unusual places , adding resonance to the mystery . The Haloran family doctor , portrayed by Patrick Magee , has his own ideas about what's going on , but manages to cast suspicion on himself along the way . Watch carefully in the movie's latter half when he enters a work shed and discovers the body of Louise and the lifelike Kathleen doll . Carefully picking up the doll , he closes the shed door , and immediately in the next scene is shown walking with the doll in his arms and a cigar in his mouth - nice trick ! As flashback scenes of young Kathleen's drowning death recur through brother Billy's memories , the link is established to the identity of the film's ax wielding loony . When his identity is finally revealed after taking a bullet from the vigilant Dr . Caleb , he utters the message earlier seen on a headstone which lay buried beneath the pond's surface - " Forgive me Kathleen " . Taken together , and reflecting on all the elements of the story , " Dementia 13 " defines itself as a satisfying horror mystery that laid the groundwork for future greatness for it's young director Francis ( minus the Ford ) Coppola . When you consider that Coppola also wrote the original story , you'll have an even greater appreciation of the film , and rightfully so . Fans of Mr . Coppola and 1960's horror should not miss this one .
" If you have to push him around , do it gently . "	The parallels to the same year's " Angels With Dirty Faces " is unmistakable , right down to the character of Father Jerry , portrayed in this picture by Paul Kelly . I'm a bit curious about the opening scene in which the street sign marking 35th Street and 11th Avenue also states Hell's Kitchen ; I wonder if that was really the case . Or if it's the case today , I'll check the next time I'm in the City . This was actually a fairly compelling gangster / crime drama , centering on five friends who palled together as the Death Avenue Cowboys . Growing up on different sides of the law , they collide in a series of events triggered by Marty Malone's ( Victor McLaglen ) insistence on collecting a gambling debt . Events quickly spiral out of control when one of the O'Mara Brothers suspects foul play in the death of a gambler connected to Malone . Mike O'Mara ( William Gargan ) learns the truth behind his boyhood friend's connection to brother Joe's ( John Gallaudet ) death , culminating in dire consequences for each of the principals . The female member of the ' Cowboys ' is played by Beatrice Roberts , the adult Helen McCoy . I've seen Victor McLaglen in a few leading roles ( 1937's " Sea Devils " comes immediately to mind ) , and this might be his best effort as a headliner . Actually , he pretty much carries the picture , with William Gargan in a decent supporting role as policeman Mike O'Mara , attempting to get to the bottom of Joe's death . McLaglen's death scene doesn't evoke the same tear jerk response that Cagney's did in ' Angels ' , but it's still effective within the confines of his former childhood gang . For followers of the Little Rascals / Our Gang flicks , the opening scene will be reminiscent , but with a little harder edge , as Death Avenue Cowboys might suggest . The surprise in the film credits , for me at least , was seeing Wild Bill Elliott listed as gambler Brewster who welshed on his debt with Malone . The other puzzler involved the gang roster engraved in the wooden plaque at the beginning of the story ; why was Marty Malone , the leader of the ' Cowboys ' and the oldest member , listed last ?
" They want my blood , their lives or mine . . . "	" The Last Man on Earth " opens with the desolation of city landscapes betraying not a hint of activity , and bodies lying in the streets . A community church billboard heralds : " The End Has Come " . Against this desperation , one man survives and marks time on the walls of his home . For three years he has wearily resigned himself to his mission , to destroy every last vampire within the confines of the city , searching for their resting places in hopes of discovering a large colony he can destroy all at once instead of the one or two he may happen upon at random . Vincent Price portrays Dr . Robert Morgan , curiously immune from the vampire plague . We learn that his tolerance may have occurred years earlier when he was bitten by a bat in Panama , somehow acquiring antibodies in his system to combat the disease . Via flashback sequences , we come to learn that Morgan once had a wife and young daughter , and while working at a medical lab , the plague hit , first in Europe , and then carried wind borne to other parts of the world . The apocalyptic feel of the movie is both effective and discomfiting at the same time . The viewer shares in Morgan's hopelessness and despair , knowing that should he fulfill his mission , there is no relief from the loneliness and boredom of a solitary existence . Having lost his family , and even his dog to the ravages of disease , Morgan is driven not so much by revenge , but by a choice made to make things right in the world even to his last breath . All of your standard vampire lore is explored in the film ; Morgan protects his home with ropes of garlic , and dots his rooms with mirrors . He makes his own stakes for subduing them , and his daily forays into the city show him carrying his equipment and a mallet in readiness for what he may find . Watch for a continuity error early in the film - the first time we see Morgan load his station wagon with dead vampire bodies , he puts them in head first , with feet coming out the back . When he arrives at the burning pit to dispose of them , the one he pulls out of the car is facing him head first . " The Last Man on Earth " is not an easy film to watch . It's one of the few " B " grade films of the genre that actually make you think about what you might face if you suddenly found yourself in an apocalyptic nightmare . Particularly poignant is my timing to view this film , some eight days following Hurricane Katrina , with it's desolation of New Orleans . The contrast between the leveled landscape of Louisiana with the stark remains of the movie's locale bear an uncomfortable similarity . It's unsettling to realize that a work of fiction can come so close to capturing the mood and despair of an entire region faced with a tragedy beyond it's control . This is not a film to entertain , and there is no happy ending .
" Every time you open my mouth you get me in trouble . "	" In The Navy " is the second Abbott and Costello service film , with a nod to their first , " Buck Privates " in the opening credits . Genuinely high on patriotism , it brings back The Andrews Sisters and Shemp Howard from the prior picture . The plot involves crooner Russ Raymond ( Dick Powell ) dropping out of the celebrity spotlight , only to join the Navy under the name of Tom Halstead . He is relentlessly pursued by newspaper photographer Dorothy Roberts ( Claire Dodd ) , but gee , how many pictures did she need ? As Smoky Adams ( Abbott ) and Seaman Pomeroy Watson ( Costello ) , the boys are up to their usual antics which include Abbott's sleight of hand lemon routine , a money changing bit and a classic 7 times 13 equals 28 , and Costello can prove it three different ways ! In a slightly unsavory gag , the boys lay in wait for each other with mouths full of water ready to spray each other , but they keep breaking up and the sequence looks more like a series of outtakes that were left in the film . The Andrews Sisters are in usual fine form , with Patty much more animated in her lead role than in " Buck Privates " . They keep the film moving with songs from beginning to end , with a few well choreographed production numbers thrown in . The highlight of the film though belongs to Lou Costello , as he impersonates the Captain of the ship to impress the Andrews Sisters , and commandeers the ship in a series of naval routines , defying all the laws of physics along the way . With two service comedies under their belt , Bud and Lou would wind up in yet another branch of the service very quickly in 1941's " Keep ' Em Flying " , and with the war over , one final time in 1947's " Buck Privates Come Home " , reprising the original characters from their first Army film .
" Sometimes your thoughts can be like a malignant disease and start to eat away your will power . "	" Conflict " has always been one of my favorite Bogey movies , even if it doesn't score highly with most viewers . Perhaps it's the chemistry between he and Sydney Greenstreet , who's character is a psychiatrist who specializes in the workings of the criminal mind . There's a great scene in which Professor Hamilton ( Greenstreet ) and Richard Mason ( Bogart ) exchange ideas on the " perfect crime " , with all of the professor's insight focused on accurately describing Mason's uncertainty and attendant behavior following the murder of his wife . Hamilton describes Mason's conduct to a tee , leaving Mason speechless as he walks out the door . There is really no mystery here , early on we know that Richard Mason faked the complications of an auto accident to set up a confrontation with Kathryn Mason ( Rose Hobart ) on a lonely mountain road . Astute viewers will catch the mistake that Mason makes to the police and Professor Hamilton , when describing his missing wife " the last time I saw her " . If you don't catch it , you'll be aware of it during a repeat viewing and say to yourself , " how did I miss that ? " The scene is deftly done , as Greenstreet's character doesn't give a hint of recognition at Mason's errant remark . The remainder of the film relies on a considerable number of set ups intended to smoke out Mason . Granted , some of the circumstances require odds defying precision timing , and a highly unlikely alliance between the police and the professor . Maybe in simpler times , authorities might have been able to trap their victim as was done here , but I don't think it would work in a real life situation today . Nevertheless , as positioned in the film , each manufactured event is intended to make Mason believe that his wife may not be dead ( even though he did kill her ) , or that he may slowly be losing his mind . Even random events conspire to trigger Mason's guilt - an engineering sketch by one of his partners , and a pile of logs rigged for a vacation lodge bonfire outwardly resemble the scene where Mason rigged his wife's unfortunate " accident " . Ultimately , many movies require some suspension of belief for their premise to work . " Conflict " is one of those movies where the characters , dialog and set ups meld together cohesively enough to offer an entertaining viewing if one can refrain from being too critical . On that basis , the film is well recommended .
" . . . he's the guy who says who does it to who and for how much . "	I've seen a number of poor films from Poverty Row studio PRC Pictures , but this has to be one of their better efforts , an unusually involved gangster flick that pits bad guys against bad guys and a grand jury attempting to get the goods on a big time crime syndicate . Newspaper reporter Jim Riley ( Tom Neal ) gets unusually close to mobster Bugs Kelley ( Danny Morton ) by saving him from a rub out , only to hear of his eventual demise for refusing to join Crime , Inc . One of the more interesting casting decisions has to be that of Leo Carillo as Tony Marlowe , finger man for the mob , and diametrically opposed in character to the one he portrayed as the Cisco Kid's sidekick in all those Western films and TV shows . It was a bit surprising to see him pull off a serious role without going for one of those hysterical malapropisms , although he did place a five thousand dollar bet that turned out to be a contract hit on Bugs Kelley . With the film coming in at about seventy five minutes , the windup did seem to be just a bit too tidy , as all the elements fell into place to bring the members of the crime organization to justice . I think I'll need another viewing to make the connection with the crooked cop who leaked information to the criminals , as that seemed to blow by rather quickly . The romantic subplot between Riley and Kelley's sister Betty ( Martha Tilton ) didn't seem especially necessary for the story , but it didn't hurt either . Say , how was that for an impromptu wedding ceremony as the final curtain came down ? I always found it helpful when watching the Charlie Chan films of the era to keep a scorecard to track the many characters who were introduced during the course of the story . The same applies here , as it's easy to get the good guys confused with the villains and vice versa . Like Lionel Atwill and Sheldon Leonard , you wind up marveling at their appearance in the story well before you figure out which side they're on !
" No , no , you start out by holding my hand and pretty soon you'll wanna shuffle the whole deck . "	My primary interest in picking up this film was to get a look at the acclaimed Eddie Cantor , a legendary entertainer in his day who you don't even hear of anymore . The first thing I was impressed with was the ' look ' of the movie ; filmed in the same year as " King Kong " it looked like the product of perhaps two decades later . The other eye openers had to do with the costuming , or lack thereof on the part of the slave girls in bondage during Olga's ( Ruth Etting ) " No More Love " number . There's enough skin showing on some of the girls to fuel an over active imagination , perhaps this is the film to inspire the term ' steamy ' , both literally and figuratively . There's also the risqué dialog , most notably in Cantor's black face routine when he sings - " You'll drive him half insane , in a bathing suit of cellophane " . This was the 1930's ? Additionally , for anyone obsessed with the emphasis on looks and body image in today's entertainment media , the roots of that trend can be found here . The " Keep Young and Beautiful " number isn't complete without mentioning the next line - " If you want to be loved " . I wonder how that message might have been received by Depression era movie goers . Comedy wise , there are a few good bits - the lava gas ( laughing gas ) and parsley / poison gags come to mind , along with Josephus ' ( David Manners ) naming of Eddie as ' Oedipus ' , that was clever . Overall though , I found the comedy to be severely dated , more of a curiosity piece than actually being funny , maybe it's just me upon my initial viewing . As another reviewer mentioned , Lucille Ball is credited on the video sleeve as if she were Cantor's co star in the film , but be warned , you're going to have to look for her . By the same token , you can't miss the dynamic presence of Etting and Gloria Stuart , both simply gorgeous . Again , maybe it's just me , but Etting's Olga character reminded me a bit of a slimmed down Dolly Parton . Fortunately , for fans of Cantor and the Busby Berkeley musical , this film looks like it's readily available . I actually found it on a drug store bargain shelf and decided it was too good to pass up for just a buck . Even though a lot of the scenes are dated and come off as politically incorrect today , the movie itself is a neat time capsule reminder of the way life used to be seventy years ago , when just like today , the average person went to the movies for a quick and fun escape .
" Babyface Bogart "	Ordinarily I wouldn't consider reviewing a television episode , but since Humphrey Bogart is my favorite actor , I thought I'd offer some comments on this episode of " The Jack Benny Program " . It's an eye opener for several reasons , not so much for Bogey's appearance , but as a time capsule reminder of how naive TV used to be and how much it's changed over half a century . For openers , I'll mention the opener . Football coach Lou Riddle comes on in one of the many informal type commercials that shows like this used to employ . In a rather convoluted comparison , he somehow manages to equate smoking Lucky Strike cigarettes with athletic prowess , and a comfortable way to wind down after a tough game or practice session . Lucky Strike , or ' Lucky's ' was the prime sponsor of the Benny Program , in fact one of Jack's first lines on this show thanks the audience for tuning into the ' Lucky Strike Program ' ! Jack goes on to say that his sponsor requested that he try to find a way to do more ' integrated commercials ' on the show . That's where the fun starts . The play that's presented is titled ' Babyface ' , taking place at Precinct 24 in the heart of New York's theater district . Detective Benny's assistants are cast regulars Don Wilson and Bob Crosby ( Bing's brother ) , and after a gag with pickpocket Slim Finger Sara ( Sara Berner ) , ' Babyface ' Bogart is brought into the precinct house for questioning about a murder . Benny's character gets heavy handed with Bogey , tugging on the lapels of his trademark trench coat and cuffing him on the shoulder repeatedly ; both take repeated fake slaps at each other . When Babyface claims to have a witness to the murder of Blinky Mason , Benny presses him for a description . The witness by the oddest of coincidences was smoking a Lucky Strike ; when pressed for assurance , Bogey declares " It was so round , so firm , so fully packed , so free and easy on the draw " . He then one ups himself by bouncing his chair while keeping time to the Lucky Strike jingle which he sings , in as surreal a moment as you'll ever likely see the great actor . Immediately after while staying in character , Bogey looks aside while scowling , but it gave me the impression that he might have hated doing that . Or maybe it's because he preferred Chesterfield's . In fact , that was the odd thing about the entire presentation . While Benny and his cohorts were genuinely having fun , Bogart didn't crack a smile even once throughout his entire appearance . Contrasted with a guest like Bob Hope for example , Benny and his partner would often find themselves doubled over trying not to crack up . I found the finale odd as well . Instead of having a conversation with his guest star , you have a voice over by Benny as Bogart is seen whispering something to him , with Jack explaining that it was a request to plug Bogey's next movie with Jennifer Jones - " Beat The Devil " . Bogart fans will know that he actually appeared as a character named Babyface Martin in an early starring role , 1937's " Dead End " , which introduced appropriately enough , the Dead End Kids . The Jack Benny appearance didn't acknowledge any of his movie characterizations . If you're looking for a print of the show , a recent two DVD compilation by Diamond Entertainment offers the episode in it's entirety , along with additional shows , including the famous " How Jack Met Mary " ( Mary Livingstone ) episode . You'll be able to catch Fred Allen , Bob Hope , Liberace and Jayne Mansfield among Jack's guest stars , as well as his regular cast of characters .
" There's so little time and so much to tell . . . "	It's only a little over an hour in length , but you'll have to pay attention to all that's going on or you'll get lost real quickly . Utilizing a flashback within a flashback , the story turns up a number of twists that actually wind up being fairly clever given the era . Done today with a sharp script writer , this could be quite an intriguing movie . Throw in a director like Tarantino to spice up the non linear flow of the story and you've got a real keeper . At it's center , the film focuses on rival gang leaders , with newly elected District Attorney Lawrence Dale ( Edmund MacDonald ) in league with bad guy Gus Miller ( Nestor Paiva ) . His nemesis Dixie Logan ( Robert Kent ) breaks out of jail after having been sentenced for murder based on Dale's prosecution . What you don't see coming is the true nature of Dale's secretary Marian Langdon ( Luana Walters ) until well into the story , with a revelation that has you going ' Huh ? ' big time . That's not all , you'll have to see it , and maybe a couple of times to get the full flavor of all the double crosses involved . " Shoot To Kill " probably isn't the best title for this story , in fact the only bullets to fly occurred in the opening scene during a high speed car chase , and a single attempt on the life of the new Mrs . Dale upon leaving a Justice Of the Peace ( another curious plot twist ) . I found this gem as part of a four DVD / sixteen movie ' Gangsters ' collection at one of the chain video stores , a huge bargain at only ten bucks . Though all but unknown , this noir thriller has enough going for it to warrant sampling others from the genre . Fans of the flashback within a flashback style would do well to check out one of Humphrey Bogart's movies from 1951 titled " The Enforcer " .
" Why be you when you can be new . "	I guess one of the advantages of having a two year old grandson is getting to watch movies I wouldn't ordinarily consider viewing . That happened today with " Robots " , and it wasn't altogether a bad experience , particularly in light of some of the reviews on this site bashing the film . Those claiming it's the worst they've ever seen , I'm convinced , haven't seen more than a couple years worth of new releases . Try watching a couple thousand for some perspective and you'll find that this is about average for story telling , and much better for animated visual effects . Now I'm not speaking from the perspective of having seen all of the great animated features of the last ten years or so , because I haven't . But there's a lesson here , a theme done dozens of times before in film , whether it's called old vs . new , young vs . old , or spare parts vs . upgrades . If you can't tell , I fall on the side of good old fashioned conventional values , because ultimately , character counts . And to show you I can put my money where my mouth is , I once worked for a company with a Ratchet for it's President - I left . Best sequence of the story - the Rube Goldberg ride into Robot City . The best visual gag - the ' got screwed ' panhandler . The best play on words - the fusion of jazz and funk = junk ! Watch and have fun with a two year old !
" That's life , whichever way you turn , fate sticks out a foot and trips you . "	Ann Savage gets my vote for the person I would least like to meet under any circumstances , much less as a hitchhiker at a desert gas station . Her character Vera in Edgar Ulmer's noir mind bender " Detour " sets a new standard for women of her disposition , those with a capital ' B ' . The film builds intensity as it's protagonist Al Roberts ( Tom Neal ) finds himself in a nightmare world , if not of his own creation , then at least one in which he shares major complicity . His character's voice over narration reveals a tortured mind , feverishly painting himself into a corner from which there is no escape , until events spiral out of control and strand him in an emotional twilight zone . It would have been interesting to see how any number of scenarios might have played out given some of the film's set-ups , such as the dying millionaire or the mysterious coughing fits suffered by Vera . Instead , her manic manipulation of the spineless Roberts suggests only one sure outcome , that at some point this powder keg must detonate . One might have expected a more direct confrontation , though Vera's demise is ultimately suited to her own unique propensity for evil . Sorry , wrong number . " Detour " is a strangely disorienting movie , with a reputation that transcends it's modest origins . Even it's ending , which seems like the end of the road for Roberts , leaves enough left open to the imagination to suggest that perhaps he can work things out with just the right roll of the dice . But what about Haskell , what about his dying father , what about Vera's corpse at the rooming house , what about Sue ? The movie leaves more loose ends than any other I've ever seen , and doesn't even seem to care . In that respect , it's a lot like Al Roberts at the end of his rope , with the viewer left to decide whether or not to kick out the chair .
" I haven't done anything , except kill a lot of coyotes in self defense , if you want to put it in law talk . "	If you can't picture James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart as gun totin ' Western outlaws , then give yourself a treat and try " The Oklahoma Kid " . Granted , neither actor appears as comfortable in their cowboy persona as they do as gangsters , but they manage to pull off a fairly credible and interesting story , with a rather talented cast around them . The setting is the 1883 land rush that civilizes the six million acre Oklahoma Territory known as the Cherokee Strip , and future site of the city of Tulsa . Cagney's entrance as the Oklahoma Kid is heralded by his hijacking of Whip McCord's ( Bogart ) plunder of a stagecoach carrying money in payment for Indian land . The Kid is the " good " outlaw , who for the remainder of the film plays out his secret identity of Jim Kincaid , who's businessman father ( Hugh Sothern ) and sheriff brother ( Harvey Stephens ) attempt to bring McCord and his gang to justice following their illegal land grab . Adding an element of romance to the story is the presence of Jane Hardwick ( Rosemary Lane ) , daughter of Judge Hardwick ( Donald Crisp ) , who's involved with sheriff Ned , but is immediately smitten with The Kid ; Oklahoma endears himself to newcomers by asking them to " feel the air " . When bully McCord frames John Kincaid for murder , he sends a phony letter to Judge Hardwick to get him out of town , so his own hand picked replacement can push through a guilty verdict . With time running out , The Kid is too late to stop the mob hanging of his father , and sets out to administer his own brand of justice on McCord's henchmen - Indian Joe , Curley , Handley ( Ward Bond ) , and Doolin . The finale finds the Oklahoma Kid and McCord in a rather well staged barroom brawl that ends with the " good " bad guy on the winning end . OK , high drama it's not ; for a truly memorable film of classic status in a Western setting with either of these stars , you'll have to turn to Bogart's " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " . But if it's offbeat Cagney and Bogey you're after , this is a good place to start . You'll have a better time too if you go for the enjoyment factor and not for critical viewing , there's enough fun stuff here to take the edge off a rainy afternoon .
" Never let a snake bite ya ' twice . "	Thanks to " Hard To Handle " , I now know that the grapefruit diet dates back at least seventy five years ! It's always cool to catch a movie that delivers in an unexpected way , and here , Jimmy Cagney is at his best as a fast talking con man , er . . . , entrepreneur as it were , capitalizing on every opportunity to turn a profit from the expectations of a gullible public . Funny , but it never seemed like he was trying to make a bundle , it just kind of worked out that way . What makes the picture so delightful is the equally versatile Ruth Donnelly , portraying Lefty Merrill's ( Cagney ) future , whenever we get around to it , mother-in-law . Lil Walters is one track minded to a fault ; she'll marry off her daughter Ruth ( Mary Brian ) to the highest bidder at the drop of a dollar bill . She also has some of the film's snappiest dialog , and it's a toss up as to who's quicker on their feet , Ma Walters or Lefty . As a result , Lefty's girlfriend is almost left in the dust in most of her scenes , she just can't keep up the frenetic pace set by Cagney and Donnelly . Say now , is it really possible that those Depression era dance marathons went as long as eight weeks or more ? ! ! ! That's how the picture opens while introducing the entire cast of principal characters . I thought it was a neat touch that the occasion had it's own marathon foot specialist . Kind of makes sense doesn't it ? Throughout the story , Cagney's character comes up with scheme after scheme , making lemonade out of every lemon thrown his way . The entire film is a hoot , the only problem being it's not commercially available , so you'll have to be lucky to catch it on a cable channel or source it through a private collector . It's worth it though to catch an early Cagney flick , even if you have to rewind the picture a number of times to understand all the dialog . Cagney's lines are so quick you can't catch them all the first time around !
" A retired man hasn't any paradise . . . "	My first look at George Arliss as an actor and I must say that his was a strong and impressionable performance for someone who doesn't look like he could carry a movie . His character is James Alden , an automobile executive advised by his doctor to retire or face the consequences of a stressful lifestyle . Unable to find relief in the boredom of not working , he purchases a half interest in a gas station with a young aspiring architect . The story takes on a comic dimension as Alden conspires to hide his identity from partner Bill Merrick ( David Manners ) , who takes an interest in Alden's daughter Babs ( Evalyn Knapp ) , well before finding out who she really is . Though slow is spots , I was actually quite surprised with the writing and direction of this film , particularly in the fact that it's execution went well beyond the often seen elements from the silent era that many of the early 1930 movies exhibited . The one minor throwback to that period would be the wide eyed innocent look of Evalyn Knapp's character , but even there , her perkiness and style added a freshness to the picture . Not to mention that she and Merrick made a perfect match as a couple , but oh , that scene where they were parking in the moonlight ! I purchased the movie from a private collector because of James Cagney's name in the credits , and even though his presence can be measured in mere minutes , he takes over the screen the only time he's in sight . The same can be said for each of his prior film appearances , in which he exhibits all the flair he came to be known for in his most well known pictures and starring roles . Here he's an insurance salesman , with advice for Alden that goes against the doctor's grain . A great thing about period pieces , they sure take you back to a simpler time ; how about ten gallons of gas for $2 . 05 ! When the rival gas station owner ( Charley Grapewin ) lowers his price to fifteen cents a gallon , Alden's marketing acumen discourages potential customers from buying cheap gas ! Well of course the story goes full circle entirely , not only does Doc Harvey ( J . C . Nugent ) pronounce Alden healthy enough to go back to work , but his former executives ask him to return to the business to provide his wise counsel . Daughter Babs and partner Merrick get engaged , and the film closes on the traditional happy ending . It's all pretty predictable , but thinking about it , it might have been fairly novel back in 1931 . For early film buffs , take note of the 1930's assembly line near the start of the picture . There are a lot of neat looking vintage vehicles on display throughout , including roadsters casually mentioned costing ten and fifteen thousand dollars back in the day - Yikes !
" You might say it's the same man , but then again , you might not . "	Fred MacMurray doesn't really have the face for an outlaw , nor the voice , which makes it difficult to picture him in a Western . However in " Face Of A Fugitive " , he fares much better than he did in " The Oregon Trail " from the same year . The unshaven look and casting as a loner adds to the appeal of his character Jim Larsen , who takes on the masquerade of a mine inspector looking for a change . Trouble finds him after escaping arrest from a territorial marshal , but the brother who helped him winds up dead , and things get even more complicated when circumstances find him siding with a lawman against Reed Williams ( Alan Baxter ) , a rancher who intends to fence his range land in violation of a government order . Wouldn't you know it , sheriff Mark Riley ( Lin McCarthy ) has a widowed sister ( Dorothy Green ) who falls for Larsen / Kincaid , and the feeling is mutual . It's the typical recipe for trouble . You know , I had to stop and think about the value of merchandise as presented in the story . Larsen paid eighteen dollars for a gun belt and firearm , but only five dollars for a pair of pants and a jacket . Perhaps it was meant to indicate that protection had it's price in the old West , but I wonder if the numbers were accurate ; I'll have to dig up an 1880's Sears catalog . The action takes place in a Wyoming town called Tangle Blue , which is one of the coolest sounding place names I've come across in a Western , and there are plenty . I wonder if that might have been the inspiration for Bob Dylan's song " Tangled Up In Blue " ? Nah , I doubt it . You'll probably have to look long and hard for another story where the outlaw on the run needs to get as creative in dispatching a dead body . With no alternative , Larsen bundles up brother Jim in a canvas mail sack and heaves him off a train as it heads over a river crossing . Somehow you just knew that it wasn't the last you'd see of the young outlaw , he washes up ashore some time later , and for Larsen / Kincaid , it arrived with postage due . By the time it's all over , the Williams gang is no match for reluctant outlaw Larsen in a creative shoot out , leaving sheriff Riley a tough time matching up the face with the wanted poster .
" His interest in blood almost equals my own . "	If you're a Humphrey Bogart fan , you must see this quirky film in which Bogey portrays a vampire like , pasty faced doctor brought back from the dead , who now maintains his quest to stay alive by murdering victims whose rare blood type matches his own . Adding to Bogey's ghastly appearance is a strange skunk like white stripe down the middle of his hair . " The Return of Dr . X " is a blend of horror , sci-fi and campy humor , as investigative reporter Walt " Wichita " Garrett ( Wayne Morris ) teams up with Dr . Mike Rhodes ( Dennis Morgan ) , to try to unravel the mysterious deaths of two victims who have been stabbed with surgical precision , and whose blood has been drained from their bodies . Even more mysterious , the first victim , Angela Merrova ( Lya Lys ) , turns up alive again , bearing the same pale , clammy demeanor as the good Doctor X . Merrova has been under the care of Dr . Francis Flegg ( John Litel ) , who as it turns out , is the medical genius who has discovered the secret of bringing the dead back to life with a combination of electricity and blood transfusion . But in his attempt to create synthetic blood he has failed , as the blood is not able to recreate itself in the host bodies of those brought back to life . Granted , you'll really have to suspend your belief to watch this film , and not even for the dead brought back to life plot . In the early part of the film , the police respond to the death of Angela Merrova after reading about it in the newspaper ! And then , reporter Garrett greets the cops outside the door of Merrova's hotel apartment , and the body is missing ! The time structure of this sequence is unexplainable , and adds to the nutty flavor of this film . Don't expect an award winner here , but do expect to be entertained . It's a genuine treat to see Bogart in this offbeat role , along with the sinister portrayal of Dr . Flegg by John Litel . Wayne Morris and Dennis Morgan are also fine in their respective roles ; and don't let me forget Rosemary Lane as nurse Joan Vance , a stand in blood donor and love interest for Morgan's character Dr . Rhodes . Also making spot appearances in the film is Huntz Hall , as a newspaper file clerk named Stinky . All in all , " The Return of Dr . X " is deserving of a wider audience , difficult since this movie has not had a video release . It has all the earmarks of a cult classic if only more people knew about it .
" This whole thing is very fishy to me " .	Coming almost directly out of the silent era , " Murder at Midnight " might be said to suffer from one of the common complaints of early talkies - the picture more closely resembles a stage play put to film , with the actors and actresses over-enunciating and abruptly deliberate in their mannerism and speech . Getting beyond that though , you have an entertaining mystery given the era , with dead bodies piling up at a rapid pace . I thought it was interesting that when Inspector Taylor ( Robert Elliott ) first arrived at the Kennedy home , he wanted to see the two corpses - the phone call to the police station tipped him . But the second murder was committed while he was there ! Very clever ! By the time it's all over , the body count hits a rather high count of five , and all from within the same house ! The picture uses the old lights out trick , the black gloved hand coming in from off screen , and a couple instances of phone lines being cut , which was a bit of a puzzler , since a phone is still operative near the end of the story . I couldn't help thinking that Charlie Chan might be just around the corner to lend a hand in solving the mystery ; he might have done it without pretty maid Mille ( Alice White ) and butler Lawrence ( Brandon Hurst ) being dispatched - I was sad to see them both go . The biggest surprise though was the revelation of the killer - It's the only time in a movie I've seen where the murderer gives himself away by killing himself ! ! ! Pretty neat wrap up for the Inspector who earned his pay in this one , while his inept subordinate couldn't stop eating peanuts !
" Children , we've got to keep some secrets today . "	I didn't know Turner Classics had a cult movie night until I scanned the listings yesterday to see what was playing . Even though it was showing at 2 : 00 A . M . , it was worth the trouble to stay up and tune into this bizarre flick , which might be compared to a politically incorrect episode of the ' Addams Family ' . You know you've got serious weirdness when the sanest one of the bunch is Lon Chaney Jr . , portraying a caretaker for a trio of siblings whose stock in trade is murder and cannibalism . But don't let that sentence put you off , this stew pot of a film is a blast , with a familiar cast of cult classic mainstays , chief among them Sid Haig as demented brother Ralph . I got a kick out of the dinner scene when talk turned to old time horror films , and when Chaney's " The Wolf Man " is mentioned , he comments - " There's going to be a full moon tonight " ! There's also a great nod to " Psycho " with all the stuffed birds in the Merrye mansion . It was also wonderful to see Mantan Moreland in one of his later movie roles , even if his screen time was abruptly ended . He was always fun to watch in those Monogram Charlie Chan films and zombie flicks of the 1930's and ' 40's . Come to think of it , he looked as good here in his sixties as he did back in his prime . Speaking of looking good , Carol Ohmart got a bit racy with her bedroom dance number , but did anyone else get the idea that she could have been Meryl Streep's sister here ? Her best known film role was that of Vincent Price's wife in one of my earliest horror films as a kid , " House on Haunted Hill " , gave me the willies for a week . Listen , if you've had it with the plethora of slasher / gore nonsense coming out of the mainstream media today , you owe yourself a viewing of this bizarre flick . It's impressionable enough to stay with you for days after a single viewing , and comes close to living up to it's tag line - ' The Maddest Story Ever Told ' .
" It's a lousy war kid , but it's the only one we've got . "	I was surprised to see John Ford's name listed as the director for this film , and even more surprised when it was over . With Oscar wins for greats like " The Grapes of Wrath " ( 1940 ) and " How Green Was My Valley ( 1941 ) , I can't imagine what Ford might have thought after completing this picture , which doesn't quite work as either a war adventure or a military comedy . Which is saying something considering the cast that was assembled to put this effort together . It all starts reasonably enough as Jimmy Cagney swaggers into a World War I French town leading his troops , awaiting the arrival of his new ' Top Soldier ' . I wondered about that characterization for quite a while since the term was used a number of times . When 1st Sergeant Quirt ( Dan Dailey ) finally reports to his commanding officer , the official greeting boils down to a chalk line fist fight that gets repeated each time the men come up with a reason to challenge each other , and there's no shortage of those . Corinne Calvet portrays the romantic interest for both men in the film , but the way her attention see saws back and forth between them , the set up becomes little more than contrived for the sake of a story . Her character Charmaine doesn't seem to spark with either Captain Flagg ( Cagney ) or Quirt , and considering the way she was treated by both , I'm surprised she didn't tell either one to take a hike , military or otherwise . The film descends into ' Hogan's Heroes ' territory later in the movie when Flagg's assignment to capture a German officer sets the friendly rivals off into enemy territory . For me , the film lost a lot of credibility when Flagg and Quirt wind up glad handing the German Colonel after knocking off a trio of higher ranking soldiers . It somehow seemed beneath Cagney's screen persona to make sport of a war time situation like that . Also , the film's attempt to convey some symbolic meaning to it's title generally falls flat when a wounded Marine challenges Flagg , shouting ' What price glory ? ' during a scene that wasn't very stirring or emotional , another device in the film that really doesn't work . Company L's colorful cast includes William Demarest , Harry Morgan , Wally Vernon and an unrecognizably young Robert Wagner who doesn't make it home . Each has generally limited screen time in support of Flagg's blustery demeanor , except Wagner who's off and running in a romance of his own with a French school girl . It might have been a tearjerker , but it wasn't . Interestingly , James Cagney appeared in another World War I film , " The Fighting 69th " about a regiment of mostly New York Irish soldiers . Again , the story is fairly simplistic , though fans of the actor can count on his solid performance in each . It's only too bad that he wasn't given more to work with .
" You know I have the strangest feeling that this is the beginning of a beautiful hatred . "	" The Two Mrs . Carrolls " is the second screen pairing of Humphrey Bogart and Alexis Smith , and oddly , it's Smith's character who's the ' other woman ' in both films . It occurred the first time in 1945's " Conflict " , but in that picture , it was Bogey's character who did the pursuing , while here , it's Cecily Latham ( Smith ) who intrudes on Geoffrey Carroll's marriage to the second Mrs . Carroll of the title . By that time though , Sally Morton ( Barbara Stanwyck ) had already been the ' other woman ' to the first Mrs . C . , who we only know by the ' Angel of Death ' painting . Taking a chapter from " Bluebeard " , Bogey's character is an artist who paints his victims before they succumb to a spiked milk cocktail . It's never made clear how chemist Blagdon ( Barry Bernard ) figures out that Mr . Carroll is the customer who signs for his prescriptions as Fleming . But if he was that sharp , he should also have concluded that if Carroll was deranged enough to kill his first wife by poisoning , then knocking off a druggist wouldn't be much of a stretch . Too bad , he turned the screws just a little too tight for his own good . Nigel Bruce is quite adequate depicting a country doctor who looks in on the Carroll's , you might call his performance right as rain . It's Dr . Tuttle's single minded obsession with an Ashton burglar and a Yorkshire strangler that gives Mr . C the idea for his farewell plans for wife number two . If only he'd have cut the phone line a minute sooner . Perhaps the surprise performance in this tale belongs to the actress portraying daughter Bea , an unusually precocious Ann Carter . Watching her , it was almost impossible to believe that a child could converse with the language she used . It was somewhat irritating though to see how compliant she was with every single idea her father advanced , especially going away to school . I think she could have done some damage once the fireworks started . Bogart and Stanwyck are genuinely competent in their roles ; Stanwyck in particular turning things up a notch when it becomes clear that she could wind up a murder victim . The pair had generally good chemistry together , and seemed to be a better match than the intruder Cecily might have been with Mr . Carroll . Chalk that up to a fine performance by Alexis Smith , as this viewer found it hard to warm up to her character . Bogart fans might have some fun comparing his performance here against his similar character in the aforementioned " Conflict " , a film which for my two cents is the stronger of the two .
" Yeah , I guess the only way for me to keep from swallowin ' a wasp is to keep my mouth shut . "	It's not uncommon for " B " Westerns to have titles that bear no relationship to the story . " Bandit King of Texas " at least nominally describes the film's bad guy , town boss Dan McCabe ( Jim Nolan ) , but a king he's not . McCabe's gimmick is to sell government land to unsuspecting buyers , assign phony deeds , and then retrieve the deeds and eliminate the victims . When McCabe steals a brooch belonging to Emily Baldwin , he has shop keeper Nugget Clark ( Eddy Waller ) make it into a stick pin for himself . As Nugget studies the brooch , he sees an inscription with the names " Emily and Rocky " , so when Rocky Lane arrives in the town of Elko , Nugget finds he may have an ally in ridding the town's bully bad boy . " Bandit King " manages to find ways to rise above the standard " B " Western fare of the day , beginning with a fairly innovative early scene when a covered wagon flips over . We see a notice from the phony Jewel Land Company framed by the spokes of a spinning wagon wheel ; it's quite creatively done . Later on , with Rocky Lane aboard Black Jack , horse and rider make a nice leap over another disabled wagon while a bad guy posse can only pull up short . Though the story winds up being fairly typical , the players pull it off with a decent semblance of credibility . Followers of these early films will recognize the likes of John Hamilton , Harry Lauter , I . Stanford Jolley and Lane Bradford . There's one scene to keep an eye on as hero Rocky takes after McCabe on horseback . On an open trail , as Lane catches up to McCabe and takes him down , they wind up duking it out between two large boulders that weren't there a split second ago . I also got a kick out of the movie's finale when Rocky Lane winds up clearing his name after being framed by the bad guys more than once . Remember the brooch from the beginning of the story ? Well Rocky re-gifts it to the wife of Harry Lauter's character , her name was Cynthia . Won't she be surprised to see Emily's name inside !
" It never rained on the night of the Larrabee party , the Larrabee's wouldn't have stood for it . "	Paramount Pictures bought the rights for the Broadway play ' Sabrina Fair ' expressly for Audrey Hepburn , coming off of the phenomenal success of her very first film and Oscar win for Best Actress the prior year in " Roman Holiday " . With a two million dollar budget and seven weeks of shooting in October / November of 1953 , " Sabrina " was filming even before there was a finished script . Director Billy Wilder even asked Hepburn to fake an illness on the day they were shooting a scene still being rewritten ! The result however remains one of the all time great romantic comedies , casting Hepburn against a pair of mismatched brothers , David ( William Holden ) and Linus ( Humphrey Bogart ) Larrabee . Linus in fact is such a corporate stiff that he's seen dictating a letter to his brother about reporting to work on time , while David seems singularly obsessed with fast sports cars and hit and run marriages . I found it amusingly interesting that the Larrabees were getting into plastics well before Dustin Hoffman could get that advice in " The Graduate " . Two years at cooking school in Paris transforms the waif like Sabrina into a fashionable young woman who's learned how to live . Responding to her father's constant lament that she should stop reaching for the moon , Sabrina counters that now . . . " the moon's reaching for me " . As a stand in for his brother , Bogey proclaims himself Joe College with a touch of arthritis as he begins to court Sabrina . But he does manage to pull off one of the smoothest moves of his movie career when he comments ' it's all in the family ' just before kissing her for the first time . One can just imagine how audiences of the 1950's might have been taken with the glamor and party life depicted in the film , unattainable as it was for the majority . Yet in the midst of it all , Audrey Hepburn exhibited a natural and quiet sophistication that endeared her to an entire decade of movie goers . Her self assurance in the role of Sabrina earned her a second Best Actress nomination in as many films . Stay attentive , and you'll catch Bogart's character request his secretary for a pair of tickets to ' The Seven Year Itch " . Ever the self promoters , Paramount was already getting audiences ready for their next big hit for the following year , also to be directed by Billy Wilder .
" You know , an ordinary life is pretty complex stuff . "	With all the critical acclaim and awards lavished on the film , I'd have to say that maybe I missed something here . I guess it's just that I don't find ' depressing ' to be interesting , and to have an entire film devoted to that cause , well let's say it wasn't inspirational . I'll grant kudos where appropriate though , the mixed footage of Paul Giamatti's Harvey and the real Harvey Pekar was clever and worked most of the time . But the real Harvey didn't seem to invite any type of empathy for what he might have gone through , even for a cancer survivor . Let's face it , challenging Letterman when he deserves it is one thing , but challenging the audience and then slapping them down is pretty much the height of arrogance . I can't even say I understood what Pekar was going for with the Letterman rant , he probably didn't know himself . Overall nice work by Giamatti and Hope Davis ; Judah Friedlander as Toby Radloff was a bit creepy in his portrayal if even remotely accurate . For the real Harvey - try to lighten up , it's supposed to be good for your health . As for the real Joyce Brabner , she just might be a saint .
" Excuse me boss , I ain't no lawyer , I can't talk without thinking . "	" The Mayor Of Hell " has the feel of an early Dead End Kids film , but with a much harder edge and very few light spots , preceding the first appearance of the Dead Enders by four years . James Cagney has a full screen opening credit , even though technically , the ' mayor ' of the movie's title is actually portrayed by Frankie Darro , one of several boys sent to reform school during the opening scenes . Darro's character is Jimmy Smith , a young tough who's befriended by ' Patsy ' Gargan ( Cagney ) , and is elected to the position when Gargan takes a chance at humanizing conditions at a state reformatory . Warner Brothers made a lot of these types of films , attempting to provide a conscience of sorts in an era that only too well knew about the effects of crime and poverty . This movie is quite gritty , with no apologies for ethnic stereotyping , as in the submissive posture of a black father in court or the way a Jewish kid gets to run a candy shop in the reform school . The rules at the reformatory are simple enough - work hard and keep your mouth shut ; step out of line and you answer personally to Warden Thompson ( Dudley Digges ) . Cagney's role in the story seems somewhat ambiguous , since even though he makes a serious effort to improve conditions inside the reformatory , on the outside he's still nominally in control of a criminal racket . The film's attempt to juggle this dichotomy falls short in my estimation , the finale attempts to wrap things up in a neat package as Gargan awaits the outcome of a near fatal shooting of one of his henchmen . Not exactly the kind of role modeling one would look for in a film like this . Warner Brothers would sanitize some of the elements of this story in a 1938 remake titled " Crime School " , featuring Humphrey Bogart in the Cagney role , and Billy Halop in the Frankie Darro part . If you're partial to the Dead End Kids you'll probably like the latter film better , since it also offers familiar faces like Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Bobby Jordan and Gabriel Dell . However the ending is somewhat muddied in that one too , with Bogart's warden character involved in a cover up of a prison breakout . Both films offer a romantic interest for the lead characters , in ' Mayor ' , Madge Evans is a reform minded nurse that falls for Cagney's character . Curiously , a lot of James Cagney's early films aren't commercially available , so you'll have to keep your eyes peeled for a screening on Turner Classics , or source the film from a private collector . Personally , I can't get enough of this kind of stuff , and find intriguing points of interest in the films of all genres from the Thirties and Forties .
" We're getting a fine group of men , more teeth and less flat feet . "	Repeat viewings of " Buck Privates " deliver a warm nostalgia for a time gone by when things were simpler and patriotism was a cherished ideal . After a supporting role in their first movie " One Night in the Tropics " , Abbott and Costello scored in a big way in this 1941 film , and Universal Studios had a comedy machine on their hands . The boys jump right into their comic bits including a crap game , a money change routine and a military rifle drill , all with flawless comic timing . And there's a lot going on around them as well . There's a love triangle involving socialite Randy Parker ( Lee Bowman ) , his ex-chauffeur Bob Martin ( Alan Curtis ) and Judy Gray ( Jane Frazee ) . Nat Pendleton serves as comic foil , first as a cop on the beat and later as the hapless sergeant who can't control Costello's antics . Shemp Howard is also on hand in a comic mess scene . But the real entertainment is provided by the joyous Andrews Sisters , showcasing an array of popular tunes including " You're a Lucky Fellow Mr . Smith " , " I'll Be With You in Apple Blossom Time " , and their signature song - " Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy " . The " Buck Privates " theme worked so well that Abbott and Costello eventually found their way into other branches of the military , their next film was " In the Navy " , followed by " Keep ' Em Flying " and " Buck Privates Come Home " a few years later . Jane Frazee proved to be a versatile entertainer , doing a song of her own in this film - " Gee But I Wish You Were Here " . She made movies in a number of different genres including Westerns , along with five Roy Rogers titles in the late 1940's . " Buck Privates " is a great starting point whether you're just getting familiar with Abbott and Costello , or a long time fan wishing to relive their memory . If your tastes go for the classic Universal horror characters , their best offering is " Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein " . Whatever the venue , the boys always entertain , and remain one of the best and most successful comedy teams of all time .
" I see you are a scoundrel on the right side . "	Even though I was quite entertained by this film , I couldn't help thinking about who the target audience might have been back in the late 1930's , or who , other than old time film nuts like myself might be the slightly bit interested in it today . It's part of an eclectic genre that might appeal to a fan base of " The Hunchback of Notre Dame " or any other movie dealing with stories of sixteenth century France , which is to say , virtually non-existent . Still , it's an interesting story on a number of levels , including mystery , intrigue , and romance , with a cast that includes a host of well known professionals . This was my first look at the actress Annabella , and quite honestly , I think she could have held her own against some of the current greats of the day in the looks department . She's the romantic interest at the center of the story as Gil de Berault's ( Conrad Veidt ) mission to arrest the Duke of Foix ( Wyndham Goldie ) is met with one challenge after another . Berault's nick name is ' The Black Death ' as regards his skill with the sword , and he's spared his life following an edict against dueling if he brings in the rebel Huguenot leader to Cardinal Richelieu ( Raymond Massey ) . For Berault it would have been a relatively easy task if not for Lady Marguerite ( Annabella ) , but alas , love is blind . His nobility and loyalty is severely tested , to the point of sending the Duke on his way instead of certain death at the hands of the Cardinal . That he himself is spared at the film's finale might be considered almost a twist ending considering the temperament of the power lusting Richelieu . Chalk one up for the romantics . Actor Romney Brent provides just the right amount of comic relief in an otherwise rather serious enterprise , utilizing a pick pocket routine and clever conversation with his mentor Berault . He's at the center of the old missing bag of diamonds trick , which Berault uses to his advantage when his back's against the wall . It's another humorous diversion that cements the relationship between the undercover swashbuckler and his lady love , and it pretty much works . I guess the only question I would have , given all the subterfuge at the Foix castle , is why was the missing Duke's sister calling all the shots instead of the Duchess ?
" Just how many kinds of fool are you ? "	Stunning Canadian Rockies scenery add a dramatic backdrop to " River of No Return " , a fairly predictable tale involving a recently released convict ( Robert Mitchum ) , and an out of place Marilyn Monroe who's physical presence and colorful saloon outfits are the stuff of repeated double takes . Oddly , Monroe winds up being well cast here , even to the point of singing a few tunes that hold up surprisingly well . Mitchum's character is Matt Calder , newly reunited with a nine year old son last seen before serving a prison sentence for shooting a man in the back . As the story unfolds , we learn extenuating circumstances were behind the killing , causing a certain amount of angst to come between the boy and his father as a result of the disclosure . ' Mark follows Matthew ' in the Bible , thus serving as the basis for young Mark Calder's name , portrayed by Tommy Rettig . If you were a baby boomer kid growing up in the 1950's like me , Tommy Rettig might have been one of your first small screen heroes , or at least his pal Lassie was . My weekly fix of " Lassie " came on Sunday evenings on CBS , a tough call going up against " The Wonderful World of Disney " on the NBC network . When Timmy outgrew Lassie , it seemed like the magic was gone . Rory Calhoun is the film's obligatory bad guy and fiancée to Monroe's character . He's a bit tough to recognize if you're used to his role as " The Texan " in the 1958 Western series ; perhaps it was the mustache . I'd be curious to learn more about the scene involving Matt Calder's forced advance on Monroe's Kay during the trip along the river . Though discreetly interrupted by the interference of a mountain lion , it seems the lead character of the story came pretty close to attempted rape . I wonder how audiences of the time reacted to that particular scene . Always on the lookout for historical perspective in films , I got a kick out of two saloon signs - ' Whiskey , 25 cents per swallow ' , followed by ' Good Whiskey , 4 Bits ' . Oh , for the good old days ! It occurred to me that the movie's title might have been more than just a passing reference to the hazards met and overcome along the way by the intrepid adventurers , and something other than the subject of one of Marilyn Monroe's saloon songs . It struck me as somewhat allegorical that the act of saving his father's life in the same manner that sent Matt Caulder to jail , would now serve as the flash point in his life that young Mark could never retreat from , a certain departure from innocence to which he could never return .
" You see how the tone of this dump picks up when I'm here . "	The summary line above , spoken by James Cloud ( Robert Preston ) to his brother Tom ( Robert Sterling ) just about says it all . Jim , AKA Kid Wichita , has a way of making things happen , only trouble is , he usually leaves dead bodies where he's been . Not the sort of mentoring Tom envisions for younger brother Jeff , who likes what he sees in Jim , especially when defending their ranch against local Texas cattlemen . The opening credits state ' Introducing John Barrymore Jr . as the Younger Brother ' , in this his very first screen appearance . That seemed rather odd to me , particularly since he was addressed as Jeff almost immediately into the story . Approximately eighteen at the time of this movie , he bears a passing resemblance to Sean Penn . No stranger to personal and legal problems throughout his career as well as estrangement from his family , I was left wondering if his daughter Drew Barrymore might have ever seen this picture . I'm inclined to think not . On the subject of resemblances , I was also struck by the thought that the young Robert Sterling looked a bit like Roy Rogers early in his career . Knowing Sterling previously only from his role as George Kerby in the early 1950's TV series ' Topper ' , I thought he looked out of place in a Western , but that might just be me . His character becomes emboldened by his brother's resourcefulness at creating trouble , and provides some of the edginess to this not so typical story . Minor subplots abound , including the relationship rancher John Gall ( John Litel ) has with his son the Sheriff ( who Kid Wichita kills ) , and the troubled marriage between Kathleen Boyce ( Cathy Downs ) and her husband Earl ( who Kid Wichita kills ) . Chill Wills rounds out the main cast as one of Tom Cloud's hired hands , and figures in the somewhat predictable finale . What's not quite predictable is how things eventually wind up there , and for that reason , this Western earns points for following a less traveled , hence not quite as formulaic a plot as a lot of good brother / bad brother Westerns do . Combined with the eclectic casting of the principals , it's one I'd recommend , even if you have to endure some of the jump cuts and sloppy editing that I experienced with my copy .
" Yeah , go back to your cabin and shoot yourself , that way nobody'll get hurt . "	I just picked up the neatest ' Legends of Hollywood ' DVD set featuring a cool catalog of pictures from the legendary Bob Hope . It's got two ' Road ' pictures ( Rio and Bali ) , and a nice assortment of additional films spanning Hope's career . Watching one , it's hard not to watch another immediately after , especially when he teams with iconic sidekick Bing Crosby , or in this case , with Dorothy Lamour along for the ride with both stars . I got a kick out of the name of Hope's character , ' Hot Lips ' Barton , while the Bingster goes by Scat Sweeney . They're both on the run from a posse of jilted females left behind by Crosby's character , who tries to throw their angry fathers off the trail by dropping names like Bogart and Autry . I feel bad for younger viewers watching the film today who might not be able to make the connection , but for movie goers of the era , it had to be a blast to be ' in ' on the joke . The film offers a neat bit with a comedy trio I'd never seen before - they're the Wiere Brothers , although Weird might have been more appropriate . In the picture , they don't speak English , so Scat teaches them each a single line that he hopes will get them by . It's done pretty effectively , and even though you can see the payoff coming from a mile away , it's still a lot of fun . Too bad they didn't show up in a few more Road shows . As usual , Dorothy Lamour turns up as a character unknown to the boys when the film begins ; here she's an heiress who's villainous ' aunt ' , played by Gale Sondergaard , attempts to steal her fortune via an arranged marriage . Aunt Catherine employs a couple of toughs to bodyguard Lucia ( Lamour ) ; Frank Faylen and Joseph Vitale both get to mix it up with the boys along the way , usually getting the short end of the stick . Best line of the picture - " Well if she looks like Lamour , she can sing like Lamour , can't she ? " Sing she can , in a tuneful little single titled " Experience " . What I couldn't figure out though , was why nobody on board the SS Queen of Brazil complained when Crosby and Lamour sat right in front of the shipboard movie !
" The name is Moto , M-O-T-O . "	It's nice reading the largely warm and positive comments on this film , fans of the genre like myself seem to seek them out and enjoy them for the entertainment value they offer of a simpler time . I became a Peter Lorre fan with my first viewings of " Casablanca " and " The Maltese Falcon " , and was lucky to come by the entire Mr . Moto run over the weekend . ' Think Fast ' is the first entry in the 20th Century Fox series , and as first impressions go , I'll be anxious to get through the rest of them . Right off the bat , comparisons to the Charlie Chan and Mr . Wong films of the same era offer a host of differences . The Moto character plainly enjoys getting a lot more physical with his adversaries , and I did a double take when he threw the steward Carson overboard on the cruise ship . This was one Oriental detective not afraid to mix it up Dirty Harry style . Though the ensuing films in the series may prove different , this one didn't seem to be as blatant in terms of racial references . I caught a single ' chop suey ' remark , but it didn't come from any of the principal players , but a passenger on board the ship . Another consideration , whereas Charlie Chan was almost always assisted by a Number # 1 , 2 or 3 son , and Mr . Wong had Detective Street , Peter Lorre's Moto appears to work alone , though interacting with other characters in the story . In this one , Moto befriends the son of the cruise line owner , Bob Hitchings ( Thomas Beck ) . Keep an eye on the scenes that focus on the tattoo convincing Moto the costumed character in San Francisco and the steward Carson are the same person . In the earlier scene , the tattoo is shown on the inside of the disguised character's arm as he closes a door . However on board the cruise ship , when Carson reaches up to close a vent , the tattoo is on the top side of his arm below the wrist ! In this , Mr . Moto's first film adventure , he successfully uncovers a diamond smuggling operation , with hints for the viewer along the way as to who the villains are . However there was one surprise a la Charlie Chan , when Moto slaps the cuffs on Wilkie ( Murray Kinnell ) it seems to come out of left field . Not that he couldn't have been involved , it's just that his involvement wasn't telegraphed along the way . Still , it made a lot more sense than a lot of Chan's solutions , which required the detective to explain how he managed to solve the crime . Anyway , I'm on board with Mr . Kentaro Moto , and will be looking forward to the rest of his adventures . Next in the series is " Thank You , Mr . Moto " .
" Holy jumpin ' catfish , you drive a guy crazy ! "	Here I am again , in a quandary over a film's reputation and my own reaction to it . Hailed as one of the great screwball comedies and on many best lists , I just didn't think it was as strong a picture as I was expecting . When I think of ' screwball ' , I'm looking for snappy one liners and engaging chemistry between the principals , but the film didn't deliver for me on that score . Gable's character came off as rather harsh for my taste , especially in the scene at the cabin when they faked their marriage to convince the authorities that Ellie ( Claudette Colbert ) wasn't the person they were looking for . There was also that set up at the beginning of the relationship when Peter Warne ( Gable ) has the ' so there ' tiff with the bus driver . I was really expecting a clever resolution to that exchange and it just went nowhere . So OK , the picture swept the Oscars , but take a look at one of the competitors - " The Thin Man " . Now there was a screwball comedy , with as engaging a couple as you can find in William Powell and Myrna Loy . What was probably needed here was someone like Cary Grant to pull off the male lead , as Gable's approach was just a bit too shrill . In fact , Grant was a newspaper reporter in " His Girl Friday " , opposite Rosalind Russell , so there's another example . Another would be " Philadelphia Story " , Grant again with a little help from Jimmy Stewart . The latter two came a half dozen years later , but you still get the idea . As for director Capra , I think he outdid this picture with his 1938 Best Film Oscar winner - " You Can't Take It With You " , and you can't get any more screwball than that one . And even though the theme is somewhat different , " It's A Wonderful Life " stands head and shoulders above this one in my estimation . So maybe I'm missing something , and I'll leave it at that . There were a few things that caught my attention though , like ' Hot Dogs and Hamburgers - 10 cents ' on one of the roadside bus stops - there's a bargain ! And I had never seen an ' autogyro ' before , I thought it would be a helicopter , but seeing it with two propellers going in different directions was really cool to see . But then you had Gable smoking in bed a couple of times . Not a very good example to set when so many people lose their lives in house fires from that very cause . And who thought it was cool for him to beat up a guy to steal his car ? Sorry for those downers . But the thing that nagged me the most - what did Ellie Andrews ever see in King Westley to begin with ?
" There's a fine cold blooded devil . "	It's always interesting to catch a line in a film that winds up being somewhat prophetic for the future of an actor . In this case , I was intrigued by Edward G . Robinson's statement to Barbara Stanwyck - " I promised you the Valley " , as he discusses the lone hold outs to his attempt to control all the land in Logasa . Ten years later , Stanwyck would star as the matriarch of the Barkley Family on " The Big Valley " . Somehow I thought she might have looked older in the earlier picture ; I guess all those bright gowns and fancy riding outfits have a way of bringing out one's youthful side . As for my summary line above , that's Lee Wilkison's appraisal of John Parrish ( Glenn Ford ) , one of those hold outs mentioned earlier , shortly after Parrish uses his knowledge of military tactics to take out a number of Wilkison hands after they raid his ranch and torch his home . I liked the way the film explored his character , starting with the way he dealt with foreman Wade Matlock ( Richard Jaeckel ) in a calculated showdown . The set up for the ambush was also a clever maneuver , diametrically opposed to the strategy of rushing the bad guys head on with both sides fighting it out to the last man standing . For that , Parrish also had something to say - " Never meet the enemy on his terms " . " The Violent Men " is a good title for this film , and was probably at the head of it's class in the mid 1950's , though by today's standards doesn't come close to the blood letting one will find in a " Tombstone " or " Open Range " , where the bullets exact a nasty savagery . But it's shaped by fine performances from the principals , with a sub plot exploring infidelity that seemed almost ironic considering it was Stanwyck's character who was cheating .
" Well there's nothing like a murder to ruin a perfectly good evening . "	I usually find it helpful to keep a scorecard when watching a Charlie Chan film to keep track of all the characters , for this one , you need it just for the action . Yikes ! - it took about twenty movies in the Chan franchise to build up to four dead bodies in one outing , but here they pile up fast and furious . Mr . Moto ( Peter Lorre ) is not above dispatching a few himself , and just as he did in the first film of the series ( Think Fast , Mr . Moto ) , winds up throwing a man over board . There are other similarities as well , the biggest coincidence being the use of the name Marco Polo ; here it's the name of a bridge , while in ' Think Fast ' , it was the name of a cruise ship . By this time , we know Moto to be an importer operating as a detective , but here we learn that he's also an adventurer , explorer , soldier of fortune and one of the Orient's great mysteries . Or so he's described by businessman Tom Nelson ( Thomas Beck ) . In the story , Moto seeks to protect a missing scroll that when joined together with others to form a pattern , indicates the location of the burial place of Genghis Khan and a vast treasure . Of course , a host of others seek to own the desired scroll , as much as Madame Chung ( Pauline Frederick ) and her son , the Prince ( Philip Ahn ) are determined to protect it . Oddities abound in the film , as in the opening scene when Moto in disguise dispatches an assassin in the Gobi Desert , and proceeds to bury him - inside the tent ! John Carradine makes an appearance in the story as an antiques dealer named Periera , and for some unexplained reason uses the terms ' senor ' and ' senorita ' when addressing Nelson and Eleanor Joyce ( Jayne Regan ) . And say , could there really have been an American bar in China in 1937 called ' Mike's Place ' ? But you know what , most of it doesn't matter , because Mr . Moto is a bundle of energy uncovering the bad guys and tracking down the stolen Chung scrolls . He even concocts a romantic link between the main heavy Koerger ( Sidney Blackmer ) and Miss Joyce to create a jealous rage in Madame Tchernov ( Nedda Harrigan ) , thereby undermining the villains ' plot to discover the treasure . But the biggest shock of all is the way it ends , and for that you'll have to see the picture . With just a couple of the Mr . Moto films under my belt for now , it's quite unusual to see how differently he operates compared to the other Oriental Detectives of the era , notably Charlie Chan and Mr . Wong . Whereas the latter two solved their cases much more methodically , Moto combines clever analysis and martial action to achieve his results , and the results are entirely entertaining . Peter Lorre adds a distinctive flair to the Moto persona , and gets one excited about catching the next film in the series - Oh , so !
" . . . when you stand to win , you've got to be able to stand to lose too . "	" Warlock " appears to be a Saturday Western mainstay for the AMC cable channel , and I managed to catch it on today's lineup . Henry Fonda's gun for hire persona Clay Blaisdell arrives in the town of the title along with trusted friend Tom Morgan ( Anthony Quinn ) , summoned to help the town folk rid themselves of the San Pablo cowboy gang led by Abe McQuown ( Tom Drake ) . I got a kick out of the retinue that follows the two gunslingers into town , they come complete with a traveling saloon dubbed The French Palace , a nifty little enterprise designed to supplement a town marshal's pay . What follows is a multi-layered story that turns this psychological Western into a compelling character study of killers for hire . Fonda's character is particularly interesting , since he doesn't portray the stereotype of a ruthless hired gun . He draws on villains without firing , and manages to stave off a lynch mob in the interest of justice and a fair trial . Perhaps more complex though is Quinn's Tom Morgan . His loyalty to Clay is undeniable , though it amuses me to read some of the reviews on this forum suggesting more to their relationship , making me wonder if the viewers making those comments paid enough attention while watching the film . Morgan was jilted some years earlier by Lily Dollar ( Dorothy Malone ) , and spends a good deal of his time attempting to rekindle that affair . He had set up her new romance to be gunned down by Clay , and when she makes her way to Warlock to get her revenge , Morgan himself takes out the man's brother who was coming with her . It seems to me Morgan was more interested in Lily as a romantic partner than Clay ; geez , I can't believe I just wrote that . It's always a treat to see DeForest Kelley in a pre Star Trek role , one almost forgets that a good deal of his screen appearances involved Westerns , both on the big and small screen . Here , he's the first one to challenge marshal Clay , and winds up lucky in not taking a bullet . That perhaps helps explain his later turn in the story when he helps insure a fair gunfight for the ' properly ' assigned deputy , Johnny Gannon ( Richard Widmark ) . I'm a little on the fence as to the believability of Johnny switching sides the way he did , there was no single incident to mark his turn against the San Pablo bunch . An earlier scene showed him questioning Abe's initial foray into Warlock , and in a lengthier scene in the second half he described to Lily the unreality of his participation in a murdering raid on Mexican ranchers . Once his brother was killed of course , there was no more reason to sympathize with the McQuown's . By the time he's roughed up by Abe and Cade at the gang's shack , the good guy transition is complete , and then it becomes a test of wills between himself and Clay . But again , it's not really clear to me why Johnny opposes Clay's intention to stay in Warlock until the job he was hired for is over . It never appeared that Clay was operating outside the parameters of the law , other than setting fire to his own saloon . The finale of course is more believable with Clay leaving town and his fiancée Jessie ( Dolores Michaels ) after taking out his former friend and ' all time champeen cowboy killer ' Morgan . Morgan completely unravels after realizing Lily's gone to him for good , and believing Clay is hanging up his guns to settle down . Oddly , that showdown convinces Clay to do just the opposite , even though the symbolic action of throwing his gold handled Colts away suggest otherwise . I wondered about that too , but only for a minute . It was a gesture that suggested to Deputy Gannon that he was no longer a threat , and heck , he could always get another pair in the next town .
" There's only two kinds o ' guys in business , those who get caught and those who don't . "	Whew " - here's the kind of early Jimmy Cagney picture where he pulls out all the stops as a fast talking con man , and even if he has an ultimately noble intention of winning back his girl in the end , you're never really quite sure how things will work out . Bette Davis is that girl by the way , and she shares the kind of snappy dialog with Cagney that was honed to a razor wit by the time of 1940's " His Girl Friday " with Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell . Joan Martin ( Davis ) once worked for Jimmy Corrigan ( Cagney ) in the ' Personal Contacts ' business , but left for competitor Charles Wallingham ( Alan Dinehart ) who runs a more refined enterprise , including daily tea breaks with the staff . But no matter which way you slice it , both operators are in it for the money , tracking down wealthy patrons who have passed on leaving sizable fortunes . You'll have to be really attentive to stay on top of the main plot involving a two hundred thousand dollar inheritance from a deceased heiress . The only problem is , Monty Barton ( Arthur Hohl ) is on the run from a murder rap , and Cagney's character has to come up with a way to make the will stick until he can get his share of the dough . Getting his former gal pal back would be a bonus , and if you can keep things straight , the final payoff is a winner . I've seen Allen Jenkins in enough Cagney films now to actually expect him to be there , so I wasn't disappointed this time . He's around as Corrigan's right hand man , but the first time they come in contact on screen you'll want to consider how political correctness wasn't a factor in films of the Thirties . When Lou ( Jenkins ) enters Jimmy's office he's greeted with " You dumb Guinea dope , you silly lookin ' ape " ! It's the kind of stuff that makes you go for the re-wind button on your remote . As for Miss Davis , I kept looking for those Bette Davis eyes but they hadn't quite matured yet . Her performance here wasn't that exceptional , but what a difference a couple of years made ; her role as the wistful dreamer Gabby Maple in the 1936 movie " The Petrified Forest " was remarkable . Cagney of course started right out of the gate in roles that featured him as a con man or gangster and this was no exception . He plays a similar fast talking character in 1933's " Hard To Handle " where he's quick to turn a buck from a gullible public . Unfortunately a lot of his earliest films aren't available commercially , so you have to be in the right place at the right time to catch then on one of the classic movie cable channels . For my money , Cagney found just the right tempo and pacing in a few more years to portray Rocky Sullivan in one of my all time top ten films - " Angels With Dirty Faces " .
" Put her to the question ! "	I remember seeing the 1939 Charles Laughton version of " The Hunchback of Notre Dame " as a Million Dollar Movie in the late 1950's , watching it nightly for a week . This was my first viewing of the original Lon Chaney presentation and I was left remarkably impressed with the vision and humanity he gave to the Quasimodo character . Regarded as an inhuman freak by the citizens of fifteenth century Paris , Quasimodo achieves solace from the tolling of the cathedral bells . The movie offers a rather large cast of characters , most of whom have a connection to Esmeralda ( Patsy Ruth Miller ) , stolen as a gypsy baby and raised by Clopin , " King of Beggars " ( Ernest Torrence ) and enemy of kings . The socio-political landscape is a familiar one ; King Louis XI ( Tully Marshall ) reigns over a severely fragmented populace pitting the aristocracy against the street rabble of 1482 Paris . The city comes alive annually for the Festival of Fools , with the ugliest man in Paris crowned as King of the Fools . That honor falls to Quasimodo , but his celebrity turns to disgrace when he kidnaps Esmeralda on behalf of Jehan ( Brandon Hurst ) , brother of the arch deacon of Notre Dame . When Quasimodo is captured and tortured for his indiscretion , only Esmeralda shows pity and offers him some water , recognizing compassion and humanity beneath the grotesque exterior . Esmeralda however is enamored of Phoebus de Chataupers ( Norman Kerry ) , recently elevated to Commander of the Guard by the King . In a particularly intriguing scene , a spider is shown spinning a web , leaving one to wonder who was trapping who . When Jehan attempts to murder Phoebus , the blame falls on Esmeralda . It is only through Quasimodo's vigilance that she is rescued and brought to the safe confines of sanctuary in the cathedral . As the King plots to bring Esmeralda to justice , Clopin incites a Paris mob to come to her aid . Director Wallace Worsley does an admirable job in portraying the mood and feel of fifteenth century Paris , particularly in capturing the squalor of city life . For his part , Lon Chaney endured a most difficult transformation into the bell ringer Quasimodo , outfitting himself with a specially constructed device to inflate his cheeks , a lens that blanked out one of his eyes , and a huge rubber hump weighing almost fifty pounds to affect the manner of the hunchback . All the while he imbues his character with a genuine touch of warmth and humanity that belies the almost horrific appearance , so much so that we feel a loss at the film's finale when the dying hunchback tolls his own death knell .
" If you can't ride that horse , you're gonna have to carry him . "	After literally thousands of pictures from the beginning of the genre in the silent era , someone actually had the clever idea of naming a Western simply " Cowboy " . When I first read the synopsis of the story for the Encore Western Channel , I didn't think it would hold up very well with the casting of Jack Lemmon as a wanna be saddle tramp . I was thinking along the lines of say , " City Slickers " , but you know what , this didn't turn out to be too bad . Lemmon's character Frank Harris actually toughs it out to become part of Glenn Ford's cattle drive to Mexico , even if his ulterior motive was to track down the pretty Mexican senorita he had fallen in love with as a hotel clerk back in Chicago . In fact , he goes all the way over the top to become an even tougher cowhand than his boss Tom Reese ( Ford ) , probably not a real life expectation , but one that works in developing the characters for the film . By the time it's over , Harris may not have won back his girl , but comes to realize he's discovered a larger part of himself . I had a little trouble though reconciling the actions of trail boss Reese following the Strother Martin snake bite incident . I don't think that's how Eric Fleming might have handled the situation on " Rawhide " . You would think Reese would have held a more practical approach to disciplining Richard Jaeckel's Curtis , like maybe offering him the business end of his firearm . And holy cow ! ! ! , what was with that Mexican village rooster roundup ! I have NEVER seen anything like that in any kind of picture . Probably one of the more insidious treatments of animals to arouse the PETA folks in their crusade against animal cruelty in film . Say , how quickly does a broken arm mend anyway ? It seems to me that when trail hand Charlie ( Dick York ) rejoined the herd after the off screen altercation with the Mexicans , he returned with a broken left arm , but in only a day or two it seems like he's good as new ! Must have been the clean fresh air ! Anyway , those few quibbles aside , the film plays it pretty straight as a gritty Western adventure . Even Lemmon's one scene that was probably meant to be comedic aboard the bucking bronco through camp played out fairly seriously . Say , did you consider how Harris ever became such a good shot with a pistol ? You know , the hotel should really do something about those cockroaches .
" And I've caught something really wild this time , haven't I ? "	For any sense of appreciation for this movie , I think you first have to get past the absurdity of the basic plot . You figure that Mark Rutland became president of his family's business because he had a fair amount of business acumen and a semblance of common sense . Once he realizes that Mary Taylor has robbed his safe and has a history of aliases in other cities doing the same , how is it he keeps the romance going ? Especially when Marnie makes every effort to dissuade him at every turn . They say love is blind and marriage is an eye opener , but it seems to me that Rutland had his eyes sewn shut . With that off my chest , director Hitchcock does a decent enough job of maintaining intrigue and suspense in the story ; the aforementioned safe robbery scene with the cleaning lady was particularly noteworthy . Yet at the same time , I have to wonder why Hitch resorted to such almost comical techniques as used in the riding sequence of the fox hunt scene and the rapid zoom in and out of the money in the safe . The latter reminded me of some of those 1940's Warner Brothers cartoons that employ a similar device . It had the feel of a fledgling director who might still be searching for his own vision in making a picture instead of someone with a whole pile of them under his belt already . I have to tell you though , the scene that made me wince was Marnie's horse taking that fall over the jump . You know what the biggest surprise for me was ? Finding out that actress Louise Latham played the parts of both the elder Mrs . Edgar and the young mother of Marnie in the scene with the sailor . The makeup job was so good for both characterizations that it even fooled Hitchcock's assistant director on the set , who asked who the actress was to show up for the flash back filming . Coming off of Hitchcock's suspense thriller " The Birds " , I thought Tippi Hedren did more than a competent job as the conflicted title character , bringing a range of emotion to a role that could have wound up a caricature if not done as well . Opposite Sean Connery , Hedren wondered how she could pull it off . Credit director Hitchcock with a firm but insightful bit of advice - " It's called acting " .
" Nothin ' but static and Heil Hitler ! "	Humphrey Bogart excelled in crime , gangster and noir films , but he acquits himself reasonably well in the World War II adventure film " Sahara " . He portrays an American tank commander waylaid in the Libyan Desert with two comrades , radio man Jimmy Doyle ( Dan Duryea ) and machine gunner Waco Hoyt ( Bruce Bennett ) . With their trusty armored tank Lulubelle ( Lulubelle ) the opening scene has them following general orders to retreat in the face of a German advance that has them blocked on three sides . Running into the remnants of a British 8th Army unit , the sides hook up to form an international group of ragtag soldiers whose fortunes shift more than the desert sands around them . Besides the inherent story of good versus evil , and freedom versus Nazi propaganda , the film also serves as an effective psychological drama in it's one on one vignettes focusing on members of the group . Particularly effective is the cat and mouse game played out by Bogey's Sgt . Gunn character and his German counterpart Major Von Falken ( John Wengraf ) . At this point in the picture , Gunn and company had virtually nothing to lose in a desperate gamble to hold off the enemy until support could arrive . Or would it ? In a brilliant scene , two Allied soldiers pretend to lavish themselves with bathing water , when it's just about all they have to share among ten men . But take your pick . For a film that comes in at just over an hour and a half , it deftly details the backgrounds of it's principals and provides an insight into their motivations and humanity . Each of the Allies in turn prove to be heroes in their own way while maintaining a soldier's discipline . Even Italian prisoner Giuseppe ( J . Carroll Naish ) has a chance to shine in his eloquent argument against the downed German flier ( Kurt Kreuger ) , preferring imprisonment rather than fighting against an enemy he doesn't hate . Powerful ! The film effectively places the viewer in that most uncomfortable of elements , a vast barren desert where you can feel the searing heat with every awkward step in the sand . Needed light moments are provided by the side bets Waco and Jimmy have on the outcomes of their sergeant's decisions . When Gunn hands over Waco's winnings at the end of the movie , you wish that everyone could have come out a winner and a survivor .
Soupy Sales - what a blast !	I'm prompted to write this review because of a trivia note on this board stating that Soupy's references to the ' F ' word was the stuff of urban legend - not so ! Besides the infamous ' little green pieces of paper ' bit , I also managed to catch not one , but two of the comedian's gags regarding the ' F ' word . In the first , Soupy was addressing the camera as he often did , and went into one of those gestures that kids do when shooting odds and even . Extending his thumb , he says " This is for my mother " , then for the forefinger , " This is for my father " , and then extending his middle finger - " And this is for my producer " . The second incident I remember involved a skit with White Fang . Using a large easel for a prop , Soupy wrote the letter ' F ' on the board and asked White Fang what letter it was . In his guttural dog voice , White Fang says ' K ' . Soupy crosses out the letter and writes it larger , asking White Fang again , and again , he says ' K ' . Finally , Soupy draws a huge ' F ' on the easel , and asks White Fang once again what he wrote down . Fang still answers ' K ' , prompting the exasperated Soupy to respond - ' White Fang , why is it that every time I write ' F ' , you see ' K ' . Well I just about fell out of my chair rolling , and as always , the off screen crew could be heard going into hysterics . If anything , this is the legend that should have survived the series even beyond the send me your money bit . Those and other antics always made me wonder how Soupy survived as long as he did hosting what was nominally a kid show . Now when I saw the episodes in which the above situations occurred , it would have been on reruns during the mid 1960's , because whenever I got home from high school early enough , Soupy Sales was like religion , it just had to go on . Apparently , the powers that be must have gotten beyond the original shock of those bits to allow them to be aired again . Anyway , " The Soupy Sales Show " was a blast , and I can still remember to this day characters like Philo Kvetch , Onions Oregano , and Pookie the Lion , as well as those two nutty off screen canines . Soupy definitely pushed the envelope for TV programming in a way that hasn't been matched since . For all those afternoons just rolling on the floor - " Thanks Soupy ! "
" Make trouble , you get trouble . . . "	The title pretty much says it all , and conveys what the viewer might expect to see in a low budget feature like this one from the 1950's . Ida Lupino stars as the tough minded , non-compassionate superintendent of a woman's prison , in a picture that starts out fairly mundane but gets rolling with all manner of evil machinations on the part of Van Zandt ( Lupino ) . The core stories involve a housewife serving a manslaughter sentence for the accidental death of a young girl , and a female prisoner who gets pregnant by her husband during a surreptitious visit from the men's side of the prison . Should tell you what kind of a life this kid would have had . To say there are plot holes and continuity problems galore here would be an understatement . As if to underscore the point , I got a kick out of the conversation between the two prison matrons about half way through the movie , when Miss Saunders ( Mae Clarke ) states she likes to pick out the flaws in prison movies . I came up with a bunch without even trying . First off , when inmate Brenda ( Jan Sterling ) dropped the newly laundered and pressed clothes upon discovering Joan and Glen in the storeroom , she picks up a pile of completely disheveled garments as if they just came out of a dryer ! Secondly , soon after Brenda burns her hand intentionally in the clothes press , she's shown helping Joan get to her feet after she faints , and her hand clearly shows no injury . Later on in the story , when Dr . Crane ( Howard Duff ) goes looking for Van Zandt , he wakes up a woman prisoner who tells him that the inmates have taken over - how did she know that if she was sleeping ? A break before I continue . Though she didn't have a large role , Vivian Marshall was entertaining as the would be Shakespearean actress doing Bette Davis and Talullah Bankhead impressions . That was a clever set up for her to imitate the voices of Matron Sturges and Van Zandt later in the flick when all heck is about to break loose . Back to the goofy stuff . How was it that after only one day in jail , Dr . Crane tells Helene Jensen that he'll bring her three letters from her husband . And after she's read them , he'll exchange them for three more ! That Mr . Jensen sure must have liked to write ! I don't even want to get into how easily Glen Burton ( Warren Stevens ) managed to make his way from the men's prison to the women's side at will . You'd think that after the first time , the warden would have put a tail on him to figure out how he did it , instead of relying on Van Zandt to beat it out of the Mrs . By the time Burton whips out a gun during the hectic finale , it looks like one of the more believable elements of the story . But you know , even with all this nonsense going on , the story managed to keep my interest during it's entire hour and a half run . Each of the characterizations , even the minor roles was entertaining . It was worth it to get to the point where Crane orders the straight jacket for Van Zandt as she's about to take off for la-la land . OK , two more . How is it that Jensen , serving one to ten for that manslaughter charge gets released after about the two weeks of the film's story ? And the name of the black woman prisoner in the role call - O'Shaughnessy ? ? ?
" Herb's talking about killing me , and I'm talking about killing him . "	To which Ma Newton replies - " It's your father's way of relaxing " . Director Alfred Hitchcock liked to use humor to diffuse the building tension in his films and to shift emphasis , and this movie offers a number of excellent examples . They're peppered throughout the story and offer needed breaks as it becomes more and more apparent that Joseph Cotten's character , Uncle Charlie , just might be the ' Merry Widow Murderer ' that a country wide manhunt is after . There's no doubting that Hitchcock is one of the great directors of American cinema , but once again , I find myself on the fence regarding this picture's reputation and my own reaction to it . Maybe I'm being a tad too critical , but just like with " Strangers On A Train " , I found the resolution to the story to be just a little too pat for my liking . Here was Uncle Charlie ( Cotten ) , an athletic looking man revealed to be the killer of three widows for their inheritance , successfully challenged by his niece almost half his size . Would a murderer of his talent and skill allow himself to be angled into a position as to fall off a train into the path of another because he just slipped ? It's just too convenient a scenario to serve as the finale . What might have better served the picture would be to have the story actually support the title . Hitchcock did a nice job with the initial attempt on Young Charlie's ( Teresa Wright ) life using the doctored step on the stairway ; not really sure if it was tampered with or not . The garage scene with the running car and Young Charlie ' trapped ' could have been presented with an outcome that didn't make it obvious that the Uncle was behind it . Of course , the train scene makes it certain that Cotten's character is the widow maker , as he pulls out all the stops to take out his niece for what she suspects , but doesn't necessarily know for certain ( although the ring inscribed with ' T . S . from B . M . " was a pretty good clue ) . I guess what I'm saying is that the film would have worked a whole lot better for me if Uncle Charlie's murder history was maintained as a " Shadow of a Doubt " instead of a certainty . What I'm thinking is along the lines of 1938's " Angels With Dirty Faces " - it's up to the viewer to decide if Jimmy Cagney died a hero or a yellow rat . It makes for a much livelier debate . Aside from that , the film did hold my interest all the way through , with well presented performances by the principals , along with Henry Travers , Patricia Collinge , MacDonald Carey and Hume Cronyn in good support roles . Ma Newton ( Colllinge ) did a nice job of putting two and two together in a very low key scene , and it was rewarding to know that she ' got it ' regarding her brother's presence back home . Say , there was one scene that took me way back to when I first learned to drive a car . Do you recall Jack Graham ( Carey ) using a stick shift on the column when driving his car - when's the last time you saw that ?
" I'll say one thing for crooks , they give you an honest day's work . "	Consider the casting for the three leads in " We're No Angels " - Humphrey Bogart , Peter Ustinov and Aldo Ray . It doesn't seem to work on paper , but in this film , the trio have such a comedic rapport that the film winds up a delight . The setting is Christmas Day 1895 , and all three are escaped convicts from Devil's Island with the notion of returning to Paris aboard a ship anchored in Cayenne harbor . What starts out as a casual afternoon to steal some money and kill some time , turns into a mission for the amiable villains . They spot a likely target , the shop of proprietors Felix and Amelie Ducotel ( Leo G . Carroll and Joan Bennett ) . Offering their help to fix the shop's roof , they eavesdrop their way into the lives and hearts of their hosts , which also includes daughter Isabelle ( Gloria Talbott ) . Leo G . Carroll plays his role along the same lines as his Topper character , amiable but somewhat bumbling . It's no wonder the shop makes no money ; Bogart's observation - " I got ten years for a better set of books than this " . To create just the right amount of tension , Felix Ducotel's cousin Andre Trochard ( Basil Rathbone ) arrives to take stock of the business , and can find no better fun than to spend Christmas Day going over the books . In tow is his nephew Paul ( John Baer ) , for whom Isabelle has nursed a year long crush . In a mock trial , the criminal trio find Andre guilty and leave it to their pet snake Adolph to carry out the sentence . " We're no Angels " is one of those rare films in which you find yourself rooting for the bad guys . The one liners are brilliant , and shared equally among the three rogues . With deadpan delivery , Ustinov's Character Jules lovingly refers to the Ducotel's - " People like that , how can you cut their throats ? " . At film's end , the strain of playing it straight with the Ducotel's causes the convicts to reevaluate their plans ; it would be much easier to return to prison where they can feel more at home . The dapper trio sport halos as they make their way back , with one more for good measure for Adolph . This is not your typical Christmas movie fare , but I can understand how it could wind up on your list of holiday favorites .
" All employees must wash hands before resuming work . "	According to the Coen Brothers , the film's title describes a person's state of mind after he has committed murder . Fair enough , and for their very first professional directorial effort , the Coen's put out a nicely packaged product that sometimes thrills , but ultimately winds up with too many elements that defy credibility working against the story . I'm thinking about the number of gun shots fired throughout the picture that didn't attract attention , the incredible good fortune that no one was ever around as Ray ( John Getz ) tried to cover up Marty's ( Dan Hedaya ) almost murder , and Abby's ( Frances McDormand ) sudden burst of bravery in doing the old Luca Brasi trick on the private detective character ( M . Emmet Walsh ) . Carrying things one step further , wouldn't someone eventually have tried to find out why tire tracks led into the middle of a fallow farm field ending in a hand dug grave ? I guess all these things can be shrugged off by considering that for a first effort , the whole thing is wrapped up in a darkly entertaining noir style story with a twist involving the doctored photos of Ray and Abby dead . Oddly , the queasiest parts of the story didn't bother me all that much , like Ray trying to clean up all the blood in Marty's office . Marty's burial scene was pretty clever with the shifting mud , nice touch , but you know what the most shocking part of the flick was for me ? It was the newspaper hitting the window right after Ray tells Abby that Marty was still alive when he buried him . That was about the best mis-direction I've ever encountered in a movie because you don't see it coming , and never expect it like you do in contemporary horror films . I had read a lot about this film that encouraged me to see it , and now that I've done so , my best take away is that this was a decent but not entirely successful effort by the Coen's . But you have to start somewhere , and for that somewhere , this is probably more accomplished than most first time tries by other writers and film makers . From that perspective , it's a worthwhile viewing that helps one appreciate all the more what came after in the Coen's filmography .
" You'll find out Mr . Law Officer . "	Somewhat unusual for a Hitchcock film , I found myself drawn in and actually enjoyed it . I think that probably had all to do with the performance of Charles Laughton as the haughty squire , Sir Humphrey Pengallan . There's no two ways about his wickedness , he's a perfect cad - just catch the way he sizes up Maureen O'Hara's character when she first makes her appearance at his home . And oh , those eyebrows ! - you'll marvel at the makeup job that just adds to the extreme of Laughton's over acting . Oh , and one other thing - it's hard to understand what he's saying sometimes , but he's so entertaining in the delivery that you just don't seem to mind so much . The story itself deals with a band of cutthroats , thieves and smugglers on the Cornish Coast of England , while the dark and moody atmosphere of the picture gives it the feel of a pirate film that mostly takes place on land . Laughton's Pengallan is the mastermind that pulls the strings on waylaying ships to their doom on the stormy coastline . Robert Newton appears as the anti-pirate in this one , and after narrowly escaping death at the hands of Joss Merlyn's ( Leslie Banks ) rowdy bunch , he takes charge to bring Pengallan to his ultimate demise . Here's something to keep an eye out for . After Trehearne ( Newton ) and Mary ( O'Hara ) escape from the villains by swimming out to their boat , they wind up seeking refuge at Pengallan's home . While still in his soaking clothes , Trehearne pulls a dry folded piece of paper from his pocket . How'd he do that ? As most of the comments on this board suggest , the film deserves a chance , even if it doesn't hold up well for the professional critics . The best way to view it would probably be late at night , with a nice warm brandy to take off the evening chill . A dark and stormy night would do just fine in keeping with the on screen atmosphere . I think Pengallan would agree .
" I think I'm getting a mickey . "	Setting the stage for this 1945 comedy , Dexter Broadhurst ( Bud ) and Sebastian Dimwiddie ( Lou ) team up to save the " River Queen " from a trio of card sharks , who have gained a three quarter interest from Captain Sam Jackson ( Henry Travers ) in a rigged card game . The Captain's daughter Carolyn ( Lois Collier ) never gives up hope , and plays on the sympathies of villain Crawford ( Alan Curtis ) as the boys whiz through a host of their comedic sketches . They include " My Bonnie Lies Over the Ocean " , feathers in the cake , the catfish dinner , the fishing routine , and Lou's shaving routine opposite baddie Joe Sawyer . But they all take a back seat to the famous " Who's on First ? " routine , which remains one of my all time favorite bits . The comedic timing is flawless , though in this case , the audience reaction is non existent at the request of the film's director - probably a bad decision as one's reaction is that these guys should play off the audience as much as each other . The movie's finale revs up to a high energy frenzy after the gamblers are dealt a losing hand with a cold deck by a remorseful Crawford in a one hand , winner take all bluff . Henry Travers is probably best remembered for his role as the angel Clarence , earning his wings in the memorable " It's a Wonderful Life " . Though taken advantage of , he maintains his integrity through thick and thin . But with Abbott and Costello on board , you know that the bad guys don't stand a chance . And with all the mayhem , it's easy to forget that the film also stands up as a musical , with an assortment of tunes to lend counterpoint to the sketches along the way .
" Raise no more devils than you can lay down ! "	You know how you can watch a super hero flick and be disappointed over how cheesy the hero's powers looked ? At least with " Ghost Rider " , you get the real deal . The CGI effects could not have been better to capture one's imagination of how the Marvel comic character should appear on the big screen . That goes for both the ' modern ' motorcycle riding Ghost Rider and the original Western hero created by writer Dick Ayers . As for the story , it's a somewhat clichéd premise that fortunately doesn't put the entire world at risk , only a small town known as San Venganza whose souls are held captive by the devil's contract and are fervently sought by the son of Mephistopheles . Through it all , you'll get some mileage out of a device known as the Penance Stare , and one liners that would do a comic book proud , like the Caretaker ( Sam Elliott ) to Johnny Blaze ( Nicolas Cage ) - " Congratulations , your chances just went from none to slim " . Apparently , Cage may have gotten in just under the wire as a super hero , as his age is starting to show . He actually takes his name from a Marvel second stringer called Luke Cage , but don't hold your breath for a movie about that character . His is an imposing task as the devil's bounty hunter , and he comes out on top using the old blood of the innocents trick to defeat his nemesis Blackheart ( Wes Bentley ) . But geez , didn't it seem like it was just a bit too easy ? For my money , Sam Elliott steals the show as Carter Slade , the first incarnation of the Ghost Rider , though it's never reconciled how he and Johnny co-exist together , but that's not too important . Watch this one with no more investment than a couple of hours to kill and an escapist mentality . With Eva Mendes on hand as the Rider's romantic interest , I kept humming one of Johnny Cash's trademark songs to myself as the story progressed - ' Love is a burning thing . . . '
" You can always hire fools or drunkards to do something , but when trouble comes , men are hard to find . "	I was surprised at how strong this film played out for one I'd never heard of before . I guess that puts me with the majority of reviewers on this board in support of " The Proud Ones " . What puts the film at odds with a lot of early Westerns is the apparent age of it's star , Robert Ryan , who looks even older than his actual age of forty seven at the time of the picture's release . It isn't unusual to find Western films where the hero feels past his prime at thirty five , as in Gregory Peck's " The Gunfighter " , one of my all time favorites by the way . After watching this one , I like to compare and contrast Ryan's forceful performance with the one he did in 1971's " Lawman " , where he portrayed a town sheriff who knew the difference between right and wrong , but was willing to compromise in favor of the local town boss . He didn't have the lead in that picture , but he had some memorable scenes with it's star , Burt Lancaster . Here , Ryan carries the picture all the way , with help from young Jeffrey Hunter's Thad Anderson , who see saws his way through the picture attempting to establish credibility regarding Marshal Cass Silver's ( Ryan ) role in the death of his father . Silver never sugar coats it for Thad , he shot the elder Anderson in a ' him or me ' situation , and had no problem alluding to his victim as scum , one of the hired hands of ' Honest ' John Barrett ( Robert Middleton ) , villain of the piece . Thad hires on as a jailer , then as a deputy to help the marshal clean up Flat Rock before the final curtain comes down . For fans of Westerns , there's no escaping the similarities to 1952's " High Noon " , though without the tension of a pre-determined showdown . Cass Silver is about ready to hang up his badge , while his main squeeze Sally ( Virginia Mayo ) tries desperately to convince her man that it's time to leave town and start a new life elsewhere . The main theme holding the story together is the lawman's need to see the present job through , even if it means an uncertain , possibly fatal end . It's what gives the film's title it's meaning , and what drives the honorable man to an honorable conclusion . Aside from the story , I was intrigued by a number of elements the picture had to offer , like it's apparent fixation on gunshot wounds to the head . Badman Pike ( Ken Clark ) got it in the head during the stable shootout , as well as jailer Jake . Which is even more unusual , considering that Walter Brennan by this time should have earned the right not to go out in such a bloody manner . Even Ryan's character took an early graze to the temple , which set up his problem with blurred vision and possible blindness . That's something I've seen only one other time , in the 1965 spaghetti Western " Minnesota Clay " , where Cameron Mitchell's character begins to rely on the direction of sound when he starts to lose his sight . One other thing , how unusual is it to see Jeffrey Hunter limping around from a leg wound instead of Walter Brennan ? It's something you notice right away , if you can get beyond Brennan's oversize handlebar mustache - you think that was real ?
" Holy smoke , look at the trim lines on that destroyer ! "	For me , it's always cool to come away from a picture with something that was entirely unexpected . In the case of " Here Comes The Navy " , I literally did a jump in my seat to see and hear mention of the U . S . S . Arizona , the famed battleship that went down during the infamous Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor that brought our country into World War II . I had only seen this huge ship before in documentary footage covering that historical event , so it was a rare treat to see aspects of daily routine occurring aboard ship during the film's run . The other treat of course , is catching Jimmy Cagney and Pat O'Brien in the first of their many team-ups for First National / Warner Brothers . You know , I still can't get over the fact that some of their best work together took place over seventy years ago ! In this one , the duo is at odds with each other , as Cagney's character Chesty O'Connor , signs up for a stint in the Navy just to get aboard the ship commanded by his nemesis Biff Martin ( O'Brien ) . There's not a whole lot of credibility to the timing and coincidence necessary for that particular circumstance to take place , but that's no problem for the movies . Complicating matters further , wouldn't you know , is that Martin has a sister ( Gloria Stuart ) that Chesty goes for , so right there you've got the makings for an even more heated rivalry . Speaking of which , that seemed to be a common plot element in many of the early Warner Brothers flicks of the era . In the 1937 prison movie " San Quentin " , inmate Humphrey Bogart had a sister that the warden fell for , thereby giving the impression that Bogey's character was getting preferential treatment . The warden - Pat O'Brien ! You really have to catch one of Cagney's early films to get a sense of where all that enormous talent came from . This picture offers a dance scene , part of the ' Iron Workers ' Frolic ' , that allows Cagney to strut his fancy footwork . I got a kick out of the poster advertising the dance contest ; I've never seen one before that promoted ' Big Doings ' ! Just another one of the visual treats you can appreciate from a picture from the 1930's . Another was catching Guinn ' Big Boy ' Williams as the dance floor manager looking almost impossibly young , but in checking , I was shocked to learn that by the time of this movie's release , he had already been in over eighty pictures ! ! ! Learning something new every day . Anyway , story wise , you won't find anything resembling an Oscar contender here , but you can still have some fun with this first Cagney / O'Brien team up . Character actor Frank McHugh , a frequent Cagney supporter is on hand to lend comic relief . His gimmick has to do with buying his mother a pair of false teeth - and to think , back then you could do it for twenty dollars ! Now that's the good old days !
" In matters of business one is forced to ignore human factors . "	The banking concern of Pettypacker and Sons is about to sell their interest in Colossal Film Studios , until accountant extraordinaire Atterbury Dodd ( Leslie Howard ) points out that the five million dollar deal is worth at least twice that much . Standing up to the senior Pettypacker , Dodd offers to head to Hollywood to head up his own internal investigation of the studio . The characters Dodd meets in tinsel town are more like caricatures than real people . There's the blustering movie director Koslofski ( Alan Mowbray ) , the alcoholic producer Quintain ( Humphrey Bogart ) , the annoying publicist Potts ( Jack Carson ) , and the prima donna of all time Thelma Cheri ( Marla Shelton ) . Even Dodd himself is the consummate number cruncher , reducing meaningful personal relationships to " cogs " and " units " . The only real heart and soul person that Dodd discovers is the delightful former child star Lester Plum ( Joan Blondell ) , reduced to stand in roles that earn her a meager forty dollars a week when she can get the work . The film has a lot of bizarre scenes that produce double takes , such as the Shirley Temple wanna be that performs on the spot auditions , and the seal and penguin act that share a room in the boarding house where Miss Plum resides . Blondell's character earns Dodd's interest when she uses a judo flip to throw him on his keester ; that move will be repeated more than once as the film progresses . At the center of Dodd's investigation is the production of a guaranteed to flop movie that will put Colossal over the financial edge and insure a bargain basement sale to big shot businessman Ivor Nassau ( C . Henry Gordon ) , who will then lay off virtually the entire studio . The name of the film , and you better sit tight , is " Sex and Satan " - it's a jungle movie ! With lines like " Goodbye little jungle goddess " , the movie is guaranteed to be dead out of the water . Making lemonade out of this lemon will take some doing , but Dodd puts on his best human face and organizes the masses for a final rally to save the day . And all of this after being fired by Pettypacker ! I would probably never have seen this film had I not been such a loyal Humphrey Bogart fan . Though he's third billed behind Howard and Blondell , his screen time is nominal , alternating between one of the studio heavies and his later conversion to a Dodd ally . It's a rare comic role for Bogey in which he appears somewhat uncomfortable , but ultimately satisfying once he decides to ditch gold digger Thelma Cheri and edit a gorilla into her jungle scenes . The movie closes on the hint of a romance between Dodd and Miss Plum , just about when she's run out of options and hope of pinning him down . Fortunately the number cruncher decides to have a heart , as unlikely as that may have seemed at the outset . It's a well deserved finale for Joan Blondell's character , her good natured warmth and sincerity deserved to win out in the end .
" . . . this is the first time I've ever seen a rat leave a ship that wasn't sinking . "	The movie opens with a gimmick that I've seen a number of times in films of the era that just doesn't make sense , with a newspaper headline describing an event that's occurring in real time . In this case it's a steam ship that's on fire with a Coast Guard ship to the rescue . It makes you wonder just how quick news could travel in a pre-internet world . The picture's story boils down to a romantic triangle between Ida Lupino's character Doris Malone , and her two maritime suitors , Mike O'Shay ( Preston Foster ) and Steve Webb ( Donald Woods ) . Actually , make that a quartet , as Doris ' father ' Medals ' Malone ( Victor McLaglen ) is actively involved in pitting Webb against the unprincipled and brash O'Shay . When you come right down to it though , Webb never even seemed a contender for Miss Malone's affections , though he does figure in the climactic finale . But even though he dies from injuries sustained in an explosives accident , there's never any time to dwell on it , as the picture rushes off to a Coast Guard rescue of a yacht in hurricane trouble . By that time , O'Shay was in the brig of the U . S . S . Taro awaiting court martial for aggressively opposing Chief Mate Malone one too many times . Keep a sharp eye on that scene when he escapes by tricking a fellow seaman , the key was already in the cell lock - he could have gotten out at any time he wanted ! Though the film is somewhat formulaic , the highlight comes near the end with the rescue scene mentioned earlier . You might be amazed as I was to see how the seamen used a shot line to rescue passengers from the distressed ship . If that's the kind of work the Coast Guard does , they're not paid enough !
" . . . and you come under the headin ' of what I do for a livin ' . . . "	Coming off the success of " The Godfather " and " Last Tango in Paris " , one can only imagine what may have possessed Marlon Brando to team up with Jack Nicholson in an off the wall film like " The Missouri Breaks " . Nicholson himself had already reached super stardom with " Chinatown " and " One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest " , so this project wasn't so much a risk for either actor as an opportunity to explore some ' outside the box ' boundaries of a genre generally calling for shoot ' em up action and a clear delineation between good guys and bad guys . The thing is , there are no good guys here . Nicholson's character Tom Logan is the leader of a gang of horse rustlers , and Brando's Robert E . Lee Clayton is a Wyoming regulator from Medicine Hat hired to take him down . Even Clayton's employer Braxton ( John McLiam ) operates outside the law as it were , taking frontier justice to it's limits in an early hanging scene . To describe each of these characters as morally ambiguous is an understatement , the only ambiguity might be in the timing of their firearms . Director Penn challenges the audience a couple of times , the first of which utilizes Jane Braxton ( Kathleen Lloyd ) using reverse psychology on Logan to consummate an ' illegal ' tryst . Later on , there's a clever juxtaposition of elements that plays out with church goers off screen singing ' Bringing in the Sheaves ' as Logan's gang ' lets out ' a corral full of horses . Clever too is the way Logan and Clayton trade off their upper hands ; Clayton in the cabbage patch scene letting Logan know that he knows , while Logan returns the favor in the bathtub confrontation . That's why the film's devastating finale comes as such a shock - no battle , no showdown . This is not your father's Western . Though this might not have been Marlon Brando's strangest role , he certainly plays it like it would be . You'll catch hints of the ' Godfather ' persona in a couple of scenes ; feeding his horse a carrot comes to mind . For sheer brilliance , you just can't beat the sadistic enterprise of the old granny . At the same time , watch for hints of the ' Here's Johnny ' characterization from " The Shining " when Nicholson's character glazes over as his gun hands go down one by one . Speaking of which , Randy Quaid , Frederic Forrest and Harry Dean Stanton perform admirably as Logan's bunch . Each of their characters receive a creative ticket to Boot Hill courtesy of Robert E . , and in true regulator fashion , not one of them saw it coming .
" We've been beaten up by the inventor of Scrabble . "	Wildly implausible plot elements are standard fare for " The Last Boy Scout " . No , no , I don't mean the corrupt Senator or the megalomaniac sports team owner , those are pretty much the norm for action films because they occur with such regularity in real life . I'm talking about a hard boiled private detective who escapes death with a monologue of fat jokes , and a thirteen year old daughter who makes a save with a handgun in her puppet . They just don't make ' em like that anymore . The thing is , if you want to be critical , this movie provides enough fodder for serious thrashing . However if it's a fast paced action adventure wrapped around a spirited buddy pairing , then you'll find it here , all wrapped up in quick one liners and snappy banter between Bruce Willis and Damon Wayans . The duo seems to share a monumental detachment from tragedy in their own lives and a commitment to provide the same for the opposition . But gee , how do you manage to walk around at the end of the day if you've been pummeled as much as these guys have ? Halle Berry fans will have to pay attention during her brief screen time ; her demise in the film is not a pretty picture . Taylor Negron is notable as a sadistic hit man , which reminds me of another implausible plot point . Just on the off chance that he might have survived the car crash into the pool , why would Joe Hallenbeck ( Willis ) leave his daughter there with the homeowner ? I guess the question's not so rhetorical , it's so she could be kidnapped to advance the story into the football stadium for the next round of mayhem . For Bruce Willis , this could have been with some modifications , an entry in the " Die Hard " series , as many of his films could be . His character generally remains the same from picture to picture , but if you're a fan , that's OK . The film earns it's title with the squeaky clean personal code of it's lead hero , reinforced by an autographed sports card from Wayan's character signed " To the daughter of the last Boy Scout " . Be prepared !
" I mean , by the way they're ridin ' you left out somethin ' . "	For it's dramatic premise , " The Shadow Riders " turns out to be rather uninspiring in it's execution , rising not far above it's ' B ' Westerns roots . It's got some good cinematography going for it at least , though the bright blue expanse of Baffin Bay seemed somewhat out of place and jarring as part of the landscape in the middle of the film . In fact the whole movie seemed just a little too bright and colorful in tone for it's story of selling unfortunate men and women into Mexican slavery to revive a defeated Confederate war effort . Mac ( Tom Selleck ) and Dal ( Sam Elliott ) Traven wore opposite colors in the Civil War , while third brother Jesse's ( Jeff Osterhage ) allegiance remains unknown , cut off by Mac when he was about to tell because it was unimportant now that the war's over . It seemed just a little too convenient how Mac and Dal came charging over the ridge to rescue little brother after his escape from Major Cooper Ashbury's ( Geoffrey Lewis ) rogue Confederate band . Katharine Ross's character Kate Connery is one of the film's brighter spots , though the effort seems positioned as a reprise of her role as Etta Place in " Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid " . However she has nowhere near the chemistry with Elliott's Dal Traven as she did with Sundance , or even Butch for that matter . Somehow you knew she wasn't going to get away with the nun gimmick ; I have a feeling that when the Mexican bandido said ' pray for me ' , he meant his casting in the picture . Ben Johnson rounds out the main cast as Uncle ' Black Jack ' Traven , but here again , his on screen presence plays against his reputation as a bad old boy . Do you really think the Travens had to blow up the Converse County jail shack to spring him ? A couple of good horses probably could have pulled it down . Bad Springs sheriff Miles Gillette ( R . G . Armstrong ) reveals near the end of the story why he's been hunting Black Jack down for thirty years ( ? ? ? ) - he had an affair with the sheriff's wife ! But you know what , trading Jack for Holiday Hammond just might get him re-elected sheriff , so what the hey . Was I seeing things , or did it look like the burro gave a nod to Selleck's character when they rode into Hammond's ( Gene Evans ) camp ? Check it out for yourself . One other question - How did Dal's hat stay on as he hung upside down looking into the train window ? Sorry I can't be a little more positive about the movie , but it just doesn't give Western fans a whole lot to work with . All of the principals fared better in other ventures , and in true ' B ' Western tradition , even the film's title doesn't really have much to do with the story .
" Well Jamieson , there's your new Army . "	Warner Brothers got a lot of mileage out of films offering social commentary and reflecting on the ills of society in the 1930's and ' 40's . " San Quentin " is their take on the drudgery of the prison system and how one man hopes to bring self respect to that class of inmates that wants to go straight . I don't know how accurate the set up for the film might be . Army Officer Steve Jamieson ( Pat O'Brien ) is on leave from the Army for a special assignment as Yard Captain at San Quentin State Prison . He's replacing the interim boss Lt . Druggin ( Barton MacLane ) , who's manner is the typical caricature one envisions of a tough prison guard . Druggin stews over his demotion as Jamieson tries to balance toughness with compassion , giving the prisoners a break when it's deserved . The thorn in Jamieson's side will be Joe " Red " Kennedy ( Humphrey Bogart ) , a petty criminal who winds up in the big house after his last job . Complicating matters is Joe's sister Mae ( Ann Sheridan ) , who's budding romance with Jamieson winds up distorting the perception of the other inmates , who feel Joe is receiving special treatment . Taking advantage of the situation is convict Sailor Boy Hanson ( Joe Sawyer ) , arriving at San Quentin with Joe at the same time . When Hanson plans his breakout , he wants Joe by his side , having earned Hanson's respect when the two got into a tussle some time earlier . The blustery Druggin sees an opportunity to take Jamieson down a peg when he's tipped off about the breakout by another convict . Assigning Hanson to an outside yard detail allows Sailor Boy to plan an escape with the help of his girl friend ( Veda Ann Borg ) . Things go badly though , as Hanson grabs Druggin hostage during the escape , and both lose their lives in unrelated mishaps . A passing train offers Joe a handy getaway , and he high tails it back to Mae's place to seek refuge . Too late Joe realizes that maybe Jamieson was on the level ; forcing his way back to San Quentin with a bullet in his gut , Bogey gets to crack wise one last time , but it comes out a bit corny - " Tell the cons to play ball with him , he's swell . " The trio of Humphrey Bogart , Pat O'Brien and Ann Sheridan would wind up making three films together . Their first was 1937's " The Great O'Malley " , followed by " San Quentin " , winding up together again in the following year's " Angels With Dirty Faces " , where they would take supporting roles to James Cagney and the Dead End Kids . The first two don't seem to be commercially available , so you'll have to catch them in a venue like Turner Classic Movies or seek them through private collectors . Though not their best efforts , the films are worth seeing for their portrayals of life in a bygone era , when life was simpler but just as complicated at the same time .
" Death comes soon enough , anyone who hurries it is a damn fool . "	" Duel At Diablo " had me thinking about Sidney Poitier's role , and I'd love to hear his reason for taking the assignment . Considering his appearance in one of my favorite films , " In The Heat Of The Night " , a classic study of racism and cultural fear , I wondered how he reconciled the role of a former black military officer helping the cavalry protect a supply wagon through Apache territory , with all the attendant characterizations of the red man as a hostile , savage brute . But Toller ( Poitier ) did have character , as demonstrated by the apology to Remsberg ( James Garner ) after learning of his wife's fate , that was an excellent scene . Dennis Weaver surprised me with his portrayal of Will Grange , showing a range of ability that far surpasses my singular impression of him as Matt Dillon's deputy , Chester Goode . He figures in somewhat of a story twist when it's revealed that he had a hand in the death of Remsberg's wife . The showdown you were expecting for the entire film managed to play out in a manner that kept Garner's character honorable , even if revenge was served . It was an effective way to handle the conflict . You know , I'm surprised that an obvious continuity issue hasn't been noted yet regarding the picture . When Remsberg leaves the soldiers for Fort Concho , he's riding a gray horse across the desert , but in the scene when the horse collapses from heat exhaustion , it's brown . A similar error occurs in the Western " Comanche Blanco " near the finale when William Shatner's horse changes color . It makes me wonder why film makers , or even the principal actor , can't remember how the scene started out so it can be finished without an obviously conflicting ending . They must have other things on their mind . At least it was gratifying to see that mathematical accountability came into play regarding the strength of both the Indian band and the cavalry . As the soldier forces dwindled , references were made to that effect , and you had a sense of the attrition . Contrast that with other Westerns where it often seems like one side or the other winds up with just as many men as they started with . You know , it wouldn't have taken much to turn this one into a John Ford / John Wayne cavalry Western . Most of the elements were there except the peaks of Monument Valley and a romantic interest for the leading man . Still , the inclusion of Ellen Grange ( Bibi Anderson ) as a conflicted white woman with an Apache baby added another layer of intensity to a film already chock full of angst driven characters . You knew she would make it to the end of the story , the question being , at what price .
" Don't get lost bashful boy , you're in the big city now , "	Set in the Montana Territory of 1866 , brothers Ben ( Clark Gable ) and Clint ( Cameron Mitchell ) Allison find themselves talked into a cattle drive from Texas back to Boomtown , after robbing high roller Nathan Stark ( Robert Ryan ) in his own saloon . Ryan's character is the taller of the two main stars , but it's not enough to win the heart of Nella Turner ( Jane Russell ) , after she see saws her way between the two through much of the story . Russell of course steals any scene in which she's featured , and with the help of a provocative wardrobe , one is constantly reminded of her best assets . Constantly on the lookout for tidbits from an earlier era , I was as shocked as the Allison Brothers when the stable guy wanted to charge them sixteen dollars for two horses overnight . I don't think I've seen another Western where the charge was more than two bucks . What made that especially onerous was when Nella was quoted a dollar fifty a night , nine dollars for the week at a ritzy hotel in San Antone . Kind of makes you wonder what the horses got that humans didn't ! Amid the tension of the romantic triangle , I got a kick out of the comic relief elements in the story , all wonderfully understated , and usually involving Russell's character . The best included the cutting of the girdle scene , her drenching river crossing , and brother Clint's frog in the bucket . Curiously , even though they were brothers , I found it intriguing how Clint sounded more and more Mexican as the story progressed . I can empathize with other reviewers on this board who felt the film was a bit on the long side . Considering that the cattle drive was fifteen hundred miles , that would have taken at least two months in real time , and probably longer . This was the only time I ever saw in a movie where they had to hoist the wagons down over rock cliffs , something I would never have considered . So what do you leave out , the Jayhawkers or Red Cloud ? By the time the story's over , Nella's big dreams and Ben's small ones find a way to converge in the most minor of twist endings . It was interesting too how the words to Nella's ' Tall Man ' song always seemed to fit the occasion ; I wonder if she had one for Prairie Dog Creek ?
" Life every now and then behaves as though it had seen too many bad movies . . . "	The title suggests a more whimsical tone , but " The Barefoot Contessa " is anything but , instead it's a dark and dreary examination of a doomed Cinderella who would have been happier if left undiscovered . Ava Gardner portrays that Cinderella , rising from an impoverished heritage in a dysfunctional family to a life of Hollywood glamor and parties on the Riviera . Not once though do you get the impression that she enjoys any of it ; even at her wedding the servants have more fun than the aristocrats . Told in flashback style through the eyes of three men close to the Contessa's career , the film is a savage indictment of celebrity phoniness and the corruption of money and power . Oddly , Humphrey Bogart's character , a screen writer and director , manages to make it through the entire affair with a semblance of dignity and respect . Battling his own alcoholism , Harry Dawes ( Bogart ) is believable when he challenges studio boss Kirk Edwards ( Warren Stevens ) and confronts publicist Oscar Muldoon ( Edmond O'Brien ) for the snake oil machinations of his occupation . Actually , O'Brien's performance is a mini standout for the picture , one that earned him a Best Supporting Oscar . Any scene involving his character makes you want to run for a shower . It may have been a line in the film , but if not , I like the comparison of Bogart's character as a ' fairy godfather ' to Gardner's Maria Vargas . Harry Dawes is at the same time a participant and a watchful outsider in Vargas ' career progress , with only his own good intentions for a reward . We get a good insight into his motivation when he pulls a fast one on Edwards by inviting three international film agents to a showing of the Vargas screen test . Now they all realize her star potential , virtually guaranteeing that she not be bullied into a one sided contract . Maria Vargas ' own dreams never seem to mesh with her meteoric rise to stardom , instead she always longs for solace in the arms of a life partner who can bring about a happy ending to the Cinderella story . Instead , the hopelessly naive actress settles on an arbitrary solution to carry on the Favrini heritage that virtually assures her doom . Ultimately , the film dissolves into a dark and utterly sad finale for a character whose life worked out as if it had been the subject of too many bad movies .
" Did I brush your fur the wrong way ? "	About a third of the way through the picture , I was pretty convinced that Francie ( Grace Kelly ) was the cat burglar , but that might have been due more to some of the set up scenes on the DVD I was watching rather than the story itself . Although there were quite a few hints pointing to her during those double entendre laden conversations she had with John Robie ( Cary Grant ) . But you couldn't be disappointed with the revelation of the real jewel thief , Danielle Foussard ( Brigitte Auber ) displayed her athleticism admirably during earlier scenes , so picturing her rummaging around on rooftops wasn't too much of a stretch . Aside from the actual story , I couldn't help but be impressed with director Hitchcock's choice of locales for the story . The French Riviera setting was nothing short of gorgeous , and I couldn't help rewinding a few scenes just to take in the natural beauty . That Cary Grant was sure one lucky actor when it comes to making pictures , besides starring opposite Grace Kelly that is . It would be a toss up as to which locale was more beautiful , the one presented here , or the Mediterranean vistas on display in " An Affair To Remember " . Not being too fussy , I could take either one . You know , if you're really paying attention , you would have to wonder how John Robie managed to leave his home with the clothes on his back , trade them for a pair of swim trunks , and then show up at a flower market in Nice with a new set of duds . It all flows rather smoothly , but gee , how would someone do that ? Maybe the stranger on the bus helped him out . I got a kick out of a line spoken by Francie to Robie regarding his past reputation as a crack jewel thief - " And you just aren't the Lone Wolf you think you are " ? I paused to consider whether Hitchcock was paying tribute to the movie character from the 1930's and ' 40's portrayed by Warren William . I like to think so , but anyone know for sure ? Besides the creative dialog , I also found an early scene to be fun when Robie makes his way to the French restaurant where his former colleagues are employed . One of the kitchen workers pours a saucer of milk ! It was here also where Hitchcock decided to deal with his fetish regarding eggs , two separate instances where the ' perfect food ' is dealt with rather harshly - you'll have to watch . For all the clever playfulness in the story , one would be forgiven for not recognizing this as an Alfred Hitchcock film . It's one of his lighter efforts , balancing intrigue and mystery with romance and humor . Perhaps the cleverest bit of amusement had to do with the title of the picture itself . " To Catch a Thief " pretty well describes Cary Grant's mission in the story , but it turns out to be Grace Kelly's goal as well , only in a more romantic sense .
" When you keep a rattlesnake around , you always pull his fangs . "	The setting is Comanche Creek , Colorado , 1875 ; a band of outlaws headed by Amos Troop ( DeForest Kelley ) breaks an unsuspecting jailbird out of the town lockup and kills the deputy . The gang then uses the outlaw as a front man for their other robberies . As the reward money on the bad guy escalates , the gang then shoots him and turns him in for the reward , all nice and legal like . Only trouble is , this time the victim was a member of the National Detective Agency gone undercover , and a close friend of Bob Gifford ( Audie Murphy ) . Now the job of infiltrating the gang goes to " Gif " , who insinuates himself into Comanche Creek society as a free spending high roller , as the agency creates a back story and wanted poster for " Judd Tanner " . The earlier Murphy Westerns usually cast him in the baby face role of a good guy ; in 1959's " No Name on the Bullet " , Murphy's character John Gant was a hired assassin , and even then his youngish countenance didn't seem to match his character . Here the older Murphy pulls off the outlaw gimmick a bit better , with wits quick enough to match the ever changing dynamics of his masquerade . When the cover is blown on the agency plant , Tanner maintains his cool , only revealing his identity to gang member Bill Carter , who's anxious to leave the outlaw life behind . With a lesser known supporting cast , the gunfight of the title eventually sets things right and settles the score against the bad guys , who have been masterminded by the sheriff of Comanche Creek , Marshal Shearer ( John Hubbard ) . DeForest Kelley is so closely identified with his Star Trek role as Dr . Leonard " Bones " McCoy , it's easy to forget that he appeared in a fair share of Westerns , beginning with a 1949 Lone Ranger appearance . He also turned up in episodes of " Gunsmoke " , " Trackdown " , " Rawhide " and a host of others . " Gunfight at Comanche Creek " winds up being a fairly intriguing Western , made so by the plot twists that keep Murphy's character on his toes . I found the background narrative a bit annoying though , as the story played itself out well enough without the commentary ( by uncredited narrator Reed Hadley ) . Otherwise it's a generally worthwhile hour and a half of Audie Murphy entertainment . Update - / 2007 - Apparently , this movie was a remake of the 1957 film , " Last Of The Badmen " , with Audie Murphy reprising the role of George Montgomery . Both movies were released by Allied Artists , even though the writers credited for each film are different . Check it out !
" I like the part where he knocks you on your a _ _ . "	I get a kick out of looking over the viewer comments on this film who make it sound like Galactus was actually IN this movie . The way Hollywood works , I wouldn't be surprised if the next FF picture got around to identifying that dust vortex as something or somebody else altogether . You see , all the right code words were used , ' destroyer of planets ' , ' devourer of worlds ' , etc . , but when you come right down to it , you can only assume that it was Galactus that the Silver Surfer was the herald of . OK , OK , you know it and I know it , but let's wait and see if Galactus actually makes an appearance down the road . Speaking of that vortex , it looked an awful lot like the same kind of device that showed up in a Star Trek episode some forty years ago , the one in which Spock used a shuttle from the Enterprise to blow up an entity that was just as powerful as said Galactus was presumed to be . So take away points for non-originality there . What that leaves you with is a fairly entertaining super hero flick if you go in for that kind of stuff , but nothing in the way of epic story telling on a grand scale . The CGI guys got it down excellent though with the appearance of the Silver Surfer , couldn't have been better as far as capturing this viewer's expectation . You know what else bothers me - couldn't they give Dr . Doom a voice that befits his evil status ? I know , getting James Earl Jones would have invited Darth Vader comparisons , but come on , he already dressed like Vader and walked like Vader , but he wasn't that duck . But geez , anytime the character spoke as Doom , he sounded like a wuss . Hey , did you notice that traveling zit on Jessica Alba's forehead ? When Sue Storm is shown talking to Alicia ( Kerry Washington ) early in the story , she has a blemish above her right eye , but just before she makes it disappear , it's above her left eye . One of the better super powers on display here . OK , that last comment invites a neg from the FF4 die-hards , but I'm working on not much sleep here . I enjoyed the movie for what it was , but agree with a lot of posters on this forum that it could have been a whole lot more . As for Stan Lee , I think this was my favorite cameo .
" You were safe in jail , now it's just too bad . "	Though he drops a couple of notches in the screen credits from his first picture , " Sinners ' Holiday " , James Cagney still dazzles as a top mobster's second in command and hones the skills that will find him topping the bill for 1931's " The Public Enemy " . Funny how Cagney's smart aleck attitude and mannerisms got him stereotyped as a gangster right out of the block , and he made it seem all so natural . As for the story , Warner Brothers takes yet another stab at the menace to society theme with it's take on mob violence and competition between rival gangs . This was my first look at Lew Ayres , who heads the cast as crime boss Louie Ricarno . In an opening scene , he's out to ' teach a guy a lesson ' for being a rat , and from there he sees an opportunity to bring all the local big shots together under his own umbrella . Though generally effective in the role , I did find it somewhat humorous when Ayres went into that surly pensive mood from time to time throughout the story . I also got a kick out of the scene in which Ricarno fancies himself as big a man as Napoleon , and Cagney does a mock impersonation of the dictator to the amusement of Louie's girl Doris ( Dorothy Matthews ) . With the back drop of Louie going straight and retiring to Miami with his new wife , the film throws a minor curve with the autobiography he's writing . I thought for sure that police captain Pat Grady ( Robert Elliott - O'Grady in the credits ) had it right when he offered the suggestion - " Don't write the last chapter till the night you go to the chair " . Instead , knowing that there's no safe way out of the flop house he's holed up in , Louie gussies himself up for a ' handful of cloud ' . The finale is effective for Warners ' purposes , the fade out hones in on the rewritten last page of the Louie Ricarno story , the ' doorway to hell ' swings only one way . Keep a sharp eye and you'll catch a typo in the gangland slaughter headline of the newspaper Louie reads in the boarding house - it reads ' grewsome ' for ' gruesome ' . For an early talking picture , I found the film to be fairly well written and acted , most of that contribution coming from the main principals , Ayres and Cagney . I would like to have seen a better resolution of the Ricarno / Mileaway relationship , particularly since Cagney's character just disappears after his ' confession ' , and even more so because of his heavily implicated fling with Ricarno's wife - very risqué stuff for the 1930's . The scene in the cab when she removes her ring probably brought a few gasps to audiences of the time , don't you think ?
" This is Blood City , and we do things a little different around here . "	The opening of the story is a little disorienting , you have a city traffic scene and for a while , I was getting upset that the movie I was watching wasn't the one featured on the DVD sleeve . But then the opening credits offered the title I was expecting , so it was with an ' OK ' , this could be interesting , that the rest of the picture unfolded . Though nominally a Western , what you have here is an early sci-fi experiment in the concept of virtual reality with an 1880's back drop . The premise of ' Blood City ' itself , the Project as it were , was to choose a leader for an elite corps of killers in the real world . By weeding out the losers , project designers attempted to identify someone who could lead a military unit to victory based on their ability to make rational decisions in stressful situations , as well as survive the ordeal . What surprises me is that the concept was tackled in film way back in 1977 , thirty years ago , yet the timing only a couple short years after the end of the Vietnam War suggests that the search for ways of insuring victory in future conflicts was well under way . So much for theorizing . Except for the poor production values of the picture itself , I found the whole premise fairly fascinating . As the story progressed , the cut aways to the lab began to make more and more sense , particularly when Samantha Eggar's character began interjecting her own values into the game to affect the outcome . It would have been interesting to learn what became of the people who were ' killed ' in Blood City , the story didn't take it that far . As for Lewis's ( Keir Dullea ) decision to return after being terminated , the film allows for a quandary . Apparently , subjects chosen at random for the experiment didn't have recourse for a return to their former life , even if they could remember it . Of course , we don't get to see what happens when the machines are turned off . One thing I was left wondering about was why the identity cards with the murder scores on the new arrivals was introduced in the first place . That idea didn't seem to have any bearing on the story that followed , even if it helped set up the plot . Was it the point to establish the remaining kills needed to achieve ' immortality ' ? If so , that idea was negated by the fact that new arrivals could attain immediate citizenship with their first kill . Anyone ? I guess the reason I enjoyed the film as much as I did was because of it's way of asking more questions than it answers . Whenever I try to wrap my brain around the concept of virtual reality , a la " The Matrix " for example , it starts to make my head hurt . I don't even want to think about living there like Lewis . Hey , check this out - watch the scene where the camera cuts away from the dead Maxine for the last time - if you look real close , you'll see she opens her eye !
" We're all sinners , or about to be . "	I picked up this flick as part of a double film DVD offer along with " The Hanged Man " for just a buck , and truth be told , both movies were a whole lot better than either had a right to be for the price . The title on this one was " The Gun and The Cross " , close enough to the original to get the message across . The title character wields both , as Marjoe Gortner is revealed to be gunfighter Ernie Parsons , masquerading as a preacher after he finds a real one who was bushwhacked . Donning the clothes of the dead minister , he arrives at the town of Castle Walk just in time to help the local folk deal with nasty town boss Ross ( David Huddleston ) . It's fairly formulaic , with nods to 1952's " High Noon " and 1973's " High Plains Drifter " , along with a preview of 1985's " Pale Rider " . However with it's own spin on things , it comes across both interesting and entertaining , particularly with the inclusion of Pamela Sue Martin as Gortner's love interest . Their scenes together are played both for romance and camp value , and I got a kick out of Sally ( Martin ) explaining how she wouldn't be the youngest widow in town if Parsons were to meet his demise . Along with the principals , you have some fine supporting players doing character portrayals you might have seen before ; Slim Pickens as a sidekick of the preacher , Geoffrey Lewis as a hired gun , and Estelle Parsons , who starts out somewhat annoying as Sally's mom . but then settles down a bit to accept the preacher and his mission . The ending comes as just a bit of a surprise , and you have to fill in your own blanks as to the town's reaction , especially Sally's , when Gortner's character realizes Billy's ( Pickens ) advice is correct . Though it's not likely to show up on TV again , it wouldn't hurt to check out the bargain bins at your local store every now and then to see if this one turns up .
" What did Lazarus do with the rest of his life ? "	If you have the opportunity to pick this one up for a buck like I did , it won't be the worst dollar you ever spent . Not only that , but it was packaged on a DVD along with " The Gun and The Cross " starring Marjoe Gortner , so in a two for one deal , it stacked up for an entertaining afternoon . One curious thing though , the DVD sleeve described Steve Forrest's character James Devlin as having the power to read minds after surviving a lynch mob hanging . I was paying attention , but never really came up with that conclusion . In fact , the one supernatural reference had to do with a tarot card depicting the ' hanged man ' , signifying one who changes his way of life by surrendering to a higher being . This Devlin does after surviving the gallows , playing out the remainder of the film as Jack Palance , wasn't that an uncanny resemblance ? I kept thinking Curly Washburn from " City Slickers " . The other unintentionally distracting element for me was the name of the town where the story takes place called Goshen . That's a small town in New York not far from where I live , and I had to picture it being further out West . Something I never thought about , and maybe it was made up for the picture , but up until the point Devlin is declared legally dead , there's some discussion about whether he might have to hang again . At one point it was mentioned that the steps up to the hangman's noose numbered thirteen , unlucky in itself , but with added symbolism regarding a death sentence . Along with Forrest , you have decent support from Dean Jagger , Will Geer , and Devlin's nemesis Halleck , portrayed by Cameron Mitchell . Probably unintentional , the movie's fiery finale envelops Devlin in an eerie glow hinting at some Ghost Rider imagery , a comic book character that started out as a Western . You can pretty much see the ending coming from a mile off , and in that respect , you'd have more of a mind reading ability than Devlin . Still , it's not the worst Western you'll come across , and along with it's DVD counterpart , makes for a couple of hours of satisfying Western diversion .
" . . . and that my friend , was a clear cut case of him or me . "	OK , so how did Jackie Brown get the half million dollars out of Mexico ? She's an airline hostess , not a stewardess , and she's never shown making a flight . I also missed the part where someone writes a withdrawal slip for all that cash . But aside from that glaring plot hole , and if you don't think about it too much , you can have a pretty good time with " Jackie Brown " . But don't expect the reckless abandon and frenetic fury of the two films that put Quentin Tarantino on the map , you know the ones I'm talking about . What you have here is a more controlled pace and a linear approach that's easier to follow than Tarantino's signature moves . That gives the viewer a little more time to anticipate what might come next , but even then you're caught off guard by certain scenes . You might have expected Beaumont ( Chris Tucker ) to get whacked , but having Louis ( Robert De Niro ) waste Melanie ( Bridget Fonda ) was a left field stunner . Which brings me back to the suspension of disbelief necessary to pull this one off . You have a broad daylight shooting in the parking lot of the ' world's largest indoor mall ' and not one other person is in the vicinity ? What I don't want to do is talk myself into not liking this film , which I see now might be easy enough to do . Instead I'll focus on the characters , with De Niro delivering a sublime performance as a small time hood to Samuel L . Jackson's bad a - - self confidence . Pam Grier's Jackie was in total control , with a range that gave the film a lot of it's energy . The surprise though might have been Robert Forster's character Max Cherry , flying so far under the radar as an actor that I can't believe he's garnered over a hundred film credits , and I can't picture him in even one . Round it out with Fonda and Michael Keaton and you've got a lot of talent keeping things just near the boiling point . With the movie now hitting the ten year mark , it's interesting to see how director Tarantino goes back to the well for his latest effort in the two part " Grindhouse " feature . " Nothing gets between me and my A-K " could have been a trailer for that one , and who can miss the connection between Max Cherry and Cherry Darling ?
Let's think about this a minute .	Twenty years from now , people will still be watching sci-fi movie classics like " Star Wars " , " Alien " , and " Terminator " . I have a hard time convincing myself anyone will even remember " Serenity " . Granted , I have never seen the " Firefly " series on which the film was based , but even if I had , I can't imagine this movie even being mentioned in the same breath as those listed above , not to mention true sci-fi classics that have withstood the test of time of half a century like " The Day the Earth Stood Still " . I'll concede that the film is entertaining enough as an action adventure diversion , with moments of humorous dialog and exciting martial arts mayhem . But ultimately , it's all been said and done before in more innovative and better films . For fans invested in the TV Series , I can understand how the death of a major character like Wash might have caused a shock to their movie going system , but once again , the death of a principal is no longer untimely or surprising . In all honesty , I couldn't go on record stating one should stay away from this film ; again , it's an eye candy two hour diversion . But to leap to it's current standing in the IMDb Data Base is a gross testament to popular mass culture . Let's check back in 2025 .
" If I don't kill this buffalo , the dream will kill me . "	Although the story had a number of ideas that didn't ring true for me , I still found it largely entertaining and interesting . Of course , having Wild Bill Hickok cross paths with Crazy Horse was one of the more creative elements in the picture , and that they didn't recognize each other was probably something of a stretch . In fact , having very few people recognize Hickok on his return from Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show was probably darn near impossible . I'm going by Hickok's reputation and the fact that his image would have been one of the more prominent ones featured in newspapers and dime novels of the day . But as far as fiction goes , this one gets points for the idea of a mythical white buffalo that haunts Hickok's nightmares and has caused Crazy Horse disgrace following the death of his daughter . Both have their reasons for revenge on the ' buff ' , and the events leading to their team up is handled skillfully . You know , if I hadn't seen Clint Walker's name in the opening credits and been looking for him , I probably would have entirely overlooked his presence as Whistling Jack Kileen . He's one guy who never seemed to age following that successful run as Cheyenne Bodie in the 1950's . He's a bad guy here though , virtually unrecognizable under a beard and a brogue , but I don't think he ever did whistle . If you listen closely , you might be shocked to hear Charlie Zane's ( Jack Warden ) comment the first time he and Wild Bill get a look at Crazy Horse before they know who he is . Under attack by a band of Crow Indians , Charlie says - " Look at that red nig-er take on " . The only other time I've heard that reference in a movie before was in 1960's " The Unforgiven " in a similar context . Interesting but disconcerting to hear a racist remark like that regarding Native Americans . For Western movie fans , the picture offers quite a notable cast heading off into their own personal career sunset , folks like Slim Pickens as a stage driver and John Carradine as a busy undertaker . Both have rather brief roles , along with Kim Novak as a former Hickok flame , Poker Jenny . Speaking for myself , it's always a treat to catch Will Sampson in any kind of role ; my favorite has to be his portrayal of Chief Bromden in " One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest " . Fans of Charles Bronson should be pleased with his effort here , about mid-way between his " Death Wish " appearances . Somewhat less charismatic is the white buffalo itself , a rather modest special effects effort even by 1970's standards . At times it looks more comical than fearsome , and I had to ask myself why they couldn't come up with something a bit more realistic looking , especially considering it had the power to wipe out Indian villages and knock down mountains .
" There won't be any strange faces in Apache Bend tonight . "	With Raymond Burr forever etched in the minds of TV watchers as lawyer Perry Mason , it's somewhat uncharacteristic to see him toting a handgun as the main heavy in a sagebrush yarn like " The Brass Legend " . He looks the part too , all gruff and unruly , and perhaps with a girth I hadn't noticed before . Hugh O'Brian looks just right for the part of a sheriff , whether here as Wade Addams , or as the lead character in " The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp " . Can you believe that series is over fifty years old ? For a Western that follows a fairly standard formula , director Gerd Oswald provides some interesting scenes that were never staples of the genre . Like young Tom Gipson ( Robert Burton ) getting shot off his horse , or how about that fancy showdown in the saloon when the Sheriff takes out all three Barlow brothers ? That scene came off as totally realistic , vindicating Addams ' tarnished reputation in bringing outlaw Tris Hatten ( Burr ) to justice in the first place . Even the ending was done differently , instead of your standard showdown in the middle of a dusty street , you have both antagonists riding toward each other like jousting knights , but with guns blazing instead . There seemed to be just the right amount of satisfaction in Hatten's dying breath as he figures he outlived the hangman . But you know , I keep wondering about one scene . How many takes do you think it required for Burr to find his mark when he threw his holstered gun against the wall ?
" Well that's that , no use crying over split milk . "	It's been years since I watched a Laurel and Hardy film , but viewing " Flying Deuces " was a great reminder of just how brilliant they were . The nuance of their performances is particularly poignant to an adult viewer , whereas watching them as a kid , they were just funny . On display are Ollie's trademark necktie flutter and Stan's inimitable crying jag , but there's so much more to savor here that transcends their brand of humor . Of particular note is the soft shoe routine the boys break into as Ollie croons out a very satisfying rendition of " Shine On Harvest Moon . I don't know how often they danced in their films , though I recall a similar routine as a highlight of " Way Out West " . Later in the film , Stan plunks the springs of a jail house bunk that evolves into a wonderful harp number , forcing me to check the film sleeve to be sure this wasn't a Marx Brothers show - Harpo would have been proud ! The story is almost secondary , as it is with most Laurel and Hardy movies . Here the boys sign up for the French Foreign Legion when their Paris vacation ends with Ollie's marriage proposal being rejected by the lovely Georgette ( Jean Parker ) . Her husband Francois ( Reginald Gardner ) unwittingly talks them into joining the military without realizing how that plan will backfire on him personally . The boys create such havoc that six weeks of furlough goes to anyone who captures them . Fans of Laurel and Hardy will no doubt recognize and enjoy James Finlayson as their put upon jailer . There aren't many actors who can do as good a job of caricaturing themselves ; his expressions are priceless . One has to wait till the film is almost over to understand how the title fits the story . Trying to escape the Legion , the boys take to the skies in a hilarious flight in an old barnstormer . The film's ending made me realize I did see this one once before . Who can forget the mustachioed horse wearing a derby , Oliver Hardy's reincarnation of choice following their crash landing . It had me wondering if here in fact was the inspiration for Mr . Ed .
" The gates swung open and a fig newton entered . "	" Animal Crackers " is a sure fire way to spend an entertaining hour and a half dazzled by zany quips and brilliant one liners . The film is an absolute showcase for the Marx Brothers talents , particularly Groucho's frenetic , non stop verbal barrage . His character , Captain Spaulding is a famed African explorer , though that distinction is entirely unnecessary , as any backdrop would have served for the socialite party hosted by Mrs . Rittenhouse ( Margaret Dumont ) for the unveiling of the famed Beaugarde painting at the center of the film's madness and controversy . The painting elicits a great response from it's new owner , Roscoe Chandler ( Louis Sorin ) upon it's first review - " Now even the prince is well hung " . Pay attention during the card game between Spaulding , Signor Ravelli ( Chico ) , The Professor ( Harpo ) and Mrs . Rittenhouse . In a rare display , in fact the only time I've seen it , Chico actually responds verbally to a remark from Dumont's character who says " I'm not the dummy . " Chico's Ravelli does a quick aside stating " Well , you could be . " The thought came to me as Groucho delivers his witticisms throughout the film - I wonder what it would be like if Groucho Marx , Jonathan Winters , Robin Williams and Jim Carrey were all put together in the same room . Think about that scenario ! Though only the second Marx Brothers film , " Animal Crackers " is a delight and a great forerunner to their other comedy gems . What more could one say , except that " This would be a better world for children if parents had to eat the spinach . "
" You wait around long enough and sooner or later everything falls right into your lap . "	Here's a fine gem from Columbia Pictures , offering Humphrey Bogart in his final film role . Much has been written of his failing health due to cancer of the esophagus , and in truth , Bogey does have a drawn and tired look around the eyes in this film , even though it rightly fits his characterization of sports publicist Eddie Willis . Eddie is drawn into the corrupt world of professional boxing when promoter Nick Benko ( Rod Steiger ) enlists his aid in trumping up phony stories about Nick's latest protégé , Argentine heavyweight Toro Moreno ( Mike Layne ) . Toro is " strong as a bull but green as a cucumber " , and is billed as the Wild Man of the Andes and the South American Heavyweight Champion . The film builds on strong emotions and sentiment , as the down and out of work Eddie Willis shuns newspaper pay just to stay alive , preferring a bank account instead . Jan Sterling verbalizes Eddie's unspoken conscience as wife Beth , who understands her husband's frustrations , but wants him to do the right thing by the poor hulking brute of a boxer Toro . Giving the film it's raw power and energy is Steiger's portrayal of corrupt promoter Benko , whose characterization approaches sheer villainy , building on the character he established in 1954's " On the Waterfront " as Charlie " The Gent " Molloy . Nick has no trouble agreeing to Eddie's squeeze for a written contract and a percentage of the take , knowing that he stands to make thousands with Toro's rise to contender status . Nick shouts out orders and expects no hesitation to his demands , and his henchmen jump when he says jump , so it's with all the patience he can muster that he tries to deal with Eddie's frequent bouts of conscience as he tries to look out for Toro . Giving the film additional credibility is the presence of two outstanding heavyweight boxers , Jersey Joe Walcott as Toro's trainer George , and Max Baer as World Heavyweight Champion Buddy Brannen , who threatens to butcher Toro in their championship match to prove the contender has been unfairly promoted . I got a kick out of Toro's tour bus , a schlocky attraction as it travels Western fight towns from California to Chicago . As it pulls into New York City , the vista presented is a veritable treat for nostalgia fans , with glimpses of 1950's era city blocks , and storefronts promoting an array of products ranging from Maxwell House Coffee to Admiral TV and Whelan Drugs . " Eddie , you are my friend , help me go home " is Toro's plea as Nick Benko's talons dig deeper into his troubled psyche . When Toro suffers a broken jaw in his final match with the champ , Eddie is brought back to his senses by Walcott's character - " Some guys just sell out , and other guys just can't " - referring to Toro's punishment at the hands of Buddy Brannen . Offering the boxer his own tainted share of Toro's winnings , Eddie boards him on a plane bound for Buenos Aires , so Toro can buy his mother a house and his father some new shoes . Benko's crooked financier Leo ( Nehemiah Persoff ) meticulously cooked the books to show that Toro's share of New York's million dollar gate amounted to a mere forty nine dollars . The film ends with a somewhat unsatisfying conclusion as Nick confronts Eddie in his apartment , threatening him with bodily harm for sending Toro back home , after Nick sells the fighter's contract to fellow boxing club member Wyerhause ( Edward Andrews ) . Eddie sets out with renewed purpose to fight corruption in the boxing game with his typewriter , the title of his expose - " The Harder They Fall " . By 1956 , Humphrey Bogart was no stranger to movies about the world of sports . Besides this offering , Bogey teamed with Edward G . Robinson and Bette Davis in another boxing themed film as far back as 1937 , with " Kid Galahad " , later remade with Elvis Presley . But for a real offbeat Bogey performance , try to get your hands on a copy of 1938's " Swing Your Lady " , in which he portrays the manager of a hillbilly wrestler , perhaps his goofiest role in a film that defies classification .
" From now on , we ride together . . . "	Five years earlier , director John Ford filmed his Western masterpiece " The Searchers " . After repeated requests to helm " Two Rode Together " he did it as a favor to Columbia Pictures ' Harry Cohn . With the words " OK , I'll do the damn thing " , he might have given some indication as to the quality of the finished product . I do have to say though , that most of the scenes involving the principals , Jimmy Stewart and Richard Widmark are simply great . Their first conversation on the trail together is classic , and done as nonchalantly as two best friends just shooting the breeze . But then there's Marshal McCabe's ( Stewart ) introductory ' How ! ' to Chief Quanah Parker ( Henry Brandon ) , and the film's credibility is immediately taken down a notch . And holy cow ! , but what Comanche gym did Stone Calf go to for his work outs , I never realized Woody Strode had such a magnificent physique . But can you imagine an Indian with that kind of body ? The other thing that doesn't really work in the story are the scenes intended for comic relief , usually involving Andy Devine as Lt . Gary's ( Widmark ) second , Sgt . Posey . Geez , was he wearing padding for this role ? ; I've never seen him more rotund . Director Ford's use of humor in other movies was more appropriately placed ( Fort Apache , She Wore a Yellow Ribbon ) ; here amid the generally more grim reality of the events taking place , I didn't feel that it helped advance the story . But if you're paying attention , the movie's underlying message comes through loud and clear , and ably presented by the character of Elena ( Linda Cristal ) . Her speech at the dance to the curious onlookers affirmed her dignity , even after enduring her own ordeal as a captive of the Comanches and the woman of Stone Calf . Unlikely as it was that she should pair with McCabe at the end of the film , it does provide the film with it's proverbial ride into the sunset .
" You're supposed to be going off your head aren't you ? "	I came into " Gaslight " cold , not knowing it's history or the fact it was remade a few years later with a bigger name cast . No matter , the original British National Film is a suspenseful story , and is one of the better films I've seen using the husband driving his wife crazy plot . Particularly vile is Paul Mallen ( Anton Walbrook ) , the husband in question , whose performance is the convincing kind that makes you want to reach right into the screen and choke him yourself . The put upon wife is Bella ( Diana Wynyard ) , someone you can sympathize with , though you wish she would have a little more backbone to stand up to the scoundrel Paul . Former police investigator B . G . Rough ( Frank Pettingell ) has his suspicions about Mallen , sharing them with his assistant Cobb ( Jimmy Hanley ) . Early in the film they share a spirited conversation in which they use the word " queer " at least a half dozen times , which becomes amusing , especially since it's used in it's original sense before it had been convoluted to describe a sexual orientation . However it's hard to prevent that meaning from intruding and thus makes the scene much more comical . Mallen's accomplice , though perhaps unwitting , is parlor maid Nancy ( Cathleen Cordell ) , who seems to be playing Mallen as much as he's using her . That devilish gleam in her eye seems to be telling Mallen he's a creep , it's just that he doesn't know it yet . Eventually , Bella turns the tables on Paul with the help of Rough . It was poetic justice to see and hear the lovely victim question her own sanity while wielding the knife that Mallen tempts her to free him with . Equally so was the fact that the Barlow rubies he'd been searching for were right under his nose , compliments of Bella who had the sense to hide them in a safe place after accidentally discovering them in a brooch Paul had taunted her with throughout the film . With a virtually no name cast , the original " Gaslight " is a satisfying psychological melodrama and deserves a wider audience . Based on reviews of other posters to this site , I'm inclined to search out the 1944 remake with Charles Boyer and Ingrid Bergman . For those of a mind to explore the husband drives wife crazy theme , two rather over the top titles from 1958 come to mind - " My World Dies Screaming " and " The Screaming Skull " . Both are a " scream " , can't you tell ?
" Is that a face that'll sell motor oil , or what ?	Usually these types of time travel stories wind up giving me a headache , but this one was pretty straightforward ( no pun intended ) . The protagonist , Alex Furlong ( Emilio Estevez ) is transported into the future . . . , and stays there . No attempt to get back to his former ' present time ' ; no fooling around with time lines that might affect the history of mankind . What made the picture interesting watching it today was that Alex was ' sent ' eighteen years into the future from 1991 to - 2009 ! That was sort of cool - but in the movie's 2009 , the country was already in the tenth year of a major depression instead of the first , like many today would have us believe . And it brought a chuckle to imagine if the ten million dollar bounty on Freejack Alex might have been offered by a company using bailout funds . Just thinking outside the movie box . I got a kick out of that scene in the bar when Alex is threatened by the marmaduke looking moron with his weapon , and Alex puts his on the counter with that sly Billy the Kid grin he used in " Young Guns " . The attraction back in the day of course was Mick Jagger headlining a theatrical release . His performance wasn't all that bad , even if over the top a few times , which the director might have actually called for . I liked that ' One Mississippi ' bit , and the idea that he had a sense of fair play in balancing his job with consideration for Furlong's catching him a break in the alley . The best concept though was the ' spiritual switchboard ' - don't you think we could all use one of those ?
" Give the word now , the White Eyes must die . "	The film offers two unique features I haven't seen in a Western before . For starters , it utilizes Americans as intermediaries between the warring Mexicans and Comanches , involved in a years long series of revenge massacres by both sides . The other would have to be the finale where Chief Quanah Parker ( Kent Smith ) doesn't interfere in the battle between the Cavalry and Black Cloud's ( Henry Brandon ) renegade band of Comanches . As an aside , I would also go so far as to suggest that I've never seen as many Indians in one place at one time on the movie screen . Dana Andrews portrays cavalry scout Jim Read , by now relegated to films of lesser quality than those in which he gained his stature as a genuine Hollywood star ( 1944's " Laura " and 1946's " The Best Years Of Our Lives " ) . Producers considered him an actor of limited range and it didn't help his reputation that he drank too much . Andrews appeared competent here , although the role didn't call for a lot more than your typical cavalry Western . The story matched him up with partner Nestor Paiva as an old salt frontiersman named Puffer . Apparently it was someone's idea to have Paiva resurrect the character of Gabby Hayes , but doing a Walter Brennan impersonation . That kept me off balance for a while , but I did get a chuckle out of Mike Mazurki calling black jack on Puffer in one scene . The other casting decision of note was the American film debut of Linda Cristal , who I would not have recognized apart from her starring role in ' The High Chapparal ' . The pace of her relationship with Read seemed a bit forced , particularly given the circumstances of her capture by the Comanches . Catching the film the other day on Turner Classics , I was impressed by the color cinematography given the era . Offered in wide screen letterbox format , the film makers took full advantage of the natural beauty in the Durango area of Old Mexico . Where they could have improved though was the selection of a theme song ; the bouncy beat of " A man is as good as his word " kept me making an unintentional comparison to the " Bonanza " TV series , quite expecting to see the Cartwrights round the corner at any moment . Which would have been some trick , since they were still a few years off .
" . . . the report was too damaging , she had to be stopped . "	For the devotees of this film , I'm sorry to say that this is one that didn't grab me . Maybe it was the disorienting flashback style , or the fact that characters in the film were often hard to understand when they spoke . I won't deny the stand out performances of Ralph Fiennes or Rachel Weisz , but there was something about their characters that didn't really translate into my caring about them as individuals . That was especially true after Tessa ( Weisz ) compromised herself with the creepy attaché Sandy Woodrow ( Danny Houston ) . It made me feel like she trapped her husband Justin ( Fiennes ) in pretty much the same way to get a toehold into the ' exposing corruption ' game . Again , it boils down to sympathy for the characters . The ending as well didn't ring true , as Justin calmly and unceremoniously awaits his fate in the African wilderness . Was the ordeal of uncovering the truth too much to bear , or did he simply take it as fact that a contract on his life would unavoidably succeed ? For me , this is one thriller that didn't thrill even as intrigue mounted and plots were uncovered . Except for the skills of it's principals , this is one film I would find hard to recommend .
" Does it surprise you to find people who aren't like you ? "	Here's a solid little Randolph Scott number with a fine supporting cast taking place only a few weeks after the Civil War has ended . That's unknown to Major Matt Stewart ( Scott ) , and his band of Rebels at the time they hijack a quarter million dollar gold shipment from a band of Union soldiers . Attempting to outrun the authorities that are soon to follow , they find themselves holed up at a way station with two stagecoach travelers who were on board when the Rebs sought cover for their getaway . Lee Marvin gets a fair amount of screen time as the Major's trigger happy , hot headed second , and the story offers a number of scenes where the two collide verbally and physically . It was somewhat of a breakout role for Marvin , who prior had mainly uncredited film parts and a few TV series appearances . The expected final confrontation between the pair however is interrupted by the young soldier Jamie ( Claude Jarman Jr . ) watching his commanding officer's back . It was somewhat of a twist to the story for this viewer , as all the while , the film kept making it a point that the young man had never killed anyone before , not even during the war . It brought full circle to a remark the Major made to him early in their story that before they got back home , Jamie would have to find a way to become a man . I guess I'm not used to seeing someone like Donna Reed in a Western , so her appearance took some getting used to . I can't say I was fully convinced with her character falling in love with the Major , considering the circumstances of their involvement with the Rebels , and even more so , the palpable difference in their ages . It didn't hurt that her traveling companion and self professed fiancée ( Richard Denning ) was such a lout , thereby setting up the comparison between himself and Scott's character . The near finale with the Major against the leader of the outlaw posse ( Ray Teal ) was somewhat original in it's execution and outcome . Oddly staged , it was surprisingly believable that the villain could be hauled away , stuck in his horse's stirrup . Thinking about it , I wondered how far the horse might have run and what the fate of Teal's character Quincey might have been . Would he have been dragged to death , fallen loose , or left to some other fate ? Curious to ponder if nothing else . Ultimately , the Major vindicates himself in his sweetheart's eyes when he and his partner Jamie drop their saddlebags of gold bars . You kind of wondered what would happen with all that gold , and in some measure , I still do . Left with the station agent and his daughter in law , there wasn't much in the neighborhood they could do with it all .
" No iron brother , just hands and feet . "	This obscure ' B ' Western stands a cut above most with some creative writing and rather good performances by the principals . The film also offers a number of elements that I hadn't seen before after reviewing almost three hundred Westerns in this forum . Though a standard feature for this venue , the barroom brawl here is one of the longest and best staged fights you'll ever see , initiated by cattleman Tom Waggoner's ( Eugene Palette ) response to a couple of cowpokes who reach for their guns ( see my summary line above ) . Once the fur starts to fly , you'll notice a couple of saloon girls join the action , and they manage to get the upper hand in their respective segments . Speaking of saloon girls , there was also a spirited song and dance rendition of ' When Johnny Comes Marching Home ' by an actress who wasn't the female lead , another rarity . For that role , it was a surprise to see Jane Wyatt in an early film appearance , looking rather gorgeous as the hotel manager in Broken Lance . She spends her time in the film balancing her affections between the picture's star , Richard Dix , and Victor Jory , portraying the brother of town boss , Steve Barat ( Albert Dekker ) . Jory always manages to succeed well in his roles , and is one of the few actors who can pull off hero and villain roles just as easily . In this one he straddles the fence for pretty much the entire picture , keeping you guessing on which way he'll turn by the finale . Speaking of which , one gets a fairly good impression that Jory's character didn't make it , but if this was a serial , he would have shown up in the next chapter . Then there's Willie Best in a comic relief role , used unfortunately to so much of the stereotype of a scaredy cat black man when facing danger . There was also an unfortunate line uttered by John Bonniwell ( Dix ) when he asked ' Bones ' to " Come here boy " . This was a pretty common occurrence in pictures of the era , and subliminally comes across as racist . With today's rarefied sense of political correctness , the comment was certainly noticeable , however Bonniwell treated Bones well throughout the rest of the story . As for the story , a couple other reviewers do a good job of explaining the basic plot , so I won't dwell on that . With my viewing , I was on the lookout for supporting and uncredited actors that often pop up in these oaters , and " The Kansan " is a gold mine if you pay attention . Robert Armstrong is a Waggoner cattleman behind a mustache , and Rod Cameron is on board as a cowhand . It's easy to miss George Reeves in that quick shoot ' em up opening scene as Jesse James , while Jason Robards Sr . operates as one of Steve Barat's bank tellers . The rest of the uncredited cast holds a whole pile of bit actors whose names pop up in Westerns all up and down the Forties and Fifties .
" What matters is the man inside the skin . "	Lou Diamond Phillips does a fine job portraying a half breed ex-convict recently released from a territorial prison in this Hallmark Entertainment film from 2004 . He's got a couple of guardian angels in the form of Marshal Luther Toll ( Lee Majors ) and old timer Eugene Lawson ( Ernest Borgnine ) . Borgnine in particular seems to be having a heck of a time in his role , alternately challenging town boss Samuel Drigger ( Warren Stevens ) and confiding in a determined Keenan Deerfield ( Phillips ) trying to stay out of trouble . Trouble finds Deerfield though , and most of it revolves around his relationship with Christine Beckford ( Marina Black ) , who at the beginning of the story tries to make the best of her almost daily beatings at the hands of Drigger henchman Gerald ( Richard Tyson ) . The film's flash point occurs when Gerald is killed , but it's not Deerfield who's riled to action ; Christine's trigger finger finds it's mark during an alcohol induced attack . Because Deerfield's been framed for a payroll robbery , he's got problems of his own to attend to , but it doesn't take long to sort through the villainy and arrive at a happy ending . If the period details are accurate , Deerfield wouldn't have been able to hire an accountant to manage his ten dollars a month pay at Drigger's , all neatly calculated to wind up back in the mining boss's hands via rent and equipment to work in his mines . It kind of makes you realize that maybe the good old days weren't . Try as I might , I couldn't establish the actor under the whiskers and black hat of Marshal Toll as Lee Majors , to me he was unrecognizable . His relationship to Deerfield could have used more development as far as back story goes , but he was there when it counted to make the save in the showdown finale , and without even firing his gun . Credit the film makers with tying it all together at the end to make sense of the title . Christine's daughter is named Hope Rose in deference to old timer Lawson's deceased wife Rosie who he often talks to during the story , combined with a hope for the future . It's classic Hallmark and for this Western , it works .
" Leave one alive to tell the tale . "	Set in a literary world , " The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen " brings together classic fictional characters in a globe spanning adventure . However the film suffers , in my estimation , from trying to be the greatest action adventure of all time . Had the film makers spent more time on character development and motivation , the picture might have salvaged it's most intriguing premise , the team up of disparate personalities to defeat a megalomaniac who threatens the world . Interestingly , the single character that is most sorely missed and needed in the band of heroes is the great detective Sherlock Holmes . Granted , he was not a principal in the comic book series of Alan Moore , but since the man behind ' M ' the Phantom was Holmes ' arch nemesis , Professor Moriarty , it would only have made sense for them to match wits one more time . True to form though , Moriarty dies in the film , which he did in at least three different Sherlock Holmes movies of an earlier era . Having seen the film during it's original theatrical run , I managed to catch it today on the cable FX channel . What made it more interesting this time around was the inclusion of deleted scenes and commentary about how certain scenes were filmed . What many would perceive as CGI at work , for example the destruction of Venice , was actually done with a miniature set built to one fifth scale . The buildings took four months to build to architectural precision , and another two months were taken for the filming of the action scenes , including the vehicle race through the ( non existent ) streets of Venice . At least if one has a problem with the story , some appreciation for the effort is in order . When I first heard about LXG being made into a movie , I had a confident hope that it would do the original Alan Moore concept justice , though I might have known better . It's probably best to go into the film cold with no expectations . If you enjoy over the top action , Hulk like monster metamorphosis , vampire lore and massive destruct sequences , there's some excitement here for you . Don't get too worked up though for intrigue , suspense and mystery ; there's too much in your face action going on to get in the way .
" Curiosity responsible for cat needing nine lives . "	It was in " Charlie Chan in Shanghai " , two films prior , that we learned Chan's age at 60 . In " Charlie Chan at the Circus " , we see the prolific Chan family in it's entirety as guests at the Kinney and Gaines Combined Circus . Charlie's offspring now number twelve , or as the ticket taker at the circus would offer - " the guy with his own sideshow " . Only Keye Luke as Number # 1 Son Lee is recognizable ; future detective wanna-be's Victor Sen Yung and Benson Fong are at least a couple of years and a number of films away in their respective roles as Number's # 2 and 3 Sons . As in " Shanghai " , Chan's vacation is interrupted by business , as circus owner Joe Kinney ( Paul Stanton ) asks for Charlie's help in investigating some threatening letters he's received . Roundly despised by the circus troupe for his treatment of both performers and animals , it's not long before Chan is investigating a murder , with Kinney providing the corpse . The immediate suspect appears to be Caesar the Ape , released from his cage at an opportune time ; but Kinney's body was found inside the circus business trailer , locked from the inside . It turns out that Kinney led a pretty convoluted life , engaged to circus aerialist Marie Normand after a brief affair with wardrobe lady Nellie Farrell . Farrell and her brother Dan schemed up a phony marriage certificate between herself and Kinney to claim part ownership in the circus . If that wasn't enough , Kinney intended to take over full ownership if partner John Gaines ( Francis Ford ) couldn't keep up his payments . So there were plenty of suspects who could have wanted Kinney out of the way , having endeared himself to so many . As Number # 1 Son , Keye Luke keeps busy between detective work by trying to romance " The Human Knot " , contortionist Su Toy . Also prominent in the story are midget husband and wife entertainers Colonel Tim and Lady Tiny ( George and Olive Brasnos ) . A particularly funny scene involves Lee and Colonel Tim impersonating a woman and a baby in a stroller , embarrassingly recognized by Su Toy . By the time Kinney's killer is finally revealed , all of the prior intrigue and revelations prove inconsequential , as Charlie Chan uses Lee's help to uncover a plot by Kinney's animal trainer friend Holt , who was in legal trouble with Kinney at a prior circus venue . It was Holt who was threatening his friend , and masterminding the diversions that pointed to the other suspects . In that respect , " Charlie Chan at the Circus " follows the typical formula for this series , in that the identity of the murderer is never revealed clearly to the viewer until Chan's lucid explanation is offered to wind up the case .
" Best place for skeletons is in family closet . "	Missing for seven years , Allen Colby , heir to his father's fortune is no longer welcome at the Colby / Lowell home . His arrival would mean that the supply of funds doled out by his father's estate under matriarch Henrietta Lowell , Bernard Colby's sister , would come to an abrupt halt . Henrietta has an abiding interest in all things psychic , and has spent nearly one hundred thousand dollars on psychic research , séances , and payments to Professor Bowen and wife Carlotta to stay in touch with the dead . Although it's presumed Allen Colby drowned when a cruise ship went down , detective Charlie Chan ( Warner Oland ) has his doubts . With no body , and a recovered briefcase bearing the initials " A . C . " , Chan believes the missing heir will show up . Indeed he does , but not as expected . Gaining entrance to the old Colby homestead , Allen is quickly dispatched by a knife in the back thrown from a parlor trapdoor . His corpse does make an appearance though , at a scheduled séance meant to determine his fate . With Colby truly gone , the remaining Colby / Lowell heirs can gain some measure of satisfaction - or can they ? The film does a nice job of presenting a number of possible suspects to the Colby murder . Attorney Warren Phelps , the administrator of the Colby fortune stands to lose a substantial portion of his income from fees paid for his services . Henrietta Lowell would lose all of her psychic research funding , and her two daughters would be cut off as well . Accordingly , Professor Bowen and wife Carlotta would no longer enjoy their séance income if Allen Colby showed up to claim his inheritance . And for good measure , the film offers caretaker Ulrich as a suspect ; his daughter was in love with Colby years ago , but died some time after Colby disappeared seven years earlier . Charlie Chan approaches the case methodically , and begins to unravel the case a step at a time . When he demonstrates to Mrs . Lowell how the séances were rigged by the Bowen's , she becomes a loyal ally to uncover the mystery , to the point of faking her own death when the killer lashes out . But with all the meticulous work done in laying out the suspects , the identity of the real murderer still comes as a surprise at the end . In typical Chan fashion , the killer had a stake in Colby's disappearance , but there were no real clues to implicate him throughout the film . With no Chan family members on board for this film , the comic relief is handled by Lowell butler Baxter , nervously but effectively portrayed by Herbert Mundin . As if to lend further credibility to mysterious psychic forces at work in the Colby House , a black cat named Lucifer snarls his way into a couple of well placed scenes . Sufficiently dark and moody , " Charlie Chan's Secret " is a well told mystery that nicely complements other films in the Chan series .
" I'm not talking about right , I'm talking about stayin ' alive . "	I watched " Blazing Saddles " a few weeks ago and had completely forgotten about that quick melodic tribute to Randolph Scott sung by the townspeople in a reverent tone . It was the Randolph Scott of " Comanche Station " they were memorializing , the stoic Western cowboy trying to do the right thing in a lawless land . Once again events conspire to avert him from the primary mission of finding his wife , kidnapped ten years earlier and presumably dead . Cody's ( Scott ) response to Nancy Lowe ( Nancy Gates ) when she questions him about her fate with the Comanches show him to be a man of principle and integrity , well before we learn of his true quest . Even the film's outlaws maintain a certain respect for Cody , with Ben Lane ( Claude Akins ) sharing a tarnished past with his former military officer . The stage is set early for their eventual show down , and then it's a matter of time until one or the other suffers a misstep . The story deals with Lane's two young gun companions first , portrayed by Skip Homeier and Richard Rust . The movie's best serious conversations involve Frank and Dobie talking about ' amountin ' to somethin ' and ' honest work ' . The movie is gorgeously rendered amid the rugged beauty of California's Lone Pine country , at times I felt caught up in the scenery at the expense of the story . Attention is brought back quickly though by Indian attacks and Ben Lane's impending confrontation with Cody . Although you never doubt the success of Cody's mission , the unexpected twist at the finale leaves one slightly disoriented . What's not to be questioned is why Cody never brought up the issue of a reward for the return of Mrs . Lowe . It's just understood that in the end , Cody amounts to something .
" Innocent grass may conceal snake . "	When favored race horse Avalanche loses a race due to his rider's foul , his owner Major Gordon Kent becomes suspicious , believing that a gambling syndicate may have been behind the rider's actions . Kent calls upon famed detective Charlie Chan ( Warner Oland ) for his involvement , and it's off to the races so to speak . Unfortunately Kent , who has come too close to identifying the conspiracy , winds up dead in Avalanche's stable aboard ship heading for Los Angeles . Number # 1 Son Lee Chan ( Keye Luke ) signs on as a cabin boy for the cruise ship to legitimize his presence , and quickly joins his " Pop " in the investigation . Charlie relies on Lee a bit more than we've seen in prior films , trusting him to drop phony threatening letters to the principals introduced in the film , which include Kent's son in law George Chester , now Avalanche's owner ; Warren Fenton , owner of rival horse Gallant Lad ; and gambler Denny Barton . When a fire in the hold of the ship is deliberately set to cause confusion , horse trainer Bagley switches the two horses . The tip off comes from an unlikely source - stable boy Streamline Jones has a pet monkey that favors Gallant Lad , but causes Avalanche to react violently . The ever observant Oriental Detective picks up on this immediately , and schemes to reverse the animals to their rightful identities before the day of the Santa Juanita Handicap , their next scheduled race . With Avalance the faster horse , and Gallant Lad a 20 to 1 underdog , the brains behind the gambling syndicate hope to cash in big when their ringer winds up in the winner's circle . Adding to the intrigue , the race timekeeper who's part of the syndicate has a back up plan to insure Gallant Lad's victory . He rigs one of the timing devices at the three quarter mile mark with a dart which will be used on any lead horse ahead of Gallant Lad . The dart does in fact disrupt Avalanche's timing , but he goes on to win the race anyway . With the syndicate foiled , the only thing left to do is for Chan to expose the mastermind . This he does with his usual cool demeanor , even though it means exposing Major Kent's son in law - " Truth sometimes like stab of cruel knife . " Currently , " Charlie Chan at the Racetrack " appears to be the most highly regarded Chan film on the IMDb website . Allowing for personal preferences , I found it to be one of the better Chan entries , although I feel Warner Oland's adventures in London and Shanghai are more intriguing , along with Sidney Toler's portrayal in " Murder Cruise " . As for Number # 1 Son Lee , he breathlessly bursts onto the final scene with news for Charlie ( after the case has been solved ) - " Hey Pop , I have another clue ! " Charlie wisely advises : " Save for next case , please . "
" Look at him . . . , that guy sings every night , it makes me screwy . "	The beginning credits of " Charlie Chan at the Opera " casts Warner Oland vs Boris Karloff , though Chan's investigation ultimately causes him to protect Karloff's character , the insane opera singer Gravelle . With a sufficiently mysterious and atmospheric opening scene , Gravelle is introduced as a resident of the Rockland State Sanitarium , where he has been living as an amnesiac for the past seven years . When a newspaper brought by an attendant features his former wife Lilli Rochelle ( Margaret Irving ) on the front page , Gravelle's memories slowly begin to surface , and he embarks on a desperate journey to recover a past that included an unsuccessful attempt on his life . The 20th Century Fox Charlie Chan films are notable for their strong continuity from film to film . Note that when Chan first appears on the scene in the office of Police Inspector Regan ( Guy Usher ) , Regan compliments him on how he solved his most recent case with only a minor clue . This occurred in " Charlie Chan at the Race Track " , the film immediately prior to " Opera " - " Small thing sometimes tell large story . " Unfortunately , another element from the Chan films is glaringly apparent here as well , as Police Sergeant Kelly ( William Demarest ) is given the racist chore of denigrating Orientals - " Where's Regan and his pal Egg Foo Yung ? " Be alert for an error that got past the film's producers while still at Inspector Regan's office . As Chan examines Gravelle's newspaper recovered from the Sanitarium , he comments on the presence of a footprint that the suspect must have left as a clue prior to tearing it up in a rage . However if you rewind to the earlier scene , the torn paper hits the floor with not a mark on it ! " You Will Die Tonight " is the message on a floral greeting card that brings Lilli Rochelle to the Inspector's office , along with her lover , baritone singer Enrico Borelli ( Gregory Gaye ) . Chan's first step in the investigation brings him to the floral shop that sold the arrangement , where we are introduced to Number # 1 Son Lee ( Keye Luke ) who joins his " Pop " on the case . Lee spends most of his time in the film disguised in theater garb as a costumed soldier , providing the comic relief as he thwarts Detective Kelly's feeble attempts to uncover his identity . It turns out that Gravelle seeks revenge for being locked in a burning theater many years ago , the victim of Madame Lilli and her lover Borelli . When both in turn wind up dead in the theater during performances of the opera " Carnival " , Gravelle becomes the most likely of suspects . But as in all Charlie Chan films , the obvious suspect is never the real culprit . In this case , it's Madame Borelli herself who uses the presence of a maniac as a cover to dispatch her cheating husband and lover , given away by the blood stained sash that Charlie recovers as a final clue . " Charlie Chan at the Opera " is regarded as one of the best , if not THE best of the Chan series ; it's on my top five list as well . In addition to the compelling and well laid out mystery , there's also the presence of the decidedly sinister Boris Karloff . The best line of the film occurs following the ruckus in the theater caused by the first Gravelle sighting . In a nod of respect to Karloff's most famous film role , the stage manager utters - " This opera is going on tonight even if Frankenstein walks in ! "
" Hoy cow , the guy's a walkin ' jewelry store ! "	I was cruising the on line cable listings today and came across this unknown title featuring Jimmy Stewart . The description prompted me to tune in and it turned out to be an entertaining hour and a half . Stewart turns in a characteristic Everyman performance as a department store executive whose life is turned upside down by winning a television quiz contest . I was surprised actually , to see how much the story looked like an episode of ' Father Knows Best ' , which premiered only four years later . The Lawrence's ( Stewart and Barbara Hale ) might have been one kid shy , but they wound up with a lot of other things on their mind once the story got rolling . Natalie Wood and Tommy Rettig portray the Lawrence siblings , with Tommy helping his Dad cash in on ' Name The Mystery Husband ' . Somehow I didn't recognize him as the same actor who I grew up with watching Lassie and his ( her ) pal Jeff Miller , but he was only about nine years old here . The story starts out almost too seriously , as Bill Lawrence's boss Woodruff ( Fred Clark ) tries to correct the ratio of salespeople to customers at his store . But when Bill gets a phone call from the Federal Broadcast System to enlist his participation for the game show , the comic antics begin . Stewart's character engages in some obvious physical humor , but when he finally wins the show's big prize , the fun really begins . Soon a parade of prize bearers descend on the Lawrence home with gifts ranging from your standard jewelry to thousands of cans of soup ( Campbell's gets a plug ) , all the way to a palomino pony . After a while it looked like the story was struggling with too many plot elements , as a glamorous looking portrait artist ( Patricia Medina ) was introduced as a burr to the Lawrence marriage . And in an effort to raise the seven grand he would need to cover the taxes on his winnings , Lawrence gets caught up in a raid on a gambling parlor . How the film makers got all of this into a mere eighty five minutes seems a mystery to me now . Something else that brought me back to that great era of the Fifties was that catchy little number ' Ain't We Got Fun ' . I must have heard that dozens of times watching Warner Brothers cartoons back in the day , and you know , I don't think I've ever heard it since . The song bookends the picture in a nicely complementary fashion . With all that going on , it would be worth your while to catch this one when it hits your local cable listings . I found it on the Fox Movie Network today , so that's a likely place to look for it again . The only question I have though , and I kept waiting for this particular game prize to show up , but - what ever happened to the French Maid ?
" New York to Paris in thirty six hours , someday we'll all travel that way . "	The opening credits state that " China Clipper " is a fictional account of the history of trans-Pacific flight . Pat O'Brien portrays hard charging Dave Logan , sacrificing comfort and his own marriage to pursue a dream of developing long distance freight travel via air . Inspired by Charles Lindbergh's New York to Paris flight , Logan assembles a loyal team of mechanics and pilots and tests their patience every step of the way with his hard as nails , ruthless demeanor . Logan's business partner is Tom Collins ( Ross Alexander ) , while Hap Stuart ( Humphrey Bogart ) pops up as a former friend of Logan who yearns to get back in the cockpit . The pioneering team is rounded out by Dad Brunn ( Henry B . Walthall ) , a design engineer who's constantly challenged by Logan to come up with larger and faster planes . So one minded is Logan in pursuit of his dream that it costs him his wife Skippy ( Beverly Roberts ) . Though they wind up reconciled by the end of the film , one wonders why she bothered hanging in there when all she ever got was a flag for interference in virtually every scene between the two . At least Collins and Hap had the spirit to challenge Logan every now and then . Sometimes it worked , most times it didn't . Logan's vision generally achieved success after success and it was uncanny how Bogey's character managed to make the four day flight from California to the China Coast without mishap , flying through a typhoon and beating the clock by a mere five minutes to make a harrowing deadline . The plane making the Pacific flight is a rather gawky looking affair but it holds up under the stress of hurricane force rains and the news of Dad Brunn's death . What was disconcerting though was watching as two mechanics on the ground give the giant plane a push as it was taking off ; could that have helped that much ? If you're a Pat O'Brien fan used to his roles like Father Jerry in " Angels With Dirty Faces " , you'll be in for a bit of a surprise to see him in as one dimensional a role as his Logan character here . There's not one time you might sympathize with his character as he's always barking orders and being relentless in his quest . That would be OK in it's own right , but he doesn't even waver when Skippy tries to soften him up a bit . As tough as his character is here though , he gets downright nasty as a plantation owner in 1940's " Torrid Zone " opposite James Cagney . Both films are recommended to demonstrate O'Brien's range as an actor . O'Brien teamed with Humphrey Bogart in four films for Warner Brothers and was top billed over Bogey in each . They include " The Great O'Malley " ( 1937 ) , " San Quentin " ( 1937 ) , and " Angels With Dirty Faces " ( 1938 ) . Except for " Angels " , the rest are not available commercially to my knowledge , so you'll have to scour the cable channels or get hold of a collector copy . All are worth it for fans of the principal players .
" Stay on your horses men , and if you fall off , get on again . "	Henry Fonda portrays Colonel Owen Thursday in this post Civil War cavalry Western , and manages to clash with virtually everyone else in the film , including his own daughter Philadelphia ( Shirley Temple ) . Thursday is assigned to Fort Apache in the Arizona Territory , an end of the line outpost in which he feels shunted aside as regards his military career . Complicating matters , the pretty " Phil " is immediately attracted to West Point graduate and Second Lieutenant Michael O'Rourke ( John Agar ) . Against this backdrop , Thursday must deal with an Apache tribe increasingly dissatisfied with reservation life and their treatment at the hands of dishonest trader Silas Meacham ( Grant Withers ) . When Thursday decides that the Apaches must return to the reservation against their will , his resolve is questioned by Captain Kirby York ( John Wayne ) , who has always stood by his word with Apache Chief Cochise . Subordinate to his superior officer , John Wayne does an admirable job in maintaining a delicate balance between following orders and resolutely pointing out the Colonel's folly in pursuing his course against the Apaches . York self assuredly gets Cochise to agree to a parley , only to learn that Thursday's intention is to attack with a regiment and earn the glory that will get him promoted to a more suitable assignment . Noting York's attitude as cowardice , Thursday relieves him of command and details him to the supply train . Thursday's only redemption , if it can be called that , is that he returns to battle after being severely injured and with the outcome of the battle no longer in doubt . His death in combat cements his reputation , even as his arrogance and defiance to the end causes his own downfall . In one of her final film roles , Shirley Temple seems out of place in the wild west , and her characterization of the Colonel's daughter is at times pouting and demure . There were moments in the film that she reminded me of the young Judy Garland . John Agar marks his film debut in this movie ; he would go on to mini fame in the mid 1950's in such " B " sci-fi and horror gems as " Revenge of the Creature " , " Tarantula " and " The Mole People " . Word must be mentioned of the superb cinematography in this film ; the expansive desert imagery and rock formations often times overshadow the story , as if the affairs of soldiers and Indians could even attempt to outweigh the beauty and grandeur of nature . Besides the movie's star players , the film boasts a talented supporting cast , including Ward Bond , George O'Brien , Victor McLaglen and Dick Foran . Their finest moments usually come in the form of comic relief , as portrayed in a scene showing new recruits learning to ride horseback . But it's in a scene left to one's imagination that brings the biggest chuckle , when Colonel Thursday requests his men to destroy trader Meacham's supply of rotgut moonshine . Following orders , they each pick up a cup , in full readiness to complete their mission .
" If innocence is repaid with prison , then I've earned the right to kill " .	Klaus Kinski is one of the few B list performers I'll go out of my way to see , and this Euro-West feature is a good example of his sinister presence on screen . You'll generally catch him as a villain since he so naturally looks the part , though in " And God Said to Cain ' he portrays an anti-hero out for revenge against the man who framed him for a gold robbery during the Civil war . The film is a good one if you stay with the basic premise , but it's sure tough to follow the action as most , probably three quarters of the picture takes place at night . Complicating matters further , Kinski's character , Gary Hamilton , traverses the underground caves of Santa Maria while on his mission of revenge . A conveniently conceived tornado also hits town to lend a further atmospheric dimension to the story , though that doesn't amount to much more than a big wind . The picture provides a couple of cool elements I haven't seen in a Western before , much less the spaghetti variety . The dripping water in the cave in an early scene seemed to provide a natural musical accompaniment to the movements on screen just before Hamilton took out his first victim . Later on , I thought it was pretty clever the way Hamilton made a bell ringer out of Miguel , if you know what I mean . I'm certainly not as well versed on the genre as many of the other posters on this board , and I usually learn a lot about a film by reading what others have to say . What I found most interesting about this film's background was the horror influence inspired by it's director Antonio Margheriti . In the picture , those elements are used to good effect to enhance and build tension in the story . The outcome itself is fairly predictable , so it's up to the ride that gets you there to be as entertaining as possible .
" Whenever mugs get into a jam , the first thing they do is start knifing each other . "	Detective Johnny Blake ( Edward G . Robinson ) plays both sides of the law in this 1936 gangster / crime drama . In the early part of the film , we see an increasingly disillusioned Blake forge an odd relationship with crime boss Al Kruger ( Barton MacLane ) . But when anti crime publisher Ward Bryant is murdered by Kruger's top man Nick " Bugs " Fenner ( Humphrey Bogart ) , it's fully revealed that Blake is working undercover for old friend and new Police Commissioner Dan McLaren ( Joe King ) . Kruger takes in Johnny Blake because of his fierce reputation for integrity , and both quickly become the target of " Bugs " Fenner , who up till then has had the number one spot in Kruger's gang . As Johnny masterminds a new source of revenue from running a numbers game in the Bronx and Harlem , his star rises while Fenner steams . Johnny also has to contend with the pretty Lee Morgan ( Joan Blondell ) who initiated the numbers racket , but is now being cut out of the action by Kruger's edict . Working from the inside , Blake turns over information to McLaren ; and as profits from the numbers game escalate , Kruger's other operations get hammered by McLaren's forces on the street . As Fenner reaches the boiling point , he takes out Kruger and goes gunning for Blake . Meanwhile , the invisible heads of the crime syndicate backing Kruger are revealed as ( dis ) honest businessmen cashing in on all the illegal activity . Fingered by a Fenner crony , Johnny and " Bugs " shoot it out on the steps outside a city apartment . Blake hangs on long enough to make his final report to the police commissioner , his only regret being he won't be able to enjoy a last beer with the boss . " Bullets or Ballots " is a taut crime drama , showcasing Edward G . Robinson some five years following his breakout performance in " Little Caesar " . He and Bogart would appear in five films altogether , " Key Largo " being the most highly acclaimed , and the only film in which Bogey would get top billing over Robinson . But for sheer entertainment value , I would recommend 1938's " The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse " , which showcases a much wider range of Robinson's acting ability . Joan Blondell appeared with Bogart in 1932's " Three on a Match " and 1937's " Stand-In " , along with an uncredited Bogey appearance in 1932's " Big City Blues " . " Bullets or Ballots " is the only time she and Robinson worked together .
" Dead men tell no tales . "	I generally have some reservations about tuning in to a silent film , but once I do , they usually turn out pretty well . " The Black Pirate " was no exception , my first encounter with the legendary silent action-adventure hero Douglas Fairbanks ( Sr . ) . His swashbuckling feats of dynamic swordplay and athletic scaling of ship's rigging were genuine sit up and take notice moments , especially since he was doing all of his own stunt work . It wouldn't be too far off to say he does it all here , including the obligatory ' walk the plank ' as a result of trying to help a captive Princess escape her pirate captors . One downside of my experience of this film based on other reviewers - the print I saw was in black and white . Even so , there was enough going on to maintain one's interest , not the least of which was all the cutthroat pirate chicanery . I was surprised how the film intimated how a poor crewman was slit open to retrieve a ring he swallowed to prevent it's becoming booty . That was a nasty piece of business . The one scene that played out amazingly well both visually and the way it was choreographed was the underwater swim by the seamen who arrived by longboat to help Fairbanks ' character defeat the pirates . One thing though , once on board the Merchantman , didn't it seem like there was a whole lot more of them than could have arrived in the first place ? One curiosity , the pirate crew liked the idea of holding the Merchantman ransom for fifty thousand pieces-of-eight , suggested by Fairbanks ' character . However if you freeze the frame on the first part of the ransom note to the Governor , the amount demanded in Roman numerals is XXVII ( assuming that what looks like a ' C ' is actually a parenthesis ) . That would only represent twenty seven , as the word ' thousand ' is written out . As much fun as the film is , if you're really paying attention , a couple of plot points just don't make much sense . After Fairbanks defeats the Pirate Captain ( Anders Randolf ) in a sword fight challenge , the Captain falls on a sword and dies . Just like that , the rest of the pirate crew have no trouble accepting Fairbanks as part of their crew . So much for loyalty ! Another occurs at the end of the film when Fairbanks and The Princess ( Billie Dove ) declare their love and announce their wedding . MacTavish ( Donald Crisp ) suggests digging up the earlier buried treasure for a wedding gift . I don't think so . But let's not get too critical . This is a neatly done sea tale with a lot of well paced action and drama . A surprise in reviewing the cast list reveals Mary Pickford as a stand-in for Billie Dove in the ' final embrace ' scene at the end of the story . There really doesn't seem to be any reason for that , other than a chance for Mr . Fairbanks to get Mrs . Fairbanks into the picture . Trivia fans take note .
" There were once many people here who could have told of what they saw , now there are only a few . "	Back when I was a kid of about ten years old ( 1960 ) , New York City had a TV station ( WNEW or WPIX , I can't remember which ) , that ran what it called " The Million Dollar Movie " , taking it's name from films that up to that time had grossed over a million dollars . The film would be featured every night for a week from Monday through Friday at 5 : 00 PM . One such film was " Godzilla , King of the Monsters " . I can't say with certainty what year I saw Godzilla on the Million Dollar Movie , but I can safely say that I saw it five nights in a row . I hadn't seen it ever again since until tonight , having picked up the film at a local flea market . I can just imagine the impact " Godzilla " had on the sci-fi movie community back in the mid 1950's , probably similar to the importance that " Star Wars " had upon it's release in 1977 . The 1956 version offered Raymond Burr as reporter Steve Martin narrating his experience in Tokyo covering the emergence of Godzilla from his prehistoric slumber . Interspersing live action with miniature sets , Godzilla is at the same time a campy sci-fi flick and a nightmarish horror film . Today , Godzilla's first appearance on screen is almost comical , unable to compete with today's CGI and special effects . My first actual memory of the film was Godzilla's emergence from the depths of Tokyo Bay , resurrected from hibernation by repeated experimenting with Japan's hydrogen bomb . It was theorized that Godzilla was a species intermediate between a sea and a land creature dating back to the Jurassic Age . As Godzilla advances on Tokyo , he slams through power lines and buildings , stopping a train with his foot and crushing railroad cars in his wake . His steamy breath melts electrical towers and sets the city aflame . Raymond Burr's commentary - " Godzilla has turned the heart of Tokyo into a sea of fire . . . nothing can save the city now " . Dr . Daisuke Serizawa ( Akihiko Hirata ) is the only man who holds the secret to Godzilla's destruction , a process that destroys oxygen in water , thereby destroying the key to life itself . Unwilling to share his discovery with the world lest it be used for illicit purpose , Serizawa sacrifices himself to destroy the monster , but only after first destroying his own laboratory research notes . Godzilla may have been destroyed in the original film , but the franchise certainly wasn't ; he went on to oppose an army of future monsters - Rodan , Ghidrah , Mothra , and even King Kong ! Viewers too young to have witnessed the original " Godzilla , King of the Monsters " probably won't be able to appreciate it's humble science fiction beginnings , but those of us old enough to remember The Million Dollar Movie days still revere the film as an early art form , corny as it may appear to audiences today .
" This town's on the wrong side of ugly . "	File this one under one of the better Westerns you probably never heard of . It pits a pair of good bad guys ( Willie Nelson and Kris Kristofferson ) , against a bad , bad guy in a tale of retribution and revenge that's full of clichés that play out refreshingly well when doled out by Lee Walker ( Nelson ) and Jesse Ray Tarence ( Kristofferson ) . It probably helps if you're a fan of the musicians , as the film offers a couple of well placed numbers to move it along ; Nelson's tune is particularly effective if you listen to the words carefully . The pair are joined by young Chad Willett , portraying the son of Waylon Jennings ' character Tobey , who's murdered in the film's opening scene to set up the story . Holden Bonney ( Sancho Gracia ) seeks vengeance on all three men for a perceived ill toward him ; he's the only one of their former gang who did prison time . All the others opted to join the Confederate Army in exchange for pardon upon completing their service . Failing to break their cohort out of jail , Holden has had years to stew about how to get even . What's not made clear is Holden's alliance with a Mexican colonel ( Simon Andru ) , who he hires to help take out his former partners . It's pretty transparent that the two are not very fond of each other , and it seems a bit overdone for him to need an entire Mexican Army regiment to do a Butch and Sundance on the boys . Waylon Jennings offers the film's narration after his brief appearance , in a diary given to his adopted son Brice by Lee . Brice reads the diary during his ride with the former outlaws , and gains new perspective on their life and the code they live by . One confusing element though , Brice's claim to fame was as " intecollegiate heavyweight boxing champ " - in the 1870's ? ? ? You just know he'll come to regret that claim , especially after he falls asleep during his first night watch and the group is robbed . He loses his title rather quickly to Tarence . Brice never learned how to handle a gun , his college training taught him how to be a farmer . So it comes as a surprise when he shoots Holden's gun out of his hand in the final showdown . Backing off , Holden uses a hidden derringer at close range to put down his young opponent . As Holden approaches at arm's length , Brice uses a Bowie knife that Tarence gave him earlier acknowledging his lack of skill with a firearm . As the Mexican soldiers are waved off by their leader , Brice collects his " business associates " , and heads into sundown with time to ponder on just who these men are that once rode with his father .
" No matter how fast you are , there's always somebody faster " .	Within the Western movie category , there's a neat little sub-genre dealing with the subject of this film , the ultimate goal of proving that one man is the ' fastest gun alive ' . It's been explored numerous times , and my favorite up to this point is Gregory Peck's 1950 film " The Gunfighter " . I can also think of a TV Western episode that handled the subject quite well , an entry in John Russell's " Lawman " series called " Yawkey " , with Ray Danton as a feared gunman . What's interesting about this film is that it doesn't merely set up a confrontation between challenger and opponent , but instead explores the obsession of two individuals who feel that they have something to prove to the rest of the world , or at least to the world that is around to witness their showdown . In that regard , both George Temple ( Glenn Ford ) and Vinnie Harold ( Broderick Crawford ) come across as virtually maniacal , both taking their single mindedness to an extreme . At least Glenn Ford looked like he was in his prime , but Crawford in the role of the lead heavy was almost comical . I was surprised to learn that Crawford was only five years older than Ford at the time the film was made , at forty five he looked like he was at least twenty years older . So how many times have you seen the old ' shoot the coin out of the air ' routine in Westerns before ? What was really cool that I haven't seen before was Temple going for the ' drop the beer mug ' trick , that scene to me was pretty impressive . I don't think I would have liked to be the mug holder though , in the movies you don't get spiked with shattering glass but I think real life might be a little different . I don't recommend it . Almost every reviewer on this board has something to say about Russ Tamblyn's acrobatic dance number , so I won't be the exception . I really did enjoy that routine , especially when punctuated by the dancing shovels . I wonder if they did that all in one take . So the film had me hooked right up until the very end . The double count out ending was the puzzler though , not that Temple / Kelby wouldn't have wanted to put some closure to his brief stint as a gunfighter . What I couldn't imagine was that anyone who witnessed the gunfight and it's aftermath would have been willing to keep the secret that Kelby was still alive . It's a fine way to close out a film , but upon reflection just doesn't hold up to scrutiny . You see , another ' fastest gun alive ' would have been just around the corner .
" I'm nobody's story but my own . "	So many movies got by me in the Seventies and Eighties that it's an occasional treat to catch one now that delivers in an entertaining fashion . I've never been a fan of Jane Fonda because of her politics , but there's not a scene here in which she doesn't look great , and not a scene where Robert Redford doesn't look like , . . . the Sundance Kid . He brings the same facial mannerisms and reactions to bear here as in his more acclaimed role , which by the way happens to be one of my all time favorite films . I guess teaming him up with a horse is just the right trick . The story has some of the elements that show up in my favorite movies as well , that of an underdog taking on a mission that's somehow larger than himself . By riding Silver Star off of a Las Vegas night club stage and into the Western wilderness , Sonny Steele is at the same time attempting to find personal redemption from a life overcome by glitz and crass commercialism . In the process , Fonda's character falls victim to a journalist's primary obstacle , that of becoming part of the story she's covering as a reporter . I recall seeing trailers for the film back when it first came out ; who can forget the image of the Electric Horseman as Redford mounts up on Silver Star and takes on the appearance of a Christmas tree on the Las Vegas strip . The story behind the picture still has relevance today , even more so than back in the Seventies , as each successive year's technology and focus on celebrity removes us further and further away from the things that matter most . Oddly , watching the picture today , it felt more like a made for TV movie than a major theatrical release . Another example of how each new blockbuster film today has to try and outdo the one before with even more elaborate glamor and special effects .
" My only bad luck is you're not dead yet . "	It's a bit unusual seeing Dean Martin play the part of a villain , especially having been a regular viewer of his variety show back in the 1960's . I couldn't help thinking that any minute he would enter the Ace Deuce , hop up on a piano and start belting out ' That's Amore ' . There was at least one similarity to Martin's weekly show with the presence of a gorgeous blonde babe hanging around . No , not Jean Simmons , but that saloon girl Claire ( Carol Andreson ) , who if I had to bet , would probably have shown up on one of his shows as well . Actually , Martin handled the role of a heavy pretty well , but I kept wondering if the movie might have been better served with Dino and George Peppard switching roles . The casting of Slim Pickens as Alex Flood's ( Martin ) top henchman also seemed to go against the grain . I mean , can you picture Andy Devine as a bad guy , or Smiley Burnette , or Chill Wills , or . . . , well you get the idea . But at least Pickens took the role and ran with it , nasty bull whip and all . As for Peppard , he becomes the reluctant hero after Flood pushes all the right buttons , and especially when he makes the move on Molly Lang's ( Simmons ) stagecoach business . Martin's character makes it a point to own fifty one percent of every enterprise in Jericho , but you know , I kept wondering why he allowed the 4 Aces Saloon to operate in town ; it didn't seem like Jericho was all that big . Hey , can you beat those medical fees back in the 1800's ? For fixing up a gunshot wound in old Ben Hickman ( John McIntire ) the Doc charges just a dollar ! Kind of makes you wonder how much it cost to go to med school . Too bad Hickman didn't make it to the end of the picture , I kind of liked his deliberate , methodical style . Of course the ending is never in question , the fun is in watching how the good guy plan separates Flood's gang of outlaws so they can narrow the odds . The one thing I would have allowed for earlier in the story would be showing Peppard's character and his prowess with a knife . As it is , the way Dolan took out Flood made me sit up and ask , ' where did that come from ' ?
" There'll be no killin ' around this church unless I do the killin ' . . . . Amen " .	After watching quite a few Westerns with the cattle vs . sheep rancher theme , this is the first time I've ever seen one in which an attempt was made to get the two factions together by demonstrating that both animals could live together side by side . I wonder why no one else ever got that idea , until Glenn Ford came around as preacher / gunman Jim Killian . Pastor Jim plays it fairly straight down the middle for the picture's entire run , cleverly inviting the opposing forces to join his congregation while they try to settle their differences . I have to give some casting credit here to the roles of John Anderson and David Carradine as father and son , positioned as the main heavies to oppose Pastor Killian . The younger Beck had almost as good a resemblance to his movie father as he did to his real dad , John Carradine . It makes me curious now if the Carradines in question ever did portray themselves as father and son . There's also decent support work here with Noah Beery Jr . as a Beck henchman , and Carolyn Jones and Barbara Hershey in somewhat adversarial roles for the affection of the good pastor . It's not played that apparently , and Killian seems to be above it all , but the picture could easily have gone in either direction . I'm always impressed with the expressiveness of Indian names ; Hershey's character was a Hopi Indian named Leloopa - ' Life From Faraway Star ' - very mysterious and romantic . Hey , how about that scene where Pastor Jim blasts Beck henchman Mace ( J . D . Cannon ) in that under the table gunfight . It had all the earmarks of Greedo vs Han Solo , but done eight years earlier . Can you imagine that ?
" I'm fed up with being afraid . . . "	Mobster Johnny Vanning ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) is the new proprietor of the Club Intime , and he let's everyone know how it's going to be - his henchmen , his employees , and the hostesses who work the patrons . Even the name of the club needs to go , because Johnny doesn't know what " Intime " means . A derivation of " intimate " , the new club becomes " Club Intimate " , or " In other words , a clip joint . . . " , as described by hostess Mary Dwight ( Bette Davis ) . When a patron attempts to run out on a gambling debt with Mary's help , she and her co-workers begin to realize the depths to which Vanning will go to exercise his supreme authority , as the debtor turns into a corpse . Assistant D . A . David Graham ( Humphrey Bogart ) , against the better judgment of his boss , Arthur Sheldon ( Henry O'Neill ) , attempts to bring a case against Vanning . But without all his ducks in a row , and a shaky testimony from Mary , Vanning is acquitted , and the heat begins to turn up on Mary and the girls . When Mary's sister Betty ( Mary Bryan ) unexpectedly shows up to visit from college , things begin to spiral out of control . When Emmy Lou ( Isabel Jewell ) tries to show Betty a good time , she winds up as the match up for a high rolling friend of Vanning . Unwilling to cooperate in the romance department , Vanning forcefully slaps Betty , sending her careening down a flight of stairs , never to regain consciousness . When Graham confronts Mary Dwight with the news of her sister's death , Mary finally decides to go on the offensive . In doing so , she becomes the " Marked Woman " of the title , bearing Johnny's knife carved X on her cheek as a brand for her defiance . In rallying her friends from the club together , the time for Vanning's downfall is at hand , as Graham's new case against the mobsters now has solid evidence . It's masterfully played out , as Vanning and his goons are sentenced to a thirty year hitch for their misdeeds . Bette Davis and Humphrey Bogart appeared in an amazing six films together , this being their fourth outing . All are recommended viewing - " The Bad Sister " ( 1931 , Davis ' film debut ) ; " Three on a Match " ( 1932 ) ; " The Petrified Forest " ( 1937 ) , " Kid Galahad " ( 1937 ) , and " Dark Victory " . It's in " Kid Galahad " that Davis best demonstrates her versatility and range as an actress , even though it's a supporting role .
" So you're a man who has everything , . . . , and nothing . "	So here I am in my late fifties with enough of a connection to my comic book collecting past to be intrigued by modern day super hero films . Now I was never a Marvel Comics geek , my favorite characters were the mainstays of the DC Comics universe , like Superman , Batman , Green Lantern , et al . But if you were a fan , you couldn't help but know about the alternative universe that contained Spider-Man , The Incredible Hulk , The X-Men and Iron Man , which brings us to the subject at hand . I thought that the movie did a credible job of spanning the forty year comic book history of Iron Man about as well as could be expected in a distilled down two hour movie . Particularly effective was the way we see how the origin costume in the picture pays tribute to the early Iron Man years , while the modern day red and gold armor conveys the advance of science and technology into the twenty first century . Comic book purists will most likely have serious issues with the picture , but I've been able to get over the whole faithfulness to continuity issue some time ago . What I'm looking for in a flick like " Iron Man " is an opportunity to be entertained for a couple of hours , and there's enough here to have some fun and be just that - entertained . The one thing I AM looking for in the Marvel universe pictures is the ubiquitous cameo appearance of Stan Lee , creator of many of the comic book icons we recognize today . He's incorrectly credited in the cast listing as I write this , as he's listed appearing as himself . What you need to do is pay attention to that party scene in the casino when Tony Stark says hi to ' Hef ' . That was just the coolest way to get Stan into the picture , and I give him a lot of credit for not taking himself too seriously as he truly is one of the gods of comic book history . As for the picture , it's easy enough to bash it for it's adherence to current world events and the milieu of extremist terrorism . But is that any worse than reliving the events of the early 1960's and placing the character in the middle of the Bay of Pigs or the Cuban Missile Crisis ? The present day Iron Man can be a product of his time and still be effective as a symbol of patriotism and honor , even while the rest of the country is immersed in presidential primaries and partisan politics . You have to give credit to the selection of Robert Downey Jr . for the Iron Man role . Perhaps his own bouts with substance abuse uniquely prepared him for an outstanding performance as the conflicted title character . However the character I was intrigued with the most was Jeff Bridges ' Obadiah Stane , I just couldn't get over his appearance as Tony Stark's operations chief . The role was played with just the right amount of reserve and just below the surface malice ; I thought he did an excellent job . Gwyneth Paltrow had pretty much a thankless job as Stark's personal assistant and secret admirer and it didn't seem to me that her performance was all that stand out . As an aside , the one thing I feel I do have to comment on is a personal gripe of mine relative to the IMDb ranking system . As I write this , " Iron Man " sits at number # 130 of the all time best films as ranked by current users . It seems to me that the way fans line up behind a picture even before it's released , there ought to be a moratorium of say , two or three years before a new release could be eligible for Top 250 ranking . When you consider the truly great films of all time like " Casablanca " or " Citizen Kane " , it's hard for me to reconcile a popcorn flick like this one to be considered in the same breath . I feel the same way ( as to a voting moratorium ) about stunning pictures like " No Country For Old Men " and " There Will Be Blood " . If a picture has the legs to stand up as an all time great , it will be remembered a couple years after it's original release . Remember all the fanboy hype about " Serenity " ? Does anyone even care about that picture today ? See what I mean ?
" I got news for you guys , we just passed the point of no return . "	Until this year , the Wayne Family had prevented release of " The High and The Mighty " from the film vaults of their estate . I think I know why . Viewing it today as the disaster film it was intended to be , I found the tension to be non existent , the danger not palpable , and it had the longest eleven minutes on record , that if I went to view it again I'm sure it would clock in at about three times as long . I probably shouldn't hold it against the cast , which was quite stellar . John Wayne is top billed as co-pilot on a flight from Honolulu to San Francisco , captained by Robert Stack . On board are Claire Trevor , Laraine Day , Jan Sterling , Phil Harris and Robert Newton among others . My problem with the film is the rather mundane portrayal of the characters ' back stories in Hawaii , which are simply not germane to the insecurity and danger they face on board a plane that loses a propeller and develops a fuel leak making their destination a question mark . Apparently offered as a " final days " look at their lives , there's nothing to make us empathize with them or feel concern for their possible fate . The first half of the film is thus presented , while the second half tries to get us ready for either a disaster or a miracle . Now if the film were made today , I believe there would be a bit more emotion involved once the passengers knew what their situation was . But here , after Wayne's character Dan Roman describes the plane's condition , it's taken pretty much in stride . There are some minor histrionics from some of the women passengers , but all in all , it seems as if they've got other things on their mind besides being dumped into the Pacific . Take Jan Sterling's character for instance ; she's worried that she's getting old and that her fiancée may not be interested in her , so she cries off her makeup , only to reapply it later , still not knowing whether the plane will crash land in the ocean or not . Having survived a plane crash years earlier which he piloted , Wayne's character lives with the memory of a lost wife and son in said crash . With wisdom gained from having made it this far , Dan Roman manages to slap some sense into pilot Sullivan ( Stack ) , who was ready to ditch . He probably should also have slapped navigator Lenny ( Wally Brown ) for his eleven minute announcement . That span was longer than any eleven minutes of any critically decisive football game on record . I won't even get into the passenger with the gun ! " The High and The Mighty " has to be one of the coolest sounding movie titles in cinema history . Too bad it was such a let down .
" It's not this town you're fightin ' for , it's the right to live . "	In the expansive history of film Westerns , the theme of cattle men against homesteaders has been done countless times , and " Abilene Town " turns out to be one of the better explorations of that subject . Interestingly , it also throws in a third element , that of the general merchandise shop keeper who stands to benefit from making the right choice between the two . Straddling atop that shaky fence is town marshal Dan Mitchell ( Randolph Scott ) , who has the vision to understand that what happens in Abilene , Kansas will have an impact across all the western territories sooner or later . The story takes place in 1870 , and most of the action occurs along Texas Street , where the best bar in town is called ' The Best Bar in Town ' , right alongside ' Joe's Texas Bar " and the simply named ' Saloon ' . A trail hand wonders what kind of town Abilene is with no bars on the other side of the street . When homesteaders begin to make their presence in town felt , Mitchell must perform a delicate balancing act between the opposing forces , and between two lovely young women . Ann Dvorak is saloon singer Rita , who literally keeps Mitchell hopping with precision kicks in the shin . Sherry Balder ( Rhonda Fleming ) is the daughter of the main shop keeper in town , who pines for Mitchell , until homesteader Henry Dreiser ( Lloyd Bridges ) wins her over with an appeal to her sense of family values and homesteader principles of working hard and building a life . Rounding out the main cast is Edgar Buchanan , a perennial favorite as County Marshal Bravo Trimble . Bravo has a unique nose for danger , and a compass that always points him in the opposite direction . He also has a penchant for a card game called ' fantan ' which he would rather play than do anything else , and Big Annie ( Helen Boyce ) is always willing to oblige . The film has it's fair share of saloon fights and gun play , though it gets a little disjointed during the cattle stampede that Cap Ryker's ( Dick Curtis ) men initiate to take down the barb wire barrier put up on the range land . Banding together , the homesteaders find the resolve they need to stand up to the raucous cattle drovers . In an ironic twist , Sheriff Mitchell allows the carousing bad boys to tear the saloons apart . His ' way a rough street dies ' speech near the end of the story is a fitting capstone to a turn of events that heralds the advance of civilization to a wild frontier . While in the background , shop keeper Balder does the math . With Randolph Scott in the starring role , I should have thought to count the number of outfit changes he'll go through before he tames Abilene . It's a signature mark of his Western films , and he doesn't disappoint here , though for my money , I prefer him in all black . With the town cleaned up and ready to move forward , the men and ladies pair off neatly , Mitchell and saloon girl Rita , Dreiser with Sherry Balder , and would be mayor Bravo with Big Annie . Somehow I got the feeling that they all had a different definition of ' fantan ' on their minds .
" How can we get a nice little war going ? "	I won't deny the film's epic status , but unfortunately the movie doesn't do it for me . Ultimately the title character doesn't seem as central to the story as one expects him to be , and instead it feels like the grand misadventures of the three principal characters ( McLaglen , Grant and Fairbanks Jr . ) . Individually and in concert , the trio wind up in scrapes they shouldn't have been expected to walk away from , and often have a grand old time doing so . The early action scenes in particular have an up tempo speeded up effect that looks appropriate in a Stooges or Abbott and Costello comedy , but given the sober circumstances , looks strangely out of place here . Where the humor does work , it usually involves Cary Grant's character Cutter - his fisticuff posture against McLaglen's Sgt . MacChesney was simply hilarious . Their team up over the elephant tonic punch bowl was also inspired , a neat comedic touch to let us know the entire story wasn't so grim . The scenes with the Thugee Guru ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) on the other hand jolt the viewer back to a different reality with his ' kill for the love of killing ' philosophy , inspired by the blood goddess Kali . What follows though gets incredibly murky , as Cutter gets lashed , shot and stabbed only to come back good as new . While Guru methodically outlines his master plan to destroy the British Army , his forces are rather easily defeated in an almost one sided battle . The water bearer Gunga Din ( Sam Jaffe ) earns a celebrated posthumous honor , and even though he died valiantly , one might wonder if his action was as important to the outcome as it was portrayed ; with Indian reinforcements the British victory didn't seem to be in much doubt . In an odd coincidence , I wound up finding this film in a thrift shop along with another era movie , " The Lives of a Bengal Lancer " . Both offer action and adventure on the Indian sub continent and feature talented casts . " Gunga Din " maintains a slight edge in popularity among viewers on this site at the time of this posting , though for it's epic sweep and better staged battle scenes , I give a slight nod to ' Lancer ' .
" Whoever I am kiddo , I'm what makes you tick . . . "	The original theatrical trailer calls James Cagney's portrayal of Marty ' The Gimp ' Snyder an ' aggressive characterization ' . However it's one thing to see Cagney as a gritty mobster in films like " Public Enemy " and " White Heat " where his aggression is expressed as an enemy of society . Here he seems an even more threatening presence in a one on one situation with his protégé Ruth Etting ( Doris Day ) , a torch singer who got her start in 1920's era Chicago . It's such an effective performance that for once , I almost began to dislike him as an actor , which probably goes a long way to explain just how amazing he actually was . The film also keeps you a bit off balance , as the drama and personal turmoil between Ruth and Marty is offset by a whole host of musical numbers during Etting's rise to stardom . Acting as her mentor and personal manager , Snyder gets it almost right when he states " Why just have half of Chicago when she can have all of New York " , as he lands Etting a gig with the Ziegfield Follies . Leaving Chicago however is the beginning of the end for the couple , as Snyder's power and influence mean nothing outside his home territory . Rebuffed by business managers and show people , Marty's comeuppance spells disaster , ultimately leading to the movie's title song finale to a packed house . In one last recognition of the impact Marty had on her career , Ruth repays the favor by headlining his new club , allowing him at least one more turn in the spotlight . It's unusual to see Doris Day in the role of Ruth Etting , one associates her with lighter and more whimsical screen characters , but she's effective here nonetheless . Her song numbers reflect the progress of Etting's career and her relationship with Marty with titles like ' Ten Cents a Dance ' , ' Mean To Me ' , ' I'll Never Stop Loving You ' , and in the wind up , ' Love Me Or Leave Me ' . It's not your typical ' feel good ' story by the time it's all over , nor does it try to be . One thing is certain though , and that's the sentiment expressed to Marty Snyder just before the curtain falls - " You gotta give her credit , the girl can sing . . . "
" There is nothing wrong with Nicolo that a good woman couldn't make right . "	" An Affair To Remember " might be a good name for the story , but as a movie , it's one I'll likely soon forget . With no disrespect to the principals , it's nothing I was expecting with Cary Grant in the cast . No stranger to romantic comedies , Grant was a blast in " The Philadelphia Story " ( 1940 ) and " His Girl Friday " from the same year ; he even managed great comedic timing in the adventure story , " Gunga Din " ( 1939 ) . So I'll have to assume that director Leo McCarey consciously stayed away from a more lively and spirited presentation . The result came off ( for me at least ) as a humorless relationship in which Nick Ferrante ( Grant ) and Terry McKay ( Deborah Kerr ) didn't seem to be having any fun at all . In fact , neither seemed to be having any fun in the romances they swap for their new one ; and what was with that golf ball size knot on Grant's forehead at the beginning of the story ? I say all this in retrospect , as I had some hope for the film as Nickie and Terry debarked from their cruise in Italy to visit with Grandmother Janou ( Cathleen Nesbit ) . The locale of the Mediterranean home was nothing short of gorgeous , and Janou's response to Terry on wishing she could live there was deeply introspective - Terry was too young and would have to live long enough to create her own memories . That was probably my best takeaway from the film . The accident disrupting the Empire State Building rendezvous was indeed tragic , but I felt the aftermath played out in less than a realistic manner . Would a real person hide from their lover because of a tragedy like that , or would one seek them out to explain and hopefully continue a relationship ? Terry couldn't locate Nick , ( the most famous eligible bachelor it seemed in the world at the time ) , but didn't have any trouble sending a letter half way around the world to Grandmother . When Nick unexpectedly shows up at Terry's apartment , wouldn't one's impulse be to gesture upwards even if they couldn't walk ? Instead , Kerr's character remains as lifeless as she had for the earlier part of the film . I don't know , maybe I'm being too critical , but the reactions of these two people didn't seem to be based in real life . So , " An Affair To Remember " ? Sorry hopeless romantics , I think not .
" A gunman is one thing , Gant's another . "	" No Name on the Bullet " is just such a great title for a Western ; it conjures up so many images of gun fights , shoot outs and showdowns . I enjoyed the film with one reservation - I just can't get used to the idea of Audie Murphy portraying a heel . For me , it just doesn't work , just as Roy Rogers wouldn't have worked as the lead character . A baby face on the lead villain doesn't create the tension needed in a psychological Western . That aside , the film works on it's premise - a hired gunman rides into town on a mission with a reputation that precedes him . His method is always the same , stay awhile , get the lay of the land , and let the town's nervous citizens take themselves and each other apart until the day of reckoning . Fine performances are turned in by Willis Bouchey as Sheriff Buck Hastings , and Charles Drake as Dr . Luke Canfield who befriends gunslinger John Gant ( Murphy ) before he realizes who he is . As his contact with Gant is entirely amiable , including a game of chess , Canfield has a tough time acknowledging Gant's reputation as a cold hearted killer . Gant plays his cards close and observes , as if waiting for the town to take out his intended victim for him . Along the way , crooked banker Pierce ( Whit Bissel ) commits suicide , and cowhand Ben Chafee ( John Alderson ) forces a confrontation with Pierce's partner Stricker ( Karl Swenson ) . The finale allows Gant to dole out his own brand of justice without firing a shot , yet know that his career is over as he heads into sundown , the victim of a healer with a hammer .
" You're an enemy to society and I've got to take you off the streets ! "	Here's just a great example of gritty realism from forbidden Hollywood , set in the pre-Code era when film studios and other media venues pushed the boundaries of acceptable societal norms and good taste . Shock value is provided early if you're an attentive viewer , as in the opening scene when the film's principals drive up to the ' sophomore frolic ' in Leapin ' Lena . While Tommy Gordon ( Edwin Phillips ) entertains his date in a fully supine position , his pal Eddie Smith ( Frankie Darro ) hits the brakes hard and remarks - " Well old gal , settle back on your shaft ! " Seems to me that there's a one liner that would never have made it on " I Love Lucy " . The story itself would provide something of a wake up call to the youth of today who can barely get by on their hundred dollar Nikes and Blackberries . In fact , I found myself wondering if the scenes of dozens of young adults atop cross country trains and staying in ' pipe cities ' were somewhat exaggerated for effect , but somehow I don't think so . The film really makes one reflect on how good we actually have it today , even as present day warnings of another Depression begin to grow stronger and more frequent . The picture's energy comes from Frankie Darro , just sixteen at the time of the picture , and to many observers , a younger version of Jimmy Cagney . What surprised me even more was how much his character's father , portrayed by Grant Mitchell , looked like an older version of Cagney . Then to top it all off , Cagney himself makes a quick on screen appearance in a clip from " Footlight Parade " from the same year , 1933 . You can round out the Cagney connection by pointing to director Wellman , whose film masterpiece of the era starred the brilliant actor in 1931's " Public Enemy " . The film might not be everyone's cup of tea , but it does balance hefty doses of grim reality with spirit and humanity . The implied rape scene on the train is dealt with in street justice terms , and you'll remember Tommy's harrowing accident and makeshift operation for a long time after you've seen it . The ending is somewhat abrupt and open ended , the fate of the principals is left pretty much to the best of the viewer's imagination . However unlike many of the youth films of the Thirties , this one isn't played for garish exploitation or mawkish sentimentality . This was real life with real life consequences , and a tough reminder that maybe the good old days really weren't .
" We cannot hope for disaster , we merely expect it . "	I guess I owe the Turner Classic Movie channel a big thank you for it's New Year's Day hangover relief recipe , a full day of sci-fi programming that offered some great well known classics , along with ( for this viewer ) previously unheard of gems like this one - " The 27th Day " . It's premise immediately called to mind the plot for the the best film of it's kind in the genre , " The Day The Earth Stood Still " . However , instead of offering the citizens of Earth an ultimatum as in the latter picture , ' The 27th Day " gives five ordinary Earthlings from the world powers a device that has the potential to eradicate all of mankind . Right off the bat , one begins to wonder what in fact you might do yourself if given such a responsibility . One can't miss the era's anti-Communist propaganda theme in the course of the story , though the message seems a bit deeper than one might originally think . During the 1950's , China was emerging as a world power , but was still largely ineffective in pushing it's huge weight around ; interestingly , the Chinese girl Su Tan opted to commit suicide rather than face the decision to deal with her device . Whereas the Russian private Ivan Godofsky reflected a willingness to die rather than reveal the secret of the doomsday device to his military superiors . It reinforced for me the idea that the vast majority of humanity would have no problem living peaceably together , except for their leaders who believe in the superiority of their nation or race . The movie points out how easy it is for reason , discipline and restraint to give way to fear , as people find it easy to fear most everything , not the least of which would be an alien threat of the outer space kind . The only thing I found to be rather troubling with the story was it's resolution in the way it played out German Bechner's ( George Voskovec ) mathematical interpretation of the alien capsules . The Soviet General is shown defeated and dying as a ' confirmed enemy of freedom ' , but just how the alien gizmo could fine tune it's radar to locate individuals like that was way beyond the movie's ability to explain adequately . I also got a kick out of Professor Bechner's entreaty to the aliens at the end of the story from a seat at the United Nations ; giving them fifteen seconds to respond from somewhere out in the far reaches of outer space . Geez , couldn't he have allowed for atmospheric disturbances or some other technicality ? Why not a full sixty seconds ! ! About the only recognizable name actor in the flick is " War of the Worlds " alumnus , Gene Barry . Remember that scene in the tavern with the English woman Eve Wingate ( Valerie French ) ? There was a TV playing over the bar with a Western shootout on view ; I'd like to think it was an episode of ' Bat Masterson ' , but that series came out the following year . In a different scene , Barry's character Jonathan Clark got in a line to Eve about American rock n ' roll , calling it ' music almost ' . Anyway , for a chance viewing on an otherwise dreary , rainy New Year's Day , the film wound up an unexpectedly good and interesting treat , even if dated against the backdrop of current world events . Catch it if you can .
" I'm fresh out of faith , hope and charity , Reverend . "	This may be the only movie you'll ever see where the ' Our Father ' and ' Hail Mary ' are recited in their entirety . Humphrey Bogart is the reluctant priest Father O'Shea , whose masquerade at first is tentatively welcomed by a small Chinese village , but who through a series of unforeseen events , winds up becoming their savior . The tip off comes in an opening scene , this priest carries a gun . We're left dangling for a while as the story unfolds , and it's not until well past the half way point that O'Shea's identity is revealed to be that of an American flier who crashed in a remote Chinese province some three years earlier . When the real Father O'Shea dies from a bullet administered by Yang henchman Pao Ching , James Carmody sees a way out of his forced service to Yang by donning the vestments of a priest . The romantic tension between O'Shea and missionary Anne Scott ( Gene Tierney ) is broached but never fully played out . O'Shea is familiarly comfortable in her presence , she's entirely ill at ease to find her feelings being tested . The quandary is dealt with in such a way as to make a resolution virtually impossible , and the finale leaves it that way even when she learns of his true identity . It took a long time for film makers to accept Oriental actors in leading roles . Lee J . Cobb of course is entirely miscast as warlord Mieh Yang , but no more so than Boris Karloff , Peter Lorre or a host of non Asian actors to portray Chinese detectives of an earlier era . Victor Sen Yung proved adequate and believable in a support role as John Wong , the church sexton who challenges Father O'Shea to do the right thing when the situation calls for it . It seemed appropriate that he begin the legend of the Shen-fu after the fate of seven villages is secured via a game of chance . I found it interesting that Sen Young and Benson Fong appeared in this film after both saw work in the 1940's as the Number # 2 and # 3 sons of Charlie Chan . Curiously , they never appeared as brothers together in any story during the series . Admittedly , Fong's role in this one was almost a throw away , as distraught husband Chun Tien whose wife died giving birth to a dead son . For his part , Sen Young would continue his later career in the employ of the Cartwright's on The Ponderosa . For sentimentalists , the film's payoff near the end might bring a trickle to your eye . The young Chinese villagers offer their best rendition of ' My Old Kentucky Home ' as Bogey's character is allowed to keep his secret by the Bishop's emissaries who replace him . That , along with those incredibly lucky rolls of the dice , might lead you to believe in Hail Mary endings .
" The truth is only arrived at by the painstaking process of eliminating the untrue . "	I must say , this film had a clever plot and the solution to the mystery was dealt with following a logical succession of clues and deductions . This is only the third Sherlock Holmes film I've seen , but story wise it stands far superior to the Charlie Chan films of the same era that end with Chan's explanation of how he deduced the murderer , but the viewer otherwise has no clue of how he got there . " Dressed to Kill " tells the story of three music boxes , whose history begins at England's Darthmor Prison where they were all made by the same inmate . Together , their similar musical tunes hint at the location of stolen five pound note printing plates that the Bank of England fears may erode the British economy if they are used to flood the country with illegal tender . Holmes ' chief protagonist in this case goes by the name of Hilda Courtney ( Patricia Morrison ) , who cleverly baits him into a trap as she bears down on the remaining music box in Holmes ' possession . The only problem I have with the film is the rather easy way in which the kidnapped Holmes manages to secure the key to the handcuffs he has been bound with . I'll assume that the title " Dressed to Kill " refers to the rather elegant attire of Ms . Courtney , even though one of her disguises placed her as a charwoman . A more fitting name would be the British working title - " Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Code " . All in all , I found the story to be a clever mystery , logically presented and brought to a satisfying conclusion .
" Give ' em a quick flash girls , give ' em a quick flash . . . "	Wow - James Cagney's first film role and he pulls it off like a veteran ! Though he's third billed behind Grant Withers and Evalyn Knapp , it's hard to argue that this isn't Cagney's vehicle all the way , demonstrating a commanding and comfortable presence on the big screen , even though he does go ' over the top ' a couple of times . Still , I was impressed with his debut performance , and the story itself was entertaining enough to maintain one's interest for it's dead on one hour run time . The setting is a Coney Island amusement park , but that's just a front for Mitch McKane's ( Warren Hymer ) booze peddling racket . Cagney's character Harry Delano is one of his underlings and is being groomed to run the operation in case Mitch gets pinched . Instead , Harry guns Mitch down in a shoot first or die situation when confronted over his skimming the operation . Things get further complicated when Harry's sister Jennie ( Knapp ) witnesses the incident , and Ma Delano ( Lucille La Verne ) tries to pin it on Jennie's fiancée , giving future mothers-in-law a bad name ever since . Joan Blondell is initially referred to in the story as the ' little happiness girl ' , presumably for her youthful good looks and an insinuation that she sells kisses at the carnival . Ma's description of Myrtle is a bit more colorful , to her she's a ' gutter floozie ' for hooking up with her son . In fact if not for Cagney , this might have been Ma Delano's story for the way she takes over every scene she's in . No political correctness for Ma , when she sends someone out to look for Harry , she suggests they ' try the chink's ' . For Cagney and Blondell , this would be their first of seven screen appearances together , all of which were filmed between 1930 and 1934 . Cagney would get involved with running booze again in his 1939 team up with Humphrey Bogart for " The Roaring Twenties " . Here though , the young James Cagney gives a fine performance in his very first outing , with just the right combination of malice and charm that would make him one of movie history's top gangsters .
" You must leave this house now , It is not a healthy place to be . "	What better way to spend a Halloween evening than engaged in a Vincent Price movie . I'm wondering how I missed this one back in the day when I became hooked as a Price fan with films like " House on Haunted Hill " , " The Bat " , and " The Fly " . Which might explain why I would have preferred seeing this one in black and white instead of the full color treatment in Cinemascope by American International . Reading other reviewers on this board , I see that this was the first of Roger Corman's films based on the works of Edgar Allan Poe , and as such , it merits kudos against a lot of his earlier stuff produced on a dime and rushed out in mere days . The suspense factor is kept at a reasonably high level for most of the story , though I thought things got sidetracked a bit with Philip Winthrop's ( Mark Damon ) dream-scape sequence . Most of the other effects though , even if kept simple , were sufficiently absorbing to keep things eerie and unpredictable . The one thing that kept nagging me was why Roderick Usher ( Price ) maintained that his sister Madeline ( Myrna Fahey ) was doomed to remain at the Usher House until her demise , even when the back story had her meeting and falling in love with Philip in Boston . Best line of the story goes to Vincent Price's character as he states to butler Bristol ( Harry Ellerbee ) - " See to the crypt , will you ? " Like it was just one more duty to perform and not out of the ordinary at all . The Usher sister started out fairly one dimensional until things got kicked up a notch , and it was just as she began her maniacal tirade that I began to see how she put the ' Mad ' in Madeline .
" You make with the pencils , and we'll make with the shovels . "	There should be no doubt that this film is a highly over simplified account of how the U . S . Navy Seabees came into existence . John Wayne portrays the hot headed owner of Donovan Construction Company , who offers his services to the government in building airfields and related support fortifications for the war effort . The story centers on Wedge Donovan's single mindedness in getting his men armed so they can defend themselves under attack ; as civilians they have no such authority . Boiled down , Wayne's role was to make a lot of foolish mistakes that got many of his men killed , both out of uniform and as soldiers . Complicating matters for Donovan is a three way love triangle supplied by reporter Connie Chesley ( Susan Hayward ) and her fiancé Lieutenant Commander Robert Yarrow ( Dennis O'Keefe ) . When Connie suffers a near fatal wound following a Japanese invasion of Island X-371 , Yarrow overhears Donovan and Chesley exchanging " I Love You's " together . Ever the stalwart military man , Yarrow doesn't seem to take it personally , even as he continues to pine for his woman . The fight scenes offer some unique twists that one would not expect . As Japanese tanks advance on the island , the Seabees combine ingenuity with resolve by battling the enemy with bulldozers and cranes . The surreal nature of the exchange makes one wonder if such fighting actually could have taken place , though I imagine it would have been possible . Only John Wayne could go into battle without a weapon , and in seconds take out three attacking Japanese while securing a rifle in the process . It comes as a surprise then when his character dies on the battlefield , first shot and then blown up by enemy fire . Most of his men suffer the same fate , a colorful supporting cast that includes William Frawley , Leonid Kinskey , Grant Withers , Paul Fix and Ben Welden . With no sense of a time dimension for the history of the Seabees , and a hit and run approach to the Wayne / Hayward / O'Keefe romance , the movie has a disjointed feel and is best approached as an entertainment piece and not a serious exploration of it's subject matter . The film closes on an appropriately patriotic note , with Commander Yarrow reading a presidential citation for the heroes of X-371 . The movie's theme is formalized with the line - " We build for the fighters , we fight for what we build " .
" Have you got a pencil , I left my typewriter in my other pants . "	Future viewers of " At The Circus " be warned - " Lydia , Oh Lydia ( The Tattooed Lady ) " is one of those tunes that stays with you long after the movie is over . It happened the first time I watched this film , and it's happening right now as I write this review . That's not necessarily a bad thing , provided you don't drive your family crazy with the lyrics over and over again . That's one of the bright spots of this Marx Brothers escapade , in a film that spotlights a ten thousand dollar circus heist , an inverted ceiling walker / aerial trapeze artist ( Eve Arden ) , and a club wielding gorilla named Gibraltar . Put all those elements together and you have an amusing and entertaining little number , though not generally credited as one of the Marx Brothers finest . Perennial wealthy Groucho patron Margaret Dumont makes her appearance rather late in this movie , befuddled as usual about attorney J . Cheever Loophole's intentions , which are actually commendable - he's attempting to negotiate a ten thousand dollar payday to save the Wilson Wonder Circus from the clutches of evil financier Carter ( James Burke ) . Earlier , owner Jeff Wilson ( Kenny Baker ) fell victim to Carter's strong arm and henchman Goliath ( an unrecognizable Nat Pendleton ) , who in concert with circus midget Little Professor Atom ( Jerry Maren ) , stole the money that would have given Wilson clear ownership . The clichéd theme is rounded out by Wilson's romantic interest Julie Randall ( Florence Rice ) , who probably should have been given more to do than just look pretty . The movie boasts a rather involved musical number featuring Harpo and a large , young black cast before settling into a standard harp routine . In an amusing sketch , Chico's character Antonio Perelli continually frustrates Groucho's attempt to interrogate the little professor about the stolen money . Later , Chico and Harpo team up to wreak havoc in Goliath's stateroom ; the feathers fly ( literally ) as they try to find the missing stash . Goliath by the way , bears such a striking resemblance to Harpo , that more could probably have been done to capitalize on the similarity . As in " The Big Store " , the movie spirals out of control with a rousing trapeze number featuring the boys , Peerless Pauline and Gibraltar the gorilla . It's vintage Marx Brothers , so swing your way to a good time !
" Maybe some day you will kill me or I will kill you ; we will not spit on each other . "	I guess I've seen enough of Jimmy Stewart's ' normal citizen ' movies ( " It's A Wonderful Life " , " The Phladelphia Story " , " You Can't Take It With You " ) to make it seem unlikely that he could play a strong lead as a Western hero . But he made a number of them , and I have to say that his performance here is every bit as professional and workmanlike as some of his better known roles . The story of " Broken Arrow " is somewhat based in historical fact , but as with many , if not most Hollywood treatments , there's also a fair amount of poetic license taken with the characters and situations . A little bit of quick research reveals that Cochise was fifty five in 1870 when the story took place , making him somewhat older than the real Tom Jeffords , who would have been thirty eight , approximating Jimmy Stewart's age at the time of filming . What's fairly accurate is the role Jeffords played in bringing about a negotiated peace between the U . S . Government and the Chiricahua Apaches in 1872 , at least for three short years before the treaty was broken , leading to a decade long hostility that ended with Geronimo's surrender in 1886 . While it appears that Geronimo and Cohise were both part of the same Apache tribe in the movie , Geronimo was actually born to the Bedonkohe Apaches . His association with Cochise occurred when his chief Mangas Coloradas sent Geronimo to get help from Cochise to fight the Mexicans ; Mangas Coloradas ( Red Sleeves ) was the father-in-law of Cochise . I was quite surprised to see how closely Jeff Chandler resembled the real Cochise in a photograph from the era . In the film , he had that regal kind of bearing that one associates with great chiefs , as attributed by Jeffords ' Apache language teacher - " His eyes will see into your heart , he is greater than other men " . I was also surprised to learn after the fact , that Jeffords became a blood brother to Cochise , and wondered why it wasn't mentioned in the film . As for Geronimo , I'd have to say that this was the strongest acting role I've seen yet for Jay Silverheels , completely eclipsing the ' Me Tonto ' treatment reserved for the Lone Ranger's sidekick . His speech to Cochise defying peace with the whites was exceptionally well done and convincing . Historically , Geronimo never considered himself a chief , though he was highly regarded as a military and spiritual leader of the Apaches . Obviously , I can't finish without mentioning the exquisite appearance and performance of the White Painted Lady , Morningstar Sonseeahray , as portrayed by Debra Paget . I wonder how Stewart felt performing opposite a sixteen year old actress ? Her poise reminded me of Audrey Hepbun's own somewhat miscast appearance as an Indian woman in 1960's " The Unforgiven " . " Broken Arrow " has earned it's reputation as one of the first , if not THE first Western to treat Native Americans with humanity . It does so credibly , and is particularly revealing in Jimmy Stewart's voice over narrative following the early encounter with the wounded Apache boy . Stewart's character is a stand up guy all the way , even in the face of fierce opposition from neighbors and friends . It was with careful consideration that Cochise was able to guage the measure of Jeffords ' character with the words - " This white man is my friend " .
" OK Coach , where's the field and who do we play ? "	With some minor plot revisions , " Chain Lightning " would just about qualify as a remake of Humphrey Bogart's 1936 film , " China Clipper " . In both stories , Bogey's character is a former military pilot who takes on a civilian job as a test pilot for demanding bosses . Raymond Massey portrays the owner of the Willis Aircraft Company , a role performed in the earlier film by Pat O'Brien . Both men are hard driving , ruthless individuals who put work and success above having a personal life , whose ambition test the people around them , including the Bogey character . The minor difference might be in the romantic interest for Bogart ; in ' Clipper ' there was none , here he's on again , off again with Jo Holloway ( Eleanor Parker ) in a romance that tests one's patience throughout the film . I don't know when the device was first used , but in this movie , the opening scene serves as the introduction to a flashback narrative that winds up back at the same point later in the film . The bookends are fairly successful in delivering a complete story , but left this viewer wondering how much of it was based in fact . A reference was made to breaking the sound barrier by Chuck Yeager's earlier 1946 flight , and it seems that the story builds on technological advances in the history of military flight building up to the invention of the ejector pod . Bogey's conflicted character is in it for the money right up to the point he hears his buddy's voice recorder message detailing how he lost his life in a failed test of a ' JA-4 ' experimental craft . Will he or won't he ? If it means hurtling back to Earth to be with his one true love Jo , all systems say go . I must say , I was a bit dismayed by Colonel Matt Brennan's ( Bogart ) post war job prospects . He's shown running his own flight school and charging customers three dollars an hour for the privilege . When a novice crash lands his only plane , it's time to look for more meaningful possibilities . What he's offered at Massey's company turns out to be seven hundred fifty dollars per MONTH ! The good old days swung both ways . Humphrey Bogart and Raymond Massey worked together once before in the 1943 war adventure " Action in the North Atlantic " . Interestingly , Bogey was top billed in both films , while Massey's character was his boss in both . Sometimes things just work out that way . As mentioned earlier , the film doesn't elaborate on events portrayed when it comes to accuracy . Obviously the ejector pod was someone's good idea at some point in time , but the way it's presented here would have meant more in a historical context . Even so , this viewer was kept interested enough by events in the film , even if the romantic angle between the principals seemed forced . Perhaps the film makers couldn't decide between Bogey landing his girl the easy way or the hard way .
" This badge is a magic piece of metal son ! "	This is one of the better ' B ' Westerns you're likely to come across , featuring Jim Davis in the role of a somewhat ambiguous outlaw who takes up a badge after he comes upon a dying marshal in Apache territory . Their brief conversation provides an ever present backdrop to the story , with constant references to a man's inability to outrun his shadow . The ' new ' Marshal Brennan finds himself in the town of Banock , where a doctor ( Harry Lauter ) suspects that an outbreak of black spot fever might be about to overrun the town . Together with Sheriff Carl Smith ( Carl Smith , can you believe that ? ) , the pair manage to hold off the villainous Donaphin forces , whose diseased cattle threaten the entire territory . I liked the pacing and development of the story , with some rather unique elements that I haven't seen in a Western before . The most interesting was the scene where Shad Donaphin ( Lee Van Cleef ) breaks Doc Hale's vial of blood , and the contents are shown dripping down the face of the camera lens to give added emphasis . There was also that scene when the Donaphin goons were about to hang the Doc just before the marshal makes the save - just how tall a tree was that where they rigged up the noose - and how did they get the rope up there ? Holy cow , it looked like the branch was a hundred feet high ! One of the bad guy posse even remarked how this tree should hold , which made me wonder why they couldn't find a normal size tree . They're like everywhere aren't they ? I have to say , this was definitely the most intelligent role I've ever seen Harry Lauter in . I best remember him as a kid from watching ' Tales of the Texas Rangers ' , and have usually seen him in either dubious good guy roles or as an inept villain in classic TV episodes of Roy Rogers , Gene Autry and a host of others . He actually did a commendable job here as a wise and brave country doctor who wasn't afraid to mix it up with the baddies when necessary . It was also gratifying to see that the local sheriff wasn't in the pocket of town boss Colonel Donaphin ( Louis Jean Heydt ) , although you couldn't really tell during his first screen conversation with Brennan . It looked like a classic set up for the figurehead lawman to try and thwart the good guy from getting the upper hand , as all the while , it was repeatedly teased that the marshal would just ride off into the sunset instead of getting mixed up with the locals . One thing I'm always on the lookout for in older films is the sense of life in simpler times , as in the price of goods at Murdock's Café . How about ham and eggs for a quarter , red beans for a dime , and cup of coffee for a nickel ! Arleen Whelan did a fine job as Miss Murdock , although I still find it a little difficult to think that Brennan would allow himself to be roped into a romance by the show's finale . For an almost prophetic insight into the spaghetti Western genre of the Seventies , keep your hearing tuned to the musical score throughout the film . The frequent strumming of an electric guitar was a constant thread , and the reverberating drumbeat during the massing of Donaphin's men on the cliff just before the cattle drive were great accompaniments to the action . There was even that lively theme song to bookend the story about a man on the run , very ambitious for a ' B ' flick . The one thing that had me scratching my head though occurred right at the very end of the picture . As the good guys make there way back in to town following the clash with the Donaphin's , they're shown heading to Murdock's café , standing alone almost at the edge of the river . Correct me if I'm wrong , but all throughout the picture , Murdock's was right in the middle of town !
" He's a good pilot , but he can't explain how he does it . "	Throughout most of the story , Brian MacLean ( James Cagney ) flies by the seat of his pants , and at times it seems the movie does too . The film starts out about a handful of Canadian bush pilots attempting to learn the identity of a sneaky , job stealing rival , and ends up with the bunch of them joining the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II . In between there's a love triangle between Cagney's character and his main rival Johnny Dutton ( Dennis Morgan ) over the affections of Emily Foster ( Brenda Marshall ) . Emily turns out to be a self promoting opportunist who shows her true colors by eloping with MacLean since he showed up with a bankroll first . It seems the only thing Emily has going for her is her fiery good looks , as even her father bemoans her integrity when Johnny comes back for her . You're probably best served while watching the film to stop questioning the believability of the events on screen and just kick back to enjoy the natural beauty of the Canadian wilderness and the great display of era war planes . I'm no aviation buff , but the sight of all those colorful planes at the various flight training schools was incredible . Hard to believe though that nations actually carried out a World War in such machines when considering today's science and technology . The rest of the film's cast almost makes it seem like like they might have been going for a comedy , with a lively Alan Hale leading the way , along with George Tobias and Reginald Gardner as fellow bush pilots . Scrounger Harris ( Gardner ) gets some mileage out of a running gag as a penny pincher ; Cagney nails his character with the line " I have no money and he's trying to borrow it " . Cagney and Hale ham it up by briefly dancing with each other in another lighter scene before things get somber in the finale . Apparently many of the RCAF fliers in the movie's graduation scene wound up heading for the War in Europe shortly after filming , receiving their wings from real life Canadian war hero , Air Marshal William ' Billy ' Bishop . He appeared comfortable in his brief on screen role , perhaps in the knowledge that the film might have inspirational propaganda value . Cagney's character has a lot to redeem himself for , and does so in the film's climactic ending . It just struck me how many times he portrays a character that dies at the end of the story , this time realizing that he has a lot to atone for . True to his character , flier MacLean turns a deaf ear to his former buddy and now commanding officer Dutton - " I'm not disobeying orders , I just can't hear you . "
" I dub thee Kid Galahad , and these my colors you shall wear into battle . "	" There isn't any room for feelings in this game " is how promoter Nick Donati ( Edward G . Robinson ) approaches boxing as well as life in general . When he witnesses a young bellhop ( Wayne Morris ) deck a top rated heavyweight at a swank party , he sees a future champ , and a way to undermine rival promoter Turkey Morgan ( Humphrey Bogart ) . In Donati's corner is his girlfriend Fluff , Louise Phillips , disarmingly portrayed by the young and beautiful Bette Davis , who achieves more with her eyes and facial expressions than most actresses before or since . The boxing scenes are merely an under card for the real story of how Kid Galahad , named by Fluff as an homage to his gallant chivalry , meets and falls in love with Donati's sister Marie ( Jane Bryan ) . Donati has no use for mugs who don't follow his orders in or out of the ring , or for guys who have eyes for his sister . Fluff , who secretly falls in love with Galahad realizes she doesn't have a chance - " It seems I'm always at ringside at the first fight . . . and the last " . She encourages the Kid to follow his heart to be with the woman he loves . Feeling undermined , Donati seeks revenge by agreeing to a match with the now heavyweight champ , Chuck McGraw . Even with ten wins under his belt , Galahad is still green and no match for the champ . But McGraw is a reveler , who spends his down time partying and drinking instead of training . His promoter , Turkey Morgan also angles for the match sooner rather than later , realizing that his boy's regimen won't keep him champion for too long . By the time the sports press gets the story , it's all about how the convent girl ( Marie ) and the cabaret singer ( Fluff ) vie for Kid Galahad . But they each know where they stand , and must convince Nick during the climactic heavyweight title bout that he has to stand behind Galahad to uphold his own integrity with the Kid and himself . Edward G . Robinson is in top form here in a role that allows him to portray a less sinister side ; the scene in which he visits his mother and talks to her at length in Italian are genuinely charming . Bogey has a smaller but no less important role in his manipulative handling of the champion McGraw and his rivalry with Donati . And it's a pleasure to watch Bette Davis use her Bette Davis eyes in scenes with Nick , Galahad and Marie , so expressive there's no need for words .
" You know , I guess one person CAN make a difference . . . "	Unlike the first two Spider-Man films which I saw in theaters when they first came out , I sat this one out until last night to catch it on one of the cable channels . That decision was probably justified , as this one didn't feel like it had the heart of it's predecessors . Too many characters , too many sub-plots , too much of the angst ridden Peter Parker to take the joy out of the Spidey character . Growing up I wasn't much of a Marvel Comics fan , but you could tell that the film makers doing Marvel really had it together with their characters and writing . Even this one was pretty slick with the action and the special effects , but on the flip side , those elements might have been a negative as well - just a little too much and too over the top to produce any feeling of identification with the hero or his significant other . Not to mention the trillion to one ( notice how economic stimulus has affected my thinking ) coincidence of some outer space meteor depositing a tar-like symbiote right in Peter Parker's back yard , and not affecting any one else . You needed it for the story , but you just can't think about it for too long . My favorite part , as always , catching the creator of Spider-Man in his expected cameo appearance - the great Stan Lee - uttering my summary line above . He went on to finish the sentence with the trademark Marvel zombie catch phrase - ' nuff said ' . This will be the only time you'll hear it from me .
" Man who fears death die a thousand times . "	Lucy Manderley is the obvious suspect when two guests are seemingly murdered at Manderley Castle , located in the Mojave Desert . Her husband Paul is a mysterious recluse who stands to lose his $20 million dollar estate if it can be proved he is mentally unfit . Charlie Chan has a lot to piece together in this brisk mystery . Number Two Son Jimmy Chan is on leave from the army to help out his " Pop " . If at all possible , try to view the Chan films in the order that they were released , the continuity is amazing . It was in the prior " Charlie Chan in Rio " film that Jimmy received his military papers . Ethel Griffies and Milton Parsons are on hand from " Dead Men Tell " and perform admirably , particularly Ms . Griffies as the amazingly accurate psychic Madame Saturna - " The stars never lie " . The funniest line in the film comes from Sidney Toler's Chan character , responding to son Jimmy's choice of a suit of armor for a disguise - " What has canned outpost observed ? " My compliments to the writer of that line , I can't get it out of my head ! Keep an eye out at the hotel stop where Charlie boards his ride for Manderley Castle , the sign overhead states " Rooms 50 cents " . Better get an early reservation ! This is an enjoyable film with a fine cast , and well worth your time . Give it a try .
" . . . and the lawyers are up in the dome right now waiting to explain the nature of their crime with facts , figures and falsehoods . One more ' F ' and they won't be drafted . "	" Deadline U . S . A " is the story of a newspaper facing extinction , though it delves into a neat little crime story that graces page one prominently during it's final days . What's interesting is that the gangster drama doesn't involve Humphrey Bogart as a mobster or a law man ; he's the editor of ' The Day ' , a paper put on the selling block by an owner family at the advice of their financial attorney . The family's matriarch , portrayed by Ethel Barrymore eventually sees the light of ' Day ' so to speak , as you know she will . Her conversation with Bogey near the end of the film is a classic tribute to freedom of the press and the role of newspapers as society's watchdog . There's another side story going on as well , though it's not entirely necessary . Ed Hutcheson ( Bogart ) attempts to reconcile with ex-wife Nora ( Kim Hunter ) , and though it appears he's hit a roadblock , winds up winning her back in the end . It's never made clear however what the turning point in the relationship was , since Nora was planning to remarry and abruptly changed her mind . Classic film fans will enjoy seeing Ed Begley and Jim Backus in roles as newspapermen employed by ' The Day ' . The mobster being investigated by the paper is portrayed by Martin Gabel . It was with a bit of discomfort watching Bogey's character get into the back seat of Gabel's car to ' go for a ride ' . That scene could have gone either way , especially since editor Hutcheson felt compelled to crack wise with a goon who had murder included in his resume . As for the rough stuff , that was generally handled by Tomas Rienzi's main henchman Whitey , Joe Sawyer in an uncredited role , but a Warner Brothers mainstay nonetheless . With the clock running out on the newspaper , and a judge siding with the sellers , Hutcheson gets to the finish line with his page one story with damning evidence of Rienzi's complicity in the death of his hush hush girlfriend and her brother . But the film ends so abruptly , there's no time to reflect on the bittersweet finale , not even a shot of Bogey and his ex getting back together for a feel good moment . If you enjoyed this film , you might want to check out another lesser known Bogart movie titled " Two Against The World " , it also goes by " One Fatal Hour " . There he finds himself in another media forum running a radio station . Like " Deadline U . S . A . " though , it may be difficult to find since neither has been commercially released . You'll have to keep your eyes peeled for a cable presentation , or source it from private collectors .
" From what I hear , I'm gonna have to kill you . "	Here's a neat little TV Western that gets interesting following a fairly standard set up . A new Marshal arrives in town just in time to confront a pair of rowdy brothers and winds up killing one in self defense . Then he hears about how he'll have to pay once big brother hits town along with all of his trail hands . The hotel clerk ( Kathryn Hays ) even asks for her ten dollar room rent in advance , knowing that the life expectancy of a Yuma town marshal isn't all that great . What made the story interesting for me was how a number of innovative elements were used that I haven't seen in a Western before . Like Marshal Dave Harmon ( Clint Walker ) using ketchup to fake a gunshot wound to a murder suspect from earlier in the story , when the perpetrator is already dead ! The ruse is used to smoke out the partner who's still at large . And how about Harmon shooting the gun right out of Sanders ' holster when he's slow to cooperate in answering the marshal's questions ? The best is probably when the real villain masterminding the cattle resale scheme is uncovered by Harmon ; how many times do you get to see Edgar Buchanan as the bad guy ? ! Here's another one , and I thought I was hearing things , but when Harmon is surprised and surrounded by the Indian tribe the first time , the chief calls him ' Star Man ' in deference to his marshal's badge . That just made perfect sense . All in all , a quickly paced story with a good supporting cast including Barry Sullivan ( bad guy ) , Morgan Woodward ( bad guy ) , Robert Phillips ( bad guy ) , and Peter Mark Richman as an Army major ( thought he'd be a bad guy , but another twist to prevent the clichéd outcome ) . I'll also give the picture credit for not stereotyping the expected romantic angle to play out between Harmon and Julie Williams . There was a hint of that at the finale , but you can draw your own conclusions .
" Commissioner , that was a strictly private murder , to which I was not invited . "	On vacation from his government job and returning to Honolulu , Charlie Chan is compelled to investigate a murder case when Sergeant Matthews threatens to detain daughter Frances ( Frances Chan ) unless he helps . William Bonner is the victim , a psychic medium who is shot during a seance , but mysteriously , a gun or bullet is never found . " Black Magic " offers the usual cast of characters / suspects , in this case most of the seance members have an ax to grind with the victim , from cheated business associates to jilted lovers ( which is a mystery in itself , as Bonner did not have the personality or looks when it comes to the romance department ) . Mantan Moreland gains progressively more screen time in this third Monogram installment to the Chan series , and this is his best appearance so far , although the racial comments continue as in past Chan films - " If spooks bother you , Sergeant will arrest them " . Another welcome break from the standard Chan formula is the replacement of Number # 1 , 2 or 3 son with daughter Frances - " Beauty of Chan family also have brains " . Sadly though , her portrayal is wooden and uncomfortable at times , with repeatedly wasted lines . We've seen it before - the seance , the lights out , the gunshot and the resolution exposed by Charlie . The frozen blood bullet is an interesting twist , but don't even try to understand the ballistics involved . A lot of liberty is taken to make all the pieces fit , nevertheless , prepare to be entertained by " Black Magic / Meeting at Midnight " .
" Maybe he died from laughing at old jokes . "	There's a great politically incorrect sign hanging in the Amato Club House that says - " Be American , Speak English " . That's one of the visual treats in " Hell On Frisco Bay " , a gritty gangster drama featuring one of the best , Edward G . Robinson as tough guy Victor Amato . There's also a lot of great dialog compliments of Robinson's character , especially the prayer conversation with henchman Joe Lye - " Guess those prayers went into a separate account for lover boy " . Alan Ladd portrays Vic Amato's nemesis in this one , playing it fairly deadpan , almost tired , throughout the story . He's an ex-cop just released from San Quentin following a stretch for a murder frame up , and he's out for vengeance . A pal from the old days , Dan Bianco ( William Demarest ) , is about the only one he can confide in as he goes after the bad guys . Come to think of it , Demarest plays it entirely straight in the picture too , he's usually good for a few comic relief moments in most films , but not here . He knows enough to back off too , when Steve Rollins ( Ladd ) makes it known he's got a score to settle . The tension between Rollins and Amato is allowed to fester and build as the former detective conducts his personal investigation , reaching the boiling point when Vic summons his adversary to a meeting . Ladd delivers one of the movie's best lines when he turns down Vic's job offer of two hundred dollars a week - " I'd like to kill you so bad I can taste it . " Not too much room for miscommunication there . Joanne Dru portrays Rollins ' not quite ex-wife , having had a quick affair while he was in the cage . A nice surprise in the film for me was the appearance of Fay Wray as a retired actress ; you know , she really aged wonderfully in the two decades following " King Kong " . It's too bad she was relegated to a career of ' B ' films even after her Kong triumph . Also on hand in an early screen appearance is Rod Taylor , described as a ' tough monkey from up North ' , who takes his orders from mobster Vic . For his part , Robinson turns in one of those quintessential gangster performances that he's known and caricatured for , particularly vile here for ordering a hit on his own nephew . With Robinson , you get so much more than you bargained for with all those little nuances he throws into a role , like the way he sizes up the door man at the apartments , or how he sets up Joe Lye's hit right in front of a statue of St . Anthony . And when he goes down , he goes down hard , sneering all the way as the cops fish him out of Frisco Bay following that wild speed boat chase . As for the film , it's an OK little story that could have packed more of a punch without the color format . I would have preferred the movie's noir-ish ambiance in glorious black and white .
" One of these days this rifle's gonna make my life . "	It would make more sense to view this story as a TV mini-series the way it was originally produced than to do as I did , and catch it all in one sitting on Encore Westerns . For one , the picture is ponderously long at three and a half plus hours , and you have to be patient with the abrupt scene changes that were designed around commercial breaks and new chapters . Particularly frustrating was a seven year time lapse that reunites Hugh Cardiff ( Sam Elliott ) and Libby Tyree ( Penny Peyser ) ; Libby had gotten married to the adopted Tyree son ( Bruce Boxleitner ) off screen , and it just springs up on you with no advance warning . Cardiff had promised to return in a year's time , but didn't , and one's only indication that time was passing by was the sudden aging of Sam Elliott's character . The interesting part about the story has to do with the way Cardiff manufactures a persona for himself and friend Caleb Rice ( Timothy Scott ) based on frontier exploits that are entirely made up . They capture the imagination of pulp fiction writer Bob Halburton ( Pat Hingle ) , and based on the success of his newspaper's accounts , the boys find themselves headlining Wild Bill Hickok's Wild West show . Besides Hickok , portrayed by L . Q . Jones , the other historical figure to make an appearance was Doc Holliday , courtesy of Dennis Hopper . Neither character had much to do with the story , particularly Holliday , who was on camera just about long enough to be out-gunned by Cardiff in a not very satisfying showdown . The finale itself also turned out to be fairy anti-climactic . You know the love triangle had to be resolved , but there didn't seem to be the tension one expects of an inevitable showdown . With Cardiff's gun skills at the center of the story , it didn't take too much to figure out who would come out on top , and once again , it's all over in pretty much a flash . With only a few comments posted on this forum regarding the picture , I can see I'm in the minority , but I just didn't find this Western to be that rewarding . It's not terrible , but not exciting enough to score a recommendation . Maybe in the original format it might have made a stronger statement , but if you're on the fence about catching it , it wouldn't hurt to let it pass .
" Don't wake him up , he's got insomnia , he's trying to sleep it off . "	The Marx Brothers are at it again , this time with the New York opera scene as a backdrop , but when did high society ever stop their zaniness before ? Groucho's character is Otis B . Driftwood , conspiring to get the wealthy Mrs . Claypool ( Margaret Dumont , who else ? ) to contribute two hundred thousand dollars to the arts . The story begins in Italy , as promoter Herman Gottlieb ( Sig Ruman ) attempts to sign a famous opera singer , but his intentions will go awry when Fiorello and Tomasso ( Chico and Harpo ) ally themselves with Ricardo Baroni ( Allan Jones ) , an unknown singer looking for a break . The film offers it's share of vintage Marx Brothers routines , among them the famous ( or infamous ) stateroom scene , the sanity clause bit , and the wild chase on stage at the New York concert hall . The main surprise for this viewer was the appearance of Kitty Carlisle as singer Rosa . My only recollection of Miss Carlisle was as a panelist on " What's My Line " and " To Tell The Truth " in the 1950's / 60's , and did not realize her talent extended to operatic arias . The movie's sub plot involves a romance between Rosa and Jones ' character Baroni . " A Night at the Opera " is visually a frenetic , high energy Marx Brothers romp , though in retrospect I think I miss Groucho's insightful one liners , especially the ones you catch up with a few moments after they're spoken . There's not enough of them here , taking the film down a bit from the reputation it's earned as their best film . Still , it's vintage Marx Brothers and worth a sit down , with a bit of fractured culture thrown in for good measure .
" Where does it say on the paper that we are Apaches ? "	I'm just about through the fourth season of " The Rifleman " on the Encore Western Channel , and I'm really starting to appreciate the work of Chuck Connors . So as I call up the TV cable listings yesterday , it's only about a minute to go before the movie " Geronimo " is set to play on Turner Classics . With no hesitation , I'm there . With a film like this you've got to be able to get past the license taken with historical accuracy ; this one is about one third true and the rest is Hollywood . But for fans of Connors , you've got a decent amount of story to work with in a movie populated by a number of his regularly appearing guests on the TV series . There's the reliable John Anderson as Jeremiah Burns , and a second half appearance by Denver Pyle as Senator Conrad . You might also be surprised to see Adam West as a cavalry officer , and Ross Martin as an Apache friend of Geronimo named Magnus . I was surprised to see how authentic Connors looked as an Indian , probably even more so than Paul Newman as the title character in " Hombre " . However I was taken aback at times where in size and appearance he resembled Arnold Schwarzenneger a bit . It's ironic actually that Connors plays the role of an Apache , when in Episode # 1 . 37 of " The Rifleman " - ' The Raid ' - Lucas McCain sets a personal high body count with seven Apaches killed in the story . He doesn't come nearly as close in this one against the white man , although one might argue they certainly had it coming . The biggest surprise though coming out of this picture was seeing actress Kamala Devi portraying the Apache school teacher who Geronimo takes for a wife . The idea must have intrigued Connors because some time after filming , Devi became Connors ' second wife for real . Not surprising , she was absolutely gorgeous . Pay attention , and you'll catch a neat line that was a harbinger of things to come for Connors the actor . When he's on line at the San Carlos reservation to get his food rations for the first time , he's marked with a painted ' X ' on his hand . In an eerily prophetic remark , Geronimo angrily tells the quartermaster - " I'm not an animal that has to be ( B ) randed " !
" Scorpio I believe , is the unfortunate symbol of death . "	" Charlie Chan at Treasure Island " is at the top of many Chan fan lists as their favorite ; it certainly deserves that distinction . Even when the film gets creepy it's fun , as in the séance scene at the home of Dr . Zodiac . Charlie Chan's friend Paul Essex is an apparent suicide aboard a San Francisco bound plane flight . His suicide note - " Can't escape Zodiac , Good Bye my Love , Paul " . Charlie Chan ( Sidney Toler ) is warned not to investigate : " Do not challenge the supernatural unless you are prepared to visit your ancestors . " But investigate he does , and as usual we are introduced to a colorful cast of characters and suspects along the way . There's The Great Rhadini ( Cesar Romero ) , who challenges other magicians and psychics , his mind reading assistant Eve Cairo ( Pauline Moore ) , and insurance investigator Salsbury ( Douglas Dumbrille ) . Aiding Charlie on the case are Number # 2 Son Jimmy ( Victor Sen Yung ) and Deputy Chief Kilvaine ( Donald MacBride ) . Watch for a neat scene when Chan returns to the Zodiac home a second time - a black cat crosses his path . The twist to the story comes when we learn that Romero's character Rhadini is also Dr . Zodiac , blackmailing victims with secrets from their past . He even takes a knife to the shoulder during an on stage performance in an attempt to throw suspicion in a different direction . The film borrows from a Bela Lugosi trademark , piercing dark eyes attempting to overcome psychic Eve Cairo's thoughts while under Chan's influence to flush out the killer of Zodiac's Turkish servant . The film is set against the backdrop of the 1939 San Francisco World's Fair , Treasure Island being an attraction , along with the Century of Progress Exhibition . But as in most of the Charlie Chan films , the locale is secondary to the mystery , and this time it's a good one , with clever writing and just enough imagination to make you wonder whether mind reading might actually be real !
" I think he should find you irresistible , Mademoiselle . "	John Carradine is on record as stating " Bluebeard " was his favorite film role out of well over two hundred movie appearances . Truthfully , I was surprised by the rather intriguing tale coming out of this Publishers Releasing film , rising a few notches above it's humble Poverty Row origins . The film opens with a woman's body being retrieved from the Paris River Seine by uniformed French State Police , quickly cutting to a poster warning of a " Bluebeard " who strangles women , and putting all citizens on notice that it's not safe to travel the city streets alone , especially at night . With this backdrop , we are quickly introduced to puppeteer Gaston Morrell ( Carradine ) , a rather soft spoken Parisian gentleman who manages to charm the ladies with his chosen craft . Morrell however is hiding an unfathomable secret , as an artist with an unattainable ideal , he winds up strangling his feminine subjects after they have posed for their portraits . Morrell's crimes would probably have gone unsolved forever if not for the greed of his agent Jean Lamarte ( Ludwig Stossel ) . Lamarte knows of Morrell's deadly artistic passion , and in an attempt to secure one more generous payday , unwittingly plays into the hands of the local gendarme who sets a trap for the painter . Some rather lovely young ladies offer supporting roles in this edgy and atmospheric thriller ; Jean Parker portrays socialite Lucille who becomes enchanted with Morrell and agrees to make costumes for his puppets . It's her sister Francine ( Teal Loring ) however , who meets her demise in the trap set by the French police . As Lucille confronts Morrell with her suspicion , and with the authorities closing in , Morrell attempts to flee atop Parisian rooftops , and loses his footing when a plank gives way , plunging to his death in the river below , a graveyard familiar to his prior victims . Had this picture been filmed the same way today , the ending fairly screams " sequel " . If there is a flaw to be found in the film , it would be the total disconnect between the story and Gaston Morrell's title as the Parisian " Bluebeard " . Clean shaven and well attired as Morrell was , the movie offers no hint as to the derivation of the unusual moniker , even though the police warnings and local citizenry use the term quite naturally .
" That man must be a sexual maniac ! "	As with most of Alfred Hitchcock's films , I find myself in a quandary regarding just how significant this film ought to be considered . Back in 1999 , " Frenzy " was voted eighth among Hitch's best films by a panel of top directors , surpassing even " Rear Window " and " Strangers On A Train " which didn't make the Top Ten cut . I don't know , maybe it's me , but I'm generally in agreement with the majority of viewers for most of the pictures I review on the IMDb , but for some reason , I'm out there in left field when it comes to Hitchcock . And yet I don't deny his greatness among the world's top directors of all time , so maybe it's just a matter of taste , and I'll leave it at that . The first thing to turn me off here was the rather rude , actually downright vulgar description of rape attributed to a businessman in a bar scene discussing the necktie murders . With a barmaid present , the man opined that - " I suppose it's nice to know every cloud has a silver lining " . I actually had to replay that scene to understand if I had it right . Now I'm sure that there are any number of Neanderthals out there who would offer a comment along those lines , but actually hearing it to describe a brutal rape and murder as presented in one of the film's early scenes seemed to be way beyond the measure of good sense and good taste for someone of Hitchcock's caliber . So what was he thinking ? Then there's that murder scene when Rusk ( Barry Foster ) dispatches his first on screen victim , Brenda Blaney ( Barbara Leigh-Hunt ) . I know it wasn't meant to be comical , but geez , couldn't the dead woman's expression be presented any less goofy than with her tongue lolling out the way it was shown . It seemed so amateurish and totally unconvincing , even though I've never really seen a dead strangled woman , so who am I to say . On the flip side , there are a lot of scenes that work well , particularly those that by virtue of mere seconds , manage to paint Dick Blaney ( Jon Finch ) into a corner while implicating him in the murder of his ex-wife . The film needed more of that kind of tension to be truly memorable to my mind , with a resolution that didn't place Blaney in even more jeopardy with the authorities . Consider , even though the girl in the final scene was already dead , Blaney began clubbing her with a rod thinking it was Rusk . Given the circumstances , didn't it seem a bit more than odd that Chief Inspector Oxford ( Alec McCowen ) simply hushed him to be quiet while anticipating Rusk's arrival ? How does the law deal with attempted murder on an already dead person ? Just wondering . Given that Hitch returned to his British roots for this film , what I probably found most interesting was the unique use of English colloquialisms in the story , and good old Mrs . Oxford's attempts at culinary mastery . The fish head in the soup was particularly appealing , while I actually wound up googling the word ' pilchard ' to see what that was . Helps me understand the Beatles ' ' I Am The Walrus ' even better now . One last thing to consider - does it make sense that Rusk would put Babs ( Anna Massey ) in a sack full of potatoes before placing it on the truck ? You think he had them in his apartment , or did he take the time to go all the way back to the market just to pull that one off ?
" You may serve the soup course now Pappy ! "	The " Flying Tigers " gets off the ground early as Commander Jim Gordon ( John Wayne ) leads his blue group fighters into exciting aerial battle against the Japanese . The film takes a look at an American band of mercenary fliers defending China just prior to our entry into World War II . For historical perspective , there's a scene right after Gordon chastises hot shot flier Woody Jason ( John Carroll ) for missing a night time reconnaissance flight ; on Gordon's desk is a calendar with the date - Sunday December 7 , 1941 . President Truman's declaration of war is listened to intently by the squadron on the radio , and soon after the Tigers get orders to take out a railroad supply line . In between aerial dog fights , Gordon has his hands full managing the aforementioned loose cannon Jason , an old friend who thinks the war was made just for him . He sees each Japanese opponent as another five hundred dollar bounty , and is too impressed with himself to follow orders , even when it leads to disastrous results . The set up though allows Jason to lead the movie to it's predictable ending , in which he redeems himself by ramming a damaged transport plane into a Japanese rail car loaded with military supplies . This right after giving parachuted buddy Gordon the old Geronimo out the plane's door before disobeying orders one last time . John Wayne's romantic interest in the movie is suitably portrayed by Anna Lee , her character a nurse at the air base tending to Chinese children and wounded fliers when necessary . Other supporting players of note include Paul Kelly as Commander Gordon's Number # 2 man Hap Smith , and Gordon Jones as Alabama , who has a fondness for saying " I'm getting that old feeling " whenever hot shot Jason makes an appearance . Jones looks a bit out of place in the film , perhaps I've seen him too many times playing the foil to Abbott and Costello in any number of their own movies and TV shows . Both as a war film and a John Wayne vehicle , " Flying Tigers " is generally adequate , taking some liberties from a historical viewpoint to be considered entirely accurate . For fans of the " Duke " , it's the type of action adventure in which he excels , combining elements of courage and heroism on which his fame as an entertainer rests .
" By the way , how you doing with the Big Bwana ? "	The first time I saw " Hatari " was on a Boy Scout excursion to New York City during it's original release year of 1962 . I had no idea at the time who John Wayne was , let alone any of the supporting players in the movie , but I did like wild animals . What young kid doesn't ? Since then of course , the Duke has moved on to that big rodeo in the sky , as his legacy survives in the many fine Westerns and war films in which he appeared . " Hatari " in some ways might be considered an African Western , replete with sidekicks , drinking and pretty women , with a fair share of action adventure as the Hatari gang captures wild game for America's zoos . As such , the film doesn't have a whole lot of story line going for it ; it's more of a series of vignettes of Wayne's character Sean Mercer rallying his men on to collect giraffe , zebra , leopard , buffalo , rhino and a proverbial barrel of monkeys . Though in this case it's a tree full of monkeys thanks in large part to a clever design masterminded by Pockets ( Red Buttons ) , complete with a red and white silver rocket and a huge fish net . The fact that it worked makes it worth the price of admission alone . In between the animal chases , director Howard Hawks sprinkles his movie with comic interludes like the goat milking scene , the ostrich roundup , and the kissing demonstration that the pretty photographer Dallas ( Elsa Martinelli ) plants on Wayne . Of course , Red Buttons has his share of comic moments as well , though at times his timing seems forced , especially when he nags his partners to retell their versions of the monkey capture . I must say , my admiration for the film's players rose a considerable notch when I learned that they did all their own work in capturing the large game . The rhino scene in particular left me wondering how the animal didn't severely injure himself , much less it's occupants . Some dozen years following the film's release , I had the pleasure of going on a photographic safari of my own to East Africa . The locales mentioned in the movie such as Arusha and Manyara were on my itinerary , though by that time Tanganyika no longer existed , having merged with Zanzibar to form the new country of Tanzania . Along with wild game locations in neighboring Kenya , that trip remains the highlight of my travel abroad . As others have noted in their postings , I would highly recommend " Hatari " as solid family entertainment , although John Wayne does let loose with a " hell " while wrestling the buffalo into the transport cage . It must have been one of his milder curses that survived the final cut .
" Don't worry ma'am , I only kill nice people . "	There's a great DVD set put out by St . Clair Vision that offers nine films , appropriately titled " Spaghetti Westerns " , and fairly oozing garlic oil and marinara . If you're only familiar with the Clint Eastwood ' Man With No Name ' films , you'll be intrigued and entertained by the offerings here , among them " The Grand Duel " . Lee Van Cleef stars doing what he does best , as a calm lawman on the outside with a seething vengeance on the inside . His character is a former marshal , but you're never really sure about that until he produces a star , and even then it's questionable . The only other Western I can think of that offers a homosexual character is " Little Big Man " , and in that picture it was an Indian . Here , one of the Saxon Brothers is an overtly limp wristed , white suited desperado with a silk scarf for added effect . The fact that he's a ruthless gunman is almost beside the fact , his pock marked face is worthy of a seamy horror flick . The three Saxon Brothers are out to avenge the death of their father , and numerous flashback sequences that offer the darkened outline of the killer point to only one person , and yet when Sheriff Clayton ( Van Cleef ) reveals it was himself , it almost comes as a surprise . The Saxon's had fingered rival Philip Wermeer ( Peter O'Brien ) for the murder of the Patriarch ; Wermeer's own father in turn had been murdered over his ownership of a silver claim . Early in the story , it appears that Clayton's quarry is Wermeer , until they team up following the apparent killing of Wermeer by bounty hunters - neat twist ! If you're used to the Eastwood style of the genre , you might find the circus type acrobatics of " The Grand Duel " to be somewhat off base , but it seems to be standard fare in some of the other films on the collection I mentioned earlier . Here it's Philip who entertains with some improbable flying maneuvers , but it does make for highly innovative action sequences . Also pretty clever was the game of checkers at the Saxon City saloon . Played with glasses of whiskey , it seemed to me that the winner would be the guy who got drunk first ; after all , you had to down your shot after jumping the opposition . I would swear I'd heard portions of the musical score in another film , it's so provocative you find yourself actually anticipating some it . There's a definite Ennio Marricone influence , though here it's provided by Sergio Bardotti and Luis Bacalov . Quite definitely another reason to tune in . " The Grand Duel " is definitely one to sample , coming out near the end of the Eurowest cycle . Be prepared for marshals in business suits and the not so subtle portrayal of a gay bad guy , but also keep an eye out for the new patriarch David Saxon sporting the same dimple in the middle of his chin as the portrait of his father hanging on a wall . If that weren't enough , I'd say the bartender at the Saxon saloon was one gay caballero too !
" I like these calm little moments before the storm " .	This film held my interest for exactly one hour . It was about at that point that Gary Oldman's character was revealed to be a cop , and then the head scratching began . I mean , really , did he and his goons have to take out Mathilda's whole family over a drug deal gone bad ? And when Stansfield ( Oldman ) is questioned about the massacre , he storms out yelling that he doesn't have time for this spit ? What police force allows it's own to go renegade like that without stepping in ? Then you have Mathilda ( Natalie Portman ) . OK , I know we're pushing our kids like never before into a maturity they can't handle , but come on . Was anything about Mathilda believable ? I can understand her wanting to get revenge on the scum that killed her family , but she was more than ready to go out and target practice using live rounds on joggers in the park . Who comes up with this stuff ? There was nothing remotely believable about anything that occurred in the second half of the story , especially after Leon ( Jean Reno ) wasted the two cops right inside police headquarters . After that , it all became too absurd for comprehension . So then I call up this flick's stats on the IMDb , and it sits at # 35 in the Top 250 of all time ! What's that all about ? That's just a total perversion of any kind of integrity in the rating system . This film is an escapist action adventure flick where one's sense and rationality is best left checked at the door on the way in . To give it the kind of adulation that most of the reviewers here seem to bestow upon it just makes me wonder what we all have become . It's not pretty .
" A tramp , but smart ! "	There's something about the use of words that always makes me stop and think , and that's precisely what happened as I read the opening sequence attributed to newspaper reporter Edward S . Montgomery . The story of Barbara Graham was presented as ' factual ' , which to me implied right out of the gate that it might not necessarily be true . Then upon reading other viewers ' thoughts about the film , I learned that the real life story of Barbara Graham might have been entirely glossed over for the sake of a sympathetic picture where an innocent woman went to her death as the result of a frame up . Setting aside the actual ' facts ' of the Monahan murder , the picture succeeds at the level of a dramatic noir thriller . However I had some trouble adjusting to Susan Hayward's portrayal of petty criminal Barbara Graham . She had a number of emotional tirades that seemed to be entirely over the top , and those imaginary throws of the dice seemed to add an unwelcome comic element to her character . I didn't perceive her performance to be particularly notable , much less an Oscar worthy one . Even the scenes at the finale that hinged on the prospect of a phone call reprieve seemed to lose their impact after the first couple of times , thereby diminishing the suspense factor . Perhaps the real Ms . Graham went to her death with a whimper , but wouldn't it have been great ( as long as so many liberties were taken with the story anyway ) , if she went out like Cagney in " Angels With Dirty Faces " , kicking and screaming while proclaiming her innocence right to the last breath . Keep an eye on the scene when the cops flush out the bad guys from the warehouse by calling them out one by one . As Graham cleans herself up in the mirror , the right side of her face is shown to be heavily scratched and her left cheek is clear , but as soon as she turns away to give herself up , the pattern is reversed . I always wonder why such an obvious error isn't caught and corrected by film makers before the final cut is made . The other thing I got a kick out of was the sign in the women's prison cell - ' Stay Healthy , Keep Clean ' . Which made me consider , was there another option when you live behind bars ? I guess the most intriguing part of the picture for me had to do with the cyanide preparations and the intricacy of checking over all the details to make sure a properly staged death sentence would be carried out . I never actually pictured a gas chamber as being a glass structure that officials could watch while a person was executed . In hindsight , that makes perfect sense given the fact that public executions throughout history were often times given to spectator sport . It was rather jarring to note that after the grim death sentence was carried out in the picture , the reporters left with their car horns honking as if in celebration instead of quiet reflection . It beats me how human behavior is sometimes anything but .
" Some things you can never pay for " .	I'm not sure that " These Wilder Years " is the best title that this film could have come up with ; Cagney's reputation as a movie gangster might have hinted at something a bit more daring . However the picture features a well thought out story line and engages the viewer right from the start with Steve Bradford's ( Cagney ) resolve to find the son he gave up twenty years earlier when all he had on his mind was building a business empire . He hits a brick wall in the person of Ann Dempster ( Barbara Stanwyck ) , proprietor of ' The Haven ' , and someone who will not surrender her principles or the rule of adoption law against Bradford's millions . A sub plot involving Cagney's character and a teenage unwed mother ( Betty Lou Keim ) adds an element of human tenderness to what could have been just another courtroom drama showdown . Oddly , that potential showdown was hinted at when Bradford's corporate attorney Rayburn ( Walter Pidgeon ) advised his client against the national publicity that would arise from the case because of Bradford's prominence as a steel tycoon . All the while I was expecting the kind of fanfare from " Miracle on 34th Street " , but guess what ? - there wasn't a reporter or even a spectator in sight . That seemed a bit of a disconnect following Rayburn's buildup , but not entirely unwelcome . I actually liked the lawyer's perspective in his handling of the case , as if he were in tune to the humanity of the opposition along with his own . Can you imagine that ? Of course the teary eyed moment comes when the viewer realizes a few moments before Bradford himself that he's about to meet his own son . Somehow you knew Miss Dempster would see to it that Bradford's persistence would have a resolution , the payoff was in the manner in which it was presented . Neither played for melodrama or hysterics , one could feel Bradford's loss when the two parted ways with a handshake . The movie is a nice counter point to Cagney's more traditional roles , particularly since the star , who's almost always on screen , doesn't dominate his scenes with his celebrity or performance . It's a somewhat offbeat role for one of cinema's greatest actors , and one that deserves a viewing for both his performance and the story it tells .
" Remember the fun we had when you poisoned me ? "	Though Vincent Price had a long and varied career , most horror film fans will know him by a trio of movies from the late 1950's - " The Bat " ( 1959 ) , " The Fly " ( 1958 ) , and this one - " The House on Haunted Hill " . When I first saw this film shortly after it's original release , it gave me the heebie jeebies for a week , especially having seen it alone in the dark . Today it doesn't affect the same response , but still , it's got a lot going for it and is a well written , creepy and atmospheric drama in which Price and a host of characters are given a chance to shine . The opening set up is quite classy - Elisha Cook's character Watson Pritchard is the owner of the house , and he snares the viewer with an immediate hook ; seven violent murders have taken place in the house including his own brother . Price is Frederick Loren , the current resident , an eccentric millionaire who offers five people seemingly chosen at random , ten thousand dollars each if they can survive a night in the house . Pritchard , an alcoholic , doesn't let up throughout the film , he insists that dire consequences will occur - " Only the ghosts in this house are glad we're here . " The film's first real fright catches you off guard , as Nora Manning ( Carolyn Craig ) examines an empty room , she suddenly turns into the haggardly face of the home's female caretaker , though we don't know that yet at this point . It's the kind of face you would make if you were trying to scare your little sister coming downstairs in the dark - funny but effective . There are other subtle events that keep you guessing , all done with an effective purpose and not just for shock value , a rarity in today's films . One of the better ones makes use of a thick rope that crawls it's way toward lead screamer Nora , but this time she's speechless , fixated on the ghostly image of Loren's wife Annabelle floating outside a window . The relationship between Loren and his wife Annabelle ( Carol Ohmart ) makes up a key plot element in the story . It's no secret that they share a tense relationship , Loren the jealous husband , and she the one willing to stick it out for a huge inheritance once he's met his demise . As the grim party of five come to believe that Loren is out to kill her or one of them , they all agree to remain in their rooms till morning to stay safe . Yeah , right ! Now wouldn't it have made more sense for all of them just to stay in one room all together ? But then , no murder , mystery or mayhem . The movie is peppered with some great lines , and Price's character gets his share . Commenting on his marriage , he offers - " What husband hasn't at one time wanted to kill his wife ? " But my personal favorite , and you'll have to see the film for it's proper context , is " Do you really think there WAS a head in her suitcase ? " Other clever elements are inserted as well , the coffin party favors with a handgun for each guest is a neat touch . Then there's the basement , a veritable fun house replete with a floor vat filled with poison acid . It's a real treat to see how Vincent Price literally " pulls the strings " of this murder mystery whodonit in the film's finale . Observation : freeze frame a close up of Carol Ohmart in her role as Mrs . Loren - doesn't she resemble what a mature Paris Hilton might look like ? " The House on Haunted Hill " remains on my yearly must see list , I'm sure you'll have fun with it too . Your thoughts will echo that of Elisha Cook's closing words - " They're coming for me now , and then they'll come for you . "
" I want you to kill your brother . "	Here's an Australian Western steeped deeply in marinara and done in the tradition of the sleaziest of the spaghetti genre . It's a gritty , violent , and truth be told , fly infested film that sears your viewing pleasure in a visceral display of blood and guts that will leave you as squeamish as it's victims . It even throws in a little Darwinian Theory for those in a scientific mood , while vast expanses of dusty , yellow desert landscapes play havoc with your vision throughout . It's not the easiest of films to watch , and while the real villains of the piece , David Wenham's Fletcher , John Hurt's Lamb , Danny Huston's Arthur , get their due , so does just about everyone else , innocent or otherwise . The ending in fact could have gone either way , and I was fully expecting Guy Pearce's Charlie Burns to blow his brains out in response to his brother's question - " What are you going to do now " ? Had he put Arthur out of his misery , that would have been the way to go , an alternate ending perhaps even more powerful than the real one . I give it marks for stepping outside the traditional Western box , but weak stomachs be advised , there's no Butch and Sundance dialog here to ease the way .
" I never discussed being a traitor with a man , you'll find it easier if you don't think about that part of it . "	The original theatrical trailer to " Across the Pacific " offers Sydney Greenstreet introducing the story as an even more astonishing tale to tell than " The Maltese Falcon " . He should know , he was there for both , reuniting with fellow co-stars Humphrey Bogart and Mary Astor in a tale of espionage and intrigue touted with the tag line " behind every smile an invitation to disaster " . The film opens on November 17 , 1941 , with Bogie's character Rick Leland summarily dismissed from the Army for the indiscretion of borrowing military funds . With a reputation that moves even quicker than he does , Rick is turned down for service in the Royal Canadian Army , or as a wartime recruiting poster advertises - Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry . With time on his hands , Rick boards the freighter Genoa Maru , seemingly to cross paths with a mysterious woman introduced to us as Alberta Marlow ( Astor ) , yet with a larger goal in mind , that of finding a sponsor so he can fight yet again . It's not until he arrives in New York that we learn that Leland is in fact a spy , attempting to get the goods on the saboteur , Dr . B . F . G . Lorenz ( Greenstreet ) , and Japanese plans to blow up the Canal Zone . Interestingly , the Japanese are depicted on both sides of the American fence . Lorenz describes them as " wonderful little people " , as Captain Higoto of the Genoa Maru dispatches an adversary in a New York back alley , and henchman Joe Totsuiko ( Victor Sen Yung ) demonstrates his judo skills in a couple of scenes . Yet in Panama , Leland's friend and hotel owner Sam Wing On ( Lee Tung Foo ) demonstrates genuine concern for Rick's well being , and directs him to a theater where he'll get his next set of instructions . With ominous portent , the date on a Panamanian newspaper reads December 6 , 1941 , Pearl Harbor looming only one day away , even as the headline reads " Hirohito Reply to Roosevelt Will Insure Peace " . Snappy dialog and gritty one liners are a trademark of the film with Astor's character getting off her own fair share of zingers , keeping the romantic angle between her and Rick sufficiently off balance . Apparently , the writers were quite pleased with themselves over a line that's uttered not once , but twice ; referencing the difference between their respective firearms , Bogie warns Greenstreet's character - " Remember , mine's bigger than your's " . Bogart fans will no doubt be intrigued by the coincidences between " Across the Pacific " and some of his other movies . For example , the " Fat Man " line is used by Bogie's contact in the Panama Theater , a reference to Greenstreet's character , and a description that followed him from " The Maltese Falcon " . The name of " Sam " , the hotel owner in Panama , would turn up again almost immediately as that of Rick Blaine's piano player in " Casablanca " . And need it be pointed out , Bogart is " Rick " in both films ! As a fan of the Charlie Chan series of films from the 1930's and 40's , I was intrigued by the fact that Number # 1 and 2 Sons both appeared in this movie . Although Keye Luke has a throwaway part as a steamship office clerk , Victor Sen Yung enjoys a meatier role as Greenstreet's heavy . Oddly , out of forty two surviving Chan films , they only appeared once as brothers together , in 1948's " The Feathered Serpent " . With both " The Maltese Falcon " and " Across the Pacific " sharing name stars along with director John Huston , the comparison between the two films is inevitable . I find " Falcon " to be the superior film , but don't let that dissuade a would be viewer . However with " Pacific " , you'll have to overlook the array of coincidences necessary for the story to unfold , particularly with respect to Rick Leland's roundabout way of getting to the heart of the Canal Zone sabotage plot . You'll also have to overlook the title , the movie never gets that far !
" That's why I like this country , there's always greener grass over the hill " .	Filmed as a generation spanning epic , the movie is essentially a series of vignettes loosely held together by the presence of Debbie Reynolds ' character , Lily Prescott . Starting out on the first leg of a journey that takes the Prescott family West via the Erie Canal , the picture tells the story of how it might have been for thousands of pioneers , settlers and adventurers as they searched for a new life beyond what passed for civilization in the mid to late 1800's . Probably the main reason to tune in is for the veritable all-star cast , as Reynolds is joined at various times by Karl Malden , Gregory Peck , George Peppard and Robert Preston , with a host of others contributing to the story . Some are merely incidental , as in John Wayne's portrayal of General William Tecumseh Sherman , but taken as a whole , it's a treat to see so many fine actors in a single film . I saw the picture today on Encore Westerns , and I have to say that I didn't notice the separation lines noted by other posters on this board due to the filming technique known as Cinerama . Had I known about it in advance I would have been consciously looking for it , but I never had to deal with that kind of distraction . Perhaps I was more attuned to the gorgeous cinematography which was striking at times , and probably one of the stronger elements of the picture . The story , or stories as it were , only mildly held my attention , and at least one scene seemed curiously out of place . I had to scratch my head when Debbie Reynolds burst into song in the middle of an encampment amid wagons and campfires , it seemed almost comical . There was also that goofy conversation with wagon-master Robert Preston , describing her hips as ideal for having children . That was an eye rolling moment if ever there was one in the story . I guess I'd be on the fence as to a recommendation here . It's a long picture at just over two and a half hours , and it didn't leave me feeling much one way or the other after it was over . Yes , it had some redeeming family values content , particularly in the final portion of the film dealing with the Zeb Rawlings ( George Peppard ) family . However it didn't seem to leave the kind of strong impression a true story might have , or a documentary detailing the taming of the old West . It's OK if you've got the time to spare and you're a fan of one or more of the principals .
" Nobody dies till I tell ' em to die . "	I've probably seen James Caan more often as a villain than a hero , and the villain role suits him just fine . He goes from bad to evil to maniacal in the course of the story here , with a twist in the picture that comes out of nowhere that attempts to explain his hatred of the half breed Hudson Santeek ( Christopher Lambert ) . That he's a half breed himself serves no purpose other than to cause this viewer to go " Oh ! " , so I don't know why that element was even introduced . While watching the film , I hearkened back to my childhood days with ' Sergeant Preston Of The Yukon ' ; this could have been an extended episode of that show . Great footage of Alaskan sled dogs mushing through wind whipped snowy trails , not quite figuring out how competing sled teams didn't get all tangled up with each other . One thing Preston never had to put up with was getting shot and falling into icy rivers . Man , I can't imagine even being THAT cold ! I wonder if the actors got bonus pay for that . I caught this on the Encore Western Channel this evening , and I suppose the ' Western ' connotation has some bearing , even if filmed as an Alaskan wilderness adventure . It's got a typically ' B ' Western flavor focusing on an evil town boss ( Caan ) swindling local miners out of their gold claims and leaving them dead in his wake . I can't think of a Western that ever got the body / deed count as high as eleven like this picture did , which can only mean that Christopher Lambert was no Red Ryder or Durango Kid . For his trouble , the man should pour himself a brandy to warm up .
" I'll meet you half way , bring the frucci and leave the gucci here . "	I'm not a connoisseur of the Marx Brothers films , and therefore take delight in reading some of the reviews from other posters for this and other movies of theirs on this site . What I can say is that I enjoy their pictures , and " A Night in Casablanca " is no exception . With such a title , I might have expected more of a connection to the famous Bogart film ( my favorite of all time by the way ) , but then again , that wasn't important . Sure it had scheming Nazis and exotic looking sets reminiscent of Rick's ' Cafe Americain ' , but the letters of transit intrigue is replaced by the search for a missing Nazi treasure , and even then , it's the antics of Groucho , Chico and Harpo that take center stage . There might be fewer gags and one liners here than in their better hailed classics like " Duck Soup " , but things get off to a quick start with Harpo's ' holding up the building ' gag in an opening scene . Groucho , ever with an eye for the ladies , remarks on a rear view of Nazi accomplice Beatice Rheiner ( Lisette Verea ) - " That reminds me , I must get my watch fixed " . Later , appearing the worse for wear following some more commotion - " What happened , I was stood up by a woman and knocked down by a car . " I got a kick out of the clever gag using the center leafless table during the packing / unpacking scene , featuring almost everyone in the story . It would have been cool to have a cameo or two by some of the principals from Bogey's " Casablanca " like Sidney Greenstreet or Peter Lorre , but since that wasn't the case , you have decent support from Sig Ruman as undercover Nazi big wig Pfferrman / Stubel and Dan Seymour as Prefect Brizzard . Verea introduces " Who's Sorry Now ? " in a singing number , sounding very little ( at least to my tin ear ) like the hit Connie Francis would make of it . All in all , the film is an entertaining hour and a half , and a pretty good send off for the Marx Brothers .
" Wide awake wide open Tombstone , get anything you want there . "	I've seen enough John Ford Westerns to recognize Monument Valley by now , so the opening scene of the movie is quite interesting until Old Man Clanton ( Walter Brennan ) states to Wyatt Earp ( Henry Fonda ) that Tombstone lies just over the ridge . Though Utah's Monument Valley borders northern Arizona , Tombstone is a whole lot closer to Mexico in the southern part of the state . The DVD pre-release version of " My Darling Clementine " from the Spring of 1946 contains most of the original Ford footage of the film . What I haven't seen in any of the reviews I've read ( though I didn't read them all ) is the fact that Producer Darryl Zanuck wrote a letter to Ford on the night he viewed the rough cut but finished film , stating that he was displeased with aspects of the movie and that it required some major rework . Ford was released from the film in July , 1946 , and the re-shot scenes were directed by Lloyd Bacon , even though he doesn't appear credited here . Zanuck himself re-edited additional scenes personally . Truthfully , I had enough trouble keeping the differences straight in the altered scenes , to the point where it didn't seem to make much difference . Now if you're a Western fan , I don't think you'll ever get to the bottom of the OK Corral gunfight on film . This one purports to be the most accurate , and some viewers will swear by it , but there are enough inaccuracies detailed elsewhere to make this film just another one in the bunch . For me , the addition of the title character takes the Earp legend in yet another direction , and I can't say that it was all that satisfying . A couple casting surprises make things interesting . Ford favorite Ward Bond appears as Morgan Earp , and I always enjoy seeing Tim Holt in a film , though he didn't have a lot to do here except get shot in the back by the elder Clanton . In that regard , Walter Brennan appears seriously against type in the story , so much so that behind the beard and without the voice you might not recognize him . Cathy Downs appears as Doc Holliday's back East girlfriend Clem , while Linda Darnell adds some spitfire to the proceedings , but Chihuahua ? What were they thinking ? Speaking of the Clantons , listen to Brennan's character immediately after the gunfight when he surrenders to Earp . He calls out for each of his sons by name , including Billy who was killed earlier in the story . I'm in the minority here , but " My Darling Clementine " doesn't quite do it for me , especially when the DVD sleeve heralds it as John Ford's ' Greatest Western ' . Maybe John Ford's greatest Western without John Wayne , but I won't go farther than that . In fact , having seen hundreds of Western films , I only became aware of this one a very short time ago , so figure that . It's been some time since I've seen other movies about the Earp Brothers and the famous gunfight , so I'll have to defer on comparisons , though " Tombstone " is probably my favorite . There certainly are enough of them , and for added perspective , don't forget Hugh O'Brien's take on the event in one of the final episodes of the the classic TV Western , " The Life and Legend of Wyatt Earp " .
" You're kinda quick on the Trigger , son . "	" My Pal Trigger " is a showcase for " The Smartest Horse in the Movies " as Roy Rogers ' horse was frequently billed . If any fault is to be found with the film , it's probably that there are too many stories going on ; there are enough subplots to support another two or three movies . Central to the movie though , is Roy Rogers ' attempt to find a suitable mare to breed with his own horse named Lady . Finding such a horse owned by the Kendrick's ( Gabby Hayes as Gabby Kendrick , and Dale Evans as daughter Susan ) , Roy's request is denied as Gabby has no use for an animal other than those he has raised himself . The Golden Sovereign is part of the Kendrick stable , and is also the target of businessman Brett Scoville ( Jack Holt ) . As Gabby falls deeper into debt at Scoville's gambling club , both Sovereign and the Kendrick ranch are at risk of falling into the villain's hands . Trigger arrives on the scene as the foal of Golden Sovereign and Lady , who managed to get together for a moonlight tryst shortly after the Sovereign is kidnapped by Scoville's henchmen . Framing Roy for the theft , and again implicating him for the death of Sovereign , Roy goes into self imposed exile . With a map of the Western States superimposed on the screen , we're led to believe that Roy has wandered far and wide , only to return to familiar locales for the birth of Trigger . Offering him to the Kendricks ' as a replacement for Golden Sovereign , Rogers is finally taken into custody for the earlier events . Scoville now seeing an opportunity , secretly buys Trigger at auction when he becomes collateral for Roy's bail . In a stealthy maneuver , Scoville hires Roy to train Trigger , and challenges Gabby to a showdown race where it's winner take all - Gabby's gambling debt against his ranch . However , when Scoville trips up and places himself at the scene of Golden Sovereign's shooting , Roy has all the ammunition he needs to bring down the villain . In a climactic race at the State Fair , Roy aboard Trigger helps Miss Susan break free of Scoville's race entries ; Susan's horse wins the race and Gabby's score is almost settled . It's not until the celebration dinner that the Sheriff arrives to arrest Scoville for the shooting of Golden Sovereign three years earlier . I've read where Roy Rogers considered " My Pal Trigger " as his favorite film . For trivia fans as well as Roy Rogers fans , it's interesting to note that Trigger's real name was Golden Cloud , and made his first movie appearance as Lady Marian's mount in Errol Flynn's 1938 film " The Adventures of Robin Hood " . Roy bought him soon after and the rest is Western film history .
" There's no one more stubborn in the defense of morality than a reformed sinner . "	The opening music sounds like it could be from a jungle flick , though a title card calls attention to Old West parallels for fish pirates on the Alaskan frontier in the early 1900's . Prior to finding this film in a second hand shop , I had never heard of it , and to maintain the suspense , I didn't read the video sleeve , hoping that the combination of Fonda , Raft and Lamour would deliver . It's not too bad , set as it is in an unlikely venue of Arctic glaciers and salmon spawning grounds , with the Western parallel of good guys against bad guys only lacking the obligatory black hats . Henry Fonda and George Raft seem an unlikely duo to co-star , and each is acceptable in their respective assignments . Fonda's role as Jim Kimmerlee is a little more fleshed out and philosophical than Raft's Tyler Dawson . There's an interesting scene where Jim responds to Dian's ( Louise Platt ) lament over what she sees as naive for the native Indians to perform ceremonial prayer for a successful fish harvest . Jim points out that it's no more hypocritical than praying for rain when a farmer plants his wheat . I thought that was great . True to their respective natures , Jim's boat is ' Old Reliable ' , while Tyler Dawson's ( Raft ) is ' Who Cares ' , enough said subliminally to hint at what's going to happen . Interestingly , the ' pirates ' of the film are cast as Russian thugs who raid the legal fishing nets , led by a seaman appropriately named ' Red ' ( Akim Tamiroff ) . When Dawson throws in with Red , it sets up a dramatic confrontation between Jim and Tyler that leads to Dawson's redemptive moment in the film's climax . Along the way , Dorothy Lamour and Louise Platt stand by their men , Dawson and Kimmerlee respectively , right or wrong . It's a different role for Lamour if you're used to her ' Road ' pictures with Hope and Crosby . Platt has the kind of looks that will have you wondering where you've seen her before , but you probably haven't . She appeared in only a handful of films between 1939 and 1942 , but one of them was John Ford's acclaimed Western epic " Stagecoach " . True to his Western film roots , director Henry Hathaway called on a few veterans of the genre for supporting roles here . Fans will recognize Stanley Andrews , Duncan Renaldo and Fuzzy Knight , even though fishing boats replace stagecoaches . " Spawn of the North " was recognized with an Oscar for Paramount's creation of special photographic and sound effects for the picture . The Academy might have also come up with something for the film's uncredited scene stealer , Slicker the sea lion . Every scene with Slicker was something special , the best being his team up with Fonda to put one over on Louise Platt's character , that was simply great !
" He's not a lad brother , he's a man . "	Midway through the film Mrs . Bailey confronts Harrison ( Kirk Douglas ) with the story of his wife , in love with two men and deciding to marry the first one to make his fortune . Harrison staked it all on gamble and won . His brother Spur - " He went looking for gold " . Each character in their own way finds gold in " The Man From Snowy River " . For Jim Craig ( Tim Burlinson ) it's the pursuit of manhood and finding the confidence in himself to challenge an autocratic father . For Jessica ( Sigrid Thornton ) it's found in an ideal of being true to one's self against daunting odds . For mountain man Spur ( Douglas in a dual role ) , it's a reuniting with family and a chance to mean something to someone else . Even Harrison finds his own gold , though it will take him some time after the movie's over to realize it . Filmed against a backdrop of a stunning Australian wilderness , the movie introduces new language to this fan of the Western genre . Until now I had never heard of a brumby ( a wild horse ) , and found it interesting that they travel in mobs , rather than herds . The adventurous spirit in me was rather intrigued by the mention of wallaby stew , one of Spur's featured menu items . In a comedic moment though , he mentions to the Harrison cook his fondness for plump breast and tenderloin . It struck me that the film has a uniquely timeless appeal . Filmed in 1982 , it doesn't feel dated and looks like it could have been made today even though the story itself takes place in 1888 . Perhaps that's one of the hallmarks of a good film , a story that transcends it's chronological setting to carry on it's appeal for future viewers . There's only one troublesome thing though , and for a family film , it bothered me that more men joined Harrison to look for his runaway colt than for his missing daughter . Sadly , value placed on things often had more importance than value placed on people , even in the 1800's .
" The man who gives victory in battle is prized over every other man . "	With it's epic sweep and stunning visuals , " Lawrence of Arabia " has earned it's position among the greatest films of all time . That's a subjective fact I can live with , but at the risk of offending some of the more eloquent supporters on this site , there wasn't a lot that I could warm up to in this movie . More than once I wound up saying to myself ' I get it already ' after repeated close ups of the baking desert sun and the limitless expanse of sand . Nor was I inspired to empathize with Lawrence's cause to unite the Bedouin tribes . One might contend that the story is far enough removed from modern history both chronologically and geographically to be of interest , but I would point to two films of the 1930's that took a similar tack and worked for me a whole lot better - 1935's " The Lives of a Bengal Lancer " and 1939's " Gunga Din " , both taking place on the Indian sub continent . Nor would I characterize the performances of the individual leads as less than significant . Peter O'Toole's portrayal of T . E . Lawrence is singularly noteworthy in capturing the essence of the man , while Alec Guiness , Omar Sharif and Anthony Quinn are all credible . Still , I had difficulty in relating to these characters , who seemed neither likable nor meaningful beyond their relationship to their tribes . What was essentially a defining moment in the story , the defeat of the Turks at Aqaba , seemed to be glossed over entirely as if the enemy simply rolled over and gave up . Perhaps the thing to do would be to give the film another chance , but at an investment of nearly four hours , I don't feel that's going to be a priority . I've considered the argument some have offered as to viewing the film on the big screen for it's maximum impact , but that opportunity doesn't seem likely . I'd like to keep an open mind about it , but for now , I'll have to remain a member of the minority on this film .
" A kill and carry partner . . . , you kill ' em , I carry ' em . "	In the opening scene , the eye patch wearing desperado named Hawkeye has a smooth forehead , but when he follows Johnny into the pueblo , he's shown with a scar over his patched eye . That's just one of the many continuity lapses in this edgy ' spaghetti ' Western , but rather than detract from the picture , it adds a special flavor to the proceedings . Another occurs when Sanchez turns in his three dead bodies , they have to be examined for their identities - " You just can't imagine how many false cadavers we have in our town " . Immediately after , Carradine ( Lawrence Dobkin ) shows up to collect his bounty with no more than a wanted poster in hand . As for the film's principal Johnny Yuma ( Mark Damon ) , he's shown with his holster alternately on his right and left hip throughout the movie after exchanging gun belts with Carradine following the barroom brawl . Johnny's bound for San Margo at his uncle's request , but will have to avenge his death at the hands of deceitful wife Samantha ( Rosalba Neri ) and her conniving brother Pedro ( Louis Vanner ) . It takes some time getting there , but it's a fun ride with one of the best music scores on record . As for that saloon fight , I got a kick out of the kung fu sound effects every time a punch connected . Care for some more story exaggerations ? Following the duel with Pedro the first time , Johnny wipes a small amount of blood from his lip which he manages to smear Pedro's entire face with . Similarly , when Pedro smacks around little Pepe later in the film he doesn't cut him , but by the time Johnny arrives , Pepe's face is covered with blood . " Johnny Yuma " is probably one of the best of the genre that doesn't have Clint Eastwood in it . As Johnny , Mark Damon is a reasonably suitable stand in but without the seething exterior . Carradine seemed to be a replacement for the obligatory Lee Van Cleef character , without being a total bad guy . At first the identity exchange between Carradine and Johnny didn't seem to make sense , but it all tied together by the time the film ended . You knew each henchman would wind up getting his due ; marking time for each was part of the anticipation . In case you're wondering , the title hero has nothing to do with the Nick Adams character from the classic TV Western " The Rebel " . In this film , Johnny got his name from a gunfight he had in Yuma once . Perhaps the most unique element of the story had to do with the way it tied things up with the evil Samantha who pulled the strings behind the scenes throughout . After shooting Carradine she beats a hasty retreat before Johnny can get his revenge . Still alive , it looks like Carradine tries to shoot her and misses , but it doesn't take long for Johnny and Sanchez to track her into the dessert where she perished without water - Carradine aimed for her canteen .
" I don't like any Indians , I like half breeds less . "	John Payne's character spouts all the native Indian racist and anti-feminist diatribes he can muster in this wild west actioner taking place on a pack train to Santa Fe . Kirby Randolph ( Payne ) and his partner Sam ( Slim Pickens ) look to redeem themselves from a prior scouting job that ended in disaster for settlers on a wagon train passing through Cottonwood Draw . This might be the first time I've seen an Indian tribe actually get drunk on screen , as Randloph's attempt to placate Chief Satank ( George Keymas ) only gets him fired up for revenge . Credit the film makers with a significant historically accurate scene in which the main street of a Western town consists of about six inches of mud . You get to hear Payne in his role as the wagon scout refer to men required for point , swing , and drag duty . The film also has a great action scene involving a horse stampede that threatens the Griswold party , full of colorful sequences and quite well done . At the center of the story lies a romantic triangle involving Randolph , his boss Griswold ( Rod Cameron ) and Griwswold's partner and expected future wife Aurelie St . Clair ( Faith Domergue ) . The revelation of St . Clair's heritage as daughter of a Kiowa mother brings out a few more Injun clichés before the story's progress brings Randolph full circle in his thinking about accepting individuals on their own merits . By the time the Kiowa's make their final attack , Randolph can say " I won't have a squaw who won't take orders " with a nod , nod , wink , wink , and have St . Clair accept it with an understanding smile . The one thing that kept distracting me though was the casting of Irene Tedrow as St . Clair's aide Ptewaquin . I never quite caught on that she would figure in one of the story's twist endings , probably because I kept trying to figure out where I'd seen her before . Checking out her career credits , now I know . Best line of the picture - Satank describes the Mexican Chavez ( Anthony Caruso ) , ally of Griswold - " Don't like him , stink too much , like dead buffalo . " It conjures up as colorful a picture as the traitor McLawery ( Leo Gordon ) winding up as buzzard bait .
" You only learned to count to seven so you could keep track of us . "	Here's another of those ' Million Dollar Movies ' that I would watch when it was shown every night for a week back when I was a kid growing up in the Fifties . Of course then , the only way to see it was in black and white , so to catch it in color today for the first time was a nice treat . For a kid , I guess you could say that the stars of the picture were the seven Foy siblings , but of course it was Bob Hope who brought the picture to life as talented song and dance man Eddie Foy . It's quite a unique story , at times heartbreaking and sentimental , but rising to the occasion with family warmth and solidarity when the situation requires it . The family act notwithstanding , one of the standout scenes features that old Yankee Doodle Dandy himself , Jimmy Cagney , reprising his 1942 movie role as George M . Cohan The setting is the legendary Friars Club Outstanding Father of the Year Award for which Foy Sr . is being honored . Cagney and Hope lay it on very nicely in a well choreographed routine , and I was actually quite surprised to see Hope's performance as a hoofer . I don't recall ever seeing him go at it so effectively in any of his TV specials or overseas tours . It helps one appreciate just how talented the man really was . It was a tragedy of course that mother Madeleine Foy passed away so young , and one wonders how history might have been entirely different had that event not provided the catalyst for Eddie to take his kids in as part of the act . For one , this movie might never have been made , as Eddie always considered himself a solo act . In which instance , a parental hearing on his fitness as a father might have gone an entirely different way . Interesting how life works out sometimes . You can pick this film up as part of a nicely packaged five DVD , ten movie ' Hollywood Legends ' collection . This one in particular features Bob Hope in a nice assortment of films spanning his career , including a couple of the ' Road ' pictures . The latter have been remastered , and along with " The Seven Little Foys " , have exceptional viewing quality . The color films especially , are particularly crisp and bright .
" I just like to know who's making friends with my friends . "	Bogey himself called it a mess , but it's a delightful mess that doesn't spoil things by making it's characters go for outright comedy . The humor is in the cleverly written and subtly delivered lines , often catching up with you in the next scene and suggesting you hit the rewind button . The Alpha Video DVD I picked up probably offers a better copy than many reviewers in this forum have mentioned , I found it to be acceptable enough though slightly washed out . Bogart's character is Billy Dannreuther ( uniquely pronounced like the famed newscaster's name ) , married to Gina Lollobrigida , and in cahoots with an international band of swindlers . They must be up to no good according to Gwendolen Chelm ( Jennifer Jones ) , because after all , they don't even look at her legs . Gwen's husband Harry ( Edward Underdown ) fancies himself an upper crust Brit , who plays at it effectively enough to con the main hoods into thinking he's a member of landed gentry , instead of someone who's just landed . The crooks are a colorful lot , led by Robert Morley in what would have been the Sydney Greenstreet role if this were a class reunion . A dozen years since " The Maltese Falcon " seems to have filled out Peter Lorre's frame to ample proportions , while the rest of the evil quartet is rounded out by Ivor Barnard as The Galloping Major Ross , and Marco Tulli's Ravello . Each seem to have their own unique charm , except Ross , who relies on his swagger dagger a bit too much . While playing at international intrigue , the Dannreuther's and Chelm's also play at a little spouse swapping . You never completely figure out if Mrs . Chelm is off her rocker or not , but she describes herself best with - " I'm something of a witch , my old Spanish nurse said I could have been professional " . That's why the film's payoff with the bad guys led off in chains seems a bit forced , Gwendolen's soliloquy on her husband's disappearance sounds like the ramblings of a nut case . For reasons unknown , Bogey's character gets away with it , but what IT is , I don't know . " Beat the Devil " may be one of Bogart's quirkier films , but by no means his weirdest . On that score , I would point to " Swing Your Lady " and " The Return of Dr . X " , a bit hard to find since they're not commercially available . This one is at the far other extreme , a public domain film that can be found anywhere and everywhere , and worth the trouble of rounding up for it's offbeat cast and story .
" There's a point where you either grow up and become a human being or you rot , like that bunch . "	Once you've established " High Noon " as one of your favorite movie Westerns , it's a bit difficult to expect Gary Cooper to match performances against his portrayal of Marshal Will Kane . " Man Of The West " came only six years after " High Noon " , but Cooper seems much older , and his actions seem indecisive in the early going , something that frustrated me to some extent . As in the cabin , when Coaley ( Jack Lord ) taunted Billie Ellis ( Julie London ) to strip down in front of the Tobin gang ; I was straining for Link ( Cooper ) to make a stand . Maybe he would have if the ploy with Dock hadn't worked . Certainly , Link had his say with Coaley later on in that great brawl where the tables were reversed and Coaley was challenged to say how it feels to be degraded . It was a redemptive moment that set up the carnage to follow . As for rest of the Tobin gang , they were a pretty nasty bunch , led perhaps by the meanest hombre of all , old Dock Tobin as portrayed by Lee J . Cobb . The rest of the Tobin's were pretty well cast , with Royal Dano doing another nice job again as the somewhat off center Trout . He kept you guessing as to whether he couldn't speak , or just wouldn't speak , until the confrontation at Lassoo , and even then it's hard to draw a conclusion . But John Dehner I think , might have given the best performance I've ever seen him in . Usually , as a character actor , he's called upon to perform a cardboard cut out villain , but here he really presented a serious obstacle to the film's hero , as well as a challenge to the authority of the Tobin patriarch . He seemed a bit larger than life in his role , something I can't say about a lot of his other work . Something curious , you would think with Julie London's successful singing career and her casting here as the saloon girl with the golden voice , that she would actually get to sing a song ! I wonder why no one thought of that . The other thing I took note of was the price of a train ticket from Crosscut to Fort Worth , coming in at $8 . 35 . I have no idea of the distance involved , but that seemed a little steep for the late 1800's . Maybe that was for first class . Anyway , a fairly standard Western with the expected outcome , even if the finale seemed a bit forced , with a dead man rolling all the way down a side of a steep incline instead of just dropping in his tracks . Thinking about it though , the way Cobb played his character , the skunk probably would have given it all the gusto he possibly could have in a death scene . For Dock Tobin , it was like he stated earlier in the picture - " Just like a family of old sinners moving on ? "
" The Masked Man has brought justice to our land again ! "	The Lone Ranger was one of my childhood heroes , and I never missed a chance to catch his adventures on Saturday morning re-runs during the mid 1950's . Somehow however , this film got by me until I had a chance to catch it today courtesy of my local library . I was struck by a number of elements during the story , as right from the start , you have a new Lone Ranger theme song before you hear the traditional opening used on the TV show . The adventure uses Tonto ( Jay Silverheels ) in a nicely expanded role , even though he takes his share of lumps throughout , getting beat up and shot more than once . Perhaps most interesting of all , the Ranger actually shoots to kill in a couple of situations , putting his character at odds with the vision created for the TV series that he would never use his weapon to kill , only to wound or to protect himself and others . Aside from that , you have a fairly traditional Western adventure . The Ranger and Tonto come to the aid of an Indian tribe whose members are being murdered by hooded raiders attempting to track down five medallions that together , form the key to a fabulous treasure . Interestingly , the leader of the bad guys is an already wealthy woman , disarmingly portrayed by Noreen Nash . Her top henchman is played by Douglas Kennedy , and it was no surprise to see Lane Bradford as one of the baddies . Bradford's character was one of the men shot by the Lone Ranger , which got me to thinking how many times that might have happened in the TV series . A quick check revealed that he appeared in ' The Lone Ranger ' show fifteen times , while Kennedy appeared a total of six times . What might be most interesting of all about the picture is it's attempt to portray Indians in a revisionist light at a time when TV and movie Westerns were still largely portraying the red man as an illiterate savage . The character of Dr . James Rolfe ( Norman Fredric ) is the most revealing in that regard ; he's an Indian who attained an education and went on to become a doctor , returning to the land of his tribe to tend to the needs of all it's citizens . For purposes of the story , he had to impersonate a white man to be accepted by the local ranchers . This was the hardest thing for me to accept about the story line actually , as Dr . Rolfe was the grandson of the elderly Chief Tomache ( John Miljan ) . That no one in the story except Paviva ( Lisa Montell ) knew that he was really an Indian was something of a stretch for me . I suppose it was possible that he left the tribe at an early age , but without that back story fleshed out , it didn't make sense to me that no one else from the tribe would know who he was . I don't know why I'm intrigued by this so much , but after watching and reviewing over two hundred Westerns on this site , I've suddenly come across three films in the past month that utilize a blanket pull gimmick like the one performed by Tonto's horse Scout in this picture . Roy Rogers ' Trigger did a similar stunt in 1952's " Son of Paleface " , and I caught it again in 1958's " The Big Country " by a horse named Old Thunder in that flick . It's done as a bit of comic relief in a situation that wouldn't normally come up for a horse , and it now makes me curious when the bit might have been first done . I'll have to keep watching more old time Westerns . Not to be outdone , Silver had a chance to shine in the picture as well , making the save of an Indian baby that was about to be used as a hostage by bad guy Brady . Speaking of gimmicks , Clayton Moore borrowed a tactic from the TV series when he donned a disguise as a Southern gentleman to smoke out the villains posing as the hooded raiders . Whenever he would do so in the half hour format , it was always clever enough to hide his real features , usually with a beard as done here . One of the more interesting episodes I recall had to do with the Ranger impersonating an actor in the guise of Abraham Lincoln . Keep an eye out for a couple of goofs I spotted along the way . In an early scene at the opening , an Indian is shot by one of the hooded raiders , and in a close up , there's blood on his shirt but no bullet hole . Later on in the story , Ross Brady and Wilson ride up on the Indians after they've kidnapped one of the villains out of jail . Brady shoots him from a standing position to prevent him from identifying the raiders , but is immediately shown about to make his getaway on horseback with Wilson .
" He who filters your good name steals trash . "	I'm always learning something new when I research a film on the IMDb , like how this Laurel and Hardy short was a sequel of sorts to " Them Thar Hills " . So now I'll have to search that one out to round out the experience . When I watch anything with Stan and Ollie in it today , I have to marvel at just what a pair of comic geniuses they were . As a kid , I always preferred Abbott and Costello , but I realize now that that with A & C , they did funny things , but Laurel and Hardy did things funny . As an example , just check out the timing involved whenever they leave Hall's grocery store and eat one of his cookies . They start out very simply and wind up after three or four tries in an increasingly complex choreography that's just brilliant to watch . There's also the misdirection with the pilfering customer in Stan and Ollie's electrical supply store , who starts out on foot and winds up hauling the entire store away in a moving van . With the boys none the wiser , they carry on their feud with Hall in an escalating series of comic encounters . And how about Ollie getting away with that line to Hall's wife coming down the stairs from the bedroom - " I've never been in a position like that before " . I would never have picked up on that double entendre as a kid , but boy oh boy , it was right out there in plain sight for the alert viewer to pick up on and and go ' huh ? ' . In any event , just about any Laurel and Hardy short offers as much entertainment as anyone else's full length feature , so taking in three or four at a time can only quadruple your fun . And by the way , why is it you never hear about alum any more ?
" What we want is more humane killers . "	I'm sure I missed a lot of the nuance of this film because of the language barrier - it was in English , without subtitles . I picked it up in a dollar bargain bin almost a year ago because John Lennon's picture was on the video sleeve . Though others on this board state that he stole the show , I came away with the impression that his supporting role was more in the way of capitalizing on his Beatles celebrity . Yet his death scene turns out to be unusually prophetic and surreal , and one of the ironic twists of the story . I don't know anything about the other principals involved in the movie , including director Richard Lester . However there's no denying that the absurdity of war theme comes through in virtually every scene . I would liked to have been ' in ' on more of the Brit humor involved , and perhaps a second viewing might help fill in some of the blanks . I'd like to thank poster ' Phlicker ' for explaining the symbolism of the pastel soldiers who kept popping up , even though it should have been readily apparent . I guess even the British visuals are difficult to understand . You know what really blew me away though ? Doing the math on the film's release , it's forty years old this year ! FORTY YEARS ! For me , that might be the most surreal aspect of the picture , having grown up as a teenager with the Beatles and John Lennon . Just as surreal is the fact that Lennon was shot to death almost twenty seven years ago as I write this . The insanity and absurdity of war and death continues every day , and humanity learns nothing from it .
" I'm telling you , that was a mighty wallop . "	I'm not much of a major league baseball fan , due in part to the nonsensical gobs of money thrown at professional athletes today , but I don't think you have to be a sports fan to appreciate the tale of Lou Gehrig - " The Pride of the Yankees " . Gehrig's story took place at a time when guys would play ball just for the love of the game , and sign autographs without charging their fans for the privilege . Can you imagine that ? The movie is helped immensely by the decidedly low key portrayal of the baseball legend by Gary Cooper , who a year earlier provided a similar effort in an Oscar winning Best Actor bid as the title character in " Sergeant York " . I had to wonder to myself what type of person Gehrig might have been playing for the Yankees today , or if he would even get that far without an ego larger than the entire team . It's probably better that we'll never know . I got a kick out of a couple of scenes in the picture that really didn't even have much to do with Gehrig himself . I thought it was pretty cool to see Babe Ruth's rookie cigarette card when he was playing for the Boston Red Sox , although I doubt that it was the real deal . The other scene had to do with the cost of the doctor's house call for the sick Mrs . Gehrig , Lou's mom ( Elsa Janssen ) - two dollars ! ! ! Where can I get a plan like that ? You know , I'd seen " To Kill A Mockingbird " almost a half dozen times , and always wondered what exactly was a chifforobe , and that film came out twenty years later . Not only does this picture answer my question , but it provides a visual aid as well , ( along with the correct spelling if you have sub-titles on ! ) . Got to love these old movies ! The thing that had me scratching my head though was the poetic license taken with expanding on the Babe's legend of calling his famous World Series shot . That was one of the first things I researched after I finished watching the picture , and sure enough , Gehrig's promise was simply made up for the picture . Taken in stride though , it was kind of neat to see the happiness on little Billy's face to have his heroes come through . Getting back to the Babe , I really studied his expression during the movie's climactic ' luckiest man ' speech . I was looking for any tell tale expression that might have betrayed his feelings for having already gone through the ordeal once for real . If there was any , the Babe kept them completely to himself , I don't know how he did it , because I don't think you can get through that scene with a dry eye . And even though my viewing of the film today was the first time I've seen it , my best friend , who's a HUGE Lou Gehrig fan , says that he's choked every time he's watched the picture - at least thirty times ! One closing note - it was really interesting to see Walter Brennan in a role that didn't rely on his trademark limp and hayseed speech pattern . In fact , even though I saw his name in the opening credits , it didn't click with me that it was Brennan portraying sports reporter Sam Blake until well into the picture . Brennan's character had it right after all , in his analysis of why Lou Gehrig would wind up such a huge fan favorite . In response to rival reporter Hank Hanneman's ( Dan Duryea ) remark that Gehrig was merely a boob , Blake's retort - ' he's a boob with a batting eye ' , and that's why fifty million people will watch him . And they did .
" I've never been anybody's best time before . "	If I'm cruising the cable channels and this film is playing it's usually a given that I'll pick it up midstream and stay for the rest of the ride . " Romancing The Stone " has just the right mix of action , adventure and comedy to make it one of the most watchable and entertaining films ever . The first real hook in the film occurs with that downhill mud slide , just brilliant ! I'd pay good money at any amusement park to take a ride just like that . At that point the relationship between romance novelist Joan Wilder ( Kathleen Turner ) and bird trapper Jack Colton ( Michael Douglas ) is just getting under way , and the early going is ripe with great one liners fired off by Colton - " That's not a bridge , it's pre-Colombian art " . That's not to say Danny DeVito doesn't get his share of sight and sound gags in as well . His character is an inept henchman loosely modeled on the Louie De Palma persona in " Taxi " . He plays off cousin Ira ( Zack Norman ) who has an affinity for alligators which he calls ' snappers ' . The surprise performance for me though is the one put in by Kathleen Turner . All of her scenes , from the ransacked New York apartment to the Colombian vine swing , the wrecked plane pot fest and the Cartagena dance with Colton , each is played with just the right emotion and facial nuance that shows a great range of expression . The frosting on the cake is when Colton shows up in New York wearing the alligator boots . I think that makes an even bigger impression than the yacht when one considers how he got them ; that was just the right touch to cap the film . With a rather large voting fan base for the movie on this site , I'm surprised it only comes in at a 6 . 8 as of the time of this posting . No matter , if you like the film , the rating isn't that important . It's a fun ride with principals Douglas , Turner and DeVito that doesn't wear out it's welcome with repeat viewings .
" You think when you put clothes on an ape you can make him a dancing partner . "	Say how cool was it to see Muhammad Ali , still known as Cassius Clay , in a full blown close up knocking out Mountain Rivera ( Anthony Quinn ) in the opening fight sequence ? Could the film makers have been any more prophetic about the future of ' The Greatest ' only a couple years before Clay became World Champ for real ? That was one of the unexpected treats of the movie for me . The better treat of course was the haunting story of the washed up boxer and the two men closest to him for the past seventeen years , trainer Army ( Mickey Rooney ) and manager Maish Rennick ( Jackie Gleason ) . It's a pathetically sad one when you get right down to it , exemplified by Maish's betting against his boy for a better payday than the one his fighter will have . It gives further tarnish to the sport's reputation captured by a statement Maish makes to Army - " If there was headroom , they'd hold these things in sewers " . That's about where Maish climbs up out of following Mountain's loss to Clay , determined to keep him working as a pro wrestler after the doc nixes his future in the boxing ring . Even though I was impressed with Anthony Quinn's performance , I thought he made himself out to be too much of a lummox for my taste . It made the scenes with Julie Harris ' character somewhat unbelievable as the pair bordered on a hapless romance of sorts . I suppose it was necessary to capitalize on pulling off the blind loyalty to his manager , even after Mountain realizes he's been made a patsy . I have to give credit to Quinn for coming up with that Don Corleone-ish speech pattern years before Brando made it such a huge hit . As for his looks , the mangled up Quinn looked to be a cross between Charles Laughton's Quasimodo and real pro wrestler Tor Johnson as the Swedish Angel . It was about the time of the movie , 1963 actually , that I became a wrestling fan as most teenagers do . Bruno Sammartino had just become world champion and Haystacks Calhoun was practically a household name . I tried spotting familiar wrestling faces in the movie , but could only come up with a couple of the midgets - Sky Low Low and Fuzzy Cupid . It was neat though seeing Jack Dempsey in a quick cameo as the former champ . You know , just when you think Rod Serling's screenplay has hit the lowest possible depths for the characters of Maish and Rivera , it's a jolt to see Mountain enter the ring at the finale as the Big Chief . You're almost ready to cheer for the fighter thinking he's determined to maintain some dignity in a new profession . Then he goes into the war dance and Indian whoop , and it's like a sock to the gut , a low blow that leaves the viewer scrambling to make some sense out of a blind loyalty that plumbs the depths of despair .
" . . . the Lord's bounty may not be for sale , but the devil's is , if you can pay the price . "	What a cool name for a Western , it conjures up an image of gallant men rising above mediocrity and standing for justice and order in a lawless land . You actually get a sense of that with the magnificent sweep of the picture's cinematography through rugged patches of mountain and timber rimmed lakes . It's further defined by the unwavering character of Steve Judd , nicely portrayed by Joel McCrea in one of his last starring roles . It was a bit disconcerting to see Randolph Scott in a somewhat villainous role here , though necessary for the way the story eventually plays itself out . Watching these two old lions provides just an added dimension to the film's understated theme of the passing of the Old West , a treatment director Sam Peckinpah flavored a lot of his Westerns with . My favorite scene was where McCrea's character confronts Westrum ( Scott ) and his partner Heck ( Ron Starr ) , delivering that impressive speech on knowing the difference between right and wrong . Seems like Westrum might have had it in him all along , as hinted at in the scene where he convinces Judge Tolliver ( Edgar Buchanan ) that the wedding ceremony was invalid . I think I would have been disappointed if Randolph Scott hadn't come through the picture as a hero . The surprise of the movie for me was catching Mariette Hartley in her very first role ever . She was actually quite convincing as the put upon newlywed trying to avoid the advances of her husband's band of leering brothers . It's hard to imagine that a family would consider taking the kind of liberties they expected as their right , and even more frightful that the husband would consider it OK . I'm still shaking my head over that one . ' High Country ' is the kind of ride into the sunset that seems fitting for it's two stars , who I've enjoyed in a host of films spanning their careers . Particularly Scott , who singularly captures the rugged individualism of the Old West both in appearance and his manner . It's a film I'd recommend for all Western fans .
" . . . only just seems to me there aren't many towns like this in America , but one town like it is enough . "	It's a little over an hour into the film before the viewer has a pretty good idea of what's going on , and it wraps up in a total of eighty one minutes ! I'm going to have to file this one under best films I'd never heard of , although by the looks of things on this board , maybe it's just me . On first viewing , the story is bound to keep you wondering what the mystery of Black Rock is all about , as protagonist John J . Macreedy ( Spencer Tracy ) tiptoes his way through all the obstacles Reno Smith ( Robert Ryan ) and his henchmen throw his way . The film boasts an unusually strong cast , particularly with Ernest Borgnine and Lee Marvin in the credits . Interestingly , they along with Ryan would team up more than a dozen years later in " The Great Escape " . As heavies in this film , they attempt to intimidate Tracy's character into some semblance of submission , and fail miserably . You knew it was only a matter of time before the one armed Tracy would stand to defend himself , the only question mark would be how and when . I've seen Walter Brennan recently in some uncharacteristic roles ( " My Darling Clementine " for example ) , but here he plays closer to type as someone who can rise to the occasion with the right push . He doesn't start out that way though , as he admonishes Tracy's character with a warning - " They're gonna kill you with no hard feelins ' " . If there's any fault to be found with the story it would be the way it ends once the final confrontation between Macreedy and Reno Smith ends . Coley ( Borgnine ) and Hector ( Marvin ) are next seen in jail courtesy of turn good sheriff Tim ( Dean Jagger ) , but their incarceration is dealt with off screen , hardly the way most films would have handled it . Mostly , the movie keeps the viewer hooked with it's mysterious set up , aided by the inclusion of the name ' Komoko ' , which is later revealed to be instrumental in the town's deep , dark secret . I enjoyed it , as the Eastman Color format managed to add a modern sensibility to what might otherwise have been an out of place 1950's Western . Rounding out the main cast is the only female presence in Black Rock , provided by Anne Francis . Come to think of it , the biggest mystery of Black Rock might be how it even managed to survive at all until Spencer Tracy got there .
" I ain't got to be what nobody else want me to be , and I ain't afraid to be what I want to be . . . "	My youth and young adulthood coincided with Muhammad Ali's rise to the Heavyweight Championship , and I followed his bouts whenever they were shown on TV . Thankfully it was a time before routine fifty dollar pay per view cable events . However even though Ali's name had become a household word , I didn't know a lot about his private life , or the deeply held convictions that retreated behind the front page headlines . " Ali " does a nice job of chronicling the roughly ten year span between his first title win and the defeat of George Foreman after being stripped of the championship . Those who tune in and expect boxing to take center stage might be disappointed ; many reviews on this forum express that . That might be missing the point of the film , as there are enough documentaries , interviews and fight films to pursue if that's what one is looking for . Director Michael Mann instead concentrates on Ali's Nation of Islam connection , his friendship with Malcolm X , the shattering of his ties with Elijah Muhammad , and ultimately the loss of the world title as a result of his refusal to be drafted . Besides presenting a sports hero , the film presents a human being showing the world that it's important to live by one's principles . I was intrigued by the almost symbiotic relationship revealed by the story between Ali and legendary sportscaster Howard Cosell ( Jon Voight in a take notice role ) . If you caught their famous verbal battles back in the day , you would swear they were mortal enemies , yet even though they seemed to enjoy taking shots at each other , the scene during the Wide World of Sports segment showed just how loyal Cosell was to the Champ . It was also interesting to watch Ali's defense of trainer Angelo Dundee ( Ron Silver ) during a pre fight briefing with promoter Don King ; it showed that Ali wasn't a big fan of King . The biggest surprise of the story for me - Joe Frazier agrees to defend the title against Ali as the two men meet privately , with not a manager , promoter or lawyer in sight . Just two men agreeing to get it done , with a lot at stake for both winner and loser . The most inspirational moment , aside from actually winning the championship , is the training run in Kinshasa , Zaire , as the locals turn out to celebrate a hero . One wonders what had to be going through Ali's mind as he witnessed that turnout , it appeared incredibly moving on film . Undoubtedly , this was Will Smith's career role , and he pulled it off convincingly . He managed to capture the essence of the boxer and the man , earning the real Muhammad Ali's respect in the process , and what could be better than that .
" Never , but never f . . . with the King ! "	It would be easy to dismiss " Bubba Ho-Tep " as a lewd and crude piece of sensationalistic movie making , especially if you don't get beyond the opening scene . But if you stay with it , it will challenge your perceptions of the King of Rock and Roll , as an aging Elvis Presley reflects on his life , with all it's woulda , coulda , shoulda's , and ultimately arrives at a redemptive moment when he dispatches the soul sucking demon terrorizing the Shady Rest Convalescence Home in Mud Creek , Texas . Elvis ' ( Bruce Campbell ) life is not portrayed as a what if scenario ; it takes a weird turn when he's characterized as Elvis impersonating an Elvis impersonator named Sebastian Haff . No one else at the home sees beyond his stage presentation , except his best friend , President Jack Kennedy ( Ossie Davis ) . Following the operation to save his life , Kennedy was dyed black to hide the truth , forced to live out his days with a bag of sand in place of the destroyed part of his brain . The film prompted this viewer to consider how a reflective Elvis nearing seventy might have felt about his life , and what changes he might have made . He verbalizes some of them , firing Colonel Tom Parker was a no brainer , and not making all those " sh . . . y " films was another . Elvis longs for the one good woman in his life that he married , and mourns leaving a young daughter behind . Interestingly , Lisa Marie is never mentioned by name , as if to further heighten Elvis ' sense of alienation from the child he never really knew . In a strange alliance , Elvis and the President believe in each other , and correctly theorize the threat to the nursing home . Surreally comic and utterly sad at the same time , Elvis prevails to destroy the Ho-Tep demon , even as he carries out his ghoulish mission on the President . All the Elvis clichés are present , the gaudy wardrobe , the karate training and the " Thank you very much " signature response , but they're surprisingly fresh in the twisted format offered here . They're complemented by unique touches such as " The Everyday Man or Woman's Book of the Soul " , which Elvis and Jack must consult to size up their other worldly foe . " Bubba Ho-Tep " is not for the faint of heart though . There are some rather crude anatomical references that will make you put down your popcorn . Get beyond those though , and you're in for a treat , punctuated by some genuine laugh out loud moments that you'll probably be embarrassed about later . Don't be too hard on yourself though , or on the film . This is one that comes around once in a great while that will challenge your pre-conceived notions along with your sanity . You'll remember it long after Elvis has left the building , thank you very much .
" He might catch on fire " .	Early in the picture , there's the greatest exchange between director Martin Scorsese and one of his engineers . Talking about the precautions needed with the stage lighting and how hot it might get : Scorsese - " You mean like flames ? " Engineer - " He ( referring to Mick Jagger ) might catch on fire " . Scorsese - " We can't do that " . I don't know what I got a bigger kick out of , that conversation , or the sight of Bill Clinton getting a hug from Keith Richards . You have to admit , that was pretty bizarre . Now don't take this the wrong way , I've been a Rolling Stones fan right from the get go , but seeing them up close and personal the way they appeared in this concert film , is about the closest you'll ever get to seeing a band of corpses performing live . Sort of on the order of the Crypt Keeper in ' Tales From The Crypt ' . Except for Charlie Watts maybe , he looks pretty much like a regular old man . And again , I'm not making fun , just taking liberty considering the fact that I'm not much younger than any of the Stones . But man , that Jagger has energy to spare , and he can pound it out with the best of them . Kind of makes you want to get up out of a comfortable sofa and kick out the jams along with the boys . Every rock number that Mick belts out is raw energy , and when you figure that in forty plus years of performing they must have played " Satisfaction " a few thousand times , it's a blast to hear it like it was fresh and new . I particularly liked the way they mixed their set with a take on a Motown favorite , " Just My Imagination " , along with a great bluesy presentation of " Champagne and Reefer " accompanied by the legendary Buddy Guy . It was also cool to hear Jagger reach way back to the early days for a stab at an acoustic version of " As Tears Go By " . I was taken aback somewhat the first time an interview clip from the Sixties popped into the picture ; hard to imagine that the Stones were ever that impossibly young . Responding to a question about the band's prospects after their first two years of touring , I think you'd have to score Mick's answer as the understatement of the rock era - " I think we're pretty well set up for at least another year " . And what keeps Keith Richards going ? - " My luck hasn't run out yet " . I've never seen The Stones live in concert , but " Shine A Light " is a pretty reasonable substitute . There's no shortage of old favorites and long time fans will know and appreciate every tune . Kind of makes you wish that each performance will set them up for at least another year .
" Shall I put some rum in the coffee , it's a nasty day . "	One would be hard pressed to point out a bigger con man in film than Cary Grant's character in " His Girl Friday " , but pitted as he is against Rosalind Russell , I'd say he's more than met his match . In fact , as a newspaper reporter , Hildy Johnson shows her own seamy side as she leads convicted killer Earl Williams ( John Qualen ) down a questionable path with her line of inquiry . That whole ' production for use ' business left me more than a little confused . For her part , Russell reminded me a little of Martha Raye from that frenzied scene when she was getting ready to take off on her honeymoon with Bob Hope in " Never Say Die ' . Here you've got Hildy all full of vim and vinegar ready to charge after that jail break story , with Williams ' life hanging in the balance . In the mean time , fiancée Bruce Baldwin ( Ralph Bellamy ) falls victim to all of Walter Burns ' ( Grant ) machinations , which you know he's done time and time again with other poor schleps . Can you imagine if Burns had ambition in law or politics - he would have easily eclipsed those two paragons of incompetence , Sheriff Hartwell ( Gene Lockhart ) and Mayor Fred ( Clarence Kolb ) . By the way , when did New York City ever have a sheriff ? If you're paying too much attention to the story , you might be put off by the whole ' colored cop killing ' that's making the ' Morning Post ' headlines in the story . Team that up with Molly Molloy's ( Helen Mack ) suicide leap and you have a queasy denouement that makes the story something of a downer . Kind of makes you wish the paper were covering something a little more upbeat . If you like the kind of energy the movie generates , it would probably be worthwhile to take in a second viewing for all the lines that whizzed by the first time around . In my case , I missed the ' Archie Leach ' reference . But give Columbia Pictures credit for allowing one of the funniest lines to remain in the picture . When Walter has small time hood Louie's moll tail Baldwin , she asks him what he looks like . The response - " He looks like , uh , that fella in the movies - you know , uh , Ralph Bellamy . " - Beautiful ! !
" My son is dead , I don't know who's son I'm raising . "	Mea culpa . I may be one of the few people on the planet who hasn't seen the original film , though that won't remain the case for long . Because the comparisons are inevitable , I'll have to make mine in reverse order , but for now I'll have to say that " The Omen " succeeds as a patently scary film , and decidedly superior to a lot of what passes for over the top in horror today . The part of Mrs . Baylock was a casting coup for the film , Mia Farrow handled it with such delicious intent . I would have gotten a bigger kick however if the name of Rosemary had come out of her resume . The hospital scene featured her in full malevolent glory , earning her the title of apostate from hell . I also found it intriguing the way she fed young Damien his dessert , sort of a strawberry communion ; did anyone else make that connection ? I generally don't fall for the jump scenes but this one had me going a few times . It helped that the attendant volume often approached blast level , thereby adding to the effect , but I would have liked to give it a try a little more subdued at times . Hey , did you think " The Shining " when little Damien made his appearance on the tricycle on the hard wood hallways ? It seems to me that Kate Thorn ( Julia Stiles ) could have found a safer way to water that plant . I caught a mini TV documentary on the casting of the movie and found it interesting that Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick literally beat out a field of a couple thousand to earn the Damien role . Down to the final two he nailed it in a screen test with that dourly menacing look throughout the story , capping it off with the smile to the viewer at the very end . But for my money , the most demonic look of all seemed to be the one on Liev Schreiber's face throughout the picture . One last note , a number of reviewers on this site mention Hurricane Katrina as one of the modern disasters shown as a precursor to the arrival of the anti-Christ . Sorry folks , that was the tsunami tidal wave that hit Sri Lanka .
" I don't want another murder in this case , and you were born to be murdered . . . "	Had I gone into the film cold , I would have thought it came from Hitchcock , employing elements from that director's bag of cinematic tricks . You've got the spiral staircase motif initially seen way back in 1929's " Blackmail " and later given more profound treatment in 1958's " Vertigo " . There's also the amusement park background that provided suspense in the latter part of " Strangers On A Train " . But the thing that really appealed to me was the insertion of a key Hitchcockian element suggested by the movie's title . The ' third man ' upon reflection seems to be one of the all time great maguffins of cinema history . In all actuality , there never really was a ' third man ' , unless one considers Harry Lime to be that character . For that though , he would have had to be at his own ' death ' as the unknown individual who helped two other men remove a hit and run victim from the middle of a road . Which upon reflection , makes the core premise of the story very confusing . Not that Harry Lime wouldn't have wanted to fake his own death , but why didn't anyone who attended his funeral realize that it wasn't Harry in the coffin ? The real victim wasn't in a very good position to hide his identity , so how did the appearance of Harry Lime's burial come to be accepted as fact ? And why was that body so easily identifiable upon exhumation as the medical orderly Joseph Harbin who worked for Harry in the illicit penicillin trade ? If you really think about these issues , most of the story seems to unravel regarding the main plot . Yet the story works on an entirely different level once you get beyond that particular point . Harry Lime winds up alive halfway through the picture , and spends the rest of his time trying to stay a step ahead of his friend Holly Martins ( Joseph Cotten ) , who's intent on solving the mystery behind Harry's ' death ' . What makes the film so intriguing is the deft camera work and the battered post-war setting of Vienna , Austria . The picture simply wouldn't work in color , it's the stark black and white cinematography that contributes to the harrowing cat and mouse game between Harry , Martins and the authorities . You really have to study Orson Welles ' performance in the picture to see just what a great actor he was . He doesn't have a lot of screen time here , but everything he does is memorable , right from that first haunting appearance under the street lamp . His conversation with Martins on the ferris wheel is perfectly nuanced and laced with palpable threat ; it's just a perfect scene . You have to go well beyond the subtlety of his outward demeanor to realize what a true low life his character actually is .
" My name's Cheyenne Bodie . "	When " Cheyenne " debuted on / 1955 , " The Lone Ranger " had already been running for six seasons and had two more to go . Warner Brothers , specifically Jack Warner , tapped Clint Walker to be it's first TV Western hero , and raised the bar a considerable notch over the series made famous by Clayton Moore ( and John Hart for one season ) . Walker was a no nonsense but laid back hero , almost droll by comparison with ' B ' movie Western stars that preceded him , and that almost certainly added to his fame and popularity as Cheyenne . The Season I DVD compilation includes all fifteen episodes of the series ' first season . Series guest star James Garner appeared in three of them , as many as L . Q . Jones , who portrayed Cheyenne's map making sidekick Smitty in three of the first four shows . Garner's character was different each time out . Other notable guests in the first season included Myron Healey , Dennis Hopper , Barton MacLane , and even a young Michael Landon in an uncredited appearance . One of the interesting things about that first season is that two of the episodes were direct lifts of movies starring Humphrey Bogart . ' The Argonauts ' ( # 1 . 3 ) swipes scenes and dialog from " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " in a similar story of greedy gold prospectors , but at least credits B . Traven as the author of the novel on which both were based . However ' Fury at Rio Hondo ' ( # 1 . 12 ) credits James Gunn with writing that story , but nowhere mentions Ernest Hemingway as the author of " To Have And Have Not " . Once again , the story's plot and characters parallel the Bogart film ; the Lauren Bacall role is handled by Peggie Castle , but she doesn't quite cut it as the sexy nineteen year old Bacall did in the original movie . For his part , Bodie was no Bogey . On that score , Clint Walker was competent as the laconic drifter Cheyenne Bodie , but like George Reeves in " The Adventures of Superman " TV series , he didn't have a lot to work with , and didn't rise much above the material , unless you consider his six and a half foot stature . Don't get me wrong , I like both Walker and " Cheyenne " and enjoy the shows , but if you consider the acting , the best you can say is that it was uneven . And the episodes , some were almost comical trying to be serious . Consider Episode # 1 . 11 , ' Quicksand ' , in which Cheyenne challenges a Comanche Chief in a battle to the death in a bed of muck . They start out standing upright , and slowly start to sink inch by inch until each proves the point that they would rather die than be proved a coward . Then , when the Comanche chief mounts his horse to ride away , he's no longer covered by mud ! As big as Walker was , it's interesting to see him cast opposite actors who came close to him in size ; Don Megowan comes to mind from Episode # 1 . 13 - ' Star in the Dust ' , as a sheriff who hires Cheyenne on as a deputy . That's one example , but it happened with some regularity . Kind of makes you wonder where all those big bad guys came from in the Old West . The Season I DVD set contains a nice ' Legacy of Cheyenne ' feature in which the seventy nine year old Walker talks about his early life and ' discovery ' by Van Johnson , who put him in touch with an agent . That contact eventually led to a role as a Sardinian Captain of the Guard in " The Ten Commandments " . Warner Brothers took an interest based on that role , and bought his contract from producer Hal Wallis with the Cheyenne role in mind . Originally , the show aired as part of an anthology series on the ABC network ; other posters on this board have done a nice job of outlining that history . My favorite show of the series - Episode # 7 . 1 , debuting the 1962 season , titled " The Durango Brothers " . Mama Hortense Durango ( Ellen Corby ) enlists her three renegade sons ( Jack Elam , Charlie Briggs , and Mickey Simpson ) to kidnap Cheyenne in order to marry him off to sister Lottie ( Sally Kellerman ! ! ! ) - it's hilarious ! Needless to say , Cheyenne finishes the show , the season and the series still single . " Cheyenne " began a great Western tradition at ABC , to be followed not only by that network , but CBS and NBC as well . Not many though , could ride as tall in the saddle as the original , and Clint Walker can rest easy knowing that there aren't many TV heroes that are admired as much as Cheyenne Bodie .
" Then we will have a fight . "	I'll have to admit that I tried reading Dee Brown's " Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee " on two separate occasions , the last time quite recently , and I found it to be VERY dry . Perhaps that was only in the early going , but I wasn't able to complete it both times . As for the film , I came across it quite by accident at my local library , not being an HBO subscriber . If I had my druthers , I guess I'd side with those reviewers who feel a more complete story could have been told using a mini-series format . However given the medium , it's a compelling film that highlights the plight of the Native American Indian in the dying days of the Old West , and with it , the death knell of a proud warrior people . I recently visited the James Fenimore Cooper Museum in Cooperstown , New York , and at the time , actual Sioux drawings were on exhibit depicting the Battle at Little Big Horn . Watching the aerial view of the attack on screen suddenly put into perspective the circular rendition of an artist's rendering on a full size tee-pee . It was like seeing a painting come to life with a soaring eagle's eye , perhaps devoid of detail , but breathtaking in it's panoramic perspective on the immensity of the battle . Not to mention the hopelessness of Custer's cause . The film can be absolutely depressing at times with it's depiction of outright slaughter , and perhaps even more so once the Sioux tribes are relegated to reservation life . We get to see how the ' Every Man a Chief ' designation , though sounding completely egalitarian , works to strip away a proud chief's identity and status within his nation . I'm actually glad that the film didn't explore Sitting Bull's Wild West Show days with Buffalo Bill . Fortunately , he was able to reaffirm his own dignity with the ' one last time ' confrontation against Senator Dawes ( Aidan Quinn ) , a legacy that remains standing to this day . Nice performances all around by Aidan Quinn as Senator Dawes , Adam Beach as the conflicted Ohiyesa / Charles Eastman , and August Schellenberg as Sitting Bull . President Grant came and went too quickly for me to recognize Fred Thompson under the beard , a trait he might also suffer as a Presidential contender unless he gets that fire in the belly .
" To die , to be really dead , that must be glorious . "	One of the definitive films of the early horror genre , " Dracula " still maintains it's classic appeal . From his first words muttered on screen - " I am Dracula . . . I bid you welcome " - Bela Lugosi sets the brooding , menacing tone that pervades throughout the film , heightened by each sinister close up as he measures his victims . What better way to greet agent Renfield , than to describe the howling of a wolf outside of Castle Dracula - " Listen to them . . . children of the night , what music they make " . The Count makes Renfield his first victim , who now swears allegiance to his Master , surviving the ship voyage to England by devouring ants , flies and other small creatures for their blood . Dwight Frye's portrayal of Renfield is accompanied by a diabolical , guttural cackle that portends more misery to come . Upon arrival in London , Dracula makes himself at home at Carfax Abbey , adjoining the grounds of the Seward Sanitarium where Renfield is placed upon his discovery as the lone survivor of the Vesta's ocean voyage . From there , he casts his sinister eye on potential victims . In turn , the Count's presence is signaled by a flying bat or the howl of a wolf , creepily suggesting unspeakable horror . Contemporary fans of modern day horror films may find " Dracula " slow moving and even boring , but I find the pacing to be measured and deliberate . Even Lugosi's speech pattern , delivered with over enunciation due to his newness with the language , is perfect in defining the Dracula character . You come to believe it when The Count proclaims - " There are far worse things awaiting man than death " .
" Hold on to your chair , don't step on no snakes , I got an idea . "	Watching " Murder , My Sweet " , one thing is certain - do not divert your attention for a single minute or you'll be hopelessly lost . Fortunately I read a few reviews on this forum prior to tuning in , so was prepared to stay focused , along with pen and paper to keep notes . I usually do that anyway , but sometimes it's more necessary than others . Even so , I was caught off guard when old man Grayle ( Miles Mander ) turned up later in the film after I thought he became a murder victim , it was actually Amthor ( Otto Kruger ) . Director Edward Dmytryk creates a dark and bleak netherworld in ' Murder ' , populated by sordid characters who give detective Philip Marlowe ( Dick Powell ) a run for his money , which by the way he gladly accepts since there's no regular payday on his calendar . He spends a lot of time on the wrong end of a blackjack , or in the case of Amthor's doctor friend , in a coked up digitalis nightmare that portends Hitchcock's " Vertigo " by more than a dozen years . That dream sequence was rather artfully done , culminating in the cobweb twilight of Marlowe's brain fog . What I'm not willing to concede however is Powell's turn as Marlowe being the definitive interpretation as some claim . For me , it would be Bogey all the way in " The Big Sleep " , dispensing sarcasm and wit in between dead bodies . Though this film also offered some snappy rejoinders , it also had it's share of clunky dialog as well , and when it did , the flow of the story was momentarily disrupted . So what we know is - Moose killed Amthor , and Grayle killed Velma , but who killed Marriott ? Marlowe offered some thoughts on the matter , but I don't think it was ever confirmed in the flick . But two out of three ain't bad , especially since the murderer's identity in " The Big Sleep " was entirely bypassed by the time that film ended ; even Raymond Chandler didn't know who did it , and he wrote the book . Here's a thought - how great would it have been if Mike Mazurki , Claire Trevor , Otto Kruger , Anne Shirley , heck , even Dick Powell were still around to do " Sin City " ? Now that would be sweet . . . as murder .
" Too bad you and I had to be on opposite sides of the fence in this , I think we might have been friends . "	By December 1864 the Confederate Army was on it's last legs , literally and figuratively ; " Virginia City " explores a final attempt to finance the Southern cause via a bold plan by the Confederacy to smuggle five million dollars in gold from Virginia City , Nevada back to Richmond , Virginia . Captain Vance Irby ( Randolph Scott ) volunteers for the assignment , and pits his military skill and acumen against a resourceful Union Captain , Kerry Bradford ( Errol Flynn ) . The story opens with Irby foiling an escape attempt by Bradford and his men from Richmond's Libby Prison , alternatively known by it's guests as the Devil's Warehouse . Bradford lives for the day he can repay Irby for the indignity of foiling his plan , not to mention the months of tunneling in vain , as Irby was aware of the dig for just about as long . Along the way , an uncharacteristically miscast Humphrey Bogart makes his appearance as a Mexican bandit , with the un-Mexican name of John Murrell . He looks as uncomfortable here as he did opposing Jimmy Cagney's character in " The Oklahoma Kid " , Westerns were definitely not his forte . Though he did get a good line in on the stagecoach to Virginia City ; with a derringer trained on Bradford he states " I do not particularly want to shoot you mister , but I do not mind . " I tried to imagine him saying " We don't need no steenking badges " . Miriam Hopkins portrays Julia Hayne , the love interest for both lead antagonists , with Southern sympathies but an eye for a spy , that is , Captain Bradford . She spends a good deal of time agonizing over loyalties , while balancing her work life as a saloon singer in Virginia City . I must be pretty tone deaf , as I found her singing to be entertaining enough , unlike other posters for this film . On the other hand , it was supposed to be a cover , and a poll of drunken rowdy prospectors would score more for looks than voice anyway . I got a kick out of the ongoing banter between Bradford's pair of buddies , Marblehead ( Guinn " Big Boy " Williams ) and Moose ( Alan Hale ) . Their constant understated bickering lends just the right touch of comic relief to the film . There's a funny scene in the saloon as the boys begin drinking when they look to a picture of a semi clad woman above the bar ; one exclaims " I wonder what she'd do if we had another drink " . I didn't realize it until the closing credits , but young Cobby Gill was portrayed by Dickie Jones , who grew up to be the Range Rider's sidekick in the early 1950's series of the same name . For my money , Jones was the best stunt rider of them all , some of his work in that series is incredible . I was intrigued by some of the shooting styles offered in the film . In a couple of shootouts , Marblehead is shown " throwing " his gun in the direction of fire ; I can't see how that would be effective for accuracy . It was also the way Wild Bill Elliott used his six guns , at least in his Red Ryder movies . During the attack by Murrell's gang on the gold train , Bradford impresses Irby with his " wing fan " shooting . It was during this scene that a highly unusual , if not unbelievable development took place . After taking a life threatening bullet , Irby turns over his command to Bradford ! I'd like to see the rule book on that one . For all his military discipline , Bradford ultimately weighs in with his own conscience . Deliberately destroying the gold wagon to prevent it's capture by Murrell , Bradford is arrested and found guilty of high treason , sentenced to death by hanging on April 9 , 1865 - on the day General Lee is to surrender to Grant at Appomattox Court House . In a gallant and patriotic ending , excellent camera work captures President Lincoln's silhouette as he pardons Bradford , the anxious Miss Hayne having pleaded her case for the man she loves . It's as flag waving a moment as it gets , as Lincoln declares the South as not having lost , but having been found .
" Where you start has nothing ' to do with where you finish " .	Here's a true diamond in the rough - consider all the John Wayne westerns made for Lone Star Pictures from 1933 to 1935 and not one of them matches " Three Godfathers " for story quality , character development and the strength of it's acting . Each of the outlaws who earn ' godfather ' status by virtue of their roles in the story do an exceptional job in portraying their characters . For most viewers , it's easy enough to identify with Doc Underwood ( Lewis Stone ) as the well read and philosophical bank robber , along with Walter Brennan's Gus Barton , a codger with a heart of gold underneath a veneer of dust . The real low down no account skunk of the bunch though is Bob Sangster , ably portrayed by Chester Morris . It would be easy enough to dislike Sangster based simply on his role as the lead villain , and that's even before you see how he manhandles the baby in a couple of scenes . You know , that had to be a tough little toddler ; kind of makes you feel like he could have taken on the old rattler himself . You don't really need the Christmas connection in the story to make the whole thing work , but that was kind of a neat touch as it all plays out . I was impressed that the film makers thought enough about the theme to hang a ' Merry Christmas ' sign in the New Jerusalem saloon , and have Sangster deny Santa Claus as he shoots banker Frank Benson ( Robert Livingston ) during the bank robbery . Say , was Walter Brennan ever young ? This might be the earliest film I've ever seen him in , and he looked like he could have been Grandpa McCoy here if he had to . I got a kick out of the way he handled the asparagus after playing out the gimmick of using a different name with everyone he met . His best exchanges occurred during his conversations with Doc Underwood , and I was surprised to hear him call Doc a ' lunger ' due to the fact that he coughed a lot . Speaking of which , this might be the earliest film in which a link between smoking too many cigarettes and poor health might actually have been made . Just another curiosity the film has to offer . You know what scene really hooked me ? You have Doc going through the motions of writing a proper will for Gus in case he doesn't make it , but later in the story it actually turns out to be a message for Bob . I've never seen as good a hook in a picture from the Thirties , and it really made me appreciate the way the writers handled the characters . I know John Wayne played the lead role in the 1948 re-make of this story , one I haven't seen yet but intend to . I see most reviewers in this forum prefer this earlier version , and based on what I've read , I probably will to . The film offers real characters in intense situations and allows its principles to wax philosophical about life and death and other matters in between . Rare even today , but considering the era , this film is a genuine treat . Say , how about this for an odd coincidence . Villain Bob's floozie bar fly girlfriend was named Blackie , and beginning in 1941 , Chester Morris gained prominence for a character he began to portray in more than a dozen films - as detective Boston Blackie !
" Just because he speaks a little guilty that don't make him innocent , you know ? "	I've only seen a few of Orson Welles ' pictures , the ones that count presumably - " Citizen Kane " and " The Stranger " . Without question , his presence in " Touch of Evil " earns him my esteem as one of the all time great actors . His presence literally fills the screen every time he appears , in part due to his considerable girth , but more so I think because of the intense characterization he imbues his portrayal with of police captain Hank Quinlan . Quinlan embodies the personification of the movie's title , and one would be hard pressed to think of another actor who could have done the job better . Fans of noir films may be surprised to see the cinema form elevated a considerable notch above it's traditional ' B ' movie platform here . From the intense cinematography to the expansive story straddling the Mexican American border , the picture reveals one sordid surprise after another as it rages across the screen . Yet at the same time , one must suspend a good measure of disbelief at some of the less credible elements that are offered in support of Mike Vargas ' ( Charlton Heston ) mission to solve a murder mystery . Virtually neglecting his wife ( Janet Leigh ) on their honeymoon to help investigate a case in which he has no jurisdiction is just the beginning . The way the new Mrs . Vargas handles herself in a handful of precarious situations simply defy anyone's definition of acting rationally in extreme circumstances . I just can't picture a real life scenario where a woman would openly challenge the supremacy of a mob boss on his home turf and expect to get away with it . All of which creates a unique dichotomy . One wants to consider that this could be one of the all time great mystery thrillers , but there are just too many significant distractions in the way . Yet it all falls into place by the time Quinlan is called upon to face the consequences of his own corruption . Which owes partly to the redemption of his partner Menzies ( Joseph Calleia ) , even as Menzies himself is brought down by events of the story . As for the role of Charlton Heston portraying a Mexican - I thought it worked once you get beyond the celebrity of the man himself and see him as police detective Vargas . Janet Leigh has the almost thankless task of the put upon newlywed who seems to be just a bit too understanding given the circumstances . I thought Marlene Dietrich brought a larger presence to the events in the story than her minimal screen time might have hinted at . However I was left scratching my head as to why Zsa Zsa Gabor was called upon to appear as a strip club owner if she was only going to be on screen for a literal blink of an eye . In summation , " Touch of Evil " is an oddly curious film , and depending on the frame of mind of the viewer , might be considered one of the best or one of the worst ever . For all it's flaws , I come down on the plus side for now , realizing that I really need to see this one again a few more times before I can say I'm a true fan . I'll just have to wait and see .
" From now on , I'm going after the two things I've always wanted most , good taste and refinement . "	Defying classification , " Brother Orchid " contains elements of film noir , gangster movies , and comedy , and showcases Edward G . Robinson as a mobster who quits the rackets because his tastes have outgrown them . It's a premise that walks a tightrope throughout the picture , and has Little John Sarto ( Robinson ) alternately swaying between his gangster life and a dreamy vision that may or may not be fulfilled . Although an entertaining enough film , I had difficulty in accepting Sarto's all or nothing approach to each of his mid stream course corrections . At the outset , when turning over the gang to his second in command Jack Buck ( Humphrey Bogart ) , Sarto convincingly claims it's for good . But to leave his girlfriend Flo Addams ( Ann Sothern ) behind as he squanders his fortune in the capitals of Europe seems a bit overboard ; for Flo to keep the romance alive even as she rises from hat check girl to owning the Crescent Club is even more of a stretch . Especially when a reasonably handsome and urbane suitor like Clarence Fletcher ( Ralph Bellamy ) comes along . Fletcher is charming without being pushy and seems more than a romantic match for Flo , considering her treatment by the almost repulsive behavior of Johnny . What does bring life to the film is the snappy , staccato one liners delivered by Sarto , often so glib that this viewer caught the full nuance well into the next scene . Then you have the colorful names of Sarto's cohorts - Mugsy , Philadelphia , Crack and Willie the Knife . Willie in particular is well portrayed by essential character actor Allen Jenkins , one of the few mugs who stayed loyal to Little John , even as he faked his way into a mental asylum during Johnny's hiatus . When it appears that Flo sets up Johnny to be ambushed by Jack Buck , Johnny makes his getaway to a reclusive Floracian Monastery , where the brothers of the order make their living growing and selling flowers to help beautify the world . Brother Superior is portrayed by affable Donald Crisp in a calm and self assured manner . Entranced by the serene way of life of the brothers , Johnny makes it his own , and takes for his name a personal preference - Brother Orchid . When the brothers ' way of life is threatened by their inability to pay tribute to Buck's protective association , Little John is back to his gangster ways to set things right , but this time forming a gang of Clarence Fletcher's Western buddies who have hit town to attend Fletcher's marriage to Flo ! Robinson and Bogart made a total of five films together , with Robinson getting top billing in all but 1948's " Key Largo " . The others include " Bullets or Ballots " ( 1936 ) , " Kid Galahad " ( 1937 ) , and " The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse " ( 1938 ) . " Brother Orchid " was the only film in which Ann Sothern appeared with either Bogey or Robinson . For fans of any of these stars , or of classic films of the 1930's and 40's , all of the films mentioned are recommended .
" They may have fought for their country , but they died for their friends . "	With the end credits rolling I was saying to myself ' the movie is over already ? ' That doesn't happen very often with a two hour plus movie , so to prolong the experience I found myself taking in the stills of the actual flag raising along with combat photos and even Richard Nixon's face popping up for the dedication of the Iwo Jima Memorial . The film convinces once again that Clint Eastwood's name on a project insures quality of execution and achievement , whether the treatment is a fictional story or one based on historical fact . I'll get my one nitpick out of the way early . Though I was aware that the story's narrator was James Bradley , son of flag raiser ' Doc ' Bradley , he's shown interviewing others who reminisced about the island battle who weren't identified , or if they were , I wasn't able to make the connection to their youthful counterparts in the story . Also , even though the flashback scenes were effectively done for Bradley to reflect on his painful memories back on Iwo , I found myself straining to coordinate the ' hero on display ' Bradley with the battlefield corpsman in fatigues . I'm sure another viewing would make things easier , but I was very much focused the first time , and found myself getting frustrated whenever I encountered a question mark . There can be no doubt , at least in my mind , that director Eastwood was heavily influenced by actual war footage of the Pacific Campaign and Bloody Iwo in particular . There are excellent compilations available , rather inexpensively I might add , that detail U . S . involvement in the Pacific theater . One of the best is " Crusade in the Pacific " ; watching the footage on Iwo Jima reveals that scenes in Eastwood's movie are almost a direct copy of events as they actually happened . Those include the beach landing , the unloading of men and equipment , much of the battle scenes and the scaling of Suribachi . One particularly stunning scene in the documentary captures the aftermath of a Japanese body in flames , though the movie is more graphic in it's portrayal . Either way , the ferocity of war is on display in all of it's horrific reality . Being the story of three of the men who participated in the flag raising , the film's diversion from the war left a largely untold story of the rest of the battle . Yet the home front drama of propagandizing the hero story is as compelling as the fighting on the island . Particularly poignant is the story of Ira Hayes , the Pima Indian who ' couldn't take them callin ' me a hero ' . Nowhere more is the weird dichotomy of the men's situation portrayed than in the mock scaling of Suribachi at Soldier Field ; Hayes again - " You want us to plant the flag on a pile of papier mache ? " That in a nutshell captures the ethical quandary the trio find themselves in , yet deemed necessary to further finance the war effort . Perhaps wisely , Eastwood preferred to stay away from the grim statistics of the Iwo Jima campaign . The battle raged on for four more weeks after the flag was raised . In the first five days , there were 6845 casualties ; most of the 5284 wounded were surgical cases along with many instances of treatment for shock . In preparation for a nearly thirty three percent casualty rate , the medical corpsmen employed whole blood and plasma on a scale that had never been utilized before . Yet with the securing of Suribachi and the southern part of the island , the more difficult part of the battle was still ahead . When it was all over , American troops suffered 5563 Marine deaths , along with 982 sailors . The wounded topped nineteen thousand , while the beachhead was littered with wrecked equipment . Perhaps an even more staggering statistic , of twenty two thousand Japanese defenders , only 217 prisoners were taken , and only 159 of them Japanese . Iwo Jima was finally secured after thirty six days on March 25th , 1945 . Doubtless , " Flags Of Our Fathers " will garner it's share of award nominations . For my part , I'm even more curious now to view Eastwood's companion piece , " Letters From Iwo Jima " offering the Japanese perspective . On a final note , curiosity seekers might want to seek out the John Wayne movie , " Sands of Iwo Jima " . As a war film , it was regarded highly when it came out in 1949 , a mere four years after the actual event . There's no comparison in my opinion with ' Flags ' , though the reason I bring it up is to call attention to the scene where Wayne's character watches the scaling of Mt . Suribachi with three soldiers , and he hands one of them a flag to put up over the captured territory . Those three soldiers are the real life John ' Doc ' Bradley , Rene Gagnon and Ira Hayes .
" One cannot trust anybody these days " .	I'm always up for a good caper movie , and this is one of the better ones . It doesn't get overworked with such intricacy and tension that trying to keep up with it would prove unsatisfying . Instead , this one puts together a nice blend of mystery , suspense , intrigue and humor , and does it with a capable cast and clever writing . The hacker group's lone egghead is at the same time a conspiracy theorist ( Dan Ackroyd ) who balances out his own personality , while the rest are a complementary lot to their leader , Robert Redford , alias Martin Brice , alias Martin Bishop . I couldn't quite see Sidney Poitier as a member of the group in the early going , but he did deliver the film's best line in my estimation - " You guys would be chalk outlines without me " . The film was somewhat eerily prophetic in it's treatment of an attempt by our country's enemies to acquire access to computers controlling the national power grid . Recent headlines in the news make mention of just such a scenario with the potential to cripple the nation's infrastructure . The bad guys have been pitted against the good guys since the beginning of time , but with each passing year , the stakes continue only to escalate . I tuned in to " Sneakers " last night without realizing that I had seen it before , and kept wondering for a while why I knew what was coming next . It was Mary McDonnell's appearance that finally brought me to my senses - I remembered that she was also pretty hot the first time around !
" You know what they say , human see , human do . "	I can't say for sure why it took so long to get around to watching this film , I was around for it's original theatrical release in 1968 . Perhaps it was for what some modern day viewers would consider cheesy special effects and men in monkey suits . But you know , the movie tosses around a host of thought provoking concepts , and challenges your perception of things by standing them on their head . Scenes are cleverly done , even when accompanied by the cliché-iest of clichés . As he did in ' The Twilight Zone ' TV series of the early 1960's , Rod Serling lends his creative vision to a hodge podge mix of ideas like racial tolerance , equality , animal rights , and the ' insidious theory of evolution ' . Thrown right into the middle of it all is Charlton Heston as a stranded astronaut on a planet ruled by apes who lord it over a subject race of mute humans . There's enough of the TV ' Star Trek ' influence here as well , as the movie came out right in the middle of that show's run . The only way I can think of to make it better would have been to have Heston's character pick up from memory the reading of the ' 29th Scroll , 6th Verse ' of the Apes ' scientific discovery , like Captain Kirk did in the ' We The People ' episode of his series . That would have blown Dr . Zaius ' ( Maurice Evans ) mind well beyond Taylor's ( Heston ) ability to speak in plain English , ape talk , whatever . Some time ago I started watching the 2001 remake of the movie by Tim Burton , and had to turn it off at about midway , I was just too bored to stay with it . Just another example supporting the idea that you shouldn't tamper with the original , probably true of almost every film ever made . Still though , whenever I try to make sense of the whole time / space / speed of light connection and try to reconcile it with the idea of suspended aging it makes my head hurt . Just watch the film with some suspension of belief of your own and you'll only age about two hours in the process .
" Would you stop remindin ' me of heaven when I'm so close to the other place . "	Critic Leonard Maltin describes " Three On A Match " as a " hard hitting example of forbidden Hollywood " . That it is , no happy endings here , as this depression era film follows the rise and fall of childhood friends who get caught up in the seamy underworld of booze , drugs and gambling , ultimately trading places along the way . The three friends are Mary Keaton Bernard ( Joan Blondell ) , Vivian Revere Kirkwood ( Ann Dvorak ) and Ruth Wescott ( Bette Davis ) , shown growing up between 1919 and 1932 as a montage of newspaper headlines place the story in a historical context . Blondell's character is a reform school standout , whose life experience puts her in a position to counsel a depressed and " fed up with everything " Vivian . Viv takes up with small time hood Mike Loftus ( Lyle Talbot ) after disappearing with her young son from a cruise ship . Loftus ingratiates himself with mobster Harve ( Humphrey Bogart in a minor role ) and his boss Ace ( Edward Arnold ) by going into debt for two grand . The desperate creep attempts to blackmail the boy's father , wealthy lawyer Robert Kirkwood ( Warren William ) , but that plan heads south as the cops quickly close in . Vivian's resolution is one of the more depressing finales to a tale that realistically depicts a pair of unfortunate souls whose lives spiral completely out of control . The film does have it's share of light moments ; one of the newspaper clippings describes the new fashion trend in beachwear , a " brief " sun suit , ably modeled by Bette Davis . In stark contrast , Mr . Kirkwood's attire of choice is a business suit and tie while sitting under a beach umbrella , hard to work up a good tan that way . Davis ' screen time is limited but effective , with a sit up and take notice scene where she's shown wearing just a slip early in the film , rather daring for the era and showing more skin than one might expect . Warner Brothers / First National masterfully portrayed the down and out , seamy underside of life during the 1930's , ' 40's and ' 50's , tackling all manner of subjects in their movies . " Three On A Match " tells it's tale without a wasted moment , sometimes relying on scenes that only last a few seconds to move the story along . It's hard edged and no nonsense , all the more provocative for it's mature subject matter and realistic portrayals ; highly recommended .
" Truth like oil , will in time rise to surface . "	" Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise " is at the top of many fans favorite lists , as it is mine . Sidney Toler once again portrays the Oriental Detective , assisted by Victor Sen Yung as Number # 2 Son Jimmy . Layne Tom Jr . also appears as numerically challenged Number # 7 Son Willie ; he had made prior appearances as Number # 2 Son Charlie Jr . in " At the Circus " and " At the Olympics " with Warner Oland , and as unnumbered son Tommy in " Honolulu " . Interestingly , the young Layne Tom appeared in Chan films with both Oland and Toler , though Sen Yung never appeared in a Warner Oland Chan film . The rest of the cast is an interesting mix as well ; Lionel Atwill appears as mystery cruise director Dr . Suderman , Leo ( minus the G . ) Carroll is introduced as archeology Professor Gordon , and Charles Middleton and Claire Du Brey portray a nervously rigid couple , the Walters . Cora Witherspoon is also on hand as a member of the cruise party , offering comic relief as socialite Suzie Watson who bewilders Chan with her confusing descriptions of characters on board . When the dust finally clears , four murders have taken place ; one in Charlie's Honolulu office , one in a Honolulu hotel , and two more on board a cruise ship heading to San Francisco . All are by strangulation using various means , a suitcase strap in one case , a leather shoelace in another . Adding additional intrigue , the murderer leaves an unusual calling card with victim number two , a small bag containing thirty dimes representing the Biblical Judas ' thirty pieces of silver . With clever attention to detail , Chan is pointed in the right direction by Professor Gordon's slip up , commenting on an aspect of Chinese history . Gordon should have known better , particularly since it's later revealed that he had the foresight to have his accomplice Ross ( James Beddoe ) masquerade as his own disguised double as a street beggar to throw Charlie off track . Cunning as the ruse was , it was no match for Chan's investigative ability . Until this film , the body count in a Chan film had never gone higher than three . Sometimes more is not better , but in this movie it works , even though victim two was killed in a case of mistaken identity . The way the story unfolds , especially with the curve thrown by circumstances surrounding the second victim , makes for an entertaining and well played out mystery . One of my favorite lines from the film - Charlie refers to son Jimmy as " miniature Sherlock " .
" So I'm to be examined , undressed and generally humiliated at fifteen cents a copy , and you , you're loving it . "	It's easy to accept Hepburn as the goddess queen socialite Tracy Lord since the part was written as a Broadway play with her in mind . Wisely investing in the story rights with playwright Philip Barry granted her virtual certainty to be cast in the film version when MGM purchased the rights . The film was shot with almost no retakes under director and friend George Cukor , and produced Jimmy Stewart's only Best Actor Oscar . Casting Cary Grant in a romantic comedy just about assures a film with snappy dialog and precision comic timing . The surprise here might be Stewart's ability to keep the same pace going , along with his newspaper partner Ruth Hussey . Together they set out to capture the wedding of the year for their tabloid rag , ' Dime and Spy ' magazine . The opening scene seems to come a little out of left field if you're watching it for the first time . Seeing Hepburn take a shove in the face from Grant's character was a bit like Jimmy Cagney's grapefruit smackeroo on Mae Clark in " Public Enemy " . Here it was done in the interest of a dissolving marriage , to live on in infamy as kid sister Dinah's ( Virginia Weidler ) ' sock in the face ' memoir . The thing is , Tracy Lord ( Hepburn ) deserved it , and the film goes on to show how those closest to her help her understand it , deal with it , and eventually learn and grow from it . It was interesting to me how closely in tune both C . K . Dexter Haven ( Grant ) and Tracy's father Seth ( John Halliday ) were in describing her character . Dex admonished her for not understanding human frailty ; Dad in turn recognized that she didn't have an understanding heart . Oddly , Tracy's fiancée Kittredge ( John Howard ) seems to love her for those very reasons , and it's when he spells it out for her that she finally seems to get it . It takes all kinds . You have to keep your eye on Jimmy Stewart when he goes into that drunken jag at Grant's home , it's really brilliantly done . Up till then his comic repartee and timing was competent , but that scene probably insured the Oscar . It's also why one might be left scratching their head over the eventual outcome of the story , as it goes full circle to become sister Dinah's little victory after all . The question for me though would be why Dexter Haven would proceed with ' Love Affair II ' after all that had gone before . I guess that's why they call it a story .
" It's the big daddy of G-Men pictures ! "	My summary quote comes from David Brian for the 1949 re-release introduction to the story , a way for the film to pay tribute to the rise of the FBI to a position of force and respect . Though technically fictional , the picture has some basis in actual events that helped shape the direction of the Bureau . Enough points are made to offer a respectable overview of how the agency received it's authority through Congressional legislation . I've been watching a lot of James Cagney's early films recently , and even when he's got a minor role he's a standout . Here he tops the bill as lawyer turned ' G-Man ' to avenge a friend's death , then finds himself in direct confrontation with the gang whose boss put him through college and law school . I got a kick out of an opening scene when Cagney's character Brick Davis turns down a legal job to represent a mobster , it might be the first time in pictures that the term ' grease ball ' is used . There are some well placed humorous scenes involving the new recruit taking boxing and firearm lessons . When Davis ' boss McCord ( Robert Armstrong ) asks him how he learned to shoot - " I used to be marble champion in the Bronx " ! For his part , Armstrong does well as Cagney's boss at the Bureau , every bit as animated as the adventurer who set out to capture King Kong a couple of years earlier . His performance is a far cry from a prior appearance as a gangster in 1929's " The Racketeer " , an early sound film that maintains a number of traditions from the silent era . The supporting cast is respectable as well , with Warner contract player Barton MacLane in a familiar role as a top hood , along with Margaret Lindsay and Ann Dvorak walking a tightrope to Cagney's romantic aspirations . As a good guy , Cagney actually gets to win a girl at the end of the picture , not too shabby .
" How come a nice guy like you is a cop ? "	Though the title doesn't say anything , this film from 1955 is about as stylishly noir as they come , featuring Cornel Wilde as a police lieutenant with an obsession to put away a mob boss with a name as bland as he himself is vicious - Mr . Brown . Brown is chillingly portrayed by Richard Conte , and commands the center of attention whenever he's on screen . He deserves it too , exuding an air of self confidence , whether challenging legal authority or one of his own henchmen . He makes the case for himself when confronted by Lt . Leonard Diamond ( Wilde ) - " You think it's money , it's not , it's personality . . . " , helping the viewer understand that he's at the top of his game because he made it that way , and anyone else in his sphere of influence is second string . The picture offers some great cinematography , almost always dark and moody ; the night time fog and shadows are particularly atmospheric . There's an airport scene strangely reminiscent of " Casablanca " but without the presence of the usual suspects . Additionally , the picture doesn't rely on just a single femme fatale , although Brown's girl Susan Lowell ( Jean Wallace ) is at the center of the intrigue . Unfortunately , her character might have been one of the film's minor drawbacks ; she didn't have the energy to pull off the theatrics of a jilted lover . I'll give the film credit for one very inventive rub out . When Brown's underling Joe McClure has to answer for his betrayal , he's granted a meaningless favor by his boss . Almost deaf , McClure's hearing aid is removed , and he's mowed down in ghastly machine gun staccato silence . That was just a brilliantly conceived idea put to film . It was a bit strange seeing Lee Van Cleef sans mustache and whiskers , quite some time before his spaghetti Western heyday . He teamed up with Earl Holliman in a daring partnership as a pair of henchmen for Mr . Brown , but if you read between the lines , there's more going on as part of a subtle subtext that was rare for the 1950's . You'll figure it out , with a second viewing making it much more obvious . With everything that went before , I was let down by the ending somewhat , expecting a bit more of a dramatic finale . Still , it's hard to find fault otherwise with " The Big Combo " , and adding this one to your collection of gangster flicks would be worth the effort .
" I am Mrs . de Winter now . "	Alfred Hitchcock's first American film won him his only Best Picture Oscar , but in learning about the movie , it's almost surprising that the picture was ever made at all . After producer David Selznick shelled out fifty thousand dollars for the screen rights to the Daphne Du Maurier novel , he hired on Hitchcock to direct the movie . The team up with Selznick was immediately fraught with disagreement . Selznick didn't like Hitchcock's contribution to an early screenplay treatment , and brought in his own team , thereby making " Rebecca " the only picture by Hitchcock that didn't have his collaboration on the script . Hitch didn't want Joan Fontaine as the female lead , Selznick didn't want Olivier . The producer also had difficulty with Hitchcock's directorial method , thinking him too slow in his approach . The result - nothing short of brilliant ! Most of my appreciation of the film lies in the performance of Joan Fontaine as the second Mrs . de Winter . Her early appearance is marked by the tenuous acceptance of her role as the mistress of Manderley , constantly ill at ease in the presence of such formality and elegance . Very quickly , Mrs . Danvers ( Judith Anderson ) becomes her nemesis out of a fierce loyalty to the unseen title character . That bears mentioning , as the first Mrs . de Winter , who is deceased , holds the viewer in an unrelenting grip throughout the story . The constant reminders of the elegant first wife of Maxim de Winter ( Olivier ) keep one constantly riveted on the unraveling of the Manderley mystery . Though he was top billed , I never got the impression that this was a Laurence Olivier picture . He seems to appear from time to time to remind the viewer that Manderley is part of the de Winter fortune , but it's the war of nerves between Fontaine's character and Mrs . Danvers that give the film much of it's psychological tension . The latter third of the picture that reveals the nature of Rebecca's demise provides the twist that clears Maxim of a murder charge , but it would have been even better to see Jack Favell ( George Sanders ) twist in the wind over his unfounded accusation . Say , I couldn't help it , but the picture's ending had me making a comparison to another film classic , " Citizen Kane " . As the camera closed in on the the letter ' R ' of the burning lingerie case in the closing scene , I kept thinking R = ' Rebecca ' = ' Rosebud ' . Orson Welles had a similar girth to Hitchcock too .
" The Lord certainly does work in mysterious ways . "	With the Western genre dating back to the beginning of film making , it's not difficult to find movies that repeatedly make use of the same themes and ideas . One could make a case , I suppose , that " Pale Rider " was a remake of the Alan Ladd classic " Shane " , and with some stretch you could also find similarities to practically every Durango Kid film starring Charles Starrett . Quite independently of other IMDb posts for this film , I had the thought myself ( regarding " Shane " ) , but not until the very end when teen aged Megan Wheeler ( Sydney Penny ) wistfully calls after Clint Eastwood's Preacher character as he disappears into the wilderness . It's interesting that many of Eastwood's Western characters are men of inner strength . The Preacher is at the same time a most fitting yet ironic symbol in the ' man with no name ' mythos , a man with a mysterious past who now wears a white collar . The revelation is made as a miner quarrels with his intended wife over the propriety of offering him comfort and a meal in their home . It's a cleverly done scene that changes the dynamic of the movie from a simple revenge tale . Also clever was wrapping the story around the Biblical Book of Revelations . The title itself is taken from Chapter Six , Verse Eight - " And I looked , and behold a pale horse . . . " It's actually a quite frightening passage that Megan reads , almost demonic in tone that portends unknown evil - " and his name that sat on his back was Death , and Hell followed with him " . Much has been debated over the relationship between Preacher and Sarah Wheeler ( Carrie Snodgress ) , and my own initial inclination was that their union was consummated . Now I'm not so sure . Certainly there's ambiguity in the closing of the door to the cabin and the lights going out . However it's LATER in the story when Sarah desires to kiss Preacher one time so she can hold on to the memory of it . It seems to me a passionate night would have involved some kissing . Also , Preacher's arrival on the scene is marked with a certain moral courage to resist evil and stick up for the underdog . Betraying Hull Barrett ( Michael Moriarty ) by taking advantage of a woman's uncertain feelings toward her betrothed would be crossing that moral line . No such decision beguiled The Stranger in " High Plains Drifter " , there his cause as a gun for hire was more clearly defined , and the ' taking ' of a saloon girl was deemed to be in bounds . I always enjoyed John Russell as Marshal Dan Troop in the classic TV Western " Lawman " , he with those spooky white eyes . Somehow I might even enjoy him more as a villain . His casting as hired gunman Stockburn helps lend credence to the doomsday scenario presented to the miners . The threat of his arrival prompts Hull's speech that gives the men the resolve to stay and fight against LaHood and his men . For another great Russell turn as a villain , check out the John Wayne film " Rio Bravo " . Unfortunately , whenever I see Richard Kiel in any film at all , I always expect to see a grin revealing a mouth full of steel ( ' Jaws ' in " Moonraker " ) . My question here , and one I'm consistently puzzled about - Why did he save The Preacher at Josh Lahood's mine camp ? I can only surmise it was a measure of respect for the only man who ever defeated him , or at least caught him off guard long enough to knock him silly , while at the same time helping him get back on his horse .
" I wouldn't know a gold mine if I fell into one . "	I rather enjoyed the description of the Superstition Mountain area of Arizona in the film's opening narrative as ' Satan's Private Art Gallery ' . The picture itself seemed to offer a preview of hell's future citizens with it's gripping story of the Lost Dutchman Mine , discovered by Jacob Walz in the 1880's at the end of a Sharp's rifle and a host of dead bodies . Though I don't know how much of the story's background is true historically , the legend of the Mexican Peralta brothers is displayed in a noirish flashback within a flashback . In it , the Apache Indians led by Cochise look like the most realistic tribe of Native American Indians I've ever seen portrayed in cinema , including I suppose " Dances With Wolves " . The cast is respectable and well suited for their roles , all appearing in the movie's main flashback story . Prospector Walz is portrayed by Glenn Ford , while Ida Lupino impresses as the gold digging ( no pun intended ) wife of Gig Young's character , in hiding from a murder rap back in Wisconsin . The locals of Florence Junction get a howl out of Pete's ( Young ) remark to Walz at the barber shop - " You can have my place " , Walz not yet realizing what the town gossipers have been guffawing about . In all of these period pieces I get a kick out of reminders of an earlier , simpler time - how about the sign in Julia's ( Lupino ) bakery shop - 10 cents a dozen for doughnuts ! Besides the main characters , it's also cool to see Will Geer , Paul Ford and Jay Silverheels in supporting roles , with a feisty Edgar Buchanan shuffling cards in his hat looking for that elusive ace of spades . Stay sharp and you also might recognize Billy Gray as the ' cookie boy ' . As for Lupino , it seems I only ever see her playing roles with a dark side , as she did in team ups with my favorite actor Humphrey Bogart - 1940's " They Drive By Night " and 1941's " High Sierra " . In fact , with the mountainous terrain at the center of this picture , that might have been a good name for this flick as well . With it's gold fever theme , colorful cast of characters , and greed at every turn , this is a worthwhile follow up to the better known " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " , released a year prior in 1948 . Not as strong as ' Sierra ' , it's still pretty much a sleeper hit for fans of this unique genre , a mix of Western and gritty film noir .
" . . . don't tune me out , hang on a while , this is a big story . . . "	What's interesting for me in watching " Foreign Correspondent " is trying to imagine how American audiences of the time might have felt while on the doorstep of World War II with Europe about to blow up . In this country for only a short time , director Hitchcock's set pieces recreate the cities of London and Amsterdam in a tale of spies and traitors operating under the guise of a Universal Peace Party . It's chairman Fisher ( Herbert Marshall ) orchestrates the kidnapping of Dutch partner Van Meer ( Albert Bassermann ) , who has committed the details of a secret peace agreement to memory . Clause 27 turns out to be a classic Hitchcock maguffin , a device planted in the story to rouse the interest of the viewer , though it's details are never revealed . In fact , it's not necessary to do so , because the film's sleight of hand diverts us to assassination attempts , a Dutch windmill hideout for the villains and a harrowing plane crash into the ocean before it's all over . The intrigue moves along nicely with Joel McCrae as Morning Globe reporter Johnny Jones , who finds himself in the thick of things in more ways than one . He gets lured into the espionage drama after he witnesses what looks like the assassination of ambassador Van Meer , though by this time he's also becoming romantically involved with Carol Fisher ( Laraine Day ) . She's the daughter of the mastermind behind the spy ring , but having grown up British , her loyalty is staunchly pro Brit and anti war . Hitch builds suspense in the film on any number of levels , and each time it works , even when he goes for an ' in your face ' moment like Rowley's ( Edmund Gwenn ) attempt to push Johnny from the top of the cathedral . You know instinctively that Jones / Haverstock can't be dead , yet you maintain ever the slightest doubt until you see him again in the very next scene . But for sheer terror , the scenes of the ocean plane crash survivors scrambling onto the wreckage is about the most surreal and insane piece of film making ever , made all the more terrifying if you think of yourself being there . Personally , I can't even imagine confronting a horror like that , much less hanging on long enough to survive . Though not remembered as one of Hitchcock's better known films , the movie was nominated for six Oscars in it's day , ironically pitted against Hitch's first American film " Rebecca " which won Best Picture in 1941 . Though it may seem somewhat dated today , one can still have a good time with the movie by glossing over the less believable elements and riding it out for the mystery and adventure .
" I'd like to be the wind for once . "	It's curious to me how many viewers on this forum berate " House of Flying Daggers " for not being more like " Hero " . Perhaps it's because if director Yimou Zhang had that intention , he would have made " Hero " a second time . Instead he opted for a tragic love story , set amid eye popping interior set pieces and stunning outdoor scenery . Not being a devotee of martial arts films or Chinese cinema in general , I didn't have the same problem with the story that a lot of the detractors do . The film's tension resides in the revelation of the identities of each of the main characters , as the story proceeds to peel away the facades of Mei , Jin and Leo . It's done in a way to keep the viewer guessing as to the true nature and loyalty of each individual . As alliances are continually tested an impending sense of doom seems to take over the story as the principals are propelled toward their destinies . When the fates take over , it's conveyed with a sense of timelessness as the seasons arc from sunlit autumn to a winter landscape , eerily achieving a sense of serenity in death . Both " Hero " and HOFD display an extraordinarily vibrant use of color that's stimulating and exciting , used in a way I've never seen before . It's a major strength of Zhang's story telling technique , drawing the viewer into a world of fantasy and enchantment , while richly complementing the adventure .
" You been this other guy almost as long as you been yourself . "	" A History of Violence " isn't an easy film to watch , and without a major suspension of belief , is even harder to accept . Nevertheless , the film delivers at a gut level , and allows the viewer to empathize with a mild mannered middle class family man pushed to the limits of psychological endurance . Viggo Mortensen's character , Tom Stall , finds himself at the center stage of controversy and media attention when he defends his diner and it's employees from two thugs who mean bodily harm . The first tip off that there's something more to Tom's past than we've come to know at this point is the cool detachment and self assured manner in which he dispatches the men . This was not luck , or an act " anyone else would have done " ; it was stone cold and brutal . One gets the feeling that Tom Stall is almost too much in control , his manner and speech is so measured that he almost comes across as an automaton . But he's mastered the deception that hides a violent past , as brother to an organized crime boss back East . The act has even his wife and family fooled , wife Edie ( Maria Bello ) so loyal as to virtually take on Carl Fogarty ( Ed Harris ) at the local mall when the mobster takes note of Joey Cusack's heroics , Joey being Tom Stall's alter ego . Admittedly , Stall has even the viewer guessing for a long time into the film , is this a case of mistaken identity , or is there something to the story of a man capable of ripping open a face using barb wire ? Once at the diner may have been a fluke , but the carnage that takes place in the Stall's front yard brings the family's nightmare to a new level . Could it be that Quentin Tarantino had it wrong , that Tom Stall is a natural born killer . Dazed , appalled , confused , the marriage of Tom and Edie is pushed to the breaking point , but not before Tom's rage explodes into sexual furor in a scene that makes one as uncomfortable as any of the movie's gun play . Spontaneous and bewildering at the same time , if the scene is meant to disorient the viewer , it works admirably . The real Joey Cusack emerges following a half cross country trip to Philadelphia ; Joey gets a late night call from made man brother Richie ( William Hurt ) , who's on the carpet for his brother's indiscretions - he's taken out some seriously connected mobsters . This time out though , back in his element , Tom / Joey's steely resolve and martial training leaves a trail of bodies inside his brother's home - quick , ruthless , like an automaton . The film's ending offers a myriad of off screen resolutions . Will Tom reconcile with his family , can he ever regain Edie's trust , can son Jack ever be normal after rifling a mobster in the back to protect his father , and on and on . And oh yes , does Tom make headlines as the killer out of the closet once the authorities track him to his Midwest home ? Or will it be another faction of the mob that comes calling to remind Tom of his own bloody mortality ? Because if you buy the story of a man driven to violence because of a chance encounter at a Midwestern Indiana diner , you've also got to believe that justice will come calling when the dust and your own churning gut settle .
" If you're smart you can be a hero , if you're dumb you can be dead . "	You won't hear " The Enforcer " mentioned when it comes to Humphrey Bogart's body of famous work , but it's a very watchable mystery that pulls you in early , and keeps you interested with each new revelation . Bogie's character is Assistant District Attorney Martin Ferguson , who along with police pal Frank Nelson ( Roy Roberts ) , unravels a murder for profit enterprise in a deftly told story with a clever twist that finally sinks the big fish behind it . Like the Charlie Chan films of an earlier era , I found that keeping a scorecard for the colorful cast of characters is helpful to keep track of the action . You've got names like Big Babe , Philadelphia Tom , Smiley , Sad Eyes and Duke Molloy to keep track of , all as the story unfolds in a flashback within a flashback framework . One of the more interesting things for me in this 1950 film was it's explanation of the terms " contract " and " hit " , obviously recent additions to the crime lexicon for it's day , though hardly unknown today . The movie offers a lot of clichéd lines that were probably fresh at the time , take Ferguson's command to the paranoid Rico ( Ted De Corsia ) the day before he's set to testify against mob boss Mendoza ( Everett Sloane ) - " He'll die , he's got to die , and you're going to kill him . " Though Rico dies in a fall while trying to escape from testifying , we later see him in a flashback scene recounting how he was present at Mendoza's first " hit " of a café owner . Apparently , Mendoza's murder for hire racket had quite a few customers ; when Ferguson has the authorities dredge a swamp where a couple victims were expected to be found , they wound up with an evidence room table filled with the shoes of his victims . That was one of the credibility defying scenes that seemed a little over the top , even though done in understated fashion . With only a few hours to find a way to put Mendoza away for good , Ferguson strains his memory for a possible clue that may have been largely ignored when Rico initially gave himself up . I think they had a song for it - " Don't it make your brown eyes blue " . If you can get your hands on this little gem , give it a try . One of Bogie's last films , it holds up well , even though certain elements mentioned earlier mark it as a period piece . For all that , it offers a capable cast that delivers it's story well , amid dingy interrogation rooms and sordid back alleys . Have fun !
" We never leave until the job is done . "	As an action adventure , Spike Lee's " Inside Man " delivers the goods with a mysterious bank heist that has more at it's center than meets the eye . You realize there's something a bit different about Clive Owen's character Dalton , allowing hostages to go free at points in the film when it serves his unique purpose . For his part , Detective Keith Frazier ( Denzel Washington ) comes across a few dots that refuse to connect , and can't get over the feeling that this is a bank heist that's not a bank heist . For me , the mark of a good actor or actress is how they make you feel about the character they're portraying . In that regard , I was fairly repulsed by the smarmy brashness and curt innuendo of Jody Foster's Madeline White character . Her performance was masterful as a behind the scenes power broker , known by reputation and called personally by the president of the bank under siege . She can read between the lines as well as anyone , and you don't quite believe it when she says she won't do anything illegal to earn her payday . It occurred to me as I did the math that we're quickly coming to a time when real time stories with themes from World War II are nearly at an end . Arthur Case ( Christopher Plummer ) would have to be about eighty five for his character to make sense , so one wonders why he might have kept the reminders of his Nazi connections in a safe deposit box of his bank for over sixty years . Of course without it there's no story , so an appropriate grain of salt is necessary here . " Inside Man " is the kind of film that begs for a repeat viewing that allows one to now concentrate on the character relationships that the first time might have seemed unimportant or unconnected . In particular , there are some head scratching scenes offered that seem to suggest " what might happen " if the police storm the bank , with one shot zeroing in on a blood splattered lock box 392 . At that point in time , detective Frazier still didn't know what was at the core of the caper . I've read some of the posts that take the movie to task for lack of back story and the unknown background and motivation of the Owens and Foster characters . I can live with that in a film that already takes a couple of hours to tell it's story . The action is intense when it needs to be , and demands your attention to keep up with key elements . The film winds up being just clever enough to be exciting and entertaining , and there are times when that's good enough for me .
" I hardly think a few birds are going to bring about the end of the world . "	Before and since " The Birds " , you've had all manner of creatures to make their impact in horror films . The brilliance of Alfred Hitchcock is that he doesn't go for the obvious - the great white shark , the rampaging gorilla , or the Jurassic dinosaur . What could be more welcome than a few songbirds to brighten up and add some cheer to an otherwise ordinary day ? As the crows congregated in the schoolyard it seemed like they exuded evil in a strange way , foreshadowing an event outside the normal scheme of things . With all the slash and gore spectacle prevalent in horror films today , one has a keen sense as a viewer that nothing presented on screen is real . But take one look at the plucked out eyes of farmer Dan Fawcett slumped against the wall of his home , and you begin to wonder , wow ! could something like that ever really happen ? Offsetting the grim spectacle of the bird attacks , I thought Hitchcock did a nicely nuanced job with some offbeat humor that might not seem obvious at first . Would a pair of caged lovebirds really respond to inertia the way the ones in Melanie's car did taking those curves on the road to Bodega Bay ? I thought that was a neat touch . And how about shortly after the sparrow attack at the Daniels home , when the diner waitress orders baked potato with the fried chicken ? Hitchcock's little way of a preemptive strike on the feathered set before things really get going . One thing seemed kind of odd though . Recalling that sparrow attack down the chimney into the Daniels parlor , wasn't it strange that no one screamed ? Not even a sound out of any of the people in the room , including little Cathy Brenner ( Veronica Cartwright ) . That certainly wasn't played very realistically ; I pictured myself in that room shouting out a few well chosen four letter words besides ' bird ' , I can tell you that . As for the players , Tippi Hedren did a commendable job in virtually her very first screen role . There was something mysterious to her persona that might have been construed as to contributing to the bird attacks . That idea was voiced later in the story by the panicked mother who wanted to leave town as quickly as possible with her daughter . I couldn't really warm up to the idea of Veronica Cartwright and Rod Taylor portraying a brother and sister with the apparent age disparity , but that wound up working out OK . The inconclusive finale left me feeling a little baffled since there was no real resolution to the problem with the birds back in Bodega Bay . It felt a little like the ending to the original " War Of The Worlds " ( 1953 ) where everything kind of worked out for the best , but with no sense of closure or comfort to it . Before closing I have to throw out this bit of ornithological trivia , and I'm curious why Hitchcok didn't use it in the film . There was in fact a reference to a flock of crows in the picture , but the more accurate description would have been a ' murder of crows ' . Seriously , you could look it up , the term came about because a group of crows is known to kill an already dying animal in order to feed . A whole bunch of them looks kind of spooky too !
D . W . Griffith's ' Immortal Spectacle '	Aware of the film's historic importance to the history of movie making , I wasn't prepared for the turn of events in the latter third that paints director Griffith as an apologist for the Ku Klux Klan , an organization in his mind that saved the South from an anarchy that shed more blood than Gettysberg . Also disconcerting was the presentation of a fictional character like Representative Austin Stoneman to further blur the distinction between reality and it's opposite . Stoneman's character was based on real life abolitionist Congressman Thaddeus Stevens , and in the film , opposes President Lincoln's policy of clemency for the South . Stoneman's hypocrisy relative to his assertion that black men are equal to white men is exposed in his revulsion over the mulatto Silas Lynch's suggestion of marriage to his daughter Elsie . Stoneman , who fancied himself the most powerful man in America following Lincoln's assassination , had hand picked Lynch to lead South Carolina's blacks through the Reconstruction . Other reviewers on this forum have done a superb job of detailing how the film set back the cause of civil rights and the resurrection of the Ku Klux Klan upon it's release in 1915 , to the point of influencing President Woodrow Wilson to expose some of his own segregationist leanings . In light of that , I'll steer my comments toward facts regarding the history of the film itself . Historically , " The Birth of a Nation " reinforced the idea that films over an hour in length ( feature length ) were a viable art form . It premiered in Los Angeles on February 8 , 1915 as " The Clansman " , based on the Thomas Dixon novel of the same name , and underwent the name change for it's East Coast premiere in New York three weeks later . It was Griffith's belief that before the Civil War , the United States was a loose coalition of states antagonistic to each other . The outcome of the war insured that both North and South would now be bound under one national authority . The film's controversy over the Klan's importance in restoring order in the South was actually a prevalent idea among historians at the time the movie came out . Vigorously opposed by blacks , it would take the civil rights movement of the 1950's and ' 60's for historians to rethink their views of Reconstruction . Financially , the film was wildly successful , grossing ten million dollars by 1925 , on grossly inflated ticket prices of as much as two dollars ! It would remain the all time box office champion until 1937 , when in an odd and serendipitous stroke it was dethroned by " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " - what irony ! Griffith's budget for the film started at forty thousand dollars , and he was constantly forced to raise more capital for the final cost of one hundred ten thousand dollars . Offering ten thousand to novelist Dixon for the rights to " The Clansman " , he could only come up with a quarter of the sum , thereby offering the writer the same percentage of the profits . Agreeing , Dixon wound up with several million dollars after his initial reluctance . The original film topped out at three hours and ten minutes making it the longest film on record at the time . The version I viewed today was only 103 minutes , which would explain some of the unnamed characters I had to contend with , such as Ben Cameron's brother and sisters and the brother of Phil Stoneman . Though somewhat distracting , it did not prevent understanding the proceedings . I'll have to admit that my involvement with the movie won't end with this single viewing and the comments in this forum . On that point , the film will have succeeded in establishing a desire to learn more about the days of the Reconstruction and it's aftermath . For a ninety year old picture to have that kind of influence , and especially considering that it was a silent , is testimony to the power of film .
" If I'm going to get shot at , I might as well get paid for it . How do I get a badge ? "	Not only is " Rio Bravo " one of the greatest Westerns ever , but it's about the most fun you'll have watching one too . For that , you'll have to credit an eclectic casting decision matching Dean Martin as a drunken deputy with the Duke himself , and nineteen year old teenage heartthrob Ricky Nelson as a sharp shooting gunslinger who throws in with the good guys . Round it out with Walter Brennan's finely tuned stereotypical turn as a real McCoy deputy sheriff and you've got the ingredients for an entertaining Western . And oh yes , I don't want to forget Angie Dickinson as the romantic interest for Sheriff John T . Chance ( John Wayne ) , but at twenty eight , she didn't look like the kind of girl who'd go for the fifty two year old Duke , looking more like ten years older . I think if you play the picture in your head without her , you'd still have a decent outcome , even if someone else had to throw the flowerpot . Say , could you have picked two better Western character actors than Claude Akins and Myron Healey to challenge the Dude ( Dean Martin ) with the old coin in the spittoon trick ? You know , they weren't on screen very long , but if you follow the genre as a fan , it's always a kick to pick out the players in even the most minor roles . Then there's John Russell , someone I'll always remember first as the " Lawman " , but for some weird reason , I think I like him better as a villain . Trouble is , his screen time here wasn't nearly long enough to establish a sinister presence like the role of regulator Stockburn in Clint Eastwood's " Pale Rider " a couple of decades later . Still , I'll take him in a heartbeat if it means facing down the guys in white hats . The only thing that really catches you off guard in the story is when the good guys are holed up at the jail , and Dino breaks into song accompanied by Rick Nelson on guitar . Roy Rogers used to do that a lot too , even when he was behind bars ! It's a nice diversion even if not very believable , especially when Stumpy ( Brennan ) knows the words to the song too ! I guess what makes the picture work above all is the way Chance stays behind his guys through thick and thin , even when it looks like he's throwing them over . Especially effective are the scenes with Stumpy , played for comic effect , but always with some introspection and wise advice laid in between the lines . On the surface , it's not the kind of team you'd select if you were choosing sides for a pick up game , but when the dust settles , it's the one you'll have the most fun with and still win the game .
" We've got jobs to do , nobody gave them to us but they've got to be done . "	The film doesn't get high marks as part of Cagney's body of work , but I found it to be a fairly gripping pre-War espionage thriller , and all the while you anticipate his character getting captured or knocked off . The story involves the stolen plans of Japanese militarists to conquer the world via Manchuria , China and ultimately the United States . As managing editor of the Tokyo Chronicle , Nick Condon ( Cagney ) sets the wheels in motion for a host of Japanese villains to re-secure the document , at the same time attempting to define the true nature of an effective double agent , Iris Hilliard ( Sylvia Sydney ) . If you've seen enough films of the era , you won't be surprised by the lack of Orientals portraying Japanese characters , even Charlie Chan was played by non-Asians . John Emery's Tanaka was generally effective , but Robert Armstrong's Tojo and John Halloran's Captain Oshima verged on comic caricature at times , and probably accounts for the movie's lack of credibility in some quarters . Hijikata ( Leonard Strong ) , on the other hand is almost played for comic nuance , but all the while I kept picturing Peter Lorre in the role , he would have added a sinister malice to the bumbling . Keep an eye on that early scene when Ollie Miller ( Wallace Ford ) stumbles through the window at Condon's home , he falls completely inside . However as soon as Nick gets there , Miller's feet protrude out over the bottom of the panel . As others on this board have pointed out , the movie doesn't adopt an anti-Japanese posture , but one that's anti-Fascist . If you listen carefully , there are some chilling prophecies by the militarists having to do with America's being crushed and Yamamoto's near glee at being present at the White House to hear the U . S . acceptance of Japanese peace terms . I imagine though that the balance in the film was probably overlooked at the time of the film's release on the heels of America's victory in World War II . Even growing up in the Fifties , I recall Japanese being referred to as ' Japs ' , with an emphasis on the derogatory . Perhaps the surprise in the story is Cagney's display of martial arts skill in not one but two judo skirmishes . His moves , as well as those of his opponents , are generally quite basic , but they're a lot more believable than Sinatra's antics in " The Manchurian Candidate " almost two decades later . I can't recall now whether Cagney's training was just for the film or if it reflected an interest in the discipline itself . It's probably best that the story ends as it does , without Nick and Iris making a successful getaway together . Of course , Nick should have been a goner , so the finale is another opportunity to show how inept the Japanese villains could be , and it sets up that great closing line - " Forgive your enemies , but first get even " .
" Well if it's your job to be right then you're never wrong . "	If you were around prior to 1971 and saw the Marlboro Man in those cigarette commercials , you never stopped to consider that that was a real person . Actually there was more than one Marlboro Man , and they weren't all cowboys . Watching Sam Elliott portray a former Marlboro Man dying from smoking cigarettes wasn't far off the mark , two actors who portrayed the character did die of lung cancer . Probably better than any other movie , " Thank You For Smoking " shows just how effective both sides of an argument can be when delivered by a talented huckster who can think on his feet . What's the best thing about America ? - endless appeals . What's the most frustrating thing about America ? - endless appeals . To argue either side requires a moral flexibility that goes beyond most people . Real life Nick Naylor's can be dangerous . Movie Nick Naylor's though are fun to watch . If you're fed up with political correctness , this is just the right ticket . Naylor treads the periphery of human decency as a member of a self appointed ' MOD ' Squad , the Merchants of Death , who delight in comparing battlefield casualties among the cigarette , alcohol and firearms industries . Anyone else make the connection between the name Naylor , and an oft used euphemism for a cigarette - a nail ? The film's best sight gag - the St . Euthanasius School . Smokers and non smokers alike , I think , will get a kick out of this movie , because there are no moral judgments , and there isn't anything revealed that one doesn't already know about the hazards of smoking . It's about choices , and after that , it's all spin control .
" What a time we've had Rosey , what a time ! "	It's taken me a few screenings to really appreciate " The African Queen " , the film that cemented Humphrey Bogart's reputation with a Best Actor Oscar . Making that achievement even more noteworthy is the fact that the film itself wasn't nominated for Best Picture , somewhat puzzling in my view . Throughout the movie , Bogey's inspired to an entire new range of facial expressions not limited to the familiar pursing of his lips seen in virtually every single one of his other films . He appears most anguished in an amusing scene having tea with Reverend Sayer ( Robert Morley ) and his sister Rose ( Katherine Hepburn ) . As Mr . Allnut's ( Bogart ) stomach grumbles incessantly , the good reverend finds a page in the newspaper advertising ' Pace Windcock's Wind Pills ' ! Never were two individuals more disparate than gin swilling machinist Charlie Allnut and the spinsterish Rosey Sayer , but it's that hurdle that the film manages to overcome as the pair find themselves growing closer to each other through raging river rapids , German gunfire and leech infested waters . At first , Rosey's suggestion that they blow up a hundred ton steamship with home made torpedoes is completely derided by Allnut , but as time passes , the impossible seems more and more doable . The victory kiss between the two following the conquest of the rapids cements a new dynamic between them , and all of a sudden it's a different movie , a romantic adventure . Originally written as a serious film , no one was more surprised than director John Huston at how effectively funny Bogart and Hepburn were together . Though Hepburn was genuinely disturbed by the amount of drinking between the two men on the set , it didn't affect the end product , as wry humor managed to alter the movie's overall tone . The actors look like they're having just the grandest time as Bogey does a mean hippo imitation alternating with chattering chimpanzee antics . I think the gin might have been having an effect by that time . I still prefer some of Bogart's earlier films , " Casablanca " is my all time favorite . Even so , the greatness of " The African Queen " can't be denied , featuring as it does the contenders for greatest male and female actors in history . And who can't identify with the pronouncement of the Louisa's first officer as he marries the seemingly doomed couple - " By the authority vested in me . . . , I pronounce you man and wife . Proceed with the execution . "
" It don't take no brain to get burned . "	In between 1937's " Dead End " and 1938's " Angels With Dirty Faces " , came " Crime School " , all three films teaming the Dead End Kids with Humphrey Bogart . " Dead End " first introduced the misfit gang of course , and not quite a year later they had top billing in this tale of ghetto poverty and reform school violence . Billy Halop portrayed the leader of the Dead End Kids in all three films , and went on to co-star with Bogey in one more prison movie , 1939's " You Can't Get Away With Murder " . This early on , the Dead End concept wasn't fully fleshed out , as each movie brought the same actors to the screen , though with different names . But their screen personas essentially remained the same ; in this film Leo Gorcey is the tough wise guy Spike , Huntz Hall goes by Goofy , and Bobby Jordan is known as Squirt . Interestingly , Gorcey rats out on Halop's character in both " Dead End " and " Crime School " . For his part , Humphrey Bogart played the heel in all the films mentioned , except " Crime School " , where he got to turn in a portrayal of level headed and compassionate Deputy Commissioner Mark Braden . In no nonsense fashion , he fires inept guards and the reformatory's crooked Superintendent Morgan ( Cy Kendall ) . However Morgan's hand picked head guard Cooper ( Weldon Heyburn ) remains behind , feigning loyalty to Braden , but using Spike to create a divisive wedge between Braden and fellow inmate Frankie Warren ( Halop ) . Thrown into the mix is Frankie's sister Sue ( co-star Gale Page ) , who becomes Braden's love interest in the film . " Crime School " is a taut and well paced film , even if the story line gets muddy with Deputy Commissioner Braden's complicity in covering up the gang's prison break and eventual return . As with other Warner Brothers / First National films of the era , the studio paints a picture of the futility of crime and violence as an answer to poverty . In addition to recommending the movies already mentioned , " Little Caesar " and " Public Enemy " are also must see films , though somewhat harder edged . An interesting point of trivia - in the prison yard scene when the Pledge of Allegiance is recited for the new commissioner , the words " under God " had not yet been added to the version we know today .
" Yes Tonto , I am . . . . The Lone Ranger . "	Bullets may not have bounced off his chest , but The Lone Ranger was every bit the symbolic icon to me as my other boyhood hero - Superman . He represented truth , justice and the American way in a classic TV Western setting , living by the principle that he would never use his gun to kill , while scouring the American Southwest with his faithful Indian companion Tonto to bring every single outlaw to justice . The advent of TV provided the perfect opportunity for a post War generation to find it's ideal in an enigmatic masked man who stood for law and order , while providing unparalleled entertainment for five seasons spanning almost eight years . Today I had the opportunity to view for the first time the complete three part origin episodes start to finish without the standard opening and closing sequences to interrupt the continuity of the story . For fans of the Ranger , this is the grand daddy of all Western sagas , telling as it does how Texas Ranger John Reid survived the ambush by the Butch Cavendish Gang , and how he was nursed back to health by an Indian friend from his childhood . Tonto ( Jay Silverheels ) declares his companion a ' trusty scout ' , and names him Kemo-sabe . I've read various interpretations of the origin of the term Kemo-sabe , but I'm satisfied with Tonto's explanation . Reading too much into it just detracts from the story , just like the English translation of ' tonto ' from Spanish , which I won't reveal , because it's just better not to know if you can help it . I thought it quite clever how the origin story created the mystique of the Lone Ranger , like the sixth grave that created the illusion that all the Rangers died in the box canyon ambush . You never see the face of the man who becomes the Lone Ranger , as it's always turned away or obscured to hide his real identity . Even the origin of Silver is handled brilliantly ; the voice of the story's narrator describing the wild stallion's sterling qualities . Would that relate , say , to sterling . . . , silver ? I got the biggest kick out of that . Of course with the passage of time , watching the Lone Ranger episodes today offers a view of how unsophisticated the show was beyond the origin story . Some of them are almost embarrassingly goofy , particularly when it comes to a Lone Ranger showdown when he shoots into the middle of a crowd of bad guys to knock a gun out of it's owner's hand . And how about that little wave he gives to Tonto whenever they're about to ambush the bad guys - it's always the same gesture , but Tonto always knows what it means in different circumstances . Then you have the episodes where Clayton Moore takes off the Ranger mask to don a different disguise to impersonate another character in service to the story . He even went under cover once as an actor portraying President Abraham Lincoln to uncover a villain , top hat and all ! Few fans that I come across ever know that actor John Hart replaced Clayton Moore for the season in a contract dispute that Moore had with the show's producers . If you ever saw that " Happy Days " episode where Fonzie idolizes his boyhood hero , you'll notice it was John Hart listed in the credits . It's difficult actually , to tell if you're watching a Hart episode or not , the key is to listen to the voice ; Moore's is so distinctive that it's a dead giveaway . If you ever get the chance to sample some of the final season color episodes , you're in for a treat . The renditions I've seen on VHS are absolutely gorgeous , although I don't know if commercial prints are available . Most of the black and white episodes around have been re-packaged by any number of distributors in different configurations , so getting your hands on those should be no problem . The must see of course is the three part origin , and if you don't watch anything else , this gives you all the flavor and excitement you need to capture the imagination of one of the West's most famous heroes . Hi-Yo Silver , Awaaaay !
" I could feel the Christmas noose beginning to tighten . . . "	I don't remember the movie's original theatrical release , and came to know about it by a friend's recommendation , probably a year or two after it first came out . Though my own childhood occurred a decade after the setting for " A Christmas Story " , there's no mistaking the angst of a nine year old's condition awaiting the hallowed day , wondering whether a favorite gift would be waiting under the tree . The appeal of the film is timeless in it's own way , and funny in it's depiction of the foibles of youth . At about Ralphie's age , my own son tested the integrity of the old tongue on the pole trick , fortunately to no serious outcome as the rest of the family was watching from inside the house during Christmas dessert . Grandpa to the rescue with a cup of warm water , thereby saving the fire department an inconvenient trip down the road . Attempting to answer the question of whether Santa Claus is real or not would probably have been too overt a theme for the picture , so the movie's take on the loss of youthful innocence is handled a bit differently . That Ovaltine scene when Ralphie deciphers the radio message with his Little Orphan Annie secret decoder pin is one of the best put downs ever of the season's crass commercialism . All of the story's little vignettes work in capturing the innocence and wonder of a simpler era , from standing up to the neighborhood bully to the ' shoot your eye out ' mentality of over anxious mother hens with their precocious children . Somehow I managed to sidestep the taste testing effects of Lux , Palmolive and Lifebuoy , but most of the rest of the picture evoked the fond memories of a childhood growing up in a small town with the kind of issues faced by Ralphie and his buddies . I even remember a friend's first use of the ' F ' word , mispronouncing it in an attempt to make it sound less vulgar and offensive than it was . Just recently , I read about the renovation and opening of the original Christmas Story house in downtown Cleveland where the movie was made . A separate museum across the street is home to memorabilia from the film , though the ' leg lamp ' is prominently displayed in the window of the house as it appeared in the film . Funny how a film can change one's perception of things ; I now always hear the word pronounced ' fra-gee-lay ' . Of course , every Christmas now the movie is shown in marathon sessions on cable , this year TBS won the honors . Because it's been so easily accessible , I've disregarded it the last few years , but decided to watch it start to finish today in a burst of holiday nostalgia . Now if only I could get my hands on a Red Ryder carbine action two hundred shot range model air rifle .
" In an occupation as full of chances as mine , no use in taking unnecessary ones . "	Dr . T . S . Clitterhouse ( Edward G . Robinson ) is a cultivated and distinguished Park Avenue doctor , with a respectable list of clients . He's also obsessed with the workings of the criminal mind , and begins a research project that will help advance the cause of science and the medical profession in understanding the scientific basis for criminal action . As the film opens , the good doctor has just committed his fourth robbery , all jewel heists , and is now about to ingratiate himself with a mob , hoping to gain further insight . I found " The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse " to be a blast , owing largely to Robinson's understated , almost casual performance as a master criminal . His random choice of a gang to work with leads him to Jo Keller ( Claire Trevor ) , and a short list of Warner stock players , including Allen Jenkins , Slapsie Maxie Rosenbloom , and Ward Bond as members of the mob . He's generally well received by all , especially after making Lieutenant Johnson ( Robert Homans ) sweat it out in a routine interrogation . The one thorn in Clitterhouse's side is Rocks Valentine ( Humphrey Bogart ) , who doesn't take kindly to the doctor's high society manner and scientific method . The fact that Jo might be falling for the doc is also a factor , though there is no chemistry to speak of between Jo and Rocks , their relationship primarily focused on the next big heist . What might have begun as scientific research begins to look a lot like enjoyment for the doctor , so after robbing a fur vault Clitterhouse decides it's time to take a break . He doesn't find it so easy though , as Bogie's character traces his identity back to it's Park Avenue origins and attempts to blackmail him . However the doc's knowledge of drugs give him the upper hand , and slipping Rocks a paradol chloride cocktail is enough to take him out of the picture . The cat and mouse game that follows between Police Inspector Lane ( Donald Crisp ) and Clitterhouse is well conceived ; as the doc is about to be arrested , the chance arrival of his lawyer offers an intriguing exchange that offers him a legal way out . With surprising calm , Clitterhouse learns that he's a megalomaniac , and as mad as a hatter if he thought he could get away with murder . The courtroom scene that follows turns into a three ring circus as the jury finds that Clitterhouse must be insane . One thing that surprised me though , is there such a thing as a " State Lunacy Commission " ? There are enough elements of each for this movie to be considered both a comedy and a crime film , with about equal parts of both taking center stage . Robinson's role is uncharacteristic of his typical gangster performances , here he's a cool and sophisticated operator ; he doesn't really believe he's doing anything wrong in his quest to advance scientific and medical science . Presiding over the final court room scene having given way to utter chaos , Clitterhouse calmly surveys the madness and can only comment - " Amazing , really amazing . "
" For all you know I may murder a woman a week . "	Time spent earlier in developing his craft allows Alfred Hitchcock to achieve a masterful film in the story of " The 39 Steps " . Combining a deft use of suspense and humor , the movie keeps one constantly off balance with it's story of odds defying events intruding into the life of a common man . Well , at least a common man who can instantly turn on a dime and outwit armies of police and address a political meeting as well as if he had prepared . The film's protagonist goes by Hannay ( Robert Donat ) , and when he's " picked up " by a music hall patron ( Lucie Mannheim ) , she winds up in his apartment with a knife in her back . That he's now a target as well in a mystery with few clues , Hannay embarks on a mission to uncover a state secret as well as save his own neck . Prepare for the unexpected when Hannay makes his first acquaintance with the man with the missing fingertip . Not only is the film fast paced and tension filled , but it's fun and sexy as well . The scene at the inn with Hannay still handcuffed to Pamela ( Madeleine Carroll ) is particularly memorable , made all the more so by the willful removal of her stockings , and I'm not just talking about the heat from the fireplace . It sort of memorializes Hannay's earlier line when the pair were on the run across the Scottish moors - " There are twenty million women in this island and I've gotta be chained to you . " Besides the humor , other Hitchcockian devices are at work here . One I was impressed with was the reaction from the woman who discovers the dead body in Hannay's apartment dissolving into the scream of a train whistle . The director himself provides one of his signature appearances as well , but you'll have to be attentive . As if to provide a satisfactory nightcap to the raucous proceedings , the movie's finale takes place during " Crazy Month " at the London Palladium , where Mr . Memory ( Wylie Watson ) reprises his act from the start of the film . As if in a trance , Memory reveals the 39 Steps as an organization of spies collecting information on behalf of the Foreign Office . . . You'll do well to view some of Alfred Hitchcock's prior films to appreciate the quantum leap in visual storytelling on view in " The 39 Steps " . It's reputation as one of his best films is well deserved , and is a must for fans of the master of suspense .
" Tonight , is a special night . "	Relentlessly outrageous and always over the top , " Grindhouse " is not a film for the masses , but if you go in knowing what to expect , this is one blast of a thrill ride start to finish . As a tribute to the sexploitation films of the Seventies , the movie is wildly successful in recreating the drive in movie experience of that era , complete with scratchy picture , missing reels and tons of gratuitous anatomical shots , if you know what I mean . Gory and violent too , to the point of squeamish if you have a weak stomach , but even then , it's in an effort to outdo itself in scene after scene . Now for the life of me , I couldn't really tell you what " Planet Terror " was supposed to be about . It's got mini scenarios about a feuding husband / wife doctor duo , a reuniting of former lovers ( Rose McGowan and Freddy Rodriguez ) , and lots of zombies . Bruce Willis turns up , but I can't say if he was a good guy or a bad guy . Lots of zombies too . There's so much going on , and one gets so mesmerized by Rose McGowan's amputated leg replaced by a stick and a machine gun that your rational mind has a little trouble keeping up with the sensory overload . Not to mention the zombies . The " Death Proof " segment is a bit more straightforward , and the title makes a whole lot of sense when put in context by Kurt Russell's character , Stunt Man Mike . Russell is maniacally effective as the thrill seeking lady killer , and the car chase scene has to be one of the best put to film . I could have done a lot less with the diner scene which seemed endless and virtually pointless , my mind straying to the one in Tarantino's " Reservoir Dogs " , which worked a whole lot better for it's relationship to that story . Before I forget , Russell gets to ham it up with a real cheesy John Wayne impersonation in the early going , way before the Challenger ladies turn the tables on him . Up front and in between , we're treated to four movie trailers and that instantly recognizable ' Feature Presentation ' music that was a mainstay of theaters back in the day . You couldn't get me to a drive in to watch any of this stuff when it was in it's prime , but today , reliving my youth , this stuff is a blast . The film gets a lot of mileage out of it's caricature of an era gone by , and that's the point , so you'll either get it or not get it , depending on your perspective . Oh yeah , my favorite grindhouse title of all time - " Sex Cures The Crazy " - never saw it , but still remember the title after almost forty years . Imagine the impact if I HAD seen it ! Hey , if you need a recommendation to see the film , I'll let Rosario Dawson's t-shirt tell the story - ' Badass Cinema ' - that's all you need to know .
" I'm lookin ' for some excitement , there's a lull in the joint . "	James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart made three films together , each with Cagney receiving top billing . This was the middle film , following 1938's " Angels With Dirty Faces " , and just before the same year 1939's " Oklahoma Kid " . The movie opens with shellfire over a World War I foxhole , the boys joined by Jeffrey Lynn's character Lloyd Hart . It's April 1918 , and post war plans and the news of the coming Prohibition are topics of conversation amid enemy fire . The film does a nice job of tracing the background of Prohibition , making much of the changes that occurred in the country and how difficult it was for returning servicemen to find jobs . Those who turned to bootlegging became part of a vast " criminal army " , although in some quarters , the bootlegger was looked upon as a modern crusader and hero . By 1924 , booze is big business , and by that time , wartime buddies Eddie Bartlett ( Cagney ) and George Hally ( Bogart ) have hooked up - Eddie makes and peddles it , George can get more in a big way . After they hijack a warehouse load , they're in deep and tempers begin to fray , as George resents taking a back seat to Eddie's control . Adding to the tension is an unrequited crush Eddie has on Jean Sherman ( Priscilla Lane ) , first introduced as Eddie's wartime correspondent who views him as her " hero " . But as the story progresses , Jean falls in love with Lloyd Hart , the final member of the opening scene foxhole trio who has become Eddie's business lawyer . " The Roaring Twenties " doesn't have the intensity of some of Cagney's other gangster films , like " White Heat " or " Public Enemy " , but that shouldn't be considered less of a recommendation . The principals are all in top form , including Gladys George as Panama Smith , and the always entertaining Frank McHugh as Bartlett's hometown pal and partner Danny Green . The movie ends on a fitting note ; Eddie's fortunes parallel the 1929 stock market crash - he falls off a cliff and keeps falling , until his final confrontation with George ends tragically for both . Panama utters the movie's final line putting Eddie's career into perspective - " He used to be a big shot " .
" I don't think he's running away from us , I think he's running away from you . "	Say , this was one clever little flick . What grabbed me was how elements of the picture fell into place while thinking about certain scenes after it was over . Like the sketch of the murderer and Susie's apparent suicide - geez , that hit me over the head later rather than sooner , as the movie's pacing managed to distract me when those crucial events took place . I also found it slick the way the Hart and Winston mannequin display led to an analysis of the two Eleanor's , highlighting the dilemma faced by Ann Sheridan's character as she wrestled with her feelings about a missing husband and their dissolving marriage . The one thing that could have been handled better though was the revelation of Leggett ( Dennis O'Keefe ) as Danny Boy . It occurs too early in the story , probably about mid way in with that suspenseful ' Uh-Oh ' music that portends certain doom . Wouldn't it have been something if Eleanor learned of Danny Boy's name in connection with the city's criminal enterprise ? Then , while they're on the roller coaster ride , Leggett reveals himself - ' You can call me Danny Boy ' ! That would have been perfect , adding a twist of suspense that was diluted somewhat by the way it was actually handled . Ann Sheridan is probably my favorite actress of the era , but this film offered a side I hadn't seen before . I'm more familiar with the wise cracking Laury Ferguson of " Angels With Dirty Faces " , or saucy waitress Cassie Hartley from " They Drive By Night " . Here she makes with the snappy dialog , but it's subdued and somber , tailored to the circumstances of a husband who's witnessed a murder and might be using that as an excuse to ditch his wife . In that respect , the movie's title might have been better served by calling it " Man On The Run " , but then it wouldn't have been Sheridan's picture , which it most definitely was . Ross Elliott portrayed the ' missing ' Frank Johnson ; funny how his character managed to pervade every scene even though he was almost never around till the finale . Robert Keith turned in a capable performance as the police inspector on the murder / missing husband case . But gee , it seemed a bit too ironic that his character's name would be Ferris in a story that winds up in an amusement park . I managed to pick this movie up as part of a four DVD / sixteen movie collection from Mill Creek Entertainment as part of their ' Gangsters ' set . Most , probably all of the flicks in the set are ones you never heard of , I certainly hadn't . Which made it a whole lot more satisfying to come away with a gem like this one in the mix , even if there was a clunker or two to sit through along the way .
" I wonder why he left me all that money , I don't need it . "	There was a time I used to wonder what it would be like to win a million dollars , much less a sum like twenty million . However the older I get , the idea of it doesn't seem to hold the same kind of fantasy it once did . Lomgfellow Deeds ( Gary Cooper ) seems to have figured it out early enough in life ; there's not much good a whole pile of money will do if it pulls you away from the person you really are . Now I can't say for a fact that the temptation of it might still not be there , but if I was really all that wishful about it , I'd be out there buying my lottery ticket a couple times a week hoping for a big payoff , but that's not really a priority . Watching a story like this just helps reaffirm what the true qualities in life really are . I think what cemented it for me was the testimony of the Faulkner sisters . Deeds knew what he was doing when he asked them to affirm that he was in fact pixillated . With just the right inference , Longfellow showed that he was just as pixillated as the next man , including the judge , and that wasn't such a bad thing after all . I'm not sure how that scene would actually fly in a real court of law , but it reminded me of the whimsical way it was proved that Santa Claus really did exist in " Miracle On 34th Street " . I think it's important to remind ourselves every now and then that there's some really significant wonder in the world after all , and that money and riches don't have anything to do with it . I tried picturing Jimmy Stewart , another Capra favorite , in the role of Longfellow Deeds . I'm sure it would have worked out just fine , but watching Gary Cooper here , I think he wound up being just right . His pairing with Jean Arthur in the role of Babe Bennett wasn't hampered by what might have been that ' aw shucks ' kind of temperament that Stewart brings to his roles . Cooper had just the right amount of civility and character to go along with his ' goodness ' , and it proved to be the winning combination in the end . You know what I found quite interesting though ? I've probably seen Gabby Hayes in easily a hundred Western movies and TV shows , but I don't think I've ever seen him handle the delivery of important serious dialog in a movie . He did so here as a representative of the down and out farmers , and that one scene brings me to a new and different appreciation of Hayes as an actor . It was actually a sit up and take notice moment for me , when about the only thing I ever expect to hear out of his mouth is ' ya durn tootin ' ! I also enjoyed the characters of newspaper editor MacWade ( George Bancroft ) , Cornelius Cobb ( Lionel Stander ) , and banker John Cedar ( Douglas Dumbrille ) . For his part , Dumbrille might have given his best villainous performance here , and that's including any Westerns he might have appeared in with Gabby .
" There's no such thing in the world as a bad boy . "	Spencer Tracy earned a second Best Actor Academy Award for his portrayal of Father Flanagan , the inspirational founder of Boys Town , a haven for troubled youth on the outskirts of Omaha , Nebraska . Flanagan was spurred to action by the execution of a prison inmate whose life paralleled many of the boys that Flanagan has come to know in his own home town . With a shoestring budget , and the aid of practical but good hearted businessman Dave Morris ( Henry Hull ) , Flanagan begins the task of building a home and a legacy for hundreds of troubled young men . Flanagan soon meets Whitey Marsh ( Mickey Rooney ) , a street wise punk who is about to follow in the footsteps of his criminal brother ; but it was big brother Joe ( Edward Norris ) who asks Flanagan to befriend Whitey . At first , Whitey wants none of it , but there always seems to be something holding Whitey back , whether the thought of a good meal , the effort to make an impression on the other boys , or just the friendship of another young boy Pee Wee ( Bobs Watson ) who looks up to Whitey . Rooney gives an incredibly fine performance here , portraying a wide range of character and emotions . His near breakdown when Pee Wee is injured and the thought that he was responsible is enough to cause a tear jerk reaction . The film does get a bit simplistic at times , and some of the situations seem contrived to keep the story moving . But it's anchored by a sense of faith and hope in Father Flanagan's crusade to make the world just a little bit better for one boy at a time . In that , the film has a timeless appeal , and resonates as strongly today as it must have in the late 1930's .
" Give up your hopeless attempt to escape . "	I'm getting around to viewing films I might have seen only once many years ago and usually upon their original theatrical release , so today I had the opportunity to take a look at " The Great Escape " . It's funny how you recollect some things from a movie and not others . Virtually everyone can recall the thrilling motorcycle chase by Steve McQueen's character , while for some reason I distinctly remember the manner in which the POW's got rid of the dirt from the tunnels . On the flip side , I had to be reminded of the potato vodka scene ( ' no smoking while you're drinking ! ' ) , and Hendley ( James Garner ) snookering Werner ( Robert Graf ) out of his wallet . The thought that struck me today was how sanitized the movie appears to be compared to what real conditions must have been like , even in an elite camp for captured Air Force and RAF officers . Though I can grant that officers of the German Luftwaffe might have harbored a professional respect for fellow fliers , it seems that a character like Captain Hilts ( McQueen ) probably should have worn out his welcome after only a single escape attempt . But it's a true story , so somewhere between the reality of the actual event and poetic license used in the film there lies a fascinating tale . McQueen of course is exceptional in his role , as are Richard Attenborough , Charles Bronson and Donald Pleasence . Garner is top billed with McQueen and Attenborough in the opening credits , though his role seems underplayed compared to the other two , while James Coburn seems to achieve more visibility after the escape . The film offers an interesting convention with it's assortment of vignettes featuring each of the main characters in relation to one another . While watching , one might need to bring a grittier sense of reality to the proceedings than offered on screen , as the grim prospect of tunneling fifty tons of dirt never seems to weigh on events as they unfold . There's also the lack of perspective in regards to the time it took for the escape to occur , even though the video sleeve stated that six hundred British and American Air Force men took over a year to plan and execute the largest ever mass escape in history in March of 1944 . A follow up to what happened to the successful escapees would have been a nice touch as well .
" You got one shot left in that shooter , make the most of it . "	Up till now I've avoided Tom Selleck's Westerns , and really with no good reason . I was genuinely surprised at the characterization he gave to Matthew Quigley , a transplanted Wyoming cowboy answering an ad for a job in Australia . But let me get this straight , his intended employer wanted him to KILL native aborigines . Not relocate them , scare them away , or find a way to civilize them into the nineteenth century . He wanted Quigley to KILL them ! Now it's not like land owner Marston ( Alan Rickman ) would ever need even a part of the entire desert landscape he owned that took more than a few days to ride across . Marston is simply an evil person who deserved his initial trouncing by Quigley , thus setting up the eventual final showdown . The early appearance by Crazy Cora ( Laura San Giacomo ) makes one wonder what her eventual role in the film might be , and it turns out to be a good one . Cora delights in calling Quigley ' Roy ' for no apparent reason , but her looniness just might have a purpose . That scene in the desert cave against the dingoes was scary enough to complement a decent horror flick , made all the more horrific by actually being believable . When the moonlight hits those canine eyes , the resultant reflection makes you jump with anticipation . In it's own way , perhaps the real star of the film is Quigley's lever action breech loading Sharps rifle . Now the experts can have their say , but here's what this layman's takeaway is . When Quigley first demonstrates his ability with the weapon , he mentions that it's range for accuracy is about three thousand feet . Always one to question numbers thrown around in any context , a quick mental calculation pegs that at a fair range OVER half a mile . Today while on a flat stretch of highway I fixed my gaze on a location I deemed to be about a half mile away , and believe me , if there was a wooden bucket on the side of the road I would never be able to see it . However with an open mind , I'm open to referrals and demonstrations . At least ' Quigley ' prompts me to seek out some of Selleck's other Western fare since his story here is suitably impressive for a ' spirit warrior ' . And wouldn't you know it , Laura San Giacomo would find steady work in a comedy TV sitcom almost a decade later in a show ironically titled " Just Shoot Me " .
" It's your ass now Compton ! "	I recall so many things about seeing this movie back during it's original theatrical release - the post Woodstock afterglow of peace and love , along with the pre-Watergate tension of fear and paranoia . It's hard to believe that it's thirty seven years later , and I can still remember the thoughts going through my head while watching the film with my best friend . Like marveling at Peter Boyle's characterization of the ultimate redneck , sure to typecast him the rest of his career ( Oh , how wrong ! ) , and how the counter culture jarred the sensibilities of most of the country . To this day , my buddy and I still use Joe Curran's line from my summary above when faced with a dilemma ; curious how a simple line like that can stay with you for decades . It's curious to read comments about the film from others on this board , particularly the ones stating that the film has a dated quality and how over the top the characters were . Still , if you were around during that time , the picture gives a pretty accurate portrayal of the polar opposites that existed back then , pretty much side by side as the events in the story reveal . If you really want dated , when was the last time you heard the words Macy's and Gimbel's in the same sentence , or a line like Joe's - " Come on , get with the Pepsi generation " . For historical perspective , you have that great Nixon poster lingering in one of the background scenes - " Would you buy a used car from this man ? " With minor intricacies like those , director John Avildsen captures many of the subtle but ever present hints of how life was four decades ago . Today's viewing was only the second time I've seen the movie , and I have to admit I don't remember Susan Sarandon in one of the lead roles , but then again , this was her very first picture . The scenes of nudity and free love were something actually quite new and bold at the time , shocking in fact , as film makers began to experiment with their ability to push the envelope of propriety and convention . " Joe " took a major leap in that regard , particularly since it was a ' mainstream ' picture . With the passage of time , the thing that impresses me the most about Peter Boyle was how he overcame the stereotype of Joe Curran to appear in or star in some of my very favorite pieces of work . I mean , how do you go from " Joe " to that hilarious rendition of ' Puttin ' on the Ritz ' in " Young Frankenstein " ? And my absolute favorite episode of ' X-Files ' has Boyle as Clyde Bruckman , in both a tender and tragic , funny and serious portrayal that turns the tables on Scully and Mulder more than once . And as a career capper , Frank Barone has to be one of the funniest characters in the history of television . Even repeat episodes in syndication are funny as he - - whenever the elder Barone lets loose with one of his observations . He is one actor that this viewer sorely misses already .
" The murderer is right in this room , sitting at this table . . . , you may serve the fish . "	An eccentric inventor has disappeared and his mistress secretary has turned up dead , after admitting that she has taken fifty thousand dollars worth of bonds from his shop safe . Enter Nick and Nora Charles ( William Powell and Myrna Loy ) , newlyweds who get pulled into the case in between social gatherings and martinis - " A dry martini you always shake to waltzes " . This is the first entry in " The Thin Man " series , named for the gaunt and wiry inventor Clyde Wynant . All signs point to Wynant himself as the murderer , especially after two more victims turn up . But Nick Charles isn't buying it , there are too many suspects - Joe Morelli , a hood that Wynant catches in his secretary's apartment , Wynant's ex-wife Mimi ( Minna Gombell ) who's always asking for more money , her new husband Chris ( Cesar Romero ) , the suspicious Tanner , Wynant's bookkeeper , and Herbert MacCaulay , his lawyer . Seemingly uninterested in the case , Nick wryly digests the events that unfold following Wynant's disappearance , exchanging snappy banter with wife Nora . One is caught off guard when Nick actually slugs his wife to prevent her from catching a bullet from the gun of Morelli , who comes to the Charles apartment to plead his innocence . To catch the murderer , Nick invites all the suspects to a dinner party , where he methodically reveals what he knows , waiting for an opening for the real killer to expose himself . It's all delightfully done , and Nick doesn't miss a beat for a second . " The Thin Man " holds up exceedingly well for it's seventy plus years of age , and is a classic comedy / mystery achievement , showing up on many " best " lists . Do give it a try , and it may wind up on yours as well .
Route 66 was never this much fun	It's ironic don't you think , that the X-Men's last stand might be against a squad of animated marvels known simply as " Cars " . The film was a particularly unique experience for me since I was able to accompany my year and a half year old grandson to his first movie theater experience . Though antsy at times , he seemed to be fairly well mesmerized by the events on screen , and not distracted by a nearly full theater packed with kids on a Sunday afternoon . Film animation continues to make wondrous strides , and it looks like Disney and Pixar have another hit on their hands . The film will appeal to the inner kid in all of us that yearns for a simpler time and good friends to share it with . It occurred to me on the drive home though that all those down home sentiments are conveyed on film by six figure computer whizzes that have no idea what Hudson Hornet might have gone through winning his races in the 1950's . But at least the story works . I have to admit , I'm not that good at placing the voices to their characters . The only ones that were identifiable for me were Paul Newman , Larry the Cable Guy , and Cheech Marin , while John Ratzenberger was unmistakable as Mack . The other voices , some belonging to even bigger celebs escaped me , but then again , it was about the characters and not their secret identities . Not to offer too much of a cliché , " Cars " is a fun ride , made even better if you can catch it with someone younger along for the road trip . In my case , fifty years younger was just the right buddy to have along .
" Spartans , prepare for glory ! "	When writer Frank Miller was a mere five years old , his older brother took him to an opening day screening of " The 300 Spartans " . That event remained permanently etched in his mind , and allowed Miller the luxury of years of research into the customs , traditions , training , weaponry and military strategy of the ancient Greeks . In 1998 , his graphic novel was released as a series of books from Dark Horse Comics , with Lynn Varley supplying the painted visuals in a stunning work that garnered numerous awards , both for the material itself and the artists involved . It was with some trepidation that I went to see the movie , as the few TV commercial ads I saw made it look like an advanced video game . By then though , the positive reviews had been piling up , from professional and amateur critics alike . Not to worry , though the degree of CGI involved in the filming is extraordinary , the actors themselves are very real . They had each other to work with , along with the singular artistic vision of director Zack Snyder , who kept copies of the ' 300 ' comic series on the set and referred to them daily to maintain the integrity of Miller's original work . In that regard , one might characterize the current film as a movie about a book about a movie , based on a real historical event . Of course liberties are taken in the telling of the story , but for veracity , you have history books . This piece is offered as entertainment , an often times brutal ballet of flashing swords and grisly hand to hand combat . The action scenes are further enhanced by a technique of speeding up and slowing down that helps concentrate the viewers attention . Be prepared for blood , but not in the spraying and pooling style of slasher flicks , here it's chunky and messy , crimson and muddy as befits the somber locale of Thermopylae , the ancient ' hot gates ' . To be balanced , a drawback of the movie might be the often clichéd dialog , spoken by Spartan friend and foe alike . However I found the appearance of Persian King Xerxes to be a cinematic and artistic achievement , an androgynous marvel who commands his screen time like no other villain I can think of . This movie won't be everyone's idea of a good time , however action / adventure fans as well as followers of Frank Miller's work will be well pleased . It should certainly be seen on the big screen to take advantage of it's unique filming style , and to get a good glimpse of the next generation of movie making .
" There's a curse on those woods . . . "	I had forgotten what a satisfying little thriller this was from watching it a couple of years ago . The story builds suspense in the first half by slowly revealing the mystery of it's title , with scene after scene adding dimension to what will eventually be revealed as Pete Morgan's fifteen year long nightmare . As Morgan , Edward G . Robinson brings some of the subtler aspects of his acting side to the story , at least in the early going when he's a warm and caring guardian to adopted daughter Meg . Later he dissolves into paranoia , until virtually reliving the events of that earlier time when he accidentally killed his lover , the basis for his forced life of seclusion . When you watch the film again , take note of the scene when Robinson's character lights the candle upon first entering the Red House , there's a great transformation shot that makes him fifteen years younger , erasing the creases in his forehead as he remembers the house ' just as it was ' . That was just a great creative subtlety that worked amazingly well to establish Morgan's mental state . The film also works for the excellent characterizations of Judith Anderson as Pete's devoted sister Ellen , and Allene Roberts as their adopted daughter Meg . Meg becomes involved in a romantic triangle of sorts when she begins to fall for Nath Storm ( Lon McCallister ) , who in the early story is going steady with the local glamor girl Tibby Renton ( Julie London ) . You know , if you take a look at London's film credits , she sure does show up in the oddest places , like a jungle woman in her very first picture , 1944's " Nabonga " . Here , director Delmer Daves does his best to zoom in on repeated long glamor poses of both London and rival Roberts in close-ups that resemble screen tests . There's even a couple featuring Rory Calhoun's rugged good looks , even though he turns out to be a villain of the piece ; an oddly well selected choice for the role he has . Here's a puzzler - how did Nath know there was rifle in the closet ? And still a bigger puzzler - How did Pete Morgan ever get away with it fifteen years ago ? That was a point the film never adequately answers , even though it was mentioned that Meg's parents moved South and died in an accident to set up the adoption . Odd that no one from the town ever questioned their just disappearing and leaving a baby behind . But then again , the town seemed prone to rumor and half truths anyway , as established by the dinner scene when Nath was first hired by Morgan . Others on this board have mentioned the intense musical score , and the harrowing night time scenes in the Oxhead Woods , all of which border the film on a horror piece as well as a mystery thriller . This one is well recommended to get your hands on , even better for one of those dark , stormy nights with lightning casting a dim glow while watching . You'll begin to believe Edgar G . Robinson when he states - ' . . . you can never run away from the scream " .
" Well , sometimes the magic works , sometimes it doesn't . "	One of the great films of the early Seventies , one I saw when it first came out and a number of times since . I remember how horrified I was to see the massacre at Washita Creek the first time ; one hears of events like that or reads about them , but actually watching an event like that the way it might have happened had a lasting impact on me . Another film of the era that also dramatized the sheer horror of men at war and senseless killing was " Patton " , which also came out the same year as " Little Big Man " . These were among the first films I saw that de-sanitized the inhumane aspects of war and genocide and showed them for what they were , truly brutal and insane sides of the human condition . There's another holdover as well ; I've used my summary line above quite often over the years , and had forgotten the origin of it until watching the film again yesterday . Chief Dan George was simply magnificent in the picture , he conveyed the Indian philosophy perfectly in scene after scene and is probably my favorite Native American actor . I'm always intrigued by Indian names , and along with Old Lodge Skins , my favorites from this story include Shadow That Comes in Sight ( Ruben Moreno ) and Burns Red in the Sun ( Steve Shemayne ) . The one very unique idea presented in this picture had to do with the notion of a homosexual Indian as portrayed by the character Little Horse ( Robert Little Star ) . I'm sure I would never have given that a thought after watching hundreds of Westerns , it just never came up before . The other trait that I'd never encountered was the idea of a ' Contrary ' , the Cheyenne Younger Bear ( Cal Bellini ) who did everything backwards , sort of the Bizarro version of the Red Man . This was one Western that made you think outside the stereotypes . Now I have to admit , some of the scenes done for comedic effect seemed to go way against the grain of the movie as a historical drama . Perhaps most representative of that was Jack Crabb's ' Soda-Pop Kid ' characterization . In fact , Jack's life went through so many highs and lows that it's almost impossible to imagine that all of it could have happened to one person in a single lifetime . Given a choice , I think mine would be getting my back washed by Faye Dunaway . You know , by some strange cosmic serendipity , another 1970 Western featured a similar scene . In " The Ballad of Cable Hogue " , the roles are reversed and Jason Robards gets to wash the back of Stella Stevens in what must have been an extreme exercise of sheer will power . I wonder which film maker thought of it first . You know , I've seen a few treatments of Custer's Last Stand , and read with interest some of the other postings for this film regarding General George Armstrong Custer . Some were heated in their denunciation of Richard Mulligan's portrayal , but from what I've read about Custer , he was fairly ego-centric to the point of being megalomaniacal . I thought Mulligan brought the kind of audacity to the role that Emilio Estevez brought to his portrayal of Billy the Kid in " Young Guns " . He oozed a supreme self confidence that totally fogged his judgment leading to one of the great military disasters of American History . Along with ' Sometimes the magic works ' , Custer's ' poison up from the goo-nads speech ' is one of the most memorable scenes in the picture for me . It would be tough to come up with another movie that raises so many conflicting emotions in the viewer , and I think that's a particular skill of a good director . Arthur Penn did a superb job of blending dramatic and comedic elements together in a story that's as thought provoking as it is entertaining . I'd recommend " Little Big Man " to anyone who would like a different kind of movie , one that takes the stereotypes and stands them on their head in support of an intriguing and downright offbeat Western .
" If there's anything I don't like , it's driving a stagecoach through Apache country . "	John Wayne's first appearance on screen in " Stagecoach " is one of the great character introductions in film . It's as if he took the energy from all those Republic , Lone Star and Monogram Westerns and compacted them into one grand entrance that subliminally announced ' here's a brand new Hollywood star ' . John Ford's trust in his actor friend forged a new chapter in American movie-making , and with it , the birth of the modern Western . I was surprised by the amount of humor in the story without a traditional comic relief character . For sure , you had Andy Devine in a characteristic role , but other individuals took their turn as well , notably Thomas Mitchell in his Oscar winning turn as Doc Boone , and Donald Meek as the subdued alcohol salesman . Can you picture him as the father of five kids in the story ? The best concept though was the ' Ladies of the Law and Order League ' ; who came up with that one ? For all the times he's mentioned by name , the one character who never winds up being a part of the action is the ' Apache butcher ' Geronimo . Checking even the secondary uncredited cast , one can find no mention of an on screen appearance by the Chief . One of the impressive things about the story is the way virtually all of the stagecoach characters start out as caricatures , and wind up evolving into three dimensional people you wind up either caring about , or disliking enough to want to see them get what's coming to them . They wind up feeling the same way about each other too , perhaps the relationship between Lucy Mallory ( Louise Platt ) and Dallas ( Claire Trevor ) to be the most transforming on a personal level . Hey , did the Plummer's ever have a chance once the Ringo Kid hit town ? Luke draws an aces and eights hand and a black cat crosses the path of the brothers as they take to the streets of Lordsburg . Wisely , the saloon owner took down the mirror over the bar , or there might have been seven years bad luck on top of the shootout . If I had to come up with a single odds defying moment that didn't work for me , it would have to be the ballistics ( is that the right word ? ) of the arrow that struck Peacock at the start of the Apache attack . It might have been possible if it had gone through the Doc's head first . On top of that , the booze salesman survived ! In fact , everyone on the stage survived , putting to shame the law of averages in a situation like that . One thing remained certain for John Wayne though , after dozens of Westerns , no matter what the situation , he winds up getting the girl . Unlike his many Lone Star films though , he actually had to work at it a bit , and vice versa for co-star Trevor . But at least it was neat the way Marshal Curly ( George Bancroft ) and the Doc gave Ringo and Dallas their send off , and it only cost the sheriff one drink !
" It ain't nobody's business but ours . "	Somewhere between it's Golden Globes win as Best Picture , and my sister's dismissal of the film as boring , lies the reputation of " Brokeback Mountain " as a film of significance . Prepared for either eventuality , I found the movie to have handled it's subject rather well , without being overtly or gratuitously graphic . As to it's greatness , that will be left to the test of time . The performances by the leads , as well as the supporting cast was realistic and engaging , lending credibility to the story . Director Ang Lee never ceases to amaze , with films as diametrically opposed as " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " , " Hulk " , and now " Brokeback Mountain . Where does the creative vision for handling such themes come from ? I can't say for sure if handling Jack's death within the story might have carried more force though , as opposed to it being dealt with in almost a flashback sort of way . Still tragic of course , but to my thinking , it would have guaranteed a more dramatic impact if done as part of the story in real time . Curiosity about the film prompted me to go see it ; having done so I can say it was a worthwhile experience . It's good to see a controversial subject handled maturely and with creativity . Now let's see what Oscar says .
" The Creator may be tough , but He ain't blind . "	I first saw this picture a couple of years ago about twenty minutes into it , and it's maintained my fascination ever since . I got to watch the entire story today and right out of the gate , it goes to my list of " Top Ten Films You Never Heard Of " . There's more to it than just a unique meld of the Western and Sci-Fi genres ; I think there's something ultimately fascinating and satisfying about an assortment of former outlaws that remains true to their principles , even if it means damnation to hellfire and brimstone . In this case , a quartet of deceased historical Western figures decides to stand up for their town after being challenged by a still alive member of the Blackjack Britton gang . The way the story unfolds is what makes it so unique . A bank robbery in Sweetwater goes badly , and Blackjack ( Eric Roberts ) leads his band's escape into an idyllic countryside and a small town called Refuge . One's first hint that there's something unusual in Refuge comes when Sheriff Forrest ( Sam Shepard ) tells the outlaws that there's no telegraph office or newspaper in town , and cursing is only allowed in the local saloon . What the gang sees as easy pickings is the sheriff's decision not to wear a gun , along with the herd mentality of the townsfolk in keeping with their daily church service . The way it's all revealed though is with a keen focus on where the story needs to go if the spiritual angle is to be made believable . I can think of one improvement I would have made when it came to the inevitable showdown between the good guys and the Britton gang . Remember how the church bell tolled to herald the encounter ? Wouldn't it have been great if it only rang twelve times for a different kind of ' High Noon ' . Really , I found myself counting and it went beyond twelve , fifteen I think it was . Not a big thing , but that would have been a great subliminal tribute to my all time favorite Western . As for the gunfight itself , it was a keenly protracted and bloody affair , reminiscent somewhat of the 1993 film " Tombstone " and it's treatment of the Gunfight at the OK Corral . The film's minor hero Sonny Dillard ( Brad Rowe ) survives his mortal wounds to inherit the sheriff's badge when he passes on the stage ride to the other side . Sonny's romantic involvement with Refuge resident Rose ( Amelia Heinle ) was never overdone , and the way the story brought it to a conclusion was entirely satisfying . Oh yeah , one final comment about the Indian Gatekeeper portrayed by Saginaw Grant . He never had a name in the story , but depending on your inclination , he could have been Geronimo or Sitting Bull to round out the historical roster of names on display . For my part , and in keeping with the spirit of the picture , I like to think of him as Crazy Horse .
" Set sail in a general that way direction . "	The first time I EVER heard about Davey Jones ' locker I was probably about eight years old and read about it in a ' Mighty Mouse ' comic book back in the 1950's - I still remember the panel ! The story never really made it clear about the legend , so I sit here almost fifty years later thinking about that story and the film I saw today . Whether the movie version bears any resemblance to the actual legend I still don't know , but it made for a good flick , and a worthy sequel to the original " Pirates of the Caribbean " . The pace of the story is pretty quick , and I'll admit that repeat viewings are necessary to catch the nuance between all the characters and events going on in an effort to retrieve the ' Dead Man's Chest ' . The nutshell version says that the owner of the chest and the beating heart of Davey Jones inside will rule the high seas . Besides good old Davey himself , there's an entire boatload of characters setting their sights on the mythical treasure . The first appearance of Johnny Depp as ambiguous swashbuckler ( swishbuckler ? ) Jack Sparrow was quite clever utilizing the painted eyelid gimmick . The cannibal get away scene by shish-kebob Jack gives new meaning to the term fruity pirate . I couldn't help making comparisons to the frenetic pacing of an old time Warner Brothers cartoon with a number of scenes in the picture , and I think that was a positive for the movie . This is the type of picture one views strictly for entertainment value and on that score I was not disappointed . No need to go into any more detail . With only six days under it's belt at the time of this posting , the movie is setting all kinds of records and has already elicited over eight hundred comments in this forum . The franchise is achieving a popularity awarded to only a few others , and with no pretense other than offering a whole lot of fun . Hoist ye sails matey !
" That ain't no rookie , that's Buffalo Bill ! "	When you hear it said that truth is sometimes stranger than fiction , it's the story of " Sergeant York " that might have been the inspiration . I'd been on the lookout for this film for some time when it appeared today on Turner Classic Movies as part of a Veteran's Day tribute . I tried to picture the real life hero Alvin York on the battlefield amid enemy fire pulling off the ruse that led to the capture of one hundred thirty two enemy soldiers , and all because a superior officer ordered him to take charge . Perhaps he should have been ordered to win the war . I would like to have seen the real Alvin York , he must have been quite the extraordinary person . Not in a celebrity fashion , but in a deep spiritual sense , to have integrated his pacifist background with a sense of loyalty and brotherhood with his fellow soldiers . I can think of no other man you would want more in your corner when the chips are down and it's a matter of life or death . Gary Cooper's Best Actor Oscar was well deserved for his portrayal of Sergeant York . He's convincing throughout as he transforms York from a rabble rousing back woods country hick to a principled man of values and ideals . The scenes where he records his meager earnings in hopes of buying some fertile downland is nearly heartbreaking , made even more poignant when he later makes amends with the men who essentially betrayed him . Cooper is backed up with a fine supporting cast , but I have to admit I wound up chuckling a time or two when Walter Brennan's pastor character appeared . For some reason , those bushy black eyebrows called to mind an image of Groucho Marx that I just couldn't shake . Margaret Wycherly brings a matriarch's knowing instincts to the part of Mother York , somehow knowing that her son would eventually get his own patch of land someday , even when her own husband's experience seemed to suggest otherwise . It was somewhat surprising yet gratifying at the same time to learn that the real Alvin York shunned all attempts to cash in on his name and hero status in order to get back to his home and family responsibilities . When he finally relented to numerous requests to make a film of his war time achievements , he had only two conditions - that all of the proceeds go to religious charities , and that the actor to portray him would be Gary Cooper . I'd say he cut a square deal .
" I'll dress , I'll kill ' em , I'll be right back . "	I guess I find myself somewhat in the middle on this film , I enjoyed it to a point , but I don't get the sense that this is one of the greatest Westerns ever , and the Western is my favorite movie genre . I much prefer a good psychological Western between complex antagonists , Eastwood's own " Unforgiven " would be an example . This was more a straightforward tale of three desperadoes consumed by greed who attempt to outwit each other on the trail to an unknown grave containing two hundred thousand dollars in gold coin . Each though , earns their respective title credit in the story , even if Eastwood's Blondie might be the ' good ' simply based on his classically rugged features . More on the plus side , it was really cool to hear the title theme music expressed in a handful of different ways throughout the story . The picture also captured the gritty realism of what the 1860's wild west was probably a lot like . You know , the more films I see of cowboys out in the desert days at a time with no access to soap and water , I start to wonder if they'll ever produce a picture that captures the fresh aroma of that experience . It's one thing to hear Tuco accused of smelling like a pig , but to actually get the full flavor of that would really be something . Then again , theater goers would never make it to the end of the picture - oh well for that idea . As for the film's length , I too side with those that feel it took a long time to get from Point A to Point B . I'm really wondering if it was necessary to bring in the Civil War battle for that bridge , but it did give rise to perhaps the most meaningful scene in the picture for me . Watching Blondie try to ease the soldier's death with his coat and a smoke was a masterful touch . You know , I could probably go so far as to put this film in the top twenty Westerns of all time , but it's position at # 4 in the IMDb top rankings of ALL pictures is just too much of a stretch . That's probably the reason I find myself going to that page less and less , and watching movies of all types more and more .
" There's one thing you oughtta know Professor , Nemo's cracked . . . "	It's interesting to me how sci-fi films of the mid 1950's presented outer space travelers in those goofy looking suits and helmets , yet in " 20000 Leagues Under The Sea " they look perfectly natural as underwater gear . In fact this was the first time I made the connection between over and under water attire ; the garb that Nemo and his men wear to explore the ocean depths never look as comical as they did in say , " Abbott and Costello Go To Mars " . The subject matter was a bit more serious as well , and for a Disney entertainment , it often struck a nerve regarding the future course of mankind with discussions between Nemo ( James Mason ) and Professor Arronax ( Paul Lukas ) on the viability of powerful new energy sources and their destructive power in the wrong hands . Another thought that crossed my mind was how close Captain Nemo's philosophy compares with what today would be considered a terrorist mindset . Consumed by the loss of a wife and son over their torture and death , Nemo remains committed to protecting the power source of the Nautilus . That includes destroying war ships without regard to human life , much like the attack that left Arronax , Conseil ( Peter Lorre ) and Ned Land ( Kirk Douglas ) adrift in a vast ocean . Douglas ' character had it pretty much nailed when he called Nemo ' cracked ' . But enough of the heavy stuff . ' 20000 Leagues ' still manages to entertain , with concepts and even direct scenes that Disney saw fit to reintroduce in their " Pirates of the Caribbean " franchise . Anyone who's seen " Dead Man's Chest " will relate to Ned Land's escape from the island cannibals . One of my favorite scenes dealt with Nemo's dinner menu . What I wouldn't give for a helping of fillet of sea snake , with a side order of brisket of blowfish with sea squirt dressing basted in barnacles . Sort of makes your mouth water , doesn't it ? Kirk Douglas seems to be having a pretty good time of it all , especially with that spirited " Whale of a Tale " number early in the picture . It takes some of the edge off the more sober stuff in the story . James Mason seems the perfect choice as Nemo , affecting a scholarly and serious posture to go with his avowed mission . Interestingly , I recently managed to catch Paul Lukas in a little known pirate adventure called " The Mutiny of the Elsinore " from 1937 . I'm rather curious about the original destination of Professor Arronax and his associate Conseil in the film , they were heading to Saigon in a story set in 1868 ! The one thing that probably could have been improved upon in the movie was the filming of the underwater scenes , they were generally on the dark and murky side . The battle against the giant black squid was fairly exciting , but here's something to consider . Two years earlier , Bob Hope and Bing Crosby ran across a giant squid in " Road to Bali " , and it appeared to be a bright red color , which might seem ridiculous . However it looked a lot like a real one I saw on a National Geographic Special - who would have thought ?
" We don't need outsiders all caught up in our lives . "	" The Outsider " offers a twist on the typical open range Western theme ; this time around the sheep farmers are a sect resembling Quakers and the confrontation between the existing ranchers and their peaceful opposition is overshadowed by deeply held religious values . On a more personal level , the widowed Rebecca Yoder ( Naomi Watts ) must overcome the fear of a notorious gunman in her home while she nurses him back from death's door , even as she begins to fall in love with him . If your only familiarity with actor Tim Daly is the character he portrayed in the TV comedy " Wings " , then you're in for a surprise . He's genuinely convincing as gunfighter Johnny Gault and takes up the gauntlet early on behalf of Rebecca and her young son Benjo . His own transforming redemption begins when rancher Fergus Hunter ( John Noble ) comes calling with benign contempt - " I believe I heard you speakin ' unkindly to this kind lady " . If the title hadn't been used before , " The Angel and the Badman " would have been a perfect fit for this story . That 1947 Republic film cast John Wayne in a similar role to Johnny Gault playing opposite Gail Russell . In a scene highly reminiscent of the earlier movie , Johnny leaves his holstered gun behind to take part in the hymnal service ; John Wayne's character did the same more than once to show deference for a people who live a ' plain and narrow life ' . That plain life begins to unravel for Rebecca as she commits herself to Johnny . It's here where the film explores the prohibitive constraints of religious belief and traditions , as Rebecca winds up the most dangerous person in her Quaker like community , a free thinker . There's a wonderfully symbolic moment following Rebecca's speech to the congregation declaring her love for Gault ; as she runs outside to be with him , the camera focuses on her white cap , ' fallen ' to the ground as if to underscore her schism from the community . The other symbolic moment , and one just as powerful occurs as Johnny and Benjo maintain a vigil over the severely wounded Rebecca . Johnny's gun and bullets go into the fire , along with Benjo's sling , as if to atone for her shooting at the hands of Hunter's henchman . It's a renouncing of a former life and the start of a new one , if only Rebecca survives . Be sure to pay attention throughout the entire film to appreciate the exceptional cinematography . One scene in particular has a beautiful moon shot that dissolves around a horse drawn buggy and is wonderfully done . Also , as others have mentioned in their posts for the film , the Norwegian background music is a perfect complement to the events on screen .
" I always get the fuzzy end of the lollipop . "	When I first heard Tony Curtis doing the Cary Grant send up I thought to myself , no , that can't be , I must be hearing things . Fortunately , Jack Lemmon dubiously assures the viewer otherwise when he states that ' nobody talks like that ' . That's just one of the many gems to be found in " Some Like It Hot " , the Billy Wilder screwball comedy set in 1929 Chicago , with an opening scene that takes out a liquor filled coffin by mob chasing cops . Spats Colombo's ( George Raft ) gang members resemble Dick Tracy caricatures , notably led by Mike Mazurki , who I can't think of as anyone other than ' Iron ' Mike from his pro boxing and wrestling days . He and fellow Spats henchman ( Harry Wilson ) have a great natural gangster look that make up artists spend hours trying to achieve today . Of course the film stars Marilyn Monroe doing Marilyn , the ' boop-boop-be-do ' accent of her song number had me envisioning Jack Kennedy at his birthday party . Though undeniably gorgeous in her first appearance on screen at the train station , I was left rather intrigued with the era's vision of female beauty considering today's preoccupation with borderline anorexics . In the scene with Tony Curtis attempting to cure his aversion to women , Monroe actually looks quite plump in the middle and on her upper arms . And was it the lighting or the cut of her dress , but there were times when her appearance seemed almost lurid . One thing's for certain though . Another reviewer in this forum compared Monroe to the 1950's version of Pamela Anderson . Sorry , but it was Marilyn who broke the mold for all others to follow . For my money , the best performance of the film goes to Jack Lemmon . While Lemmon and Curtis held their own for most of the film , Jack's Daphne character was inspired following the engagement to Osgood Fielding ( Joe E . Brown ) . He genuinely had me going ' huh ? ' as to his actual intentions of marrying Osgood , and those maracas clinched it - that was a hilarious piece of work . It was fun seeing Brown again , I remember watching him as a kid in the 1950's . The one title I can recall is " Sons o ' Guns " , and even though I can't remember that story , I can always picture Brown's cavernous mouth enunciating some unknown grimace . He uses the trademark here as well , maybe a couple times too many , but he still gets his share of chuckles . As far as the movie's reputation , I won't deny it's place among the greats of film history , though I find myself somewhat divided in my own feelings . Certainly it has it's moments , but at the same time it has something of a dated quality where the laughs are laid out in front of you , almost to the point of slapstick . I'd rather have it come across in the dialog rather than the buffoonery , sight and sound gags rather than hysterics . For a film that relies a bit more on the latter , it still works in the hands of an accomplished director and a talented cast .
" Gooble gobble , gooble gobble , one of us . . . "	I caught the Hilton Sisters in 1951's " Chained For Life " a couple weeks ago , and while researching that film , I was pointed in the direction of Tod Browning's " Freaks " . I had heard of it before of course , but hadn't realized that the picture dated back to the early 1930's . MGM's Irving Thalberg wished to capitalize on the popularity of horror films of the era , one of which was Browning's year earlier take on the all time classic " Dracula " . The studio already owned the rights to the short story " Spurs " by Tod Robbins on which this movie was based , and had the active interest of Lon Chaney Sr . in bringing the story to film before he died in 1930 . It goes beyond saying that this is a picture that won't appeal to everyone , but at the same time I don't think you have to suffer from voyeuristic tendencies to find it gripping . Unless you grew up in the Depression era ( and that leaves most of the current population out ) , you wouldn't ever have seen such a large collection of human anomalies on display in one place at one time . My own experience of growing up in the 1950's allowed me to sample a mere shadow of these holdovers from a prior era at the local county fair , but sadly , they were of the half man / half woman and ' man eating chicken ' variety - not ' true freaks ' in the sense of the word that the title offers here . Needless to say , the movie became a lightning rod for Hollywood backlash groups when it first came out , who also targeted the sudden popularity of gangster films . Although the picture did well in major cities like New York , MGM didn't want to take it on the financial chin with wide release , and pulled it from their calendar . The picture was actually banned for almost three decades until the counter-culture of the 1960's revived the picture in this country . After all , if you considered yourself a hippie-freak and found all things ' freaky ' to your liking , it was inevitable that a picture with the same title would find a new audience . Too many other reviewers on this board have retold the picture's main plot , so instead I'll offer my impressions of the characters . I think I found Johnny Eck the Half Boy to be the most interesting . I couldn't get over how easily he scrambled from place to place , maneuvering stairs and obstacles as easily as you or I can walk on flat ground . I found Prince Randian , the Human Torso to be truly disturbing . I know , I know , I'm trying to be as objective as possible about this , and maybe that's one of the confounding things about being ' normal ' . Who's to say that any one of us has the authority to proclaim what's normal ? You know , I've seen a wide variety of films in all genres , but I don't think any single one ends as creepily grotesque as the final attack on Cleopatra ( Olga Baclanova ) in one of the picture's final scenes . Under the dark of night and crawling through the mud , the image of a dozen mis-shapen but determined attackers is enough to create a week's worth of nightmares . You have to remind yourself that this isn't modern day CGI or some other kind of trick photography or special effects wizard at work . I'd watch it all over again if I didn't have to get some sleep tonight .
" Be yourself Frank , hit somebody " .	What a great trip down memory lane to catch this entry in the Dean Martin Celebrity Roast series . I would make it a point to see as many of these as I could back in the day , and this was one I remember catching back in 1977 . It was so cool to see so many celebrities in one place at one time having a good time and making us all laugh along with them as they paid tribute to one of their own . Now I wasn't a big Frank Sinatra fan , but you didn't have to be to enjoy this show . I just watched it on a less than perfect DVD copy , but what the picture lacked in quality was more than made up for with some side splitting humor and a great sense of nostalgia for times gone by . Dean Martin of course hosted as Master of Ceremonies as he always did , and I was always kind of curious why it was he who got to do the honors in headlining the bill . He was a natural of course , and had this spontaneous way about him that was evident even in his variety show of the mid-Sixties and early Seventies . When old Blue Eyes himself got to speak at the finale , he paid warm tribute to his friend Dino , but I couldn't quite believe him when he ( Sinatra ) stated that the drinking was part of Dino's gimmick ; Martin looked like he was pretty well sloshed through most of the program . The guest list getting to take a crack at Sinatra reads like a ' Who's Who of celebrity legends today with some minor exceptions . However the funniest tributes in my opinion , came from lesser known talents like Charlie Callas doing a mob boss interpretation , and Red Buttons who had the dais rolling with his exaggerated delivery . But the funniest , and I have to say , the only one I distinctly remember from over thirty years ago was Ruth Buzzi doing her Gladys Ormphby character from ' Rowan and Martin's laugh-In ' . I recall doubling over when she started whaling on Martin as she did her routine , and wondered if she would be bold enough to take it to Sinatra in the same manner . Not to worry , when Sinatra responded to her ' hope chest ' remark , she brought the house down with a throw down on the King that had to be one of the the highlights of the evening . And say , can you remember that brief span of time between Ronald Reagan's stint as governor of California and his eight year run as President ? He never looked better than he did here , and watching the show today really had a way of making me reflect back on those times when all of his Hollywood buddies gave him the business about his political aspirations . I mean , just listen to Rickles - it was all just so eerily prophetic ( in retrospect ) to hear him go on about how Reagan just hungered to be President . Unlike Sinatra , for whom it would be a step down from being King . Anyway , I just got hold of a whole pile of Celebrity Roasts , and I'm glad that Sinatra's was the one on top . I'm definitely looking forward to viewing the rest - they're the kind of entertainment that never grows old , as long as you have a good sense of humor and a warm spot in your heart for the legends who built show business .
" I want to get you home , it's pizza night . "	I'm usually better prepared to see a new theatrical release , having read a review or two and with some sense of plot from the trailers . I went into " Firewall " virtually cold , with only a hint of it's tale of computers and hacker security . Better than expected , the film delivers it's share of suspense and thrills , though balanced by some moments that leave you wondering if more credibility would have helped . Actually , more credibility probably would have left bank security chief Jack Stanfield ( Harrison Ford ) without a family . The main villain of the piece , Bill Cox ( Paul Bettany ) , fails to follow through on threats to Jack's wife and kids on more than one occasion when Jack shows signs of not cooperating . Not that one would have wanted the family hurt , but even the pet dog is spared with nothing worse than eviction from the getaway car for doing what dogs do . For my money , the most important scene in the film was Jack at Harry's apartment with the playback on the phone going . Even the sharpest of film goers will miss the nuance of the messages upon first viewing . If you read this post before seeing the film , pay attention . That one scene makes me want to see the film again for it's importance to tying up elements of the story . As others have pointed out on this site , the movie overdoses on geek stuff and gadgetry , though in a way that's entertaining for casual computer users like myself . As for identity theft , I thought Jack's reaction to the ninety five thousand dollar scam on his credit card account was a bit laid back ; I almost had a stroke when my paypal account got tapped for a couple hundred dollars . What's not laid back is Harrison Ford's physicality in the finale when he mixes it up with bad guy Cox - oh my aching back !
" It's only blackmail baby when you're dumb enough to get caught . "	A repeat viewing of " Scarlet Street " today has heightened my appreciation for the film , a sordid little affair expertly presented by Director Fritz Lang . Lang brings subtle nuances to his characters to help us understand what drives and motivates them . We have a pretty good idea early on that Christopher Cross ( Edward G . Robinson ) is a meek bank clerk , but one doesn't see how truly desperate his life has become until he puts on that blasted apron to wash the dishes . Or how about the ' three on a match ' superstition put to the test at his retirement dinner when Chris's boss lights his cigar , a quick aside shows him crossing his fingers to ward off fate . Art critic David Janeway had the perfect description of Kitty March ( Joan Bennett ) describing her as a Mona Lisa without the smile , a testament to her two faced nature . With boyfriend Johnny's ( Dan Duryea ) encouragement , Kitty plays Janeway along as well . How many boyfriends did Johnny think she could string along before the whole thing fell apart ? With relatively little screen time , Rosalind Ivan portrays every man's worst nightmare in a wife , an Edith Bunker on steroids relentlessly hounding her husband into submission on a daily basis . One wonders if there could have been an ice pick in her future as well , although the re-appearance of her presumed dead husband was a slick table turn by Chris . However I'm not sure I can buy the presumption that the Cross marriage is automatically over just because Patch-Eye shows up ; that matter wasn't satisfactorily resolved in my view , though fair enough for Chris to continue his foray into delusion . Though the movie doesn't start out that way , Chris winds up committing the perfect crime , with the inadvertent help of con man Johnny who winds up taking a death chair rap . It would have held up too , except for Chris's conscience . In a scene reminiscent of the Bogart / Greenstreet conversation in the film " Conflict " , the seed of a killer's self destruction is planted by a detective who theorizes on the guilt of the criminal mind . By now , if one doesn't realize how hapless Chris has become , it should be crystal clear . The authorities don't believe his confession , and with the disembodied voices of Kitty and Johnny mocking him from the grave , Chris can't even successfully commit suicide . He has become one of film's biggest losers . " Scarlet Street " is a compelling journey into noir territory and holds up well after sixty years . Robinson , Bennett and Duryea are each successful in creating characters so pathetic that one can only stand at a distance and marvel at their performances . In that regard , the film , much like Chris's paintings , will give you a peculiar perspective .
" If I am the Phantom , it is because man's hatred has made me so . "	Modern viewers raised on fast paced action adventure may have trouble sitting still for the original version of " The Phantom of the Opera " , nevertheless the film deserves it's reputation among the best of the silent era . For Lon Chaney , his performance as the tortured Erik the Phantom is as notable as his earlier characterization of the " Hunchback of Notre Dame " . The film relies on much of it's atmosphere to the subterranean depths of the catacombs beneath the Paris Opera House where much of the story takes place . The medieval torture chambers and hidden dungeons seem to define the phantom character , who in turn is intent on imprisoning his chosen Christine ( Mary Philbin ) , though he would more likely call her his one true love . The Phantom's baser nature is revealed to be that of a self educated musician and master of the black arts , at one time exiled to Devil's Island and now believed to be criminally insane . When his countenance is revealed by the curious Christine , the visage presented is more than a match for the hideous reputation . As reports of a ghost in the Opera House give way to an even more incredible reality , we share in the torturous fate of the young opera singer . The movie can be excruciatingly slow at times , individual scenes lasting much longer than necessary to create an understanding of the story . When that desire to hit the fast forward button comes upon you , stop to realize that this is one of cinema's true legendary films , starring a legendary performer . Had producer Carl Laemmle delayed in making the film for a few more years in a talk format , the Phantom might have been compared to Universal's other horror icons , Frankenstein and Dracula . But considering the company of the aforementioned Hunchback , along with Nosferatu and Dr . Caligari , Chaney's Erik stands near the top of the silent film classics of it's day .
" All you mast headers , now hear me . You're to look for the white whale . . . "	At the new moon in April , Ahab will be ready . Captain Ahab , the god of the Pequod , champion of darkness . Gregory Peck brings life to Herman Melville's crazed and vengeful seaman , earning his title among men as supreme lord and dictator . He will also earn his place at the end of the story , as head piece on the big marble tombstone known as " Moby Dick " . Aside from the action and adventure , what I found most enthralling about the film was the rhythmic and romantic chanting of the sailors , especially at the outset as they prepare to go to sea . Their confidence belies the look of dread and concern on the faces of family and sweethearts , as if their fate could be known in advance . For one crew member , that may be the case , as Ishmael ( Richard Basehart ) carries with him the prophecy of the mysterious Elijah ( Royal Dano ) . I know it wasn't my imagination because I went back and checked . The facial scarring of Queequeg ( Friedrich Ledebur ) never looked quite the same from scene to scene . Generally they were of a simple pattern , but one scene in particular on the open ocean offered a symmetrical set of circular whorls over Queequeg's brow . Perhaps it was Ray Bradbury's way of intimating a bit of " The Illustrated Man " into the character , I wonder . Here's one thing I can tell you . Watching those flimsy boats in pursuit of whales , even forgetting about the great white , I can't imagine a more horrific way to earn a living . Personally , I've never been on a roller-coaster in my life , but given the choice against being dragged around the ocean by an enraged animal of dubious tonnage , I'll take my chances at an amusement park . And stay dry . If there's one thing that didn't work for me in the film , it would have to be that electric green Stephen King effect that Ahab summons during the typhoon - what was that all about ? All in all though , my first viewing of the film found it to be an effective character study of a mad and tortured individual . Ahab successfully bends the will of his crew to follow him into the mouth of hell , including lone hold out Starbuck ( Leo Genn ) by the time the whale claims his final victory . The Captain's demise in pursuit of his maniacal goal finds resonance in the limply waving arm that beckons his men to follow , to a watery doom in the shadow of an island unto himself , the great white whale .
" Never use money to measure wealth , son . "	The previews for " Broken Trail " were incessant , and almost promised more than it could deliver . Hyping a ' limited commercial interruption ' format , that too seemed to go by the wayside after the first half hour or so each evening . Still , there was a lot to enjoy with the film , and a lot more to ponder given the grim circumstances of its ' participants and the fate of five young Oriental women plucked from their homeland and sold into a life of slavery and depravity . In my estimation , Robert Duvall cemented his acting career and reputation with the performance in " Open Range " . When you can't tell an actor is acting , completely transforming into the character he represents , then that's a pure joy to behold . Duvall has consummately mastered his craft , and having done so in a Western is uniquely gratifying , as this is my favorite film genre . Print Ritter's ( Duvall ) relationship with nephew Tom ( Thomas Haden Church ) starts out tenuously , though the uncle's argument about making a go of it is presented both as a challenge and an offer - " You ready buckaroo , let's do it ! " . One has the sense that there's something incomplete about Ritter's life ; bridging the gap between his deceased sister and her son is almost as much a mission as driving the herd to market . AMC is to be commended for it's choice of subject matter for their first attempt at a made for TV mini-series . I'll have to admit that I never even thought about the importation of Chinese women for the purpose of prostitution in the Old West . Given the brief moments of horror and inhumanity we're presented on screen , one can imagine that it must have been a thousand times worse for those who couldn't escape their circumstances . The poignancy of Ye Fung's ( Olivia Cheng ) situation after the brutal rape that leads to her suicide on the trail was probably the saddest part of the film , and yet an understandable option for one who has already crossed the ' eighteenth gate of hell ' . Almost every film offers an opportunity to learn something new ; how is it I had never heard of therapeutic papers before ? A hint for the uninitiated , they have no wood chips or splinters . Another compelling sidebar to the story was the exchange of two horses with the Crow Indians for crossing their land . Ritter's solution uniquely allowed for both parties to be winners in the trade . Aside from Duvall , the best casting decision in the picture has to be that of Rusty Schwimmer as Big Rump Kate . In her own way , she was every bit as ruthless and scary as " Deadwood's " Al Swearengen . The thought occurred more than once that her appearance in that series would be perfectly at home amid the mud and rabble . Not once in the previews I saw did " Broken Trail " hint at it's being based on a true story , so the commentary at the close of the film regarding the outcome of the participants seemed like a surprise ending . In fact , screen writer Alan Geoffrian researched little known histories of the Old West , incorporating them into the story of " Broken Trail " . If you have the time , check out the interesting background information offered on the AMC website .
" We're bookin ' this man for robbery , Lieutenant . "	I wasn't aware of this Hitchcock ' true story ' until I ran across it today , and it proved to be an edgy and haunting film , especially when one realizes that it could happen to you . Watching it , I was drawn into Manny Balestrero's ( Henry Fonda ) ordeal , and not so much as a viewer , but as someone undergoing the excruciating uncertainty of what was going to happen if this mess wasn't straightened out . In that regard , the somber musical score adds even more tension to the grim story , and I felt myself getting almost suffocated by Manny's dilemma . You knew it was going to be different from the usual Hitchcock fare when the director appears before the movie to announce that the story was based on an actual event . Hitch's trademark cameo is noticeably absent , and that was by design . The almost documentary style of the film was entirely story boarded to the most minor detail , the way Hitchcock liked to work , so that by the time it got to filming it was almost like a bother to the director . Yet the end product is a haunting and moving story that's as effective as any of Hitchcock's best thrillers . Henry Fonda excels in his portrayal of Manny , coming across as your typical everyday Joe . He has a happy marriage and two kids he adores , but once caught up in the ordeal of finding a lawyer , looking for witnesses that will clear him , and working to pay off his growing debt load , his wife Rose ( Vera Miles ) slowly succumbs to depression and paranoia . The second half of the film in a way becomes her story , as her condition requires professional help and assignment to a sanitarium rest home . As somber as the tone of the story is already , Rose's declining mental stability would have been the straw to break most men in Manny's situation . The film makes use of overt Catholic symbolism with devices like Manny's rosary at the police station , and a picture of Jesus in the latter part of the story . Balestrero's faith is conveyed to be a factor in the resolution of his legal case , as the real thief that Manny was mistaken for is caught in the same neighborhood committing a similar crime . I thought it would have been much more vindicating for Manny to confront his original accusers the way he did the man who was arrested ; I certainly felt like lashing out at those two women for sending this man and his family into a living nightmare . It's not unusual that Alfred Hitchcock would find this real life story a fascinating topic for a movie , considering he dealt with fictional cases of mistaken identity in films like " North By Northwest " . All too well though , " The Wrong Man " is one of those stories that help assert the fact that truth sometimes , is stranger than fiction .
" Bring on the mastodons ! "	Having viewed " The Lost World " today for the first time , the predominant thing that struck me was the number of scenes that bore a similarity to ones in the original screen version of " King Kong " . However Kong was released almost eight years later in 1933 , which makes me curious as to how much an influence " The Lost World " might have been on one of my favorite movies of all time . For starters , you've got the principal character Professor Challenger ( Wallace Beery ) , who's convinced prehistoric dinosaurs exist in a section of the Amazon based on a notebook left behind by another adventurer , Maple White . White's daughter Paula ( Bessie Love ) survived an expedition there , though her father never returned . Challenger seeks funding to locate the missing White and prove that such creatures exist , but it would help if he wasn't such a nut . He goes completely berserk while making a presentation at the university when Edward Malone ( Lloyd Hughes ) reveals his identity as a newspaper reporter . Later he engages Malone in fisticuffs when the young man appears at his home to inquire about joining the expedition . Fortunately Malone has an agenda that appeals to Challenger , offering the financial backing of the London Record Journal in return for exclusive rights to the story . Other members of the Amazon bound group include Miss White , Sir John Roxton ( Lewis Stone ) , and Professor Summerlee ( Arthur Hoyt ) . Roxton fancies himself a love match for Miss Paula , but the age disparity makes that more than a long shot as the young lady's reaction suggests . The early stages of the trip offer a nice look at Amazonian wildlife , ranging from a jaguar and boa to a tree traveling sloth and a pair of adult spectacle bears that look more like cubs than the full grown animals they're said to be . Soon enough though upon arrival at the plateau where the original expedition traveled , dinosaurs make their appearance in quick succession . Heralded by a pterodactyl's appearance first , we're soon treated to brontosaurus , allosaurus and triceratops . For it's early use in movie history , the stop motion photography employed offers surprisingly adequate results . Considering that the film is eighty years old , it earns my appreciation for pioneering such a landmark technology . For me , the movie offers what I'm sure are some unintentionally funny moments . There's a scene when a brontosaurus prepares to do battle with an allosaur , and curls it's upper lip in a manner that would do Elvis Presley proud . Somewhat later , one of the camp orderlies throws a flaming branch at an allosaur making a night time raid , catching it in his mouth to resemble it's smoking a cigar . And is it just me , or did reporter Malone bear an uncanny resemblance to Charlie Sheen ? It's my understanding that versions of the movie exist in varying lengths ; the one I saw came in at just under an hour . As other posters have noted , there is a disjointed feel between scenes that cut quickly from expedition members to those of dinosaurs . My copy also offered an incessant upbeat piano soundtrack that didn't change tempo throughout the entire movie , somewhat disconcerting for those intervals of intense drama requiring a more somber or even a threatening tone . King Kong fans will sit up and take notice of some amazing similarities between the films . A log bridge connecting sections of the Amazon plateau is knocked down , this time by a brontosaurus . Later , when another bronto falls off a cliff into a mud pool , Professor Challenger has the bright idea of capturing it and bringing it back to London . Once there , the animal escapes to create havoc in the city as fleeing crowds run for their lives . Too big and bulky to climb anything resembling the Empire State Building , it does the next best thing by falling through and collapsing the Tower Bridge .
" I lived a few weeks while you loved me . "	Bogart's characterization of Dixon Steele , an erratic and violent screenwriter , builds on a role seen three years earlier in " The Two Mrs . Carrioll's " . In that one he was a scheming husband with a penchant for disposing of used up wives . Here however , Bogey is driven to maniacal excess that roils to a raging white heat best exemplified when he stops short of smashing a man's head in with a rock in a 1950's fit of road rage . It may be the proverbial straw that destroys the romance between Steele and Laurel Gray ( Gloria Grahame ) , a would be actress who insinuates herself into the writer's life by virtue of an alibi in the death of a young woman . The film keeps one guessing as to Steele's guilt or innocence , but his re-creation of the murder for a detective friend and his wife only adds to the intrigue . Not to mention feigning guilt every time his agent Lippman ( Art Smith ) comes around . It's the bantering between the pair that keeps the film off balance in the early going and lightens the story with an air of dark comedy . It was hard for me to warm up to the Laurel Gray character . There was always a veneer of caution and distrust about her , made more ominous by the revelation that she was on the run from a former boyfriend . In turn , her own internal warning system slipped into high gear as the film progressed , becoming increasingly wary of Steele's hot temper and growing intrusion into her life . I'm always intrigued by the slightest of film nuances and this one offers a couple . For one , when the character of detective Brub Nicolai ( Frank Lovejoy ) is introduced for the first time to Laurel Gray at the police station , his boss calls him ' Nicholson ' . And were you quick enough to catch Myron Healey as the uncredited postal clerk in the latter part of the movie ? Humphrey Bogart was equally at home portraying both heroes and villains , but it seems that bad guys brought out more intensity in the actor . Though not nearly as strong or well known as Bogey's A-list of films , and we all know which ones they are , " In A Lonely Place " is a strong contender to head up his second tier along with " Conflict " , " The Enforcer " and " Knock On Any Door " . The latter film , as this one was directed by Nicholas Ray , who achieved his seminal career work in " Rebel Without a Cause " .
" Don't you want me to tell you why I brought you here ? "	Brilliantly done ! Director Hitchcock pulls a sting on the viewer with a simple latchkey , then uses it to trap the architect of a perfect plan . Except that it wasn't perfect , as mystery writer Mark Halliday himself opines - " Well because in stories things usually turn out the way the author wants them to and in real life they don't , always . " It's great the way Hitch telegraphs his intention and then completely blindsides you with it when it eventually plays out . Ray Milland is perfect here as scheming husband Tony Wendice , planning to off his cheating wife ( Grace Kelly ) while using her lover Halliday ( Robert Cummings ) as an alibi . Milland's character has it all worked out like a master chess player , all the moves worked out backwards and forwards , with Swann ( Anthony Dawson ) his less than willing pawn . The way Tony spins his web to ensnare Swann in the deadly scheme is masterful , and repeat viewings confirm just how airtight his argument is to compel Swann's compliance . I know I didn't imagine it , so I rewound the film to check - weren't those some pesky curtains that Tony had to close twice while discussing with Margot whether she should go out or not ? Now even though I thought the story was cleverly done , a couple things did nag me a bit . The whole business with only two keys to the apartment seemed a bit forced , why wouldn't Tony have simply made a duplicate key for Swann to use instead of going through all those contortions to get his wife's ? Sure it created some additional tension , but it seemed misplaced , and Margot ( Kelly ) was never put in a position to call Tony on it . The other issue I had was during Inspector Hubbard's ( John Williams ) questioning , Margot never reacted to the fact that Tony knew the dead man that tried to kill her . You would think that she might have shown some kind of emotion over that revelation . Still , what works in the picture outweighs what doesn't , and for Hitchcock , it's a much more successful examination of the killer for hire motif than " Strangers On A Train " which generally ranks higher among the director's fans . And to top it off , it even has a more creative cameo appearance by Hitch , courtesy of that class reunion picture !
" Don't kill that cricket . It's bad luck . "	It occurred to me while the final scene of the movie froze to reveal the scant detail of Buddy Holly's death that there are still people alive today who were at that venue in Clearlake , Iowa who remember it vividly . That has to be a haunting memory , lent even more poignancy by the lyrics of " American Pie " , as it pays tribute to the day the music died . The world lost some tremendous talent that day , lives cut short way before their prime , and one can only wonder what might have been if the trio of musicians who perished that day had survived to create an even greater musical legacy . I watched the film today some thirty years after it's original theatrical release . Thirty years , I have some trouble wrapping my mind around that . I had forgotten a lot of it , while remembering some of the little things , like the cricket in the wall who became immortalized with the band's name . But most of all , I remember the music . It's hard just to sit there and not begin tapping to the beat of " Oh Boy " or " That'll Be The Day " , and one has to wonder just where the threat to our morals might have actually come from with those tunes . I'm with Buddy on that score at least , how could they be jungle rhythms if he came up with them ? Funny how each successive decade brought it's own threat to the fabric of society - The Beatles , Motown , Disco and a whole host of other musical forms . We're still listening and dancing to the beat , so I guess they couldn't have been all that bad . There was another takeaway from the film I had forgotten about . This is where I learned to bang a phone on the table when the person on the other end wasn't seeing things my way . I've done that a number of times over the years , but by now had forgotten the source . Well , I should be good for another thirty years or so now . You certainly have to give Gary Busey credit for his portrayal of Buddy Holly . Seeing him today , one could never imagine him as the slimmed down rocker with the horn rimmed glasses , but it was a tour de force characterization and performance that earned Busey an Oscar nod . Don Stroud and Charles Martin Smith are competent as Buddy's band members , though their characters take a back seat to much of the story . I enjoyed the subtle ways that other musical legends were segued into the picture , names like Sam Cooke and King Curtis , without ever dwelling on their presence . I'll always be a fan and follower of music from the Fifties and Sixties - ' oldies ' they call them now . I guess that makes me a bit of an oldie too , but you can't replace the experience of growing up with the music history that now makes it to the big screen . Which only goes to reinforce the idea that I'll keep on enjoying the music until , well , the day I die .
" Everyone said , Go get the Rifleman ! " ( Episode # 4 )	Starting out , I have to say right up front that I enjoy watching every single episode of " The Rifleman " . Any given story is a classic example of an enviable father / son relationship , with Lucas McCain teaching son Mark an important life lesson . Taken as an entire body of work however , I see how a lot of fans are really put into a quandary about McCain's body count as a result of that quick lever action tricked out Winchester rifle . On that score I would have to say that old Lucas Boy has to go down in classic TV Western history as the great white shark of New Mexico Territory . Simply put , he's a killing machine . There's probably not another character with more kills than Lucas McCain , except MAYBE Matt Dillon , but he had twenty seasons and five tele-films going for him , and Lucas had only five . I was so intrigued by this that with the Encore Western Channel's latest go round with The Rifleman series , I began keeping track . I even had a friend of mine help me ( Thanks Will ) , who taped the episodes so we could discuss them when there was a question mark , and indeed there were many . It seems the writers must have known someone would eventually try to keep track of the Lucas body count , so they threw innovative situations out there to keep everyone guessing . Like Episode # 2 . 45 when Jack Elam falls on a pitchfork during a fight with McCain , dying in the process . Does that count as a ' kill ' for Lucas ? Or how about # 3 . 105 when an outlaw grabs McCain's gun to shoot his partner who's bailing out on him ? Lucas plugged it and it explodes , killing the shooter . See what I mean . There would have to be a tribunal of respected Western TV critics to arrive at an official Lucas McCain body count to account for all the controversial scenarios . But for what it's worth , I can offer interested observers my entirely unofficial analysis based on a five season viewing of ' The Rifleman ' on the Encore Western Channel . Let me preface though by first commenting on Episode # 1 . 12 - ' Young Englishman ' - in which Lucas McCain explains to son Mark ( Johnny Crawford ) that killing is always to be considered a means of last resort when facing a life or death situation . By that reckoning , Lucas was the master of last resort for a total of 108 times ! Can you imagine ANYONE with their life on the line as many times as The Rifleman ? I mean , how do you go through life and find yourself in so many precarious situations ? But wait , that was only during the run of the series . If you watch the shows and pay attention , Lucas alludes to even MORE people he's killed during the Civil War and the Indian Nation Wars before he ever got to North Fork . So how does that square with the real life gunfighters of the Old West ? Well , during his lifetime , the legend of Wild Bill Hickok had him killing over a hundred men . However before he died , Wild Bill ' confessed ' that he killed ' only ' thirty seven . In terms of accuracy , quick draw and ruthlessness , John Wesley Hardin had no match , and his count of just over forty men killed is probably tops among known gunfighters . Heck , by the time Lucas McCain killed forty men , it was still only the second season ! Getting back to the show itself , it's hard to come up with a few favorites out of the series run of 168 stories , but two that would be in my Top Ten are the Sammy Davis Jr . episodes . In # 4 . 130 - ' Two Ounces of Tin ' - Davis comes gunning for the man who killed his father , Lucas McCain . It's kind of a poignant story since Davis ' character makes friends with Mark before calling out his father . In # 5 . 151 - ' The Most Amazing Man ' - Davis is put on the spot by a local gunman who challenges him to a gunfight . I guess I'm intrigued by the idea of the former ' Rat Packer ' in a TV Western , which seems so out of character for the variety entertainer I'm more familiar with . And say , could he handle those six-shooters ! There's also the intriguing episode # 4 . 131 , ' The Deadly Image ' , in which Chuck Connors plays two characters , Lucas and a fierce villain look alike . I had to chuckle at the end of the story , because if you think about it , the Rifleman is so bad a - - cool in this one that he winds up actually ' killing himself ' ! ! ! Anyway , I tried to have some fun with the whole Lucas body count thing . Again , I want to state that by no means is my reckoning meant to be an official count , but I'd say it's pretty close . You had a few episodes where Lucas teamed with Micah or some other gunslinger firing on a group of villains , so there again you have a toss up as to who shot who . Still , over a hundred ' kills ' would qualify Lucas McCain as a Wild Bill Hickok , John Wesley Hardin , Tom Horn and Billy the Kid all rolled up into one !
" Get ready for hell ! "	I've always enjoyed watching this movie , and with my most recent viewing I followed up with the episode of ' Billy The Kid ' from the three disc ' Gunfighters ' DVD collection from Nonfiction Films ( 1998 , listed as ' Gunfighters of the West ' in the IMDb database ) . It was pretty surprising to see how closely the film followed real events in the life of The Kid , born Henry McCarty in New York City's Lower East Side in 1859 . All the business with John Tunstall ( Terence Stamp ) and Alex McSween ( Terry O'Quinn ) is based in fact , although the real name of the Jack Palance character was Jimmy Dolan . He was a real life businessman ( read that town boss of Lincoln County ) who was challenged by Tunstall for rights to government contracts at Fort Stanton in the New Mexico Territory . Dolan headquartered his ' Company ' at an establishment named the House of Murphy , hence the name Lawrence G . Murphy used in the picture . The ensuing Lincoln County Wars , often depicted as a range war , was in fact a mercantile war fought essentially over the right of one faction to make more money than the other . I've often wondered whether the real life Billy would have been as maniacal as the way he was portrayed by Emilio Estevez . I would almost think so , but with the kind of charisma that made him entirely likable as a person to those who knew him well and called him friend . Estevez , along with his brat pack buddies have an engaging chemistry on screen , even if most of it is spent dispatching members of Murphy's thugs . If not for Estevez's pacing of the character , the tone of the film would have been entirely different , as most of the men gunned down in the course of the story were simply murdered to avenge the death of Tunstall . My favorite scene had to do with the gunslinger in the saloon who Billy mocked into a gun-down . I'd consider that one of the fictional elements thrown into the story to highlight just how duplicitous the real life Kid could be . Did you notice how the gang reacted instinctively to back up their leader just in case ? I'm not as familiar with the sequel to " Young Guns " as the original . Both were written by John Fusco , so I'd expect that the continuity relative to historical accuracy is similarly maintained . Over forty films have been made about the legend of Billy the Kid , along with the blatantly contrived two season TV Western " The Tall Man " from the early 1960's . Your best bet apart from the documentary mentioned earlier , while maintaining an element of entertainment , would be tuning into " Young Guns " .
" My , my , my , such a lot of guns around town and so few brains . "	Starting out , I must advise that my review here is for the 1945 pre-release version of " The Big Sleep " , which had quite a few scenes redone prior to it's release to general audiences in October 1946 . With filming already completed by Spring of 1945 , there were two main reasons for the year and a half delay ; first , with World War II underway , Warner Brothers felt compelled to get it's war related films into theaters while they were still timely . Secondly , Producer / Director Howard Hawks was convinced he had to re-shoot some scenes involving Lauren Bacall , who was critically panned in her latest film , " Confidential Agent " with Charles Boyer . In the original print , Bacall is presented in a few scenes wearing a distracting veil , and it's her more glamorous side that the studio needed to capitalize on . Much has been made of the complexity of the " The Big Sleep " , and deservedly so . On my latest viewing , I took pen in hand to keep track of the characters and situations . That only helped so much . For example , Humprey Bogart's character , private detective Philip Marlowe is tailing rare book dealer Arthur Gwynne Geiger for his client General Sternwood ; Geiger allegedly holds gambling debts involving a few thousand dollars on Sternwood's daughter Carmen ( Martha Vickers ) . Following Geiger's auto to his residence , Marlowe studies his surroundings , and then hears a woman's scream and gunshots , followed immediately by two cars careening out of the driveway . Entering the house , he discovers the lifeless body of Geiger , and a spaced out Carmen Sternwood . Out of this scenario are offered two , maybe three possibilities . First , General Sternwood's chauffeur Owen Taylor is implicated , as he had fallen in love with Carmen and wanted to defend her from blackmail . Secondly , a shady Geiger accomplice Joe Brody may have done it , OR may have chased the guilty Taylor from the crime scene either to retrieve some incriminating blackmail film or to remove him as a potential witness . OR , the spaced out Carmen could have killed Geiger herself , and although this wasn't offered as a possibility in the film , she WAS present , and may have been entirely coherent when the murder was committed . And this is how the story proceeds . Even more characters are introduced to spin off the original plot , and Marlowe is off investigating the proprietor of a gambling house named Eddie Mars , Brody's accomplice Agnes Lozier , the salesgirl at the rare bookstore , and Harry Jones ( Elisha Cook Jr . ) , a tail on Marlowe who gets rubbed out after setting up a meeting with Agnes that might provide more information to go on . All of the intrigue aside , it's the chemistry once again between Bogey and by now , Mrs . Bogey , Lauren Bacall that propels this movie forward . Whether just sizing each other up at the beginning of the film , or as unwilling accomplices and possible lovers by film's end , it's the snappy banter and smoldering tension between the two that put the sizzle into this edgy noir thriller . As if to prove how great an actor Bogart was , this film offers us a glimpse at his incredible range . Of course I'm referring to the bookstore scene in which Bogey portrays a nerdy client seeking information on a non existent rare book . With a mere upturn of his hat's brim and a cleverly positioned pair of glasses , Bogart completely transforms into an almost unrecognizable comic character who befuddles and infuriates the store's proprietress . He follows that up with a walk across the street , and a double entendre filled conversation with a disarmingly seductive Dorothy Malone in a scene that could have lingered into X-rated territory if not for the task at hand . One could go on and on about " The Big Sleep " , and others have , but to appreciate the film's mystery , darkness and noir complexity you'll have to view it . But don't try to solve the case , you won't want to hurt yourself .
" You're a crazy old man . "	The naysayers and nitpickers will have their input , but for those of us who aged gracefully along with the Rocky franchise , the final chapter is a fitting capstone to not only the movie boxer's career , but an effective take on growing older and wiser in a world obsessed with flash and style . Over the years , Rocky has come to epitomize the club fighter in all of us , no matter what our chosen profession . Usually that means life as a journeyman on the undercard , but sometimes you get to appear in a main event , and in those rare instances , even come away with the title . Films like " Rocky " ( the original ) have always been my favorites , the classic underdog rising against insurmountable odds to attain victory , or at least the semblance of one . In " Rocky Balboa " , the human opponent may be Mason Dixon ( Antonio Tarver ) , but the unseen opponent is a leveler of champions known as Father Time . Rocky ( Sylvester Stallone ) , like many who have achieved success , still maintains that undefinable hunger for something more , something nameless that itches where it can't be scratched . The side stories with Rocky Jr . ( Milo Ventimiglia ) and ' Little ' Marie ( Geraldine Hughes ) offer a human dimension to the former champ's world , even as he struggles to overcome the grief at the loss of his wife . I had the sense while watching that this may not be the last time we hear from Rocky Balboa . The story presented too many set ups to explore down the road , not as a boxing film , but as a step into retirement and old age for the Rock . Otherwise , why reintroduce the character of Marie ( Geraldine Hughes ) and her son ? At least it's something I began to think about , and time will tell if the idea is far-fetched or not . As for the boxing itself , I had to wonder about the whole business of a championship exhibition . It seemed to me that once the wheels began turning , the principals involved seemed to be at odds with their original positions . For Rocky , standing toe to toe with the much younger champion would have been an impressive feat , but suddenly he begins to think in terms of winning the event . Whereas Dixon , known for obliterating the opponents in his division , offers Rocky a way to save face by not pushing the match . It's unclear to me how the story could have been pulled off in any other manner than the way it went down , as an actual contest between the two men ; certainly that wasn't exhibition sweat and blood coming off the boxers . One of the ironies of the film I thought , was the appearance of Mike Tyson at ringside for the fight , as if representing the chaos and tumult of the heavyweight boxing division as it exists today . Never would I have imagined that the name of the world champion be any less than a household word , but there are times now when I have to stop and try to remember who the current champion is . Here's a thought . Going in , you had to know that for the film to work , Rocky would have to acquit himself well and come out a hero , which of course he did . But my alternate ending would have capitalized on the split decision outcome by having the ring announcer's voice drowned out by the roar of the crowd , allowing the viewer to arrive at their own answer as to who won the match . When I ran the idea by a friend of mine , he said he believed the majority of movie goers would be p - - - ed by that kind of ending . My reaction - then that's fine , because a lot of movie goers wind up being p - - - ed anyway , if the comments on this site are any indication . Why not give them something to really get steamed about , and force them to think about what they just watched . Besides , ' Rocky VII ' will have answered the question anyway . By the way , I wonder who took care of ' Cuff ' and ' Link ' all these years ?
" The shroud of the dark side has fallen . "	This might be the most intricately detailed and plotted of all the Star Wars films , but judging from all the negative reviewers on this board , I have to wonder if they paid attention long enough to understand what was going on . Conspiracy and double crosses abound , with the introduction of Christopher Lee's character Count Dooku leading the separatist movement against the Republic . Then there's Chancellor Palpatine pulling strings that will eventually give rise to the supremacy of the Sith and the Dark Side of the Force . His flattery of young Anakin Skywalker is recognition of the Jedi's powerful potential , and is intended to hasten his corruption . For this viewer , that was the real story in " Attack of the Clones " , and even though the relationship between Anakin ( Hayden Christensen ) and Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) was necessary for events of " A New Hope " , that was secondary for the moment . At about the time of events of " The Phantom Menace " ten years earlier , we come to learn that a clone army has been commissioned by former Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas for service to the Republic . Even more fascinating is the fact that all of the clones are descendant from a single original host , Jango Fett . Fett's death later in the Arena against the assembled Jedi Masters offers a convincing hint to the reason behind his son's chosen profession as a galaxy bounty hunter . As for the romance between Anakin and Padme , and even though there were hints of it in ' Menace ' , it was still somewhat difficult reconciling their relationship given the age difference and their chosen paths in life . The film handled that progression in a manner that made sense , but not enough to explain Padme's acceptance of Anakin's berserk rampage on Tatooine in response to his mother's death . It was at that moment I feel , that Anakin became Darth Vader , even if the formality was left to " Revenge of the Sith " . On a lighter and more technical note , the CGI effects and action sequences of this episode were the most stunning yet , not even accounting for the battle scenes . The night time chase scene at the start of the film to catch the assassin Zam was incredibly detailed , looking more exceptional on my wide screen home TV than I even remembered it in the theater . And say , did anyone else get the impression that the inhabitants of Kamino resembled Whitley Strieber's aliens ? Anyway , I enjoyed this installment of the series even if the reviews are mixed and I find myself in a minority . I can only assume that the nay sayers operate somewhere beyond the Outer Rim , just outside the Rishi Maze .
" There will be no more dying in this place " .	On September 9 , 1878 , the Cheyenne , led by warrior chiefs Little Wolf and Dull Knife began a 1500 mile trek from the Oklahoma Territory north to their original homeland in Montana . " Cheyenne Autumn " tells that story in all of it's desperation and futility , a chapter of American history that remains all but unknown today . The picture , directed by John Ford is often epic in it's sweep , and the film is at it's best when the native Cheyenne are front and center during their heroic struggle . The all star cast is outdone only by the gorgeous cinematography , and for a picture coming in at two and a half hours , I found the grandeur of the open West to be an excellent tonic against what could have been a boring ride under different circumstances . However there was that out of place interlude with Jimmy Stewart and Arthur Kennedy as Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday during the Dodge City intermission . You had to wonder what director John Ford was thinking when he went for the almost camp proceedings in an otherwise serious picture . In another film , the sequence would have been a blast , particularly the scene when Wyatt recalls that yes indeed , he ' did know her in Wichita ' . Still , the whole thing made me appreciate Hugh O'Brian and Myron Healey even more . I was intrigued by the scene when Chief Tall Tree ( Victor Jory ) passed the sacred bundle to Little Wolf ( Ricardo Montalban ) instead of Dull Knife ( Gilbert Roland ) . It became apparent why some time later when the tribe split apart under their separate chiefs , with Little Wolf maintaining the resolve to continue the journey instead of capitulating to surrender . When Little Wolf defends his dignity at the expense of Red Shirt ( Sal Mineo ) toward the end of the picture , it was one of those defining moments that spoke to the honor and integrity that a warrior chief would have aspired to . You know , I was curious about something . How was it that during the first battle with the Cheyenne after crossing the river , Major Braden ( George O'Brien ) places Captain Archer ( Richard Widmark ) under arrest , but Archer then assumes command after Braden is killed - where was the rule book on that one ? Thinking about it , a journey of fifteen hundred miles on foot and horseback sounds awful daunting , and the picture really didn't seem to offer a perspective on how long it actually took , except for the change of seasons intimated by the winter snow scene . The actual journey took one hundred ninety seven days , the thought of which doesn't really begin to sink in as you watch the picture from the comfort of your living room couch . Picture that effort as a six month journey on foot against hostile terrain and enemy soldiers , and it makes you appreciate just what a people will do to maintain their honor and freedom .
" If there's anything I admire more than a devoted friend , it's a determined enemy " .	Here's the kind of film I particularly enjoy , a nicely nuanced psychological Western that attempts to get inside the head of it's heroes and villains . The strength of the story lies in the character of James McKay , masterfully played to Atticus Finch like sensibility by Gregory Peck . In fact , one often feels like Peck should be showing more emotion given some of the situations he finds himself in . He does cut loose though in a brawling fight against Terrill foreman Steve Leech , which made me stop to think about something . Has there ever been an on screen fist fight between any greater pair of movie icons than Gregory Peck and Charlton Heston ? That's not to say it was the best Western movie fight ever , but the one featuring two of the biggest stars . I'm going to have to keep thinking about that one . I was pretty convinced right from her introduction in the picture , that Pat Terrill ( Carroll Baker ) wasn't going to wind up as McKay's wife , even though she started out as his fiancée . In that regard , she showed some of her father's temperament , with a reliance on eye for an eye type justice to settle a score . With Easterner McKay's unwillingness to prove himself at every turn , you have the wedge that eventually begins to unravel any attempt at matrimony . That void begins to be replaced by the charm and manner of Julie Maragon ( Jean Simmons ) , owner of the ' Big Muddy ' , and a focal point of contention between the picture's feuding families , the Terrill's and the Hannassy's . This was my first look at Burl Ives in a villainous role , and he appeared made for the part of the Hannassy patriarch . Didn't you just cringe each time he put down one of his own sons , especially big old Chuck Connors as Buck Hannassy . I don't know if I care much for Connors as a heel after seeing all those ' Rifleman ' episodes , but he did put some gusto into the role . This might seem like a little thing , but I got a kick out of that scene when Old Thunder did the gimmick with the blanket giving Ramon ( Alfonso Bedoya ) the fits . I say that because it wasn't the first time I'd seen something like it . Roy Rogers ' horse Trigger pulled off a similar stunt in the 1952 film " Son of Paleface " . It made me wonder if Trigger might have trained Old Thunder for the part . Speaking of that fight between Jim McKay and Steve Leech , keep an eye on the ensuing scene on the morning of the next day . Leech is talking to one of his ranch hands , and the only mark on his face is a slight bruise on his upper left cheek . However in the next scene , after running off the Hannassy's at Big Muddy , he has a cut on his lower lip , while talking to Buck Hannassy . Later on in the picture , the cut disappears . Somewhat oddly , for all of his importance to the story , Jim McKay doesn't figure directly in the picture's finale . It's almost as if you could have had the same story without his presence , except then you wouldn't have all of the character driven focus on integrity and values that defined where the story was going . Besides that , McKay was essentially out of his element as the displaced Easterner from Boston , so in that respect , you don't really get a sense of how he'd fare in a one on one show down . In one of my favorites of the genre , Gregory Peck appears in the 1950 Western , " The Gunfighter " , where he portrays a reformed outlaw , the Ringo Kid . It's another psychological Western that deals with the oft recurring theme of brash upstarts trying to take down a legendary gun man to enhance their own reputation . The twist at the ending is one of those be careful what you wish for scenarios at the expense of the Ringo Kid . NOTE - Added on / 08 - Regarding fight scenes between legendary actors , the 1939 film " The Oklahoma Kid " features a great bar room brawl between Humphrey Bogart and James Cagney .
" Being here is news , but dying is my own business . . . "	I've watched about fifty John Wayne movies to date , and I have to say that this one has always been my favorite . I think it has to do with the fact that in this , his last picture , he did such an excellent job of portraying a character who wasn't John Wayne . Here he was , a dying man who had to be convinced of that fact , but once understood , decided that he would do it on his own terms and at a time of his own choosing . In that regard , he received inspiration from old Doc Hostetler ( Jimmy Stewart ) , who upon diagnosing the cancer that would eventually lay him low , challenges J . B . Books ( Wayne ) with this insight - " I would not die a death like I just described , ? not if I had your courage " . It's intriguing to watch Wayne's character develop from a former lawman and gunfighter into a human being , as evidenced by a couple of interesting scenes . Consider how upon meeting Gillom Rogers ( Ron Howard ) he reverts to his gruff frontier mannerism of bossing him around to take care of his horse and run some chores . Gillom manages to put him in his place , but Books takes it in stride with a profound sense that the young whippersnapper might actually be deserving of some respect . I also got a kick out of the scene when Books made Moses ( Scatman Crothers ) the best haggler , a keen way to win a friend and ally . That was just a great piece of character development that managed to take the edge off a gunman who was willing to leave his notoriety behind him . If you remember Ron Howard as far back as his ' Andy Griffith ' days , there's no mistaking that Opie Taylor look in his eyes when his mother ( Lauren Bacall ) first tells him that Books is dying . It's not something a casual viewer of Howard's films would pick up on , but it's definitely there . There was for that single moment , a childlike naiveté that surfaced that resisted acknowledging the fact that something like illness could bring down a once legendary gunfighter . The relationship that builds from there between Gillom and Books gives rise to the astonishing climax that pushes Gillom to the brink of his own humanity . With no wars to win or country to save , it's a treat to watch John Wayne interact with veteran contemporary Jimmy Stewart , and play off of Bacall's Bond Rogers in a hint of a romance that engenders mutual respect . It's also cool to see Richard Boone and Hugh O'Brian , both remembered for their strong portrayals of classic TV Western heroes , on the other side of the fence as villains of the picture . Along with Harry Morgan as the conflicted city marshal Thibido , " The Shootist " is a fitting ride into the sunset for these legendary actors , and a worthy send off for one of the all time great screen cowboys who spanned the decades from ' B ' shoot ' em ups to genuine ' A ' list Westerns .
" Prepare your minds for a scale of new scientific values gentlemen . "	The only thing I knew about this film prior to seeing it was Robby The Robot . My preconception was that it was another in a long line of cheesy sci-fi flicks that the 1950's was noted for . How wrong I was . Big studio , big budget and big production values make this a strong contender , at least visually , for the best sci-fi film coming out of the era . I qualify with the word visually , because " War Of The Worlds " is a lot darker and scarier than " Forbidden Planet " , and probably fits the mold better as a foray into alien territory . What impressed me immediately was the color rendition of the cinematography , followed by the intricacy and scope of detail involved in Dr . Morbius ' ( Walter Pidgeon ) home and laboratory . But that was only the prelude to the icing on the cake , the labyrinthine underground that served as the Krell stronghold . It appeared that Krell technology was even more advanced than say , that of " Star Wars " . Which made me consider , audiences for this movie back when it was released probably sat in the same kind of awe that theater goers experienced in 1977 with SW , or in 1986 with " Aliens " . Watching it on a large screen TV in my living room offered me the same effect , and I'm fairly resistant to hyperbole . It's not too much of a stretch to imagine " Forbidden Planet " as a direct antecedent of the ' Star Trek ' TV series ; Gene Roddenberry himself stated that the movie had a great impact on his vision for the show . Followers of that short lived series will readily recognize plot elements used here that turned up in ' Star Trek ' . I had to do a double take when the men of United Planets Cruiser C57-V headed for a transporter room , while the conundrum presented to Robby that created an impossibility to respond was an element used at least two or three times in the ST series . Where the movie definitely took a cerebral turn had to do with the whole idea of ' monsters from the Id ' . That Morbius himself was using his subconscious mind to defend Altaire IV was certainly a unique concept for 1956 , when every other sci-fi flick of the time was dealing with Martians or other grotesque space creatures . The film worked it's subtle magic on this viewer by helping me understand that Morbius was the protector of Altaire IV some time before Commander Adams ( Leslie Nielsen ) explained it . You know , looking at the calendar , the year 2200 isn't that far off . This movie may be the one that actually gets it right relative to exploring and living on other planets . I think though , that they'll have to come up with a sleeker looking version of Robby .
" You shoulda shot that fella a long time ago , now he's too rich to kill . "	The opening of the movie sets the viewer up for a bit of a shock later on ; all those lush rolling green fields of Maryland give way to a desolate and bizarrely placed Gothic mansion in the middle of a Texas desert . One wonders what Leslie Benedict REALLY thought , because she never let on that this might have been a mistake . But they say love is blind , even if marriage is an eye opener . For my part , I was left wondering what the cattle ate out there to stay nourished , they certainly looked healthy . But of course , that wasn't the point . " Giant " was one of the earliest epic bordering films to examine racial intolerance and present a strong independent woman , and the scenes that play to those sentiments are the best in the story . I had only the faintest of knowledge about the film , generally cited as a final showcase for one of it's stars , James Dean . What surprised me the most was the presence of such a fine supporting cast behind Dean , Rock Hudson and Elizabeth Taylor . Mercedes McCambridge excels with limited screen time as Bick's ( Hudson ) manly sister , while Carroll Baker and Dennis Hopper appear as the adult Benedict heirs , each off in their own direction to the consternation of their father . It's always interesting to see Dennis Hopper , especially in very young early roles , to see how he developed his chameleon like ability to morph into virtually any type of characterization . It's fair to say that the movie's three plus hours virtually flies by , and one wonders how long it could have gone if the film hadn't lopped off years between scenes . On the flip side , that might also be the picture's greatest downside . Even though continuity is never lost , it's somewhat disorienting to see a family age by almost a decade at a clip , as there was plenty of room for additional character development in between . That's probably why more than once I thought that the picture might have benefited from a serialization of sorts , along the lines of say , " Dallas " , other similarities notwithstanding . Is there any way to overlook the connection between Jett Rink's ( Dean ) prominent initials and those of the eldest son of the Ewing clan ? The movie ties up a lot of connections by the time it's over , like Jordy's ( Hopper ) ' Country Doctor ' medical kit and his adult life's ambition . The best though came near the finale when Hudson's character Bick Benedict transcends his chauvinistic and bigoted past to take on the proprietor of ' Sarge's Place ' . It was the redeeming moment worth waiting for , set to martial music and inviting the viewer to cheer on the man who was getting his butt whipped . It's a scene that best captures the spirit of " Giant " , as if defining each of it's principal players as a giant in their own right .
" . . . the Devil wields no power over a good man . "	For a ' B ' film , this is about the best you can get , surprisingly well acted and cleverly done , with a fine cast supporting an interesting story . It was my first look at Paul Muni , who expresses a wide range of emotions as the murdered gangster who returns to Earth in a switcheroo for a judge who's been restoring victims to a place in society at the expense of the Devil ( Claude Rains ) . Once involved with the Devil's deal however , things don't go as old Beelzebub had planned ; every effort to cast Judge Parker ( Muni's alter-ego ) in a bad light winds up making him an even bigger hero . One of the things you'll have to get past though is how those closest to the real Judge Parker , his fiancée Barbara ( Anne Baxter ) and butler Albert ( George Cleveland ) , wind up accepting his severely out of character behavior . Albert had it right in declaring , " . . . I don't wish to alarm you , but the Judge is definitely not himself this morning . " Claude Rains has always been one of my favorite actors from the 1940's era , ever since watching him as the French prefect in " Casablanca " . He always sported elegance and charm , even while portraying the smarmiest characters . No different here , as Beelzebub / Mephistopheles / Satan , Rains is a cunning devil , but easily perturbed when things don't go his way . He also had some of the film's best lines , I got a particular kick out of his remark on the aborted airplane flight to St . Louis - " . . . being up so high makes me uncomfortable " , acknowledging a violation of heavenly air space . One of the successes of the movie is the way it keeps you guessing how things will eventually turn out , with the transformation of gangster Eddie Kagle ( Muni again ) into a compassionate human being . In that regard , the picture borrows a page from the Warner Brothers societal agenda , examining how circumstances early in one's life can have a profound effect on it's outcome . The bittersweet ending finds Kagle a reformed spirit , unable to elude Lucifer's deadly deal , but leaving his mark nonetheless on those who's lives he touches .
" I don't go around just shootin ' people down , I mean , it isn't nice you know . . . "	Two earlier 1950's Westerns came to mind while watching " 3 : 10 To Yuma " ; the similarities to " High Noon " and " Shane " are inescapable for fans of the genre . It begins immediately , with the Frankie Laine rendition of the title ballad , bookending both ends of the story similar to " High Noon " ' s ' Do Not Forsake Me ' . Comparing the songs though is unfair , there's nothing remotely intriguing about the Yuma song to make it linger in your memory once it's over . Probably the better comparison is the time element , as the countdown to the 3 : 10 deadline is reinforced by events that portend a showdown between rancher Dan Evans ( Van Heflin ) and bad man Ben Wade ( Glenn Ford ) and his gang . I'd have to say that for a villain and his cronies , this is the most understated and casual Western confrontation I've ever seen . Ford's character in particular is entirely affable in the face of incarceration and punishment for his misdeeds . In what other Western would you ever find the bad guys reporting the robbery ? The " Shane " connection wouldn't have been as apparent without Van Heflin as one of the leads ; his character Joe Starrett in that film was of similar situation and disposition . Here he has two sons who look up to their father as the be all and end all of their tenuous description of a hero . Though they accept his initial reluctance to get involved as a wise man's decision , they're driven to intercede on their father's behalf when Wade takes dinner with the Evans family . Mother Alice's ( Leora Dana ) temerity is also called into question by the siblings - " Aren't you supposed to say grace with bad people ? " The story evolves into a psychological drama once it becomes a one on one battle of wills between Wade and Evans . One begins to wonder when the self assured Wade will lose the calm exterior and challenge Evans violently for his freedom . It happens fleetingly in the hotel room , with Dan winning that battle , but the war is far from over . Keep an eye on the bad guy posse as it rides into Contention City ( appropriately named for the scenario represented ) . In a couple of scenes , if you keep count of the riders heading in to town , you'll note seven men on horseback . However when Ben Wade looks out the window to talk to his gang , there are eight men present . At the same time , one of the men in the hotel states to Butterfield ( Robert Emhardt ) that he counted seven men , while Wade remarks to Evans after one of his men is shot , ' it's now one against seven ' . Though others in this forum find fault with the ending , I'm willing to cut it some slack . I immediately had the same impression that Wade's action was out of character until he himself explained it . Wade was grateful that Evans saved his life back at the hotel when the stage driver's brother attacked him ; owing him one was one of those odd paybacks honored by the bad man's personal code of honor . Besides , he'd broken out of the Yuma jail before . Comparisons to those earlier classic Westerns notwithstanding , " 3 : 10 to Yuma " doesn't quite measure up in terms of impact or tension , but I'd still consider it one of the better films I'd never heard of . And if you were really paying attention throughout , you just had to know that in the end , it was going to rain .
" Be careful , I'll get you yet . "	The lodger's first appearance , dressed like the description of a murderer named ' The Avenger ' with a wrap across his face , makes it a bit too obvious that Jonathan Drew might be the killer . That's what hooks the viewer into wondering who the Avenger might actually be , and with only a handful of credited characters , the only other reasonable suspect would be police detective Joe . Alfred Hitchcock masterfully directs his first British thriller with hallmarks of the style that in later years would make his name a household word . The steep stairways of the boarding house , a recurring black cat and Hitchcock's own understated presence were all to be repeated in later films , not to mention central characters in a tense game of identity crisis . What makes the lodger character ( Ivor Novello ) particularly creepy is his unusual behavior in turning women's pictures away from view and the borderline malevolent interest he takes in young Daisy Bunting , a fair haired girl who has all the prerequisites for the Avenger's next victim . There are a couple of anomalies that bear mentioning . I found it more than a bit unusual that the lodger's murder map would have been drawn in exactly the same way as the one the police have , a set of smaller triangles within a larger one to mark locations of the stranglings . Speaking of triangles , perhaps it was unintentional , but the one between Drew , Daisy and Joe presents a lot of unresolved tension as events unfold . The other scenario I had some problem with involves the mob chase after the lodger and Daisy leave the pub - just where did ALL those people come from ? Presumably it was late evening with most people staying safe at home , but it looked like a hundred plus people were after the innocent victim . At times excessively grainy and marked with imperfections , I was fortunate to have this rare movie turn up on a Hitchcock DVD compilation of nine British films on three discs put out by St . Clair Vision . These early Hitchcock efforts have been easy to find for a long time now except for " The Lodger " , and " Blackmail " which is also part of the set . Even if you're not a Hitchcock fan per se , it's a great set to get into to see the early development of the suspense genre , with an opportunity to see how the director progressed over the course of his early career .
" Back off , dead men comin ' through . "	I can't really say why it took so long to get around to watching this film , it made critical waves when first released in 1979 , and I remember the controversy surrounding it . It's a harrowing story , more so for the aftermath of Detective James Campbell's ( Ted Danson ) murder and the withering descent into melancholia for his partner Karl Hettinger ( John Savage ) . For a petty hood , Greg Powell ( James Woods ) commands center stage in the story as he takes over his own criminal defense . In a brazen mockery of the judicial system , Powell puts his own parents ' on trial ' for the shortcomings of his adolescence . It's a scene that will make you want to scream . The movie has it's share of defining scenes beyond the actual murder . Besides the one mentioned above , you've got Christopher Lloyd's turn as a smarmy jail house lawyer as he counsels Powell's partner Jimmy Smith ( Franklyn Seales ) , and the first hint of Hettinger's slide into depression with the theft of a watch . Hettinger's subconscious desire to be punished for not doing his duty turns into a year long bout of kleptomania , eventually resulting in the loss of his position with the police department . He was fortunate to have a good wife at his side to provide support until the decision that resulted in a life sentence for the onion field killers was rendered . Watching " The Onion Field " will make you want to count your blessings . It's a disturbing film , suggesting that one never knows when a routine life might take a sudden turn that fractures all semblance of normalcy .
" You're my prisoner you know , I couldn't let you out of my sight . "	The epic scope of the film is particularly impressive considering it's release in 1935 , and without the complexity of today's computer generated effects . Director Henry Hathaway relocates his experiences with the American Wild West to the more exotic locales of northwest India above the Khyber Pass . There he focuses on the good natured rivalry between Lieutenant Alan McGregor ( Gary Cooper ) and two newly assigned junior officers , Forsythe ( Franchot Tone ) and Stone ( Richard Cromwell ) , members of the 41st Bengal Lancers . The plot is thickened by the authority of Colonel Tom Stone ( Guy Standing ) , father of Mr . Stone from Sandhurst , immediately creating a dynamic tension between familial and military concerns . There's a bit more to it than that as well , weighing on the Colonel's mind are an impending retirement and the responsibility of his assignment to protect the Indian Emir from a coalition of hostile tribes led by Mohammed Khan ( Douglas Dumbrille ) . His ' service comes first ' mentality is repeatedly tested by Cooper's character , who refers to the Colonel as ' old ramrod ' ; in fact , McGregor is probably one of the most insubordinate officers in film history if you count the number of times he disobeys orders . The younger Stone is at odds throughout the story as to how to impress his overbearing father . The boar hunt goes badly , and later he falls victim to the Khan's kidnap plot , utilizing the wiles of the sultry Tania ( Kathleen Burke ) . Ultimately he earns his redemption , but at a high price , as the officer trio reunites to destroy Khan's stolen ammunition supply . That he didn't have the courage to resist torture like his comrades is inexorably relived during the presentation of the Distinguished Service Order , when he has all he can do to hold back his welling tears . Any story set in India probably wouldn't be complete without the obligatory dancing cobra scene . Here it's done to somewhat comic effect when the bantering Forsythe finally receives his comeuppance from the older officer McGregor . Of course as with most films , this one doesn't get it scientifically accurate either . Cobras are not enchanted by the music they can't hear , but the swaying motion of the player and his instrument ; for his part , Forsythe looked a bit too terrified to sway . Curiously , Canadian born Douglass Dumbrille has just the right look to be plausible as a foreigner . His character here exudes both charm and malice , and he would go on to portray a varied assemblage of international characters in film . One that immediately comes to mind was a comic turn in the 1950 team-up with " Abbott and Costello in the Foreign Legion " . As a fan of the classics , I have a preferred taste for black and white films , but every once in a while there's a scene that simply begs for the color treatment . As guests of the Emir , the Lancers are shown in full ceremonial regalia which look quite stunning . Kind of makes you wish for a modern day remake , if only they would stay away from the CGI .
" They are not long , the days of wine and roses " .	I can remember exactly the first time I saw this picture , it was February 4th , 1962 . Not that it was particularly memorable , but because of the venue . I was eleven years old and In New York City for the start of Boy Scout Week . Our Scoutmaster had this thing for Radio City Music Hall and the Rockettes kicking up their heels , so he brought our entire contingent of Scouts and parents to see the show following ceremonies at St . Patrick's Cathedral . The only thing I could remember about the story today was that it was about a couple of drunks , but the sharp mind of this pre-teen made me question why we were going to see a movie like this . Today , the political correctness police would certainly have gotten that Scoutmaster in hot water , maybe even fired . Funny , but I don't recall any of the parent chaperons registering a complaint , and both of mine were along at the time . I never thought to ask . Anyway , watching it today I had a chance to revisit that earlier time , and the only part of the film I could even remember had to do with the greenhouse scene ; I was probably working on my Botany merit badge at the time . I have to say , Jack Lemmon does give one of the best crazed performances in a movie I've ever seen , right up there with Nicholson in " The Shining " . His drunken jag coming down the tree was an inspiring display of acting talent , and even if Lee Remick wound up playing second fiddle , she's absolutely knock-out in the film . Though I can't say I'm convinced she would ever consent to going out on a date with an obnoxious jerk like Joe Clay ( Lemmon ) in the first place . But how about Jack Klugman as the AA counselor ? His introductory scene reminded me of those exploitation films of the 1930's that attempted to warn viewers about the danger of abuse from an array of addictive substances like marijuana , cocaine and yes , even the demon rum . So with the hindsight of forty five years ( what ? ? ! ! ) , I guess it was pretty cool to hear Joe Clay summon up a back handed tribute to sobriety as he takes on the challenge of going cold turkey - " I don't want any of your mealy-mouthed holier-than-thou , do gooder Boy Scouts , with their hot coffee and their cold feet " . I don't know exactly how to take that , but it sort of makes you want to go out and work on your Community Service merit badge .
" It's a free concert from now on . "	The trouble I have watching this movie today is - " Where did the last thirty six years go ? " I was on my way to the original " Peace and Arts Festival " before the crush of traffic on Sullivan County's portion of Route 17 and my own youthful practicality decided against it . For a brief hour or so I abandoned my car on the side of the road to make the trek to a then unknown location , but it seemed odd to me that as many people were coming from the direction of Yasgur's Farm as going toward it . With estimates of how much further ranged from a couple of miles to as much as twenty , I reversed course , and by the time I got halfway home , the skies opened up in buckets of rain . In another odd bit of serendipity , when the film came out I was going to college in Buffalo , New York , and wound up heading to Toronto with a buddy for a day trip . While there , we couldn't pass up the theater marquis promoting " Woodstock " , and saw it on ' foreign ' soil so to speak . Like it was yesterday . The film's odd legacy would continue , shortly after I saw Wavy Gravy in person at a university drug symposium - " What we have in mind is breakfast in bed for four hundred thousand ! " I'm sure everyone has their favorite acts from the Woodstock bill . The 25th Anniversary DVD managed to tack on a memorable Janis Joplin performance , along with the electrifying ' Voodoo Child ' number from Jimi Hendrix . The spirit of the entire three day adventure seemed to be epitomized by Joe Cocker's stirring ' With a Little Help From My Friends ' , that along with the unlikely appearance of a trio of nuns walking through the pasture , one of them flashing a peace sign . It was a bit surreal back then , and even now to realize that a city of almost half a million people came together for a weekend , enjoyed three days of peace and music , and then disbanded quietly while a nation watched in wonder . Nothing quite like it has ever been attempted since , and it may be the moon and stars may never line up quite the same way again . For those who live nearby the original Woodstock site in Bethel , there are subtle present day reminders of past glory , like the colorful ' Yasgur Farms ' dairy trucks making local deliveries . A more auspicious presence is the newly opened ' Bethel Woods Center For The Arts ' that had it's grand opening in 2005 . One of the debut performances during the inaugural season featured a return visit of Woodstock alumni , Crosby , Stills and Nash , this time with fellow musician Neil Young . You can learn more about the center at http www bethelwoods us Reminiscing about the heady days of 1969 and Woodstock , a lot of nostalgic thoughts come to mind . Janis , Jimi , Jerry Garcia and Max Yasgur have passed on , while bands like The Who and CSNY are still capturing the magic for legions of ( aging ) fans . Seeing the movie after all these years inspires me to alter slightly that old adage about lemons ; in the playful spirit of the hippie generation , ' If life hands you mud , make mudslides ' !
" Who are the slaves of the machines ? "	" There can be no understanding between the hands and the brain unless the heart acts as mediator . " This is the predominant theme of " Metropolis " , and director Fritz Lang finds numerous ways to say and visualize his message during the course of the film . The movie relies on repeated visual imagery to make it's point , and does so effectively even if tedious at times . Particularly effective is the representation of the worker society as an almost single living unit , moving trance like to their appointed time and task . The use of a " ten hour " clock in the workers ' chamber constantly draws our attention , as does the hangdog posture of the individual slaves who grind out their workday as if in a daze . Amid this rabble , worker Maria ( Brigitte Helm ) is the inspirational voice of the workers , offering hope for a brighter future by a mediator yet to appear . However the Master of Metropolis John Frederson ( Alfred Abel ) sees in her a way to quell the underlying frustration of the workers , commissioning his scientist Rotwang to create a robot Maria to plant discord among the workers . Rotwang's laboratory would have done Frankenstein proud , and the creation of the robot is a marvel of cinematic imagery . The robot Maria's " belly dance " transforms into a scene of such raw energy and sexual awareness that it awakens the statues of the Seven Deadly Sins , one of the master strokes of this expressionist film . So much imagery in fact is layered into " Metropolis " that it's safe to say that repeat viewings will lead to even more interpretations of it's vision , and not simply for it's denunciation of a class society . Both timely and timeless , the film captures a dynamism that inspires passion even after nearly eighty years following it's original release .
" I don't know you , but I knew you were coming . "	Every once in a while a film comes along that really stops you in your tracks and makes you examine what makes it so special . " The Man From Laramie " aroused some strong feelings of emotion in me involving the main heavy , Dave Waggoman ( Alex Nicol ) . The first instance was the brutal burning of Will Lockhart's ( James Stewart ) wagons , followed by the shooting of his mules . Now in a Western , you expect men to get shot , but somehow the mule business felt like a real low blow . It made me wonder what kind of evil could possess another human being to take out his remorseless anger on a helpless animal . The same I suppose , that would rouse one's ire enough to shoot a man's hand in revenge for a failed ambush . Those two scenes will stay with me for a while . I watched this film back to back with " The Violent Men " , and was surprised to see how closely they resembled each other . With only minor changes in plot elements , they're virtually the same picture , though this one is the stronger of the two . There's a bit of a mystery element thrown in with Donald Crisp's character , rancher Alec Waggoman , when he throws out the line in my summary statement above . The element of dreams and prophecy was a pretty unique hook to keep the tension mounting until the film's resolution . What with all the violence and brutality , I got a kick out of the story's best exchange between Will and his temporary employer , Kate Canady ( Aline MacMahon ) : Will - " You're just a hard scheming old woman , aren't you ? " Kate's response - " Ugly too ! "
" , , , there's something about this boy . "	" The Phantom Menace " registers the lowest in fan appreciation of all the films in the Star Wars franchise . Fair enough , one of the six had to just through simple math . But with a few exceptions , I thought the film held up rather well as the introduction to the Darth Vader mythos . Understanding that George Lucas ' epic saga had to begin somewhere , it's not all that unbelievable that the story should begin the way it did in Episode I , with the portrayal of Anakin Skywalker as a precocious young lad with a fascination for mechanics and pod-racing . Which brings me to one of the first criticisms of ' Menace ' , that Anakin ( Jake Lloyd ) wasn't menacing enough , or exhibit a touch of evil that would develop into a Sith characteristic . Listen , if you're looking for " The Omen " , then go watch " The Omen " . Though he was born into slavery , Anakin appeared to have been brought up as a solid , well rounded individual by his mother ( Pernilla August ) , and even though surrounded by petty thieves and cutthroats , was able to keep a level head on his shoulders . As for Lloyd's acting ability , it seemed to me that he maintained a level of self confidence and character throughout the story , which is all anyone could ask given the pressure that the notoriety of the role would bring . Second on the hit list for many nay sayers is the introduction of the midi-chlorians . I'd have to agree that this is somewhat troublesome , particularly in light of Obi-Wan Kenobi's explanation of The Force to Luke Skywalker in the original Star Wars film . Still , this doesn't have to be a tremendous distraction from the plot . Modern day scientists are attempting to discover a link between religious faith and genetics , so on that level , one might consider that Anakin's high midi-chlorian count gave him a unique advantage , one that surfaced in his ability to anticipate his next move in a stressful situation , a la the great pod race . OK , so what about Jar Jar . For those paying attention , Jar Jar was a Gungan , a warrior people . Yet every race or society has its ' misfits , those that stand apart from the mainstream yet can be accepted by that society as someone unique and with abilities that recommend them for a larger role in life . I'll have to admit that the character made a lot more sense to me while viewing the movie with sub-titles turned on . Would Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan have been better off if they had found a more ' acceptable ' partner ? Chances are that a more citizen-like Gungan would have left the Jedi Knights to fend for themselves . So what was my sit up and take notice moment ? I'd have to say the ' virgin birth ' explanation given to Qui-Gon ( Liam Neeson ) caused me to roll my eyes both times I've viewed the film . Comparisons to a Messianic figure just didn't quite work for me , even if the scene played out quickly and was never brought up again . Aside from the pod race and the light saber battle that everyone seems to mention as highlights of the story , the scene that impressed me with it's intimation of the vastness of the galaxy was the one in the Senate chamber where Queen Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) pleaded her case for Naboo against the Trade Federation . That was so much more effective than say , a televised appearance of the President before both houses of Congress . One immediately got a sense of the infinity of outer space and what it would take to assemble a representative body from the far corners of the universe . As for getting around to a meaningful vote - that would probably take a Jedi mind trick , or at least a Sith one . I guess what I'm saying is that there's a lot more going on in " The Phantom Menace " than a lot of casual viewers and even purported Star Wars fans are seeing . The prelude to the next two chapters is being established without much malice aforethought because there will be plenty enough of that when the time comes . For now , it's a time of innocence and fun for a novice whose turn to the Dark Side will progress with light speed when conditions deem it .
" Someday you'll learn that courage is in the blood . "	I can just picture theater patrons leaving this movie during it's original release , not a dry eye in the house ; an endearing testimony to the strength of Bette Davis ' portrayal of the young snooty socialite turned human over the course of the story . As Miss Judith Traherne , Davis exhibits a wide range of emotion in her role , helping establish her reputation as one of film's finest actresses . Along the way , Davis is supported by an unusually strong contingent of Warner contract players , most notably George Brent as the doctor turned husband , Frederick Steele . Established in a highly successful surgical career , Steele is continuously frustrated in his attempt to semi-retire to a life of research at his Vermont farm . Miss Judith is just his latest diversion , one that his professional reputation and personal responsibility will not allow to go without helping . During his association with Judith , he manages to fall in love , while creating the same intense and wonderful feelings in her . Where his nobility fails is in his attempt to keep Judith's true condition secret from her , in collaboration with Judith's best friend , Miss Ann ( Geraldine Fitzgerald ) . Fitzgerald's performance in it's own way is almost as touching as Davis ' own , as the loyal friend and confidante who must watch her best friend slowly fade toward an unhappy ending . Ronald Reagan appears a number of times throughout the film as a member of Davis ' social circle , and whether by design or not , he never appears sober . Henry Travers , the diligent wing earning angel from " It's a Wonderful Life " appears as Miss Judith's family physician in a subdued role . And to be completely honest , my original interest in this film was in completing my collection of Humphrey Bogart movies ; here he has minimal screen time as a horse trainer with an eye for Miss Judith who realizes that his station would never allow for such a match up . It's interesting to see Bogey near the end of the film in the obligatory trench coat for which he's well known . The film's ending is powerful and given added poignancy as Miss Judith plants a flower bulb after sending her husband off to an important medical gathering . With Judith's vision dimming , Miss Ann cannot contain her tears and is sent off by Miss Judith as well to remember happier times . As Judith stumbles up the stairs to her bedroom , the maid symbolically draws the curtain against the sunlight , while Judith says a final prayer , and it's over . Commence tears . To date , my viewing of Bette Davis films have been limited to her collaborations with Humphrey Bogart , but that's a total of six films , more than any other pairing with my favorite actor . Edward G . Robinson appeared with Bogey in five films , and one of them , " Kid Galahad " also featured Bette Davis , once again in a role showing many facets of her ability . Intrigued as I am with her performance in " Dark Victory " , I'll be looking forward to more of her films .
" I've never been alone with a man before , even with my dress on . "	Enchanting is the word that comes to mind to describe " Roman Holiday " . It's got that escape from reality wonder about it that might be envied even by royalty . Audrey Hepburn is luminous in her first American film appearance , allowing the viewer to believe that she really could pull off the disappearing act for twenty fours hours for the purpose of living life on a ' fun schedule ' . I was impressed by how much mileage Princess Ann got out of that five thousand lira note ; could one really buy sandals , a haircut and a cone of gelato all for less than a dollar and a half in 1953 ? That would have made Joe Bradley's ( Gregory Peck ) five thousand dollar payday close to a king's ransom , or at least a princess's . Bradley's put into a predicament when Ann comments on his sacrifice to spend the day showing her around Rome ; she describes it as ' completely unselfish ' . By that time , one gets the idea that just maybe he'll wind up doing the right thing . Slow to pick up on Bradley's non verbals , photographer Irving Radovich ( Eddie Albert ) bears the brunt of Joe's spilled drinks and takes a pratfall or two . Sadly , one of his remarks to Joe brought to mind the unending scrutiny suffered in real life by Princess Diana - " She's fair game Joe , it's always open season on princesses . " Odd how art imitating life , in this case predicting it , could end in such tragedy . It was heartwarming then to see how Joe and Irving turned their back on a story , and instead opted to reaffirm humanity . The finale is both uplifting and bittersweet , echoing one of Gregory Peck's lines to Hepburn earlier in the story - " Life isn't always what one likes , is it ? "
" I don't think you fully understand Mr . Bigelow , you've been murdered . "	I've known about this movie for years but only got around to watching it today ; I wish I hadn't waited so long . The film grabs you right from the outset , as Edmond O'Brien's character Frank Bigelow rushes in desperation to unravel the mystery behind his own murder . At first , I thought the luminous toxin ordeal was a contrivance invented for the film , but the movie closes with an assurance that such a poison actually exists . One learns something every day . There are some great scenes in " D . O . A . " , not all of which are critical to the plot . The jazz riff at The Fisherman in particular is especially enjoyable , sweat gleaming off the brow of the frenetic trombone player and his fellow musicians , a " jive crazy " moment worthy of comment by the bartender . This is where it all starts , as Bigelow is slipped a mickey by an unknown figure who we'll recognize later by his curiously identifiable upturned collar . The see saw nature of Frank's frantic search is personified by his race through the streets of San Francisco at breakneck pace . I wonder how many takes were needed to complete that entire piece , O'Brien doesn't look to be in that kind of shape . The crux of the plot involves a bill of sale that accountant Bigelow notarized some six months earlier . Entirely insignificant at the time , the paperwork can exonerate a businessman of a fraudulent transaction if it can be produced . In an ironic twist of fate , the iridium that changed hands in the transaction is now responsible for Bigelow's impending doom . Besides O'Brien , memorable performances are turned in by Pamela Britton as his needy girlfriend Paula Gibson , and Neville Brand in a greatly over the top turn as a henchman for a low life named Majak ( Luther Adler ) . Brand's character Chester is just brimming with a malice that oozes , there's none of the subtle Peter Lorre type hostility here . As for Paula , her clingy personality made it entirely reasonable why Bigelow needed to take a week vacation without her in the first place . Though we know the actual outcome of the story right from the start , one can't help hoping that something will dramatically occur to rescue Bigelow from his plight . But it can't be any more final , as large block letters " D . O . A . " are stamped on his case file at the film's close . I'm just glad we didn't have to deal with Paula's reaction when she learns the news .
" You see my son , you make your heaven and hell for yourselves on earth , you only bring it with you here . "	Paul Henreid portrays a character with a pretty young wife , determined to leave the country and desperately needing an exit permit - sound familiar ? Perhaps so , but this isn't " Casablanca " , it's a relatively obscure film from 1944 deserving of a wider audience . " Between Two Worlds " is a well constructed morality tale that reveals the lot of a handful of souls on the way to their final destination aboard a ship going nowhere . The wayward passengers come together as the vehicle en route to their trans-Atlantic ship is destroyed by a German World War II air raid bombing in London . Simultaneously , the distraught Henry Bergner ( Henreid ) , unable to obtain passage for his wife Ann ( Eleanor Parker ) and himself , chooses suicide for both . Interestingly , the Bergner's are the only passengers that know from the beginning that they are dead , having chosen their fate . Their fellow passengers can't seem to remember recent events , complaining of fatigue and dizziness . As one might expect , the characters are stereotypes - Thomas Prior ( John Garfield ) is a brash , cynical newspaperman ; Maxine " Maxie " Russell ( Faye Emerson ) is a part time stage actress and full time gold digger . Pete ( George Tobias ) is heading back to America to be with his wife and yet unseen newborn son , who has already defied the odds by surviving three torpedo attacks as a serviceman . Genevieve ( Isobel Elsom ) is a snooty socialite with a very high opinion of herself , married to Benjamin ( Gilbert Emery ) , a patient and unassuming man . Sara Allgood is Mrs . Midget , an odd name for a woman whose lot in life finds enjoyment in helping others . Appropriately , there's a religious man aboard , Reverend William ( Dennis King ) , whose ambition is to meet new people , do new things and get a taste of adventure . And then there's Lingley , of Lingley Limited , who never lets you forget that his money can only be rivaled by his own self importance . Edmund Gwenn is superb as the ship's steward with the unlikely moniker of Scrubby , whose job it is to deftly allow the passengers to understand their fate as they come to realize what happened to them . And on hand to pass final judgment is The Examiner , Sydney Greenstreet in a perfectly cast role . If any fault is to be found with the film , it would be the early revelation of the passengers ' fate ; a little more exposition and buildup would have heightened the suspense . However the fates of the individuals are well suited to their demeanor in life , and are cleverly meted out by the astute Examiner .
" I'll be a model prisoner if it kills me " .	Based on the real life true story of Robert E . Burns , Warner Brothers offers yet another in a long line of social conscience films that made them a studio juggernaut as early as the 1930's . Unlike Cagney , Bogart or Edward G . Robinson however , this picture's star Paul Muni isn't remembered today except by true film enthusiasts . In his time though , Muni was such a prolific actor that he became a victim of his own success . The studio began billing him as MR . Paul Muni , thereby alienating the common man audience that built him up in the first place . In " I Am a Fugitive From a Chain Gang " , Muni is front and center throughout virtually the entire movie , and as the story progresses , it's impossible to take your eyes off him . What makes the central character's story truly horrific begins with his sentence - ten years of hard labor based on circumstantial evidence pointing to a robbery of five dollars . In a split second , James Allen's ( Muni ) life is derailed and sent into a tailspin of unintended consequences . His life on a chain gang documents such indignities as having to request permission to wipe the sweat off his face , or repeated lashes from the duty guard's whip for making a snide remark . It's no wonder that Allen is driven to ' hang it on a limb ' , insider code for bustin ' out . The irony of Allen's breakout is not so much that he's eventually tracked down by the authorities , but that he's subjected to another round of inhumane prison treatment after he turns himself in as part of a phony deal with the state in which he served time ( Georgia , though it was never mentioned by name in the picture ) . Aside from the gripping story , I'm always intrigued by films of the Thirties and Forties that reveal glimpses of life from so long ago . James Allen's cross country jaunts while looking for work reveal that a flophouse bed and meal go for fifteen cents each ; throw in another nickel for a bath . As for wages , Allen took his first paying laborer job at four dollars a day , and was living pretty well by the time he made the grade as an assistant superintendent at fourteen dollars a day ! But the real sit up and take notice scene for me was during the conversation Allen had with new found girlfriend Helen after leaving the dinner party - she declared she could do anything she wanted being ' free , white and twenty one ' ! I'll agree with most viewers who hold that the picture's ending is one of the most powerful in cinema , a haunting image and line uttered - " I steal ' - to cement the sense of desperation in the main character's doomed future . Watching the picture tonight on Turner Classics , host Robert Osborne mentioned that Paul Muni's dramatic fade into darkness was one of those most fortunate accidents in film history in which a light blew out precisely as the scene ended . It was almost re-shot too , until someone said wait a minute . I just love those throw away bits of film trivia .
" You see how good it is when your hit man's an Italian ? "	Just a couple of nights ago I happened to catch " Bandolero " on TV , featuring Dean Martin and Jimmy Stewart , so it was an odd coincidence that the Celebrity Roast sitting on top of my still unviewed collection happened to be Dino's ' Man of the Hour ' tribute to his co-star from that film . Perhaps even odder , one of the roasters , Senator Barry Goldwater , referenced the movie in his presentation . I find it very cool when a bit of cosmic serendipity makes it's way into my viewing pleasure like that . I caught a lot of these Celebrity Roasts back in the day , and marvel at the way all those top entertainers got together to honor one of their own without being vulgar or mean spirited . Sadly , many of the greats have already passed away , but their spirit and humor live on . Members of the dais for this installment included Mickey Rooney , Red Buttons , Henry Fonda , June Allyson , Lucille Ball , Janet Leigh , and Rich Little doing his Stewart imitation . The funniest bit though , in this and just about every roast in which she appears , was Ruth Buzzi in the guise of her ' Laugh-In ' character Gladys Ormphby . When she winds up with her pocketbook , nobody's safe , including Dino . She did however seem to take it easy on the guest of honor this time out . Throughout the laughs and digs at the expense of the Man of the Hour , you get a good sense of how well loved and revered Jimmy Stewart was for all his talented work for over a half century in film . It goes without saying that his was truly a wonderful life .
" Soylent Green is people ! "	I remember the spirited controversy surrounding " Soylent Green " when it first came out and oddly , I didn't go to see it back in 1973 . I'm sorry I didn't , I was only about ten minutes into the picture today when I thought to myself that it was pretty remarkable . The opening scene was intended to portray what trouble would be in store for Earth and mankind some fifty years into the future , back when there were a couple billion people less on the planet than there are now . However the projection of New York City's population of forty million in 2022 isn't going to happen . Nice try though , and hey , present day environmentalists and global warming enthusiasts will no doubt find solace in the story's grim projections about the greenhouse effect and ' everything burning up ' . But only two years later , in 1975 , Newsweek Magazine had a cover story about the threat of global COOLING and the anticipated problems of shorter growing seasons and the possibility of worldwide famine due to crop failures . It all goes in cycles you see , and by the time the ' real ' 2022 rolls around , there will no doubt be yet another different spin on global climate change , when in fact , the Earth's temperature doesn't really vary much at all . Hey , how about ' Tuesday is Soylent Green Day ' ; I still remember the ads for ' Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day ' . You don't see or hear those anymore , in fact my local supermarket doesn't even carry Prince spaghetti anymore . How about Sol Roth's description of soylent - " tastleless , odorless , crud ' ! Speaking of Sol Roth , it was cool seeing Edward G . Robinson in his final film role , even if some of his dialog with Charlton Heston had me doing double takes regarding their masculinity . It reminded me of a Robinson role going all the way back to 1931 opposite James Cagney no less , screen legends who managed to confound this viewer with expressions of ' sweetheart ' and ' dearie ' in the film " Smart Money " . And holy cow ! , the film also featured the old Rifleman himself , Chuck Connors , as a bodyguard for the assassinated director of The Soylent Corporation . I sort of wished he had his tricked out rifle along but that would have changed the whole tempo of things . The Joseph Cotten appearance had me a little baffled , I think a little more time could have been spent on his ' willingness ' to be murdered . You know , the picture reminded me a lot of one of my favorite ' Twilight Zone ' episodes from a dozen years earlier , and I wouldn't be surprised if that story might have had a small impact on " Soylent Green " . In ' Soylent ' , if you're thinking ahead and don't know the ending ( kind of hard I know with the notoriety it's engendered ) , the first inkling you might have had about the title foodstuff would have come when the ' diggers ' were called in for the rioting populace . All those bodies being hauled off to an unknown outcome kind of gives you a hint that ' Soylent Green is people ' ! In the TZ episode ' To Serve Man ' , the finale is reached with a lot more subtlety and it hits you a lot more forcefully . For the uninitiated , the title comes from the story of an alien race that solves all of Earth's problems , and in return , appreciative Earthlings travel through space to visit the planet of the Kanamits . The punch line - ' To Serve Man ' was the aliens ' cookbook ! The only other thought I have has to do with the film's status as a sci-fi flick . Even though the concept is definitely in that league , others on this board have mentioned that the filming and effects utilized didn't distinguish it from some of the other memorable films of the era , for example , 1968's " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , or 1971's " A Clockwork Orange " . Heck , even as far back as the 1950's , you had pictures like " War of the Worlds " ( 1953 ) and " Forbidden Planet " ( 1956 ) using much more in the way of special effects to tell their story . Even so though , given those apparent budget limitations , the picture is still a unique achievement and holds up pretty well after lo , these three decades . I'm sure a modern day re-make would add a few more twists , but then again , as with so many movies , there's nothing like the original .
" Whoever is bitten by a werewolf and lives becomes a werewolf himself . "	Could there be a better movie to watch on Halloween Eve , other than the original " Dracula " perhaps ? Lon Chaney Jr . ' s portrayal as " The Wolf Man " earns him iconic status along with Universal's " Frankenstein " and the aforementioned role made famous by Bela Lugosi . Lugosi is present here as a gypsy fortune teller named Bela , with the forced diction of his earlier portrayal nearly gone . With a brief introduction to the subject of lycanthropy , or " werewolfism " , the story unfolds with wonderfully creepy fog enshrouded sets and logic defying werewolf history that almost makes sense within the context of the story . Bitten by a werewolf , the anguished Larry Talbot ( Chaney ) struggles with the knowledge and curse of becoming a werewolf himself , though others of saner persuasion continually enforce their doubts of the ancient gypsy curse , repeated with regularity throughout the film . As if to counterpoint the mental illness of lycanthropy , take note of the name on the store front next to Conliffe's Antique Shop , it's called Saneman Productions Ltd . Perhaps Talbot could have used their help ! " The Wolf Man " belongs on every horror fan's must see list ; it's story holds up well , along with the special effects that are obviously primitive by today's standards . Even so , the story of a man who turns into a werewolf as one of cinema's great horror themes gets it's best screen history send off in this classic film .
" Thoughts are like noble animal , unchecked they run away causing painful smashup . "	Having just completed a successful investigation for the British Government , Charlie Chan ( Warner Oland ) finds himself confronted by a frantic Pamela Gray ( Drue Leyton ) who urges him to help clear her brother of murder . Paul Gray's only appeal has been rejected , and he faces execution in three days if his sister fails to convince Chan to take the case . Adding to Chan's concern is the belief of Paul Gray's attorney Neil Howard ( Ray Milland ) that Gray is guilty , and that does not bode well for his relationship with Pamela , to whom he is engaged to be married . Paul Gray's alleged victim was Air Force Captain Hamilton , the hunt secretary for Geoff Richmond , and a weekend guest at the Richmond summer estate in Retfordshire ; the victim's body was found in the stable . Chan makes his entrance in rather uncommon fashion , climbing through the window of Pamela Gray's guest room at the Richmond home , having been rebuffed by a suspicious butler when he came calling in the normal manner . Practically crashing a Richmond dinner party in progress , Chan gathers all the party members who had testified at the original Gray trial . Two of the dinner guests relate how they heard Hamilton and Gray quarrel strongly on the evening of the murder . Some time later , Gray was seen walking from the direction of the stable where the victim was found . With time a factor , the detective intends to recreate the crime - " No time to expose lies , must expose truth . " Upon first entering the stable , a horse reacts quite violently until calmed by the stable groom named Lake . This curious fact was never mentioned at the trial , and is the first real clue Chan has to work with - no one heard any commotion from the stable on the evening of the murder , suggesting that the horse was familiar with the murderer . This casts some suspicion on Lake , until Lake himself is found dead in what appears to be a suicide . However Chan convinces the local constable Sergeant Thacker that a bullet in the forehead would not have been possible unless fired with a thumb . Lake's dead hand held a pistol , but with his right index finger on the trigger . Another curious fact not brought up at the trial was Hamilton's penchant for inventing gadgets . Chan learned of this by interviewing a major of the Royal Air Force at the Farnwell Aerodrome . It seems Hamilton had a scheme for silencing warplanes , those plans having been stolen by the murderer . With a motive now firmly established , Chan is convinced that the plans are at the Richmond home , and cleverly engages Geoffrey Richmond's help in searching his study . Alone with Chan , Richmond sees an opening to remove the detective from the scene , as he is now perilously close to revealing the real murderer . Not to be outdone , Chan had already prepared to expose Richmond , with the local police stationed outside the study to make their apprehension at the appropriate time . As far as Charlie Chan mysteries go , " In London " is one of the better ones . With Warner Oland in his second outing as the Chinese detective , it's a cleverly told story , revealing clues in a well thought out manner and leading the viewer down a number of different paths before the murderer is finally revealed . The formidable list of suspects included the new hunt secretary Jardine , the previously mentioned stable groom , and suspicious butler Phillips ( revealed to be Captain Seton , a military intelligence plant in the Richmond home ) , along with Paul Gray himself . Repeated references to the number of hours left before Gray is to be executed adds to the suspense , with Gray contemplating his gruesome fate with only four hours to go before the case is finally solved . It was the very next Charlie Chan film that introduced other members of the Chan family to the screen . " Charlie Chan in Paris " brings Keye Luke aboard as Number # 1 Son Lee . In an interesting scene from " London " , Charlie Chan warmly looks at a picture of his family in the hotel room he occupies ; the family count in the picture shows eleven offspring , with an additional single baby picture that could be number twelve . The very early Chan films establish a strong continuity , and the growing family size is referred to often . It's these little nuances that make the Chan series of films as interesting for me as the mysteries they tell .
" He had found the band of jackals he needed . "	I've only recently become aware of this movie and had it on my short list of films to see at the first chance ; subscribing to the Encore Western channel just this week made the screening of the film feel like a sign on bonus . I always go into stories like this with the expectation that historical accuracy is an unknown concept , so in that regard , I don't come away disappointed . I have to say that this was an entirely entertaining film , with elements of story telling and filming technique that go beyond the formulaic and ordinary . As a fan of HBO's " Deadwood " , it's difficult not to make comparisons between that Western series and " Wild Bill " . I would like to have seen more of James Butler Hickok in " Deadwood " , but of course that wasn't the point of the show . Before getting to the meat of the story here , director Walter Hill provides a few quick glimpses at events in the life of the legendary gunfighter from his days in the Nebraska Territory of 1867 , up to his arrival in Deadwood Gulch in the summer of 1876 . The portrayal of the mining camp in both productions is effectively done , calling to mind the description Obi Wan Kenobi offered upon setting eyes on Mos Eisley - " You'll find no greater hive of scum and villainy " . Roughly paraphrasing the film's voice over narration , the town resembled that part in the Bible right before God gets angry . I'd say you pretty much have it right there for historical Deadwood . I would take it as a pretty safe bet that Wild Bill ( Jeff Bridges ) and Calamity Jane ( Ellen Barkin ) were never interrupted on a card table , but with it , the obligatory tease for story purposes was quickly consummated . With it too , the firm intention , yet not the resolve of Hickok's ultimate killer , Jack McCall . David Arquette would probably not have been my first choice for the role , catching me off guard with a passing resemblance to Emilio Estevez's Billy the Kid in " Young Guns " , and looking slightly better groomed than Garrett Dillahunt , who portrayed McCall in the ' Deadwood ' series . I liked the way the picture took hallucinatory turns with the black and white flashback scenes . They seemed to offer the perfect vantage point from which Hickok and the viewer could examine a troubled past and it's tumultuous incoherence . The most surreal one had to be when Bill recalled the duel with Will Plummer ( Bruce Dern in one of the best casting decisions of the film ) . It showed at least that Hickok had some sense of fair play in his make up , bringing himself down to the level of a cripple to even out the playing field so to speak . This will be a good one to catch a few more times to allow the bizarre nature of the film to sink in and mellow with familiarity . It definitely sets me in the direction of finding out more of the real life Wild Bill Hickok , a name that seems to grow in significance with each re-telling of the legend .
' Stay scared . "	If you've seen enough horror films , it's pretty hard to come away totally surprised by events in a picture that are meant to be scary . Still , " 1408 " does a pretty good job with setting up the viewer and it's principal player , John Cusack , for a roller coaster ride of conflicting emotions . I thought the selection of The Carpenters ' tune was pretty interesting , as it conveyed to Mike Enslin ( Cusack ) that yes indeedy , we're just getting warmed up here and you better buckle yourself in for the ride . I thought though , that Cusack's character started to lose it just a little too early in the picture when the coincidence angle could have been played up a bit more . But by the time things really get rolling , the story builds with more and more authenticity so that you start putting yourself in Cusack's shoes and start wondering what you'd do if you were stuck in Room 1408 yourself . Me , I'd rather not even think about it , because if you've ever read one of Stephen King's books alone at night in the dark , on purpose , then that's as much of a scare as I'd like to attempt . Try watching this one alone at night , in the dark , on purpose .
" There is no knot that cannot be untangled . "	It seems that most of the reviews of martial arts films I read on this forum are posted by devotees of the genre . In my case , I'm not particularly a martial arts movie fan , but do enjoy a picture with an effective story and a reasonable amount of action . In that regard , " Jet Li's Fearless " is acceptable on both points , even though the plot itself is reminiscent of movies going all the way back to the kung fu glut of the 1970's . It has a much harder edge to it than the lyrical beauty of a movie like " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " , and it doesn't approach the vibrant use of color that " Hero " and " House of Flying Daggers " so eminently achieve . What it does serve up are excitingly well choreographed fights in various venues that push the limits of physical dexterity and inventive use of wire work ; the battle against Master Chin at the restaurant best exemplifies that dichotomy . For those who look for the more cerebral , the tea conversation between Huo Yuan Jia and Tanaka and how it relates to Wushu fighting styles is especially well done . For me , a satisfying martial arts film , even if not the best the genre has to offer .
" I wanted a killer from a world filled with killers and they chose you . . . "	I got the same feeling watching " The Manchurian Candidate " as I did as a fourth grader going through those ' duck and cover ' air raid drills in the mid 1950's , the threat of those Communist Russkies ever impinging on a precocious young mind . The film is claustrophobic and sinister , a holdover from the McCarthy era where a Commie was to be found behind every bush , and maybe worse , holding high political office . Not having seen the movie before , I didn't know what to expect . I found the early scenes demonstrating the effectiveness of the Chinese brainwashing techniques on the captured American patrol to be uniquely original . Obviously disorienting from the start with the discourse on hydrangeas , the periodic shifts between the contrived and real audience was very well done ; the touch with the all black floral society was a master stroke . Frank Sinatra and Laurence Harvey are terrific in their roles , but the real scene stealer is Angela Lansbury as Shaw's manipulative mother . Lansbury is so good in fact , that you begin to question how she would have fallen in with a sop like Big John Iselin ( James Gregory ) , who wouldn't even dare to address the whole ' just how many communists are there ' question for himself . There's a quite revealing insight into her controlling nature when early in the story she addresses John and son Robert as her ' two little boys ' . What's probably too bad though , but as the film progresses , more and more elements begin to surface that tend to exaggerate the entire premise of the story . I was intrigued by the issue of Shaw having all guilt and fear removed from his psyche as he was built into a perfect assassin . However his selection as that assassin was never properly explored , only to be further convoluted by that overwrought and borderline incestuous kiss by momma . His soon to be bride showing up in that queen of diamonds costume also contributed to odds defying circumstances , causing this viewer a ' what the ? ' reaction . I got a couple of inadvertent chuckles from the story , the first when Yen Lo ( Khigh Dhiegh ) checked in on Shaw ( Laurence Harvey ) at the converted alcohol treatment center now operated by the Russians . With glee , he chastises the Russian Zilkov ( Albert Paulsen ) for the facility making a profit ; the Russian didn't find it amusing . The other was the martial match up between Major Marco ( Sinatra ) and Chunjin ( Henry Silva ) ; they really should have taken a few lessons . Sinatra's stance at one point was almost comical . As a political thriller , one would do well to concentrate on the first half of the film , up to about the point when Janet Leigh makes her appearance as the Major's romantic interest . That basically comes out of nowhere , and seemed at the outset to play like it might have been a part of the whole subversive mind game plot . It comes to naught however , left dangling like an unresolved story element . The trail to the political convention , especially following the assassination of Shaw's wife and father , is fraught with major demands for suspension of belief on the part of the viewer , the major one being , how did Shaw manage to elude the authorities for his crimes while under hypnotic control ? By the time he sights in his rifle , one has a pretty good idea how it will all end , and with just the right symbolism . The Manchurian conspiracy falls as if constructed of a stack of cards . I'll never be able to look at a queen of Lansbury in the same way again .
" This is the West , Sir . When the legend becomes fact , print the legend . "	I had seen this film many years ago when I was a lot younger , and thought it was a pretty good Western . The passage of time and a keener focus reveals a lot more going on in this movie than a conflict between two good men and the killing of an outlaw gunman . Surface generalities aside , the story is about the passing of an era , with the bullets of a bygone time about to be replaced by the subtler but just as lethal machinations of the political machine . There's another way to look at the events surrounding the death of Liberty Valance ( Lee Marvin ) . Suppose Tom Doniphon ( John Wayne ) made up the story about shooting Valance to save Ransom Stoddard's hide . It would have been just another savage way of further emasculating Jimmy Stewart's character upon realizing that Hallie ( Vera Miles ) was never going to be his girl . After all , he wasn't above humiliating Ranse with the mean spirited paint can demonstration where his rage was more palpable . I'm not advancing that hypothesis by the way , but it's an interesting conjecture that fits , and isn't denied by any of the other facts of the story . There's a rather strange moment in the picture that director Ford opted to keep . When Stoddard addresses the town meeting about to nominate representatives to Washington , he walks from behind a desk and hits his head on the bottom of the stairwell . He looks at the stair , and without skipping a beat , keeps on talking to the audience . I wonder if it hurt ? Even stranger though is the sequence when Wayne's character leaves town after drinking heavily and arrives home with his ward Pompey ( Woody Strode ) . In town he has a black shirt , arriving at home it's a light colored one . Breaking the door in , the shirt is black again , and when Pompey saves him from the fire , it's not only light colored again , but with a set of buttons that go down to the belt line . Finally , the shirt is black again in the final scene of that sequence . For his final team up with John Wayne , Ford seems to go for caricature with many of the figures here . Most obvious is Lee Marvin's title character , Liberty Valance . He's pretty much allowed free reign as a nut case , and even though Andy Devine's usual persona as a do nothing lawman is somewhat expected , he's totally ineffective in enforcing anything in the town of Shinbone . Liberty's henchman Floyd ( Strother Martin ) is irritating as a whiny outlaw , and Lee Van Cleef has disappointingly too little screen time to be of consequence . Perhaps the most over the top performance is delivered by John Carradine , with macho exuberance and a name to match as Major Cassius Starbuckle . There's a lot going on in ' Liberty Valance ' with repeat viewings recommended to uncover even more nuances . This is one Western that doesn't fit the typical mold , where preconceptions are shot down like cans on a fence post . It's a look at the wild west coming to an end with a blend of nostalgia , romance and grit that offers an effective glimpse at legend before succumbing to fact .
" I will remember this evening probably as long as it takes me to get to my car ! "	If you're under thirty years old , you didn't get to grow up watching most of these Hollywood legends in their prime . This edition of ' Celebrity Roast ' is one of the best ways to catch a quick snapshot of many of the entertainers who came up through the Golden Age of Hollywood and went on to create many happy memories for children of the boomer generation . I was lucky enough to catch most of the original Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts when originally telecast in the mid to late Seventies , and it was always a kick to see these great names get together to honor one of their own . This ' Best ' edition features a look at just that , the very best - Johnny Carson , Bob Hope , Muhammad Ali , Jackie Gleason , Jack Benny , Michael Landon , Lucille Ball and Dino himself . The ' roaster ' list is also a veritable Who's Who of show business , with a few sport celebrities thrown in for good measure . One of the things I was able to notice today was that some of the honorees were toasted as ' Man of the Hour , others were ' Man of the Week ' , as noted by the large banners behind the podium . If I remember correctly , when Frank Sinatra got the treatment back in 1977 , he was honored as ' Man of the Year ' . It made me wonder if any of the celebrities got their nose out of joint over the differentiation . One of the treats of this compilation is getting to see some of the great personalities of the time who have passed on - Truman Capote , Orson Welles , Redd Foxx , Howard Cosell , Art Carney , Reverend Billy Graham , and Governor Ronald Reagan ( not the President yet ! ) . The era's entertainment legends who have somewhat faded from center stage are also prominent - Billy Crystal , Phyllis Diller , Rich Little , Tony Orlando and Freddie Prinze to name a few . It's also bittersweet to see Michael Landon as one of the honored guests , a man who left us much to soon while in his prime as a creative force in the industry ; I was greatly saddened at his passing . You know , back in 2006 I was greatly anticipating the Comedy Central Roast of William Shatner , as I have always enjoyed his work going back to the original ' Star Trek ' days . I couldn't have been more disappointed with the obscenity filled comments and condescending treatment by the members of the dais , many of whom I had never even heard of before . Stark contrast to the Celebrity Roasts of yesteryear - just one more reminder of how we've regressed as a society . In case you're wondering , that's Johnny Carson in my summary line above - it was a given that the honored guests could dish it out as well as take it !
" When you hang a man , you better look at him . "	Clint Eastwood excels as Marshal Jed Cooper in " Hang ' Em High " , the justice and revenge tale from writers Leonard Freeman and Mel Goldberg and directed by Ted Post . He's surrounded by a stellar cast , though most of them are in the hanging party that almost does him in during the film's opening scene . Particularly seamy looking is Bruce Dern ; it's a mark of a good actor when his performance makes you want to see him get what's coming to him . For those who've seen it , the story is well known , so I won't concern myself with the basic plot . What I found rather fascinating was the subtext provided by Pat Hingle's character , territorial Federal Judge Fenton . Deputizing Cooper , we see a solid moral individual who fairly demands that Cooper bring back his attackers alive to face a judge and jury . But this hanging judge has his own agenda , and in his vision of statehood for the Oklahoma Territory , he's not above creating a bit of a spectacle in the name of civilized justice . When Cooper gets sidetracked from his original mission to bring in the killer of a cattle rancher , his path crosses with Dern's character Miller , along with two young boys along for the ride . Though admitting to rustling , Cooper knows the boys are innocent of murder , especially when they don't help Miller take down Cooper while being brought in to Fort Grant . On the witness stand , Cooper is continually shut down by the judge as he tries to defend the boys . Legally they're guilty of rustling , punishable by death and they'll hang . Credit writers Freeman and Goldberg for an unusual and surreal scene in which six condemned men are about to hang . The camera glances on shadows of dangling feet that portend the actual hanging , as a crowd forms on a bright Sunday morning to witness death . They wear their Sunday best , as a vendor hawks cold beer as if it were a sporting event . As the judge nods his assent and the gallows claim their toll , three members of the Cooper hanging party attempt to gun him down before they themselves fall victim to the hunt - incredible timing and imagery as Eastwood's character falls in a hail of bullets . Inger Stevens appears as a nominal love interest for Marshal Cooper , in a romance virtually doomed from the start , as each are battling their own personal demons . Though there's a hint of their settling down together near the end of the movie , it's pretty much left up to the imagination of the viewer if that would ever actually happen . The actual ending is also an innovative piece of work . When Cooper was strung up and left for dead at the beginning of the movie , there were nine members of the hanging party . By story's end , seven had been accounted for , with six of them dead . Two members of the group , by name of Maddow and Charlie Blackfoot , decided to head out of town to avoid capture and trial . With his mission incomplete , Cooper picks up the badge once more and heads out on the trail to bring them in . Odds are he'll get his men , but we don't get to see it .
" Death . . . eternal punishment for anyone who opens the casket , in the name of Amon-Ra , King of the Gods . "	Boris Karloff follows up his exceptional 1931 performance as the Frankenstein Monster the following year in another Universal horror hit , " The Mummy " . In the film , Karloff portrays not only the title character Imhotep , but also his modern day counterpart Ardath Bey , whose mission is to reunite with his long lost love Princess Anck-Es-En-Amon . It was the 1921 British Museum Field Expedition that discovered the Mummy's remains along with the Scroll of Thoth , whose mystic message contains a spell that can raise the dead . When expedition member Norton ( Bramwell Fletcher ) unseals the scroll , the Mummy slowly comes to life in a sequence designed to create nightmares in young children and shivers in the timid . Fletcher's descent into madness is conveyed by a maniacal rant as his mind fails to accept what his eyes are showing him . His response to expedition leader Sir Joseph Whemple - " He went for a little walk , you should have seen his face " . Fast forward to 1932 , Sir Joseph and son Frank return to Egypt , and aided by Ardath Bey , discover the tomb of Imhotep's lost love of 3700 years prior . In ritual prayer , Bey summons the spirit of Anck-Es-En-Amon to seek life in the body of Helen Grosvenor . As Helen slowly succumbs to her new identity , Imhotep uses his mystical powers to remove his opposition , willing Sir Joseph's demise and nearly doing the same to Frank . In an illuminating sequence , it's revealed how Imhotep came to be buried alive for his sacrilege of stealing the sacred Scroll of Thoth , and memorizing it's prohibited secrets . For fans of classic horror and Universal monsters in particular , the names of Frankenstein , Dracula and Wolf Man will always remain the big three , but that in no way can lessen the importance of " The Mummy " when it comes to one's must see list . Boris Karloff would have been considered legendary for either one of his signature characters , to have portrayed both Frankenstein and The Mummy so effectively is significant testimony to his " monstrous " talent .
" Last year it was killing Japs and this year it's . . . make money . "	Some months ago , a co-worker and I were discussing our favorite movies , and his happened to be " The Best Years of Our Lives " . I had certainly heard of it before , and knew it ranked highly on the IMDb and AFI lists of all time top movies . Up till now though , it had remained low on my radar , but I requested it through my local library system and got a chance to see it today . The film has to be one of the best ever in dealing with the return of military soldiers to civilian life , certainly the best regarding servicemen from World War II . It wisely stays away from battle scene flash backs to concentrate on the human drama of three ordinary men thrust back into a world they have to familiarize themselves with all over again . Their experiences range from the happiness of friends and family to have them back home , to the wrenching adjustments they must make individually as befits their respective situations . Perhaps the most heart wrenching is the personal ordeal of sailor Homer Parrish ( Harold Russell ) , a real life veteran who lost his hands in an accident while training paratroopers at Camp MacKall , North Carolina . You would never know Russell wasn't an accomplished actor of his own accord , and for his effort in the film , was recognized as the only actor in history to win two Oscars for the same role in a picture ( Best Supporting Actor and an Honorary Award for bringing hope and courage to fellow veterans ) . All of the performances by the principals are uniformly believable and consistent , with Fredric March and Dana Andrews rounding out the wartime trio who hook up by chance for a flight home to Boone City , a fictional city set in the Midwest . Young viewers probably won't believe the visibility offered by the nose of a B-15 bomber , just like I couldn't get over it when I saw the real thing at the National Air and Space Museum's Udvar-Hazy Center . There , the cockpit and nose section of the Enola Gay ( actually a B-29 bomber ) is on display , and seeing it , I earned an even greater appreciation and respect for the combat fliers who went to war for their country . Watching the film today , it's surprising how daring director William Wyler was in executing the story . The first example of course was using Harold Russell in a lead role , but you also have themes that were downright shocking in the 1940's . When Peggy Stephenson ( Teresa Wright ) declares that she's going to cause the divorce of Fred Derry ( Andrews ) and his wife Marie ( Virginia Mayo ) , you can almost hear the gasps of movie patrons back in the day . And even though it's played for laughs , I had to wonder about the scene when Fred and Al Stephenson ( March ) were bundled up in the back seat of the family car in a drunken stupor . Speaking of which , stay attentive to the scene at Butch's tavern ; Al introduces Fred and Homer to his family using each other's names . Of course by that time he was already a bit pie-eyed , so if it was a mistake , at least it was a credible one . If you never saw the credits for the movie , I think you'd be hard pressed to rank the actors in the story , so good are the performances and the screen time shared by the leads . To my mind , Harold Russell and his story are the standouts , but one could make as good a case for Dana Andrews and his conflicted relationship with wife Marie and the love he finds with Peggy . I'd have to surmise that Myrna Loy and Fredric March are top billed because they were the biggest names at the time , but that takes nothing away from their roles either , ones in which they attempt to rekindle a marriage following the strain of war and separation . You know , there were times that Myrna Loy seemed to have a devilish look in her eye like she was itching to go into a Nora Charles characterization , but had to restrain herself for the more sedate role she had . She probably should have had a scene where she could cut loose , but that wasn't the mission so to speak . You've also got Hoagy Carmichael aboard for a few musical numbers , which leads into the wedding march that helps close the story . It's hard today to try to imagine the kind of things returning servicemen had to endure returning to civilian life . The story helps set that tone with the men attempting to get back into the work force . I found it to be quite a disparity for Fred to be employed as a soda fountain clerk at $32 . 50 a week , while Al goes back to his bank with a promotion and a raise to twelve thousand a year , roughly two hundred fifty dollars a week . When Al took sympathy and a chance on a loan for a deserving veteran , it leads to some wonderful dialog about the kind of collateral a man brings to the table , the kind that can't be measured in money and property , but the kind that comes from the hands , the heart and the guts . That's what the true spirit of America was once , and is still if you can find it underneath all the garish headlines and muck that passes for news today . " The Best Years of Our Lives " works because it portrays everyday heroes doing courageous things off the battlefield , where for most of us , that's where it really counts .
" I made him with these hands , and with these hands I'll destroy him . "	Boris Karloff's first appearance as the Creature is truly striking , done with a facial close up that in it's time must have shocked and horrified . I read once that Mae Clarke was so scared of Karloff in his monster disguise that they worked out a little gimmick between themselves . Whenever they appeared in a scene together , Karloff would wiggle his pinkie pinger as a signal to his co-star that he was thinking of her , thus helping her realize that he wasn't really a monster . If you follow the story carefully , there are some plot points that upon careful analysis just don't make sense . Wouldn't Dr . Henry Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) have had a mild interest in reading the label on the beaker that contained the ' abnormal brain ' ? Why would he ever have dressed in a suit and tie in that dungeon of a castle ? Why wasn't anyone who was present express amazement when the creature first moved his hand ? How did the monster get into the Frankenstein home without being seen while the whole town was turning out for the wedding ? For detractors of the film , I DON'T CARE ! This is the first iconic Universal Movie monster , and his presentation on the big screen for the first time is wonderful . Karloff's interpretation of the creature is magnificent , going far beyond the requirements of makeup . His stilted walk , accentuated by a forty five degree diagonal posture almost defies gravity . It appears he did everything he could to live up to the narrator's message of warning prior to the start of the story . Karloff is Frankenstein , and Frankenstein is Karloff . For it's time , and I daresay , even for today , Dr . Frankenstein's laboratory is one of the classics of film history . Floating it up to to the top of the castle tower to receive it's life giving energy directly from lightning bolts was inspired . Hearing Frankenstein's exhortation that the creature is ALIVE ! has a way of burning itself into the viewer's consciousness , and remains there long after the film has ended . It's the movie's way of convincing it's viewers that Dr . Frankenstein was right when he challenges his guests to accept his dubious triumph . Is it possible to create life from the assembled remains of dead tissue ? - " Tonight you shall have your proof " .
" What we need is a female victim of sudden death , can you do it ? "	Four years after creating the iconic screen image of the Frankenstein Monster , Boris Karloff reprises his role in the James Whale directed sequel , " Bride of Frankenstein " . Today's viewing was my first , and I was surprised with how little actual screen time the ' Bride ' was actually present . But in those few moments , Elsa Lanchester is utterly incredible as the monster's ' mate ' , though the story never comes close to taking it that far . Colin Clive is even more maniacally inspired here than in the original " Frankenstein " , perhaps buttressed by self confidence and complemented by the even more insane Dr . Pretorius ( Ernest Thesiger ) . Dr . Henry's resolve to " . . . have no more of this hell spawn " is met with equal passion by Pretorius - " To a new world of gods and monsters " . Admitting to the demonic nature of their enterprise , both men find themselves on a collision course with scientific destiny . I was particularly enthralled by Pretorius ' first appearance on screen , oddly portending Max Von Sydow's guise as Father Merrin in 1973's " The Exorcist " . Karloff's creature has matured over the four year time span , he's a lot faster and more nimble of foot , and he manages to speak intelligible words when prompted by the forest hermit ( O . P . Heggie ) . I was delightfully amazed to learn how close Gene Hackman's portrayal in " Young Frankenstein " was based on Heggie's character . Even more inspired gadgetry is brought to bear on the original laboratory set , punctuated by the addition of the lightning rod kites . It all adds to the deranged scientific sensibility of the story , the reanimation of human life from the remains of the dead . It would of course be done time and again in film , but never as creatively or with such frenzied fervor . I probably owe it to myself to watch this one a few more times , as reading other reviews of the movie on this forum has been educational to say the least . Going in , I wouldn't have considered it to have a stronger reputation than the original " Frankenstein " , with a higher placement in the IMDb rankings at the time of this posting . One thing is certain though , I could watch Elsa Lanchester's brief but mesmerizing portrayal of the ' Bride ' over and over again .
" That rug really tied the room together , did it not ? "	About thirty years ago I read the word ' micturate ' in a story , and it was so intriguingly curious I began using it in conversation with a couple friends of mine ( for it's intended appropriate reason of course , like " Pull over the car , I have to micturate " ) . I never came across it in high school , college , or anywhere else . It never came up in a TV show , stage play or a film . It's like the word was invented for the sole purpose of never using it . Never once did I ever hear anyone except the members of my trio use the term . Until today . The ' real ' Lebowski ( David Huddleston ) uses the word upon introduction to the Jeff Bridges Lebowski , actually the past tense ' micturated ' , but close enough . Pretty nuts to get excited about , right ? Well if the movie didn't have me right there , I was bound to Coen Brothers fandom with the on screen arrival of Jesus Quintana ( John Turturro ) . It's been a while since I've seen anything as flamboyantly over the top as his introductory first strike capability . If that small bit of inspired genius doesn't grab you , you probably won't go for the rest of the flick either . " The Big Lebowski " is a raucous Seinfeld episode on speed , or at least the equivalent of a buzz on too many white Russians . Quite honestly , I was all prepared for the Big L to be John Goodman , but it didn't take long for that slight hint of disappointment to evaporate . Jeff Bridges is a worthy Lebowski in all of his underachieving glory , perfectly complemented by the boisterous brains of the outfit , Walter Sobchak ( Goodman ) . It's too bad Donny ( Steve Buscemi ) didn't make it to the finale , but hey , not everyone gets to go out in a can of Folger's . Something subliminal there ? - why not Maxwell House , ' good to the last drop ' . In a tribute to one of filmdom's masters of malapropisms , Walter's speech honors Donny's memory from ' La Joya to Leo Carillo " - I had to play that one three times . The Big L simply demands viewing more than once , I'm sure I missed a bunch the first time around . It's the story of ' The Dude ' , a man uniquely qualified to claim his time and place in Los Angeles of the early Nineties . I'm not quite sure , but I think there's an unspoken message here .
" We rob banks " .	I just watched this film again , forty years after seeing it for the first time . The first thing that struck me was - holy cow ! - where did that forty years go ? ! ! As regards the picture , I thought that maybe with just the most minor of tinkering , it very well could have been made today . If so , it might not have passed the blood and gore test that seems to be a staple of modern films , but considering that it was made back in the day , this was pretty wild stuff for the late 1960's . The movie helped usher in a new genre of violent films juxtaposed with humor , and was one of the first to treat it's protagonists , though remorseless criminals , as anti-heroes who one might actually root for in their Robin Hood personas . I didn't really remember a whole lot of the picture from seeing it back in 1967 , having completely forgotten the roles of the supporting players , Gene Hackman , Michael J . Pollard , and Estelle Parsons . Pollard popped up in a lot of films during this period , generally in roles like the one here , owing no doubt to his eccentric look and manner . He could wind up anywhere and usually did , perhaps gaining his greatest notoriety as Little Fauss to Robert Redford's ' Big Halsy ' in the picture of the same name . Say , when you first see the shirtless C . W . Moss , that tattoo of a lady seemed to be on his stomach , but in the scene at the campground after Bonnie and Clyde are shot , that tat appeared to have drifted up to his chest - check it out . I never really felt strongly about Warren Beatty , but I have to say , he put a lot of nuance into the character of Clyde Barrow . The best scene to portray that would have to be when he first meets Bonnie Parker . Just watch as he works the matchstick in his mouth , exuding a cockiness that just begged for Bonnie to touch his gun . There was more pent up sexuality in that scene than a lot of films are able to convey in twice the amount of time . But then the picture does a complete one eighty , as Clyde is unable to perform in the romance department in scene after scene . The one hint to his sexual preference comes across in that card game scene when he hunches up close to C . W . , but then nothing more is made of it . So in that regard , the picture drops the ball a bit , when much more could have been explored in regard to the frustration Bonnie experienced each time she tried to close the deal . Yeah I know , they did get to finally do it , but Bonnie seemed to be just a little too understanding along the way . It's funny sometimes how my timing with certain pictures winds up mirroring current events in the news . Seeing the poster of ' FDR For President ' comes on the heels of that Joe Biden gaffe about a week ago when he talked about Roosevelt going on TV to calm the country during the Great Depression . Of course Herbert Hoover was president in 1931 , and there was no TV . As for Clyde Barrow , he seemed to have some problem with the press at the time because they didn't report his exploits properly - can you imagine ? Anyway , this is a great picture on a number of levels - as a period piece with some outstanding scenes of 1930's city life and all those wonderful old automobiles , as well as a precursor to later pictures pushing the envelope with violence and brutality . The final scene is actually quite jarring even today , particularly when it's a woman who's getting rubbed out by the authorities . Not a scene for the faint of heart , especially as it's prolonged for maximum effect , and played at various speeds to heighten the emotions of the viewer . It's one of those scenes that's easy to remember , even after forty years .
" Alright ramblers , let's get ramblin ' . "	" Reservoir Dogs " is a blast and a half . Quentin Tarantino's non linear method of telling a story keeps one viscerally engaged , almost as if you were really there like a fly on the wall with a direct view of the proceedings . It's a style that works without being confusing , even if you have some misgivings about following the story ; and even if you do , a second viewing clears that up completely . Nor is Tarantino concerned about disposing of characters off screen , as he did with Brown ( Tarantino himself ) and Blue ( Eddie Bunker ) . The technique tends to put even more focus on the surviving characters attempting to come to grips with their situation . As far as that goes , don't even concern yourself with following the Colors , it doesn't make much difference who's Brown , Blue , or Blonde , the players are so fully convincing you'll get wrapped up in their narratives as each contributes to the total package . Then as the pot simmers and comes to a boil , the result is a new kind of gangster film that Bogart and Cagney couldn't even imagine . I wasn't aware of how much a comic book fan Tarantino must be , he helped guest direct 2005's " Sin City " of course , but here he peppers his film with Marvel Comic references to the Fantastic Four and The Thing , and a Silver Surfer poster pops up from time to time . It's interesting to see how a pop culture fan integrates his favorites back into the genre , completing a cycle of sorts . As a fan of both mediums , the combination adds another layer of enjoyment to the experience . With a film like this , I can understand that there's really very little ground in the middle for viewers , you're probably either going to love it or hate it . For someone like me who's actually rather conservative , I find that anything Tarantino is involved with to be a unique and action packed joy ride . For a directorial first effort , " Reservoir Dogs " is an amazing piece of work , lulling you into a comfort zone with the opening diner scene , and then hammering away at your senses until that last fateful gunshot . No need to fill in any blanks here .
" . . . and I guess that was your accomplice in the wood chipper . . . "	It's funny how the simple word " Yaaah " sounds so dimwitted in the movie , yet turns out to be one of the few affirmations of normalcy in a maelstrom of frenzied lunacy . " Fargo " is the quintessential film of how a bad idea can only get badder ( worse ? ) when put in the hands of inept bunglers who can just about taste a big payday . What happens to them is a sort of poetic justice , but there's nothing as lyrical or pretty as poetry going on here . Here's a movie where you can't picture any of the principals being portrayed by anyone else . It's the perfect meld of characters , dialog and situations that domino from one disaster to another with eerie precision , and the unsettling feeling that yes indeed , as nuts as it all is , this is something that could actually happen . For whatever reason , I haven't seen a lot of the Coen Brothers pictures . I came across " The Big Lebowski " a couple of weeks ago , and decided to catch this film today to keep the streak going . I'm suitably impressed by their quirky characters and bizarre , colorful plots to keep on going . Bitingly original , they leave one somewhat disturbed , but curious for more . Frances McDormand , William H . Macy and Steve Buscemi are stand out in their roles here , but except for a few brief minutes shared by Macy with each of them , their characters never really appear together . Chalk it up again to the story tellers who move things along in spite of the hapless Jerry Lundegaard , someone we can all relate to whenever things we can clearly see in our head just don't quite turn out the way they're planned . Poor Jerry , he never even came close ; kind of makes you wonder how he ever became the executive sales manager . Say , I wonder if Gaear ( Peter Stormare ) got his inspiration from Paul Bunyan ?
" Do not speak to me of rules , this is war ! "	There are so many compelling points of interest in the film that it would be impossible to mention them all here , and that's after only a single viewing . One could debate endlessly about the film's pro-war or anti-war stance , though in my mind it serves admirably to present both points of view . The main characters are magnificently fleshed out and serve their particular viewpoints exceptionally well , even Lt . Joyce ( Geoffrey Horne ) , who comes on the scene rather late in the film . The war of wills between Colonel Nicholson ( Alec Guiness ) and Colonel Saito ( Sessue Hayakawa ) is a virtually one sided battle until Saito comes to realize that his bridge building venture will fail . Nicholson's refusal to have his officers perform manual labor is later turned on it's ear when he allows them to volunteer to do so in order to complete the project on time . In between , Saito unsuccessfully attempts to negotiate terms under which the officers will work . At each step , Saito is outfoxed and outmaneuvered by the wily British officer , who earns the undying loyalty of the men under him . By the time Nicholson commissions volunteers from the sick tent , Saito is seriously contemplating harakiri . The presence of medical officer Major Clipton ( James Donald ) serves as a valuable counterpoint to Nicholson's rigidly held beliefs of military responsibility . Clipton presents an argument that is compelling at face value , and without Nicholson's valor , would seem to be the view held by the majority of his soldiers ( and viewers of the film ) . If Nicholson had been unwilling to undergo the rigors of the ' oven ' to prove a point , it would not have been held against him . As Clipton pointed out , what military authority would have been the wiser in the grand scheme of things if Nicholson had played along , allowing Saito his concession ? If one needs convincing of the film's potent anti-war message , consider the scene when Lt . Joyce encounters the Japanese soldier in the jungle . Earlier in the film , Joyce is questioned by Major Warden ( Jack Hawkins ) about his willingness and ability to kill in a one on one situation . Joyce and his Japanese counterpart appear to be about the same age , and each appears to be conflicted about killing his opposite . When Warden erupts on screen to stab the Japanese soldier , he's shown afterwards stepping on a picture of the man's wife , surrounded by a rosary . For me , the scene conveys more than anything the futility of war and it's attendant senseless loss of life on the part of otherwise good men whose misfortune happened to be loyalty to their respective countries . William Holden's character in the film was nothing less than a stroke of genius . Caught as he is in an untenable position by mid film , it's quite the paradox that his stature is mitigated by the fact that he impersonated an officer to get ' light ' duty in the prison camp . It's a classic no win situation that sends him back into the jungle where he grows into the story's hero ; was there ever any doubt ? On a much lighter note , I wonder how the owner of ' Joey's Garage ' in Elk City , Ohio felt to see his calendar in the movie ? It comes as no surprise that " The Bridge on the River Kwai " was that year's big winner at the Academy Awards with seven Oscars and an additional nomination for Hayakawa . It's a timeless and classic piece of work from Director David Lean , that loses none of it's poignancy and drama after nearly fifty years . It's a great war film , even for non war film fans .
" Hey buddy , got a match ? "	Each viewing of " To Have and Have Not " earns my greater appreciation of the film . The comparisons to " Casablanca " are numerous and fans of Humphrey Bogart will have no trouble picking them out one by one . Bogey's character Harry Morgan is once again an expatriate on foreign soil , though here he has no trouble calling himself an American . The Peter Lorre part is handled by Marcel Dalio as hotel owner Frenchy , while the Sydney Greenstreet presence is given to Dan Seymour , the smarmy Gestapo captain . Add the smoldering presence of Lauren Bacall in her screen debut , and you have the ingredients for an adventure film that almost plays out stronger in each of it's mini chapters than in the sum of it's parts . That's OK though , because each tableaux presents us with rich characterization and a sense that we know who these players are and what they're up to . As most fans know , the legendary Bogey / Bacall team up began here , so I won't dwell on that . What's worth mentioning though is Bacall's brazen confidence in carrying out her role in what looks like a casting call mismatch . Only a teenager at the time of filming , she looks to be about thirty , with dialog that belies her years . Though her scenes with Bogart are electric even to this day , it's worth noting her chemistry with Dolores Moran near the end of the film . The times " Slim " and Mrs . de Bursac appear together , their subliminal clash over " Steve " fairly screams " meow " . That's why it's all the more comical when Bogey's character begins his operation on Paul , " Slim " uses a leaf fan to waft chloroform fumes in the direction of the fainted madame - outrageous ! My first introduction to Walter Brennan was his famous TV role as Grandpa McCoy in " The Real McCoys " series of the late 1950's . Here , with a hitch in his giddyup , Brennan sports an early tryout for that television role , but with a reliance on alcohol . He's fairly philosophical about it though - " Drinkin ' don't bother my memory , if it did I wouldn't drink . You see , I'd forget how good it was , then where'd I be , start drinkin ' water again " . The best exchange between Eddie ( Brennan ) and Harry takes place on board the fishing boat as Harry explains the kind of danger they might be in . It's a masterful dialog that brings Eddie to sobriety real quick . The film's sinister side is revealed when Vichy authorities intend to disrupt any activity that might prove detrimental to German interests . As the Free French resistance look for a suitable base to continue their opposition on the island of Martinique , Captain Renard ( Seymour ) warns Morgan and company - " We are only interested in those persons who have broken the rules laid down for their behavior " . Morgan is busy breaking the rules all over the place , and gets right down to the frightening business at hand by roughing up Renard and his bunch when it appears his time on the island is growing short . Here , letters of transit are known as harbor passes , in another nod to Bogey's better known film . Today's viewing of the film was my third , and as mentioned earlier , it gets better each time . It helps that Humphrey Bogart is my favorite actor , but that begs the question , did Bogey make the films , or did the films make the actor . As in " Casablanca " , " The Maltese Falcon , " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " and " The Big Sleep " , the events and characters come together to create an unforgettable story . And if for no other reason , no matter how many times you watch " To Have and Have Not " , it's always worth watching right to the very end , even if just to catch Lauren Bacall's sweet sashay to the strains of Hoagy Carmichael's piano .
" Hey John , you think this boy's a hustler ? "	It's always fascinating when a movie transcends the concept suggested by it's title . In this case , one has to wonder who was the greater of the two hustlers , Fast Eddie Felson ( Paul Newman ) or slick Bert Gordon ( George C . Scott ) . Set in the seedy , not yet professional venue of high stakes pool , the film becomes a taut psychological drama played out between it's principals , ending in an unanticipated ' contract of depravity ' suggested by Eddie's pick up girl friend Sarah ( Piper Laurie ) . With that in mind , the character of Minnesota Fats ( Jackie Gleason ) becomes almost a secondary player , which of course couldn't be further from the truth . The film balances itself with almost equal weight on each of the four central characters , with an ebb and flow that makes you forget how truly depressing the story actually is . For that reason , it's a classic piece of movie making that deserves to be mentioned in conversations of the top films of all time . Somehow I found myself comparing Newman's Fast Eddie to Marlon Brando's Terry Molloy in " On The Waterfront " , an underdog determined to prove himself in a world that finds it easy to honor winners and discredit losers . The distinction often lies in the self confidence and mental toughness of the person competing for honor and recognition . By the time Eddie takes on Fats in the finale , one can sense the shift in attitude of the three high stakes rollers , done with nothing more than facial nuance and body language ; in this case the game is over when the fat man sings . Outstanding performances and excellent black and white cinematography capture what might almost be considered film noir but without a subversive criminal element . Yet the story does have it's victims , most eminently Lauirie's character at a point in the story when she's reduced to complete vulnerability . In fact , each of the principals is a victim in one way or another , in a film that allows it's protagonist to attain the goal he sets out with , but without anyone actually feeling very good about it .
" Someone's got to take responsibility if the job's going to get done . "	Excellent action / adventure war film , even if fictional ; the set-up and follow through is generally believable and handled by a talented cast . I'm adding Gregory Peck to my list of favorite actors , having seen him now a number of times in " To Kill A Mockingbird " and as Johnny Ringo in " The Gunfighter " , along with a handful of other films . Peck's character , Captain Keith Mallory , becomes the nominal leader of a band of soldiers on a mission to take out a pair of radar controlled guns on a Greek island protecting access to the Aegean Sea . If they fail , two thousand British soldiers will die in a Nazi show of force intended to bring Turkey into the war on the side of the Axis Powers . This is the kind of movie made at a time when you just knew what the outcome would be , so the excitement had to be in the way you got to the finish line . The story here is a well crafted one , even if some elements defy credibility after the fact . Such as ' Butcher ' Brown's ( Stanley Baker ) reluctance to use fatal force to reckon with an enemy , thereby casting some doubt as to his nickname . Or the motivation of the traitor Anna ( Gia Scala ) once she reunited with her friend Maria ( Irene Pappas ) and fell in league with the Navarone team . Those issues were glossed over rather quickly if not very convincingly , but they weren't enough to defuse the intensity of the story . The best scenes had to do with one on one confrontations presenting a moral dilemma , like the early scene when Major Franklin ( Anthony Quayle ) faced down another officer over the fate of the laundry boy . Even better and more intense was the showdown over Anna between Mallory and Corporal Miller ( David Niven ) . The scene presented no other choice for Mallory than to do his duty , for which he was spared by the intervention of Maria Pappadimos , a clever twist inserted by the screenplay . The best ruse though had to do with Mallory's planting a false lead with the severely injured Franklin , a plot element virtually indispensable if the mission were to succeed . The other thing that kept one's interest aside from the Navarone mission was the unfinished business between Mallory and his former friend and ally Andrea Stavros ( Anthony Quinn ) . Again , one has a sense that they'll settle their score favorably , but it's always in the back of the viewer's mind as to how that scenario will play out . For a film that doesn't have to rely on lighter moments , I got a kick out of David Niven's mid film " Heil , everybody " ! But you have to admit , for all his misgivings about never learning to swim , he wasn't a very convincing drowner .
" What's the story Mother ? "	For me , " Alien " was one of the seminal films of the Seventies that had a way of reinventing a genre , much in the way " Star Wars " did for sci-fi fantasy or " The Exorcist " did for horror . Sci-fi horror was treated to something new and different here , with scenes and concepts that were truly unique that hadn't been done before . I still think back to the time I saw the picture during it's original theatrical release , and marvel at the idea of the chest-burster for example . And I can't tell you how much the scene with Ash ( Ian Holm ) that revealed his robotic form blew me completely away ; it was almost too difficult to concentrate on the rest of the story . Then there was the title character itself , a creature assuming horrific proportions through the same process of metamorphosis that transforms caterpillars into butterflies , but here done with complete disregard for the norms of natural evolutionary process . What's striking in watching the film today is how both timely and timeless it is . Timely in that as a product of the Seventies , the set design seems almost minimalist , to the degree that sci-fi films of the 1940's and ' 50's were dated to reflect the technology of those periods . Timeless however in the constructs that work to achieve their intended effect in the mind of the viewer , a fear of the unknown and a fascination with fantastical creatures that have a right to exist only in our imagination . Something as simple as Brett ( Harry Dean Stanton ) picking up the reptilian shed skin of the chest burster claws away at one's mind , forcing the viewer to consider what might be in store for the survivors of this mission . Speaking of which , I haven't seen any comments on the role of the spaceship on this board . There was a point in the movie when it began to emerge that the Nostromo itself became a hostile entity to the crew . ' Mother ' herself appeared to have , in the words of many a ' Star Trek ' episode , a prime directive of it's own , that of investigating and securing alien life forms . Was there a more chilling moment in the story than the words Ripley ( Sigourney Weaver ) read as Mother's response to her question about the nature of of Nostromo's programming ? - " Crew Expendable " . So it's thirty years since the release of " Alien " , and the film is just as fascinating to watch today as it was that long ago . Granted , some of the early going is a bit slow in the delivery , but as a set up to what follows it's a wait that's made worthwhile for the suspense that builds and reaches a crescendo in the second half . I'll take this one head and shoulders over any number of present day efforts that attempt to dazzle the audience with over the top action and mind blowing special effects , each successive effort attempting to outdo the one that came before . With " Alien " you have the real deal , a story and a creation that stands the test of time to emerge as an icon of popular movie and cultural entertainment .
" Remember this boys , you gotta have friends . "	This movie offers the quintessential Cagney , by the lamp post in the rain , a tense close up that signals the arrival of a star . It was only his third film , but what an impact he had . The movie would be great even if it came out today . Of course , James Cagney would have plenty of time to polish up his gangster image , his turn as Rocky Sullivan in " Angels With Dirty Faces " is one of my all time favorite characterizations . " The Public Enemy " allows both Cagney and Warner Brothers to sharpen up their story telling skills , but even for 1931 , this is a powerful tale . Unlike ' Angels ' , boyhood friends Tom Powers and Matt Doyle both take up a life of crime as an answer to the easy way up and out of poverty . Told in crisply dated vignettes , the film progresses through the Depression and World War I as it offers Tom ( Cagney ) and brother Mike ( Donald Cook ) taking separate paths under the watchful eye of Ma Powers ( Beryl Mercer ) . The movie has more than it's share of defining scenes , most viewers will identify with the Mae Clarke grapefruit smackeroo , but there are a lot more . The black cat crossing Putty Nose's ( Murray Kinnell ) path as the boys renew their acquaintance is just the best harbinger of bad luck , culminating in the off screen gunshot that screams revenge . It was Putty who taught the gangster trainees about honor and loyalty , but in reverse . Also , how about the quick exchange of a thousand dollars to bring a race horse to justice for accidentally killing mob benefactor Nails Nathan ( Leslie Fenton ) . The coal chute cover for the rapid staccato of machine gun bullets was another inspired piece of work , culminating in the very real artistry of a skilled shooter taking it out on a cement wall . Following Tom's confrontation with the Schemer Burns gang , again off camera for the viewer to fill in the blanks , director William Wellman wryly uses Ma Powers to signal his final return home . With strange premonition , she utters - " You're comin ' home , aintcha Tommy , to stay ? " His arrival is one of the all time shocker finales of film history , a perfect dichotomy between the visual and the sound accompaniment to the strains of " I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles " . What an ending ! Warner Brothers begins and ends this tale with a warning and an exhortation , signaling the public enemy as not a single man or character but a problem that the public must solve . Seventy five years later they could still be putting the same captions into their films , as each generation finds a way to deal with it's own brand of criminal enterprise . But here in the early days of sound cinema , James Cagney set a high mark that was ever rarely challenged for gangster supremacy on screen .
" But George , that's all you were good for . "	The spoiler warning here is that there is no spoiler warning . " Hollywoodland " offers a stylish noir look at the circumstances involved surrounding the death of actor George Reeves , and ultimately lets the viewer decide . Because each of the scenarios played out in the mind of Adrien Brody's character is entirely plausible , one's satisfaction of the film must come from the detailed presentation of the facts and not the question mark left by the ending . Even Superman couldn't solve this one . With meticulous attention to detail , director Allen Coulter recreates 1959 Los Angeles and an almost seedy landscape of wannabe stars and starlets . Even though Hollywood's studio system was in decline , the power brokers were still exemplified by the likes of MGM Veep Eddie Mannix ( Bob Hoskiins ) . As General Manager , he held the future of actors like Reeves ( Ben Affleck ) hostage unless they knew which hoops to jump through . In this case , Reeves inadvertently picked the wrong hoop , Mannix ' wife . Diane Lane's brilliant portrayal of Toni Mannix resembles an example of time lapse photography as she subtly ages over the course of the film's roughly eight year time span . That in fact is probably the main difficulty casual viewers of the film might have with " Hollywoodland " . The way it plays out , it appears that Reeves ' Superman career might have lasted only one season . The fact that the " Adventures of Superman " was actually signed for a seventh season in 1959 seems to run contrary to events in the movie , as when Reeves was shown burning up his Superman uniform . It is true that Reeves considered work as a professional wrestler when his career hit a brick wall , and that prospect might have been enough to cement the suicide angle . Introducing the character of private eye Louis Simo ( Brody ) was an effective way to tell this story , his brushes with the law and studio hired muscle lent a dramatic perspective to the slime he uncovered . The personal life angle wouldn't have been necessary except for the role of his young son who still saw the world through a nine year old's eyes . Superman is dead ? - that's just a dirty rotten deal . Sadly , George Reeves was never able to negotiate the moderate stardom of his Superman typecast the way contemporary Clayton Moore did as The Lone Ranger . Sadder still because Toni Mannix ' painfully charged words were true - ' . . . that's all you were good for " . Watching the Superman TV shows today , though nostalgic , are almost painful as well . Not that it was Reeves ' fault , but he only rose so far above the material he was given to work with . The trailers for " Hollywoodland " that had been playing in theaters for some time didn't seem to hint of it's worthiness as an Oscar contender . That's all changed now with the film's release . Comparisons to " Chinatown " and " L . A . Confidential " suggest that there might be some hidden gold in it for Diane Lane . Up till now , 2006 has been remarkably devoid of Oscar contenders ; maybe Affleck's thanking the Academy in advance was a good idea .
" Games , must we ? "	When you come right down to it , the title " North By Northwest " tells you nothing about the story , but it certainly rolls off the tongue a lot better than " The Man in Lincoln's Nose " as the movie was originally known . The official title comes from Hamlet - " I am but mad north-north-west " . Fortunately , a scene at the airline's ticket counter lends some semblance of credibility to the northwest connection . What had me going was how the film managed to keep up with the pretense of a phony George Kaplan , to the point where Cary Grant's character winds up becoming the impostor . Grant was a Hitchcock favorite , and the role here was written with him in mind , even though MGM wanted Gregory Peck in the lead . I don't know if Peck could have pulled off the auction scene the same way as Grant . His roles portraying slick hustlers like Walter Burns in " His Girl Friday " or the more sinister Johnnie Asgarth in another Hitchcock effort " Suspicion " , more than readied him to pull off the stunt and get away with it . Eve Kendall ( Eva Marie Saint ) is clearly a duplicitous character , one gets the impression that maybe Roger Thornhill ( Grant ) is just a bit too good for her . Hitch's penchant for beautiful blonds in his films gets the royal treatment here , Saint is radiant in nearly all her scenes , made more so by the bright red of her outfit on the train . You know , I could listen to James Mason speak all day , he's got that great resonant quality to his voice . Casting him as the villain lends immediate credibility to the bad guy cause in the story . Martin Landau appears in one of his first film roles as Mason's henchman . I always enjoy seeing Leo G . Carroll in a film , probably because of my fondness for his role in the early TV series " Topper " . Here he appears cast somewhat against type as The Professor heading up an unknown agency that attempts to take down Vandamm's ( Mason ) subversive little clique . It was actually a bit chilling to see The Professor willing to let the cards fall as they may as relating to Thornhill's dilemma . If done today , I'm sure the whole Mount Rushmore scene would be presented to look a lot more believable ; the way Thornhill prevails requires a stretch of the imagination . But by that time , I found myself saying ' who cares ' , because the thrill ride was worth it to see Grant come away the hero . Hitch pulls it off with that neat device at the end of the story so we don't get caught up in the whole cliff hanger ending ordeal . It's a clever little happy ending to an espionage tale that might have suffered in less capable hands , but here director Hitchcock keeps you on your toes and the edge of your seat in a way that delivers the goods .
" . . . but if manners prevent our speaking the truth , we will be without manners . "	With producer Darryl F . Zannuck's three hundred thousand dollar purchase of the film rights a record sum at the time , his vision of the movie encompassed a four hour epic extravaganza on the scale of " Gone With The Wind " , complete with full color treatment . However with World War II looming , and Nazi warplanes bombing England and Wales , on location shooting became impossible . The dried out brown hills of Malibu didn't fit the bill when it came to ' green ' , and as it turns out , created a blessing in disguise for this tale of family and labor strife set in a Welsh coal mining town . The black and white format captures the anguish and ill fortune of an entire town in a way that color never could , and with it , garners an array of film awards including an Academy Best Picture . For young Roddy McDowall , the film was a blessing as well . He had only been in the country for two weeks with his mother , on the run from the war in England , when he auditioned for the part of Huw Morgan . There is probably no better definition of being in the right place at the right time . The story is told through the eyes of Huw , and his portrayal captures an unusual maturity and integrity . Director John Ford immediately took to the young actor , and brilliantly utilized his ability to convey the rigors of mining life and the trauma that comes from being different . The ' little genius from the coal pits ' teaches all of us about dignity and individualism , even when a bully school teacher couldn't beat it out of him . The movie is blessed with impressive performances . Donald Crisp excels as the Morgan family patriarch , and in turn was recognized with a Best Supporting Actor . Equally assured is Sara Allgood as his wife Beth , holding her family together in a way that even her husband couldn't . Walter Pidgeon and Maureen O'Hara deliver one of the most heart rending unrequited love combinations in film , giving the movie as much an uncomfortable undercurrent as the dangers lurking underground in the mines . Ironically , the recognition of " How Green Was My Valley " as Best picture came out of a field that included " Citizen Kane " , widely recognized today as the best film of all time in many quarters . On that count , my preference tilts toward Orson Welles , but I've seen that one quite a few more times . Nevertheless , for a first time viewing today , ' Valley ' leaves an impressionable imprint , with no surprise as to how it's characterization of family unity and living by one's principles can strike a chord among viewers even some sixty plus years after it was made .
" You know you cost me a lot of prayer . "	For me , it's hard to separate James Cagney from the character he created as Rocky Sullivan , the street wise punk who becomes a master criminal in " Angels With Dirty Faces " . It's one of his quintessential roles , and one that sears itself into memory from the classic heyday of Warner Brothers crime and gangster dramas . Watching it just once leaves you thinking " Whaddya hear , whaddya say ? " for days following ; would that a current film could leave such an impact . The story follows the exploits of young hood Rocky after he takes the rap for a stockyard train car break in , while buddy Jerry ( Pat O'Brien ) high tails it on a quicker pair of legs . A montage of scenes depicts his graduation into a life of crime , making a name for himself while the jail sentences get longer and longer . Finding himself back in the old Hell's Kitchen neighborhood , Rocky takes up with a local gang , the familiar wise cracking Dead End Kids . They come to idolize the man who makes a mockery of the law , even as he knocks a few of their heads under the watchful eye of Father Connelly , the young Jerry grown up as the local parish priest . With Cagney and O'Brien heading the cast , it's easy to forget that another Warner heavyweight is part of the action . Humphrey Bogart usually took a back seat to fellow actors Cagney and Edward G . Robinson in the films they appeared in together . Bogie worked with Cagney three times , also supporting him in " The Oklahoma Kid " , and sharing equal footing in another crime film , " The Roaring Twenties " . Here , Bogie's character is Jim Frazier , a former Sullivan ally and now a top shelf lawyer for crime boss Mac Keefer ( George Bancroft ) . Both run afoul of Rocky's temper and allegiance to friend Father Jerry , even as the priest threatens to expose the whole lot of them for the corrupt criminals they are . Also turning in a fine but very brief performance is the lovely Ann Sheridan ; her best bit comes early when she gets her revenge on Rocky for a childhood torment . She comes to grow fond of Rocky , but their relationship is not enough to keep him out of trouble . I get a kick out of studying the different styles of gun play in both Western and gangster films . Cowboy Wild Bill Elliott usually " threw " his six shooter in the direction he was firing , while characters like the Lone Ranger usually just aimed and fired . Cagney has perhaps the most manic style in film , with a wild pumping motion as he lets the opposition have it . As usually found in the Warner Brother movies of the era , civic and moral dilemmas are generally solved with right winning out in the end . As Rocky prepares to walk the last mile with Father Jerry by his side , he's challenged to find " the kind of courage born in heaven " . The camera work and lighting is exemplary in those final minutes , as Jerry implores Rocky to take a final courageous stand . As Rocky's face sneeringly appears dead on into the camera for one last time , it's followed shortly after by his anguished cries for pardon and escape from death . Rocky dies a " yellow rat " , his execution leaving a question mark for the viewer to provide his own interpretation . If you can suppress a tear for the condemned Rocky Sullivan at this point , the film hasn't worked it's magic on you . " Angels With Dirty Faces " is one of my all time favorites , and a must see for Cagney and Dead End Kids fans . The young toughs usually found themselves in some fairly sappy adventures , and the films in which they starred generally fail to satisfy . Here however , they're great in a support role , and get their comeuppance more than once at the hands of a master . That's why they're more than willing in the end to accompany Father Jerry when he says - " OK fellas , let's go and say a prayer for a boy who couldn't run as fast as I could . "
" The man who wins the Golden Arrow will be Robin Hood " .	The word that comes to mind in describing " The Adventures of Robin Hood " is rollicking - it's just a rollicking good time from start to finish . I was most impressed with it's brilliant use of Technicolor cinematography and the dazzling displays of swordsmanship , with many action sequences well placed from start to finish . As others have mentioned , it's hard to picture anyone else in the role of the title character other than Errol Flynn , so it was a surprise to learn that Warner Brothers ' first choice for the lead was James Cagney . Cagney however played hardball with the studio , so they went with the actor who made such a splash in 1935's " Captain Blood " . I tried picturing Cagney in the green tights and involuntarily began to chuckle at the image , but Flynn and his cohorts seemed to look ideal in their outfits . Flynn's natural athleticism is certainly on display here ; the scene that really surprised me was the one where he grabbed the rope of the castle gate , the weight of which hauled him to the top of the barricade as he scrambled up for an even better vantage . I guess it could have been a stunt double , but it sure was an impressive maneuver . I recall seeing a documentary on Steven Spielberg stating that he took some of his inspiration for the ' Star Wars ' franchise from pirate and adventure flicks of the 1930's . That's certainly evident in the light saber scenes we're all familiar with , but what I noticed here was how much the hooded cloaks of the Jedi Knights might have been modeled after the garb of King Richard the Lion-Heart and his men . Something to think about . I've seen Basil Rathbone before primarily in his portrayal of detective Sherlock Holmes , and only in black and white pictures of the era . So again , it surprised me to see how robust and athletic he was in this picture . It adds another dimension to my appreciation of the actor outside of the stereotype . He also mixed it up pretty well with Flynn in the action sequences , until his demise at the hand of the film's hero in the finale . Then of course there's Olivia de Havilland as Maid Marian , understated in her charm and beauty in contrast to the way the role might be cast and played in a film made today . A bit of trivia I've always remembered about this picture involves Maid Marian and the horse she rides . A sturdy palomino , it's name was Golden Cloud , and appeared in this film uncredited . That may sound odd , but that same steed went on to become the ' Smartest Horse in the Movies ' as the partner of none other than Roy Rogers .
" There's too much Howard Hughes in Howard Hughes . "	Watching the film today for the first time , I found myself fascinated by it , but not for the reasons I thought I would be . As a teenager in the 1960's , I was aware of this character named Howard Hughes , the billionaire recluse who made a vast fortune in the aviation business . What I wasn't aware of , nor was the rest of the world , is that Hughes spent a lifelong battle against mental illness following the tragic crash of one of his experimental airplanes . I don't recall ever reading about or hearing a reference to his Obsessive / Compulsive Disorder , which made the revelation in the film to be so intriguing and fascinating . Though the film glossed over his personal relationships while he was going through this , I really wonder what it must have been like for his close friends and business associates to see him go through this agony . When I first heard about Leonardo DiCaprio's casting as Hughes , I thought to myself ' no way ' , that doesn't even make sense . Watching the movie , it still didn't make sense , until I watched a documentary about Hughes showing him in clips from the era in question , the late 1920's to the late 1940's . Back then , Hughes didn't even look like Hughes , at least the Hughes that I can remember from newspaper photos during the late 1960's . In the scenes that depict the man's descent into madness , DiCaprio appears to transform into a reasonable facsimile of the aging , reclusive genius . Anyway , not being particularly a DiCaprio fan , I thought he did an excellent job in his portrayal , a tribute to his exhaustive research into the life of his subject . I don't pretend to know anything about the filming techniques involved in producing this movie , but I thought it unique the way it opens with a bluish / aqua cast to the scenes for a good part of the first half . At first it was somewhat distracting , especially during the dinner scene with the blue peas , but later I learned it was meant to simulate the Technicolor process available at that time in Hughes ' life . As the movie progresses , it takes on a more realistic color rendition , director Scorsese's bold way of marking movie-making progress through the years . I suppose I should mention Cate Blanchett's portrayal of Katherine Hepburn . It only took hearing a couple of sentences to realize that she sounded dead on for the late star , while capturing the look and mannerisms in an eerily accurate way . There has always been something just out of reach for me in trying to understand why I didn't like Hepburn as a person . With Blanchett's portrayal , I now know why , and I think it has to do with what Hughes figured out . She seemed to be acting out her life instead of living it . For Hughes fans interested in the aviation side of the story , there's a lot of that too . I was particularly impressed with the inventor's clear vision for the future of commercial air travel , and the depiction of the rivalry against Pan-Am President Juan Trippe ( Alec Baldwin ) . The tense scene during the Senate hearings conducted by Ralph Owen Brewster ( Alan Alda ) was nearly identical to the real thing from a news clip I viewed of the actual event . On balance , I'd have to say that watching the film was an entirely worthwhile experience on a number of levels . Entertaining it was for sure , but I came away with a much better understanding and appreciation for a legendary character that many will only know as a name in history . Kudos to all involved with this project , which manages to be entirely absorbing , even to the smallest detail .
" Sometimes , the things that may or may not be true , are the things that a man needs to believe in the most . "	It's too bad this film had such a short theatrical run , and that it's hardly remembered even from few years ago . Like 1988's " The Milagro Beanfield War " , this little gem deserves a much wider audience , and I count it among my favorite films that no one's ever heard of . Not quite a coming of age story for Haley Joel Osmont's character , it serves up grand adventure and a pair of dysfunctional aging uncles who come to be the only real family young Walter ( Osmont ) will ever know . As he envisions Uncle Garth's ( Michael Caine ) tall tales of evil sheiks and swordplay in Africa , Walter will grow to understand that courage , honor and virtue are the most important things in life and that true love never dies . With this film , along with " Open Range " and AMC's production of " Broken Trail " , Robert Duvall has become my favorite ' modern day ' actor . He seems to create his characters effortlessly , becoming who they are with such ease that it's a wonder to behold . His performances almost transcend acting per se , in a way that we no longer see Duvall in a role , we see a cantankerous old uncle or a grizzly trail rider without celebrity getting in the way . I'm not sure if I can make that statement about any other famous personality in film today . It's only marginally important that a real lion was introduced into the story to support the title , the real ' secondhand lions ' are Uncle Garth ( Michael Caine ) and Hub ( Duvall ) , noble beasts in their heyday who have different ways of winding down their lives and passing on their legacies to a hand me down nephew . Even though they've outlived their time , they're not about to spend the rest of their lives rocking on the porch , unless it's armed with a shotgun and an idea of what the next great adventure might be .
" How swift your sword must be . "	When I first saw " Hero " during it's original American theatrical release , I was mesmerized by the brilliant use of color and exceptional cinematography . I've thought about that visually stunning display for a long time , even after forgetting what the actual story was about . I decided to watch it again for the experience , this time finding my interest intrigued by the complexity of the tale . Perhaps intended for the viewer to arrive at his own conclusions , the sequences as recounted by Nameless ( Jet Li ) and refuted by the King of Qin ( Daoming Chen ) are nothing less than spectacular , a work of magic by director Yimou Zhang . In the special features section of the DVD , Zhang relates how he tried for years to find a successful treatment on the history of his subject . Failing , he decided to do the screenplay himself to capture the vision he had of the unification of the warring states . Reading other knowledgeable reviewers ' recaps of that history has been enlightening for me , and helps to understand the dichotomy in the motives of the films ' principals . Much like " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " , I like to think of this movie not as a martial arts film , but a film with martial arts in it . Both successfully put behind them the era of action Kung Fu flicks that often seem more caricature than believable , more over the top than entertaining . Political and humanistic considerations aside , " Hero " makes for landmark storytelling , handled with deep conviction and reverence by it's creator .
" Oh my , how the world still dearly loves a change . "	With one of the most surreal opening sequences ever , " Harold and Maude " goes on to create a unique black comedy , uncharacteristically teaming up teenager Harold Chasen ( Bud Cort ) with an older woman . Not the kind of older woman found in " The Graduate " , but a nearly eighty year old free wheeling free spirit named Maude , convincingly portrayed by Ruth Gordon . Together they form a symbiotic relationship that proves both charming and unnerving , as Harold searches for the meaning of life , and Maude does nothing more than show him how to live it . Once you get past Harold's first two suicides , the rhythm of the movie switches gears slightly , focusing now and then on Mrs . Chasen's ( Vivian Pickles ) attempt to hook up her son with prospective wives utilizing a computer dating service that screens out the fat and ugly . With composure equal to the task , Harold convincingly asserts his preference to remaining single with almost comic results if his tactics weren't so gruesome . You have to pay attention to Mom's answers for the dating questionnaire , it's about the funniest deadpan you'll ever hear . All the while the picture utilizes an effective Cat Stevens soundtrack , the songs appropriately selected for the scenes they play against . They would have worked better for me had Stevens never endorsed the Ayatollah Khomein's call for the death of novelist Salman Rushdie , but that's another story . Stevens ' music strikes just the right melancholy , interspersed among assorted funerals , manic car cruises and a display of inspired lunacy between the title characters to thwart a military induction for Harold . In the end , " Harold and Maude " is a life affirming film that takes a road less traveled to convey it's lessons . Not entirely believable of course , but then the film would have lost some of it's quirky power and resonance . Also not for every taste , but for anyone eager to ' greet the dawn with a breath of fire ' , the film has enough going for it to recommend at least a single viewing .
" I have a feelin ' when he stops whittlin ' , somethin's gonna happen . "	When composer Ennio Morricone first got the script for " Once Upon A Time In The West " , he was so impressed with the story that he began writing the music for it immediately . The entire movie was scored before even a single frame was shot , and Sergio Leone liked it so much that he had portions played for the actors while rehearsing to get them to ' flow ' with the music . One could go so far as to say that a good part of the picture was filmed to the score ! It took me a long time to get around to this film , but it was certainly worth the wait . Any movie that opens with Jack Elam and Woody Strode has got to get your attention , but when their characters didn't survive the opening sequence , I knew this was going to be something special . Actually , having seen Elam in countless movies and TV Western episodes , I can safely say that this is the best performance I've ever seen him in . His sparring with the fly to the omnipresent creak of the windmill was an inspired piece of work , and if you didn't know anything about the story going in , you would think that these players would have a major role in the story to come . And then Bronson appears ! And then Henry Fonda appears . Curiously , his character's name was Frank . It didn't take until the end of the movie to make the connection to Frank James , brother of outlaw Jesse , and the character Fonda portrayed in two much earlier movies - 1939's " Jesse James " , and the sequel , 1940's " The Return of Frank James " . It made me wonder if Sergio Leone's original script named the character Frank , or if it was a result of getting Fonda for the part . It's no secret that Leone had been after Fonda to appear in one of his Westerns for a few years , with Fonda declining because every script he ever read was in Leone's fractured English . Fonda eventually relied on friend Eli Wallach's ( Tuco / The Ugly in " The Good , The Bad and The Ugly ) advice , who said he would have the time of his life . More than most , this is a Western that in turn , defines and is defined by the music . Even Bronson's character is called Harmonica , and his tunes are played to haunting effect . They mask a much deadlier nature to the quiet stranger - " He not only plays , he can shoot too " . It took me a bit into the story to figure out it was Jason Robards under the beard of Cheyenne . I think it was interesting the way his character was written , leaving it ambiguous whether he was a lawman or an outlaw . The bigger surprise though had to do with a female character in the lead role , capably performed by Claudia Cardinale . She manages to arc through a wide range of characterizations throughout the story as situations call for , holding her own well against each of the male principals . This is certainly a film I'll have to watch a few more times for some of the points noted above . In particular , the single scene I could watch over and over , one that is inextricably linked with it's musical score , is Fonda's death scene set to the strain of Morricone's dying harmonica . Not only creative , but as effective as any finale in a Western I can think of . As a final thought , I was considering how Sergio Leone could have used the title " The Good , The Bad and The Ugly " for this movie if it hadn't already been taken by another one of his legendary classics . But then again , Robards wasn't that ugly .
" There can't be any such thing as civilization unless people have a conscience . . . "	This film had a lot of interesting nuances , and it was clever the way things were revealed to make it even more so . For example , it was some time into the picture before you realized that the apparent drifters , Gil Carter ( Henry Fonda ) and Art Croft ( Harry Morgan ) were actually known by name in the town of Bridger's Wells . Then there was the misdirection with the runaway stagecoach and the appearance of Carter's former sweetheart , now married and trading inconclusive glances with the man she stood up . I was quite curious why an element that had no bearing on the story would have been introduced that way , though it did offer another layer of insight into the character of Carter . I had to do a quick re-wind on my DVD player a couple of times for a line uttered by Darby when Jeff Farnley ( Marc Lawrence ) and his partner moved to the other side of the bar . Farnley was hesitant to offer his opinion to Carter on cattle rustlers and strangers , when Darby stated - " They don't like ta ' talk about it except with fellas they sleep with " . Now I'm sure the context was meant to imply that good old boys stuck together and you didn't spill your opinions in the company of outsiders , but boy , it sure came out rather awkward . You know , if you're paying close attention , it would strike you about twenty minutes into the picture at Judge Tyler's home that the story could have ended right there . Deputy Butch Mapes states to Tyler that Sheriff Risley went out to the Kincaid ranch that morning , and that would have been BEFORE the rider came into town with the news that Kincaid had been killed . Had Mapes spoke up about that , it might have convinced the gathering mob that the sheriff had things under control . Instead , Major Tetley ( Frank Conroy ) manages to whip the crowd into a fever pitch with Mapes ' help , and the rush to judgment takes control . There's yet another clever nuance added to the story at the same time when the Mexican Poncho ( Chris-Pin Martin ) tells of having to sidestep three men with cattle carrying the Kincaid brand in a direction the town folk wouldn't have figured on . In his own way , Poncho was the lynch-pin that set in motion the events that eventually transpired . Performance wise , Henry Fonda was exceptional as always , a consummate actor who puts so much into his characterization that he gets lost in the role . Just check out his reaction and expression when Harry Morgan revives him from Darby's bump on the noggin with a pitcher of water . The other standout is Dana Andrews as the doomed rancher Donald Martin . I've seen Andrews in a number of pictures , including his well regarded performance in 1946's " The Best Years of Our Lives " , but I'd have to say his effort here is the best I've seen so far . He goes through an entire range of emotions that puts the viewer right in his shoes , making you wonder how you yourself would react to know that the end is near . I have to agree with a few other reviewers on this board who cite the idea that " The Ox-Bow Incident " transcends the Western film genre to stand on it's own as a classic morality tale . That it uses the era and location of 1885 Nevada to tell it's story is almost irrelevant , much like the the tale of human greed explored in 1948's " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " . It's just another example of what makes the great pictures great , a timeless quality that relies on story and characters rather than distracting action and special effects that seem to characterize the output of most of today's pictures .
" . . . you don't happen to remember the plan I outlined for you the day I set fire to your office ? . . . "	Don't be put off by the title , " The Hudsucker Proxy " makes perfect sense very early into the picture . There are two proxies actually , Norville Barnes ( Tim Robbins ) as the ' schmoe ' replacement for Waring Hudsucker , and Amy Winehouse as his secretary , operating undercover as a reporter for the Manhattan Argus . The film took me back to those great screwball capers of the 1940's ; " His Girl Friday " comes readily to mind , complete with snappy dialog and fast talking newspapermen . Those who don't ' get it ' so to speak , can't appreciate the parody of the over the top acting , perfectly nuanced to mimic movies of more than a half century gone by . I guess I discovered the Coen Brothers a lot later than many of their fans , having never seen their earliest films when they first came out . Catching up now , I see how recurring themes show up in their stories regularly . Here I'm thinking about the use of circular objects , notably the coffee stain on the Hudsucker Want-Ad , Norville's grand design that he'd been honing for years , and the eventual production of the extruded plastic dingus . I thought maybe Norville might have had a little help from Forrest Gump , both pictures came out the same year . I was surprised to see Paul Newman in a large support role here , excellent as always . Steve Buscemi makes his mandatory appearance in a Coen film once again , and as a quick reminder how fleeting ' Entertainment Tonight ' celebrity can be , I actually had to think quite a while to come up with Anna Nicole Smith's name . Still , you have to give credit to Jennifer Jason Leigh as Norville's conflicted nemesis . One has to wonder how long it took for her and John Mahoney to memorize their lines well enough to rip them off as quick as they did - whew ! " The Hudsucker Proxy " is a film that just begs to be seen more than once , there's no way to catch all the dialog the first time around . There's also that great scene in Mussberger's ( Newman ) office when Norville gets his foot stuck in the waste basket . It's not something I would usually find to be all that funny , but for some reason , the whole thing just struck me how absurd the whole situation was and I just couldn't stop laughing . Here in true Coen Brothers fashion , you have the makings of a real rumpus .
" A sword by itself rules nothing . "	A wonderfully lyrical film , " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " literally flows from beginning to end . From my perspective , I see the story not as a martial arts movie , but one with martial arts in it , done in a way to move the story along . The tone and intensity of each fight scene conveys a different emotion ; Shu Lien's recovery of the Destiny Sword inspires loyalty , Jen's battles with Lo in the desert call to mind youthful innocence and aggression , Li Mu Bai's fatal battle with Jade Fox tempers revenge with justice . Each in it's own fashion has a way of confirming - " When it comes to emotions , even great heroes can be idiots " . CTHD is one of those defining films that takes it's particular genre to new levels , much like " Star Wars " did for sci-fi , and " The Exorcist " did for horror . It's choreography and wire work blend perfectly with gorgeous natural beauty and crisp cinematography . It can be enjoyed and understood on many levels , and if your mood simply calls for a well styled action film , it works that way too . Today's viewing was my third , and it allowed for a better understanding of the story with the special effects a complement to it and not a distracting ' wow ' .
" Alright , I'm in " .	For viewers who felt that the original " Alien " lacked action , this sequel provides enough for both , especially when it enters combat mode in the latter part of the story . Adrenaline junkies should find this a pretty good fix for their movie going high , still holding up well even after a couple of decades . The film does a decent job of expanding on the Alien mythos begun in the first film , where even a serious attention to detail fails to reveal what the true life cycle of the species might actually be . Not that all those questions are answered here , in fact there might even be a few more loose ends left by the time it's all over , but by then you're content enough just to catch your breath after a wild thrill ride . The strange thing is that essentially , " Aliens " is pretty much a re-telling of the original story with enough alteration of significant plot points that you don't really notice it until well after the film is over . The whole story revolves around a brave female ( Sigourney Weaver ) returning to a planet ( LV-426 ) that has lost contact with civilization due to an unknown calamity . Ripley leads a team of crew members on a hunt against an implacable and dangerous creature that winds up wiping out that entire crew , before it's finally defeated in a last ditch battle before being cast into the vacuum of space . In neither instance did it seem remotely plausible to me that the human could have survived the crushing forces of wind shear better than the much larger and stronger enemy , but one gets so caught up in the fever pitch emotion of good vs . evil that it doesn't really matter too much . We just want to see Ripley kick some monster a - - ! What kind of gets lost in translation are some of the cool elements that form the back story of LV-426 , a terra-formed ' shake and bake ' space colony complete with it's own atmosphere processor . Those elements are only mentioned very quickly in passing , as is the nature of the unit dispatched to investigate the planet . The term Colonial Marines is only used once in the picture , but followers of the Alien saga know the term well , as they show up in any number of book and graphic novel treatments . It wouldn't be too far off the mark to say that they embody the typical fan boy concept of over the top universal soldier types complete with wise cracking banter and big guns , . . . . really , really big guns . But you know , I didn't hear anyone say ' Lock and Load ' - or maybe I missed it . There was even the inclusion of an android again , or as Bishop ( Lance Henricksen ) explained , an artificial person , a synthetic . I guess that shouldn't have surprised anyone , since the first picture established the science officer as an artificial life form . Still , the dismemberment of Bishop was much too reminiscent of Ash's demise to be original , there was just a little more of him at the end to make the save for Newt ( Carrie Henn ) . I like Henricksen though , so I won't hold the script against him . What was unnerving on a repeat viewing today was the role of Carter Burke as played by Paul Reiser . His portrayal worked for me back in 1986 , but all I could think of now was ' Mad About You's Paul Buchman trying to be the bad guy and it just doesn't work . But you'll be OK if you don't think ' Helen Hunt's husband ' . So on balance , a nice pair of thumbs up for " Aliens " , a sequel that not only carries on the story from it's prequel , but actually enhances it . As the series progressed of course , the same can't be said , but we'll save that for another review .
" All you need is one man with enough stomach to die first . "	Sabbath Sheriff Cotton Ryan - " There'll be some dyin ' " . Bannock Sheriff Jered Maddox - " It'll be their doin ' " . I believe that simple exchange between two star packers in a rare quiet moment from " Lawman " embodies the philosophy of Bannock's gunman Maddox ( Burt Lancaster ) . However , even though his character is one dimensionally uniform in purpose , he still leaves room enough for the law to run it's course without violence . Contrary to what some other reviewers of this film have stated , I don't feel that Maddox's actions were predetermined to end in death for all of his quarry . The fact that each attempted to circumvent the law for their own reasons , noble or not , is what led to their respective downfall . In fact , it wasn't even the action of one of the original principals that caused the final showdown leaving no man standing . Maddox was actually willing to leave well enough alone after spending the night with former flame Laura ( Sheree North ) . As Maddox started riding out of town , it was the town shopkeeper who was about to shoot him in the back , saved by friend Lucas ( Joseph Wiseman ) who had some history with the fabled lawman . The film offers intriguing performances by veterans Robert Ryan and Lee J . Cobb . Ryan portrays Sheriff Cotton Ryan , a gunman past his prime who owes his current livelihood to Cobb's character Vince Bronson . Though no longer willing to put his life on the line , Sheriff Ryan is an interesting character who's willing to back Maddox when the distinction between right and wrong is clear . But he knows that Maddox is not to be challenged or compromised . Cobb's character Bronson is the classic town boss , but in this case , the town is grateful for his enterprise and support of the local citizenry . Bronson in fact is the voice of reason and advises his men to back off until he can reason with or buy off Maddox . It's made abundantly clear a number of times that if Bronson and his men face justice in Bannock for the accidental death of a man during some rowdy revelry , they'll probably get off via Bronson's monetary influence . It's just as clear that on that point , Maddox would have done his duty , resigned to an outcome that money can buy . So much for the heavy stuff . Director Michael Winner does some nice camera work with great visuals - Maddox striding through the swinging doors of the saloon , and on horseback with a zoom view through parted window curtains . It's also a treat to see some Hollywood veterans in uncharacteristic roles - Robert Duvall as one of Bronson's hired hands , Charles Tyner looking evil even while playing a minister , and John McGiver as Mayor Sam Bolden , though his deaf gimmick gets annoying very quickly . Checking the complete cast for the film , it was Wilford Brimley as Maddox first victim Marc Corman ; since Corman was never seen alive , was it necessary to have a name actor in that role ? Pay attention to the opening scene when Bronson's rowdies tear up the town of Bannock . In two views of the local hotel , the town's name is spelled Bannock . Later , when Sheriff Maddox checks into the hotel in Sabbath , he signs in as a resident of Bannach . Amidst the blood and gunfire , " Lawman " endures as a satisfying Western and character study of it's three principal players , with solid performances by all .
" You're not worth three hundred dollars , you'll never mean anything but misery to any man . "	For a well rounded cinema education , everyone needs to see " Gone With The Wind " , one of the most celebrated films of all time . It actually took me quite a while to get around to it , but now I can lay claim to that experience . Having just seen it , I can appreciate it's epic sweep and excellent cinematography at a time when color just wasn't being done , much less being done right . The sunsets in particular , like the magnificent shot of Scarlett and her father at the start of the picture , are among scenes that are memorable in their own right . And then of course , there's that celebrated musical theme that became the standard for all those Million Dollar Movies I used to watch back in the 1950's . The thing I had to question though was the way the picture was introduced , heralding the era and locale of a time gone by that was noted for it's grand elegance and genteel nobility . It seemed to be an overly romantic sentiment to attach to a period in the nation's history for which the North and South went to war . I don't doubt that there were gentlemanly landowners like the O'Hara's and the Wilkeses , but I'm confident they were outnumbered by those of much crueler intent as regards their slaves . There was a little balance in telling that story , but by and large , the presentation of life in the South before and even during the War seemed a bit sanitized . As for the principals , each did a remarkable job in their given role . Vivien Leigh exhibited the mark of a talented actress by taking me though a range of emotions regarding her character . In the early part of the story , I really disliked her character , maybe even hated Scarlett . But as the story progressed , one comes to sympathize with her and maybe even feel sorry for her by the time the first half of the movie is over . Then her character arouses the same set of emotions all over again following the mid point interlude . With Clark Gable's Rhett Butler , I found myself enjoying a rascally scoundrel , and there were two scenes that reminded me immediately of my favorite movie , " Casablanca " . Early in the story , Rhett opines on his personal philosophy - " I believe in Rhett Butler , he's the only cause I know , the rest doesn't mean that much to me " . Strangely familiar with what Bogart's Rick Blaine would put forth to describe his motivation as a citizen of the world . Later , in a scene that would close out the first half of the picture , Rhett offers that ' whole silly world going to pieces ' line to Scarlett , conjuring up the finale in " Casablanca " with Bogart comparing his troubles with Ingrid Bergman not amounting to a hill of beans in this crazy world . I wonder how much of an influence GWTW might have actually had on the later picture . You know , when I saw " Hollywoodland " , I had the impression that George Reeves ' character was actually written out of the movie because of the way his acting fell short of expectation . So it was with some surprise to see him as one of the Tarleton Brothers romancing Scarlett , although a little hard to recognize if you weren't looking for him . I actually didn't think he was too bad , but then again , the role didn't call for a lot . Back to Gable's Rhett Butler , I couldn't help thinking how Jock Mahoney might have handled the role if he was bit older at the time of the picture . I have this image of Mahoney in his TV role as Yancy Derringer , and you couldn't ask for a better portrayal of a rogue and street wise con man . That would have been an interesting challenge for Mahoney , but I won't kid myself , he's closer to Reeves than Gable in acting ability . Hattie McDaniel was a treat though . I'm glad she picked up a Best Supporting Actress for the role of Mammy . There were a couple of times when she cinched the award just with her looks . I don't know about Prissy though ( Butterfly McQueen ) . Maybe it was just me , but I couldn't understand most of what she was saying . I usually don't get so long winded in my reviews ( no pun there ) , but a classic deserves a little more I suppose . This one ought to be on your must see list , even if not on your list of all time best films . At almost four hours in length , it's worth watching at least one time to add perspective to an appreciation of great cinema .
" . . . this place is fantastic , it's like ' Gone With The Wind ' on mescaline . "	Kelso's ( John Cusack ) quote in the summary above just about says it all for this film , it was a blast and a half to watch with graveyard voodoo rituals and the brazen performance of Lady Chablis . About the time Jim Williams ( Kevin Spacey ) was having his heart attack , and getting the knowing smile from Billy Hanson ( Jude Law ) , I felt the film had borrowed a chapter from ' The Twilight Zone ' . Not having read the book , my viewing had no preconceptions of how the story should be presented , perhaps a good thing judging by the comments of other reviewers on this board . Kevin Spacey was entirely credible as a sophisticated Southern gentleman ; Cusack as the reporter might have shown more range but he played off the other characters well enough . Knowing nothing of the actor who portrayed Lady Chablis , imagine my surprise when I learned that he / she was actually a real person . That might explain the lack of an award nomination , there isn't a category . The line on the witness stand about having a ' man's toolbox ' was the best . This was quite the entertaining story , with a twist that makes the innocent Jim Williams guilty , capitalizing on a police error to ride out the jury trial . Mysterious forces at work bring him to justice however , cleverly linked by the midnight handiwork of priestess Minerva and the restless spirit of the murdered Billy . It's a minor role for Jude Law , though he brings some manic tension to the proceedings . However if you only need one reason to see the film , it's hands down Lady Chablis , setting us up with - " Would you care to see something a little more . . . unusual ? "
" I couldn't hear my own footsteps , it was the walk of a dead man . "	At one point late in the film , Walter Neff ( Fred MacMurray ) utters a line that could have been used to describe the movie , a ' crazy story with a crazy twist to it ' . " Double Indemnity " is hugely successful despite the fact that it reveals the killer at the very beginning of the story . The suspense comes from the intertwining webs that Neff and Phyllis Dietrichson ( Barbara Stanwyck ) spin for each other while they're spinning out of control . With it's casting , the film was one of the first to effectively subvert the idea of who could be a murderer , even if ultimately , they didn't get away with it . Fortunately , director Billy Wilder finally managed to convince the movie's principals to take part in the project . MacMurray , Stanwyck and Edward G . Robinson all initially turned it down , none of them wanted to do it . Not surprising for the first two , they would be seriously cast against type and didn't want to portray murderers on screen for what it might do to their careers . In Robinson's case , he was reluctant to take a supporting role , but his better judgment won out , convincing himself that it would be better to take parts with substance at this point in his career rather than take a starring role in a film of no consequence . Good decision . It's Robinson in fact that keeps the film's tension mounting with his unique ' man inside ' observations of the crime at the center of the story . Escalating Mr . Dietrichson's ( Tom Powers ) demise from accident to suicide to murder would have been a stretch for anyone had it not been for Barton Keyes ' ( Robinson ) deliberate method and cunning to smoke out the mystery . Even though he might have mis-stepped by fingering Zachetti , there was enough of a pause after stating " They'll be digging their own graves " when he takes a long look at Neff off screen to tempt the viewer into thinking that he in fact might suspect Neff as the killer . It would have been interesting to see the film go in that direction . By the time it was over , I couldn't help thinking that here was one mystery thriller that would have done justice to Alfred Hitchcock's repertoire ; it even had a train . Aside from the murder and the cunning cross and double cross of Stanwyck's character , I was probably most intrigued by the thirty thousand dollar price tag Neff put on the Dietrichson home . Now that would have been some investment .
" It's only a movie Mr . Paley , I'll bring you some popcorn . "	But Oh ! , what a movie it is ! Taking it's inspiration from the Golden Age Comics and pulp fiction of the 1930's and 40's , " Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow " is a lavish and luscious film from the mind and talent of newcomer director Kerry Conran . It's got all the super-heroics , nefarious villains , city stomping robots and mechanical marvels one could ask for , and then some . As Sky Captain Joe Sullivan , Jude Law is an unlikely but convincing hero in his bomber jacket and flight garb . Gwyneth Paltrow is simply gorgeous as fearless reporter Polly Perkins , the sepia rendered tones of the opening half of the movie adding to her beauty and mystery . She has a thing for Joe , and you know the cattiness will erupt when aviatrix Frankie ( Angelina Jolie ) makes her appearance , referring to Polly as the " competition " . After all the movies ever made , it's virtually impossible to come up with a totally original concept . With Sky Captain , the evil scientist bent on destroying the world and recreating a new one based on his own vision has been done before , yet here it seems amazingly refreshing . Even the clichéd lines fit when they're needed . The film takes place in a futuristic 1939 . For me , the visuals presented for some of today's still surviving consumer products were a real treat - Dubble Bubble , Spearmint Gum and Coca-Cola . And though many will bemoan the intrusion of CGI in today's top blockbusters , the seamless quality of the effects in this film is a marvel ; case in point , watch as Sky Captain and Polly make their way into the underground city of the villain Tottenkopf . The bats that fly past them look as real as an actual colony . With 2004 coming to a close , this is the most fun I've had at a film this year . The story , the characters , the gorgeous filming and virtual non stop action made for an exciting afternoon . Not to mention the humor ; one of the running gags has Polly losing her film equipment , leaving her with only a camera and two shots left . Unintentionally wasting one in a near miss getaway scene , she's only got one left for just the right moment - she'll know it when she sees it . It comes at the end of the film , the awe and grandeur of a veritable Noah's Ark of creatures saved from destruction in the background . She frames the camera on the battered but smiling face of Sky Captain , and he answers the only way he can after she snaps the picture - " lenscap " !
" You were right , when your head says one thing and your whole life says another , your head always loses . "	Repeat viewings of " Key Largo " will only enrich your appreciation of it . The superb cast and directing by John Huston make this a must see film for fans of the 1940 classics , particularly fans of stars Humphrey Bogart , Edward G . Robinson , and Lauren Bacall . Bogey and Bacall made four films in a space of four years , this being their final appearance together . Bogey's character , retired Army Major Frank McCloud seeks out the family of a war buddy killed in action . He finds Nora Temple ( Bacall ) and her father James Temple ( Lionel Barrymore ) as the owners of a seasonal hotel in Key Largo , and comes to realize that all is not quite right in the serene setting . Bogey's response to an inquisitive Nora Temple is about to be tested - " Life on land has become too complicated for my taste " . Edward G . Robinson's appearance as mobster Johnny Rocco is suitably delayed in the film to build suspense , and he breaks on screen with all of his classic nuance - the sneer , the braggadocio , the " What's with you wise guy ? " sarcasm . Rocco suffers from a fall from past glory , a time when he was regarded as " the one and only " , a virtual emperor of the crime world . Now he's a two bit hoodlum , holed up in a Key Largo hotel , hoping to cash in on a counterfeit money scam . With him are a coterie of henchmen , and an alcoholic moll superbly portrayed by Claire Trevor , earning a Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her performance . Johnny Rocco is desperate to make a mob connection to unload his counterfeit money stash , and refuses to submit to the might of an impending hurricane . Fueling Rocco's desperation is a stoic Bogart - " You don't like it Rocco - the storm ; show it your gun why don't ya , if it doesn't stop , shoot it ! " . Helpless in the face of the coming storm , Rocco's anxiety mounts , and in a tense scene he confronts war hero McCloud by throwing him a gun to force a showdown . But Bogey's not buying it - " One Rocco more or less isn't worth dying for " . In a damned if you do , damned if you don't situation , McCloud must decide to man a boat to Cuba for Rocco's gang to make a getaway . In the one improbable scene of the film , Trevor's Gaye Dawn character secretly maneuvers Rocco's gun away from him and slips it into Bogey's hand , while surrounded by all of the bad guys . How Rocco would not have missed his weapon ( until later on the boat ) is an element that is not suitably dealt with in the film . McCloud's resourcefulness while skippering the getaway boat is sheer cunning , taking out one mobster after another with surgical precision . The desperate Johnny Rocco even shoots one of his own men rather than have his authority challenged . McCloud remains silent to Rocco's taunts , causing the gangster to force his own hand and become a target for the heroic McCloud . As Bogey heads back to port and the hurricane fades , the film ends on a feel good note as Nora Temple opens the shutters of the hotel and the sunlight streams in - all is well in the world again ; the symbolism is extraordinary . Bogey and Robinson appear in four other movies together ( Kid Galahad , Brother Orchid , The Amazing Dr . Clitterhouse , and Bullets or Ballots ) , but this is the only one in which they share equal footing , Robinson cast in the lead role in the other films over Bogart . For Robinson fans , the Clitterhouse film is a blast and is recommended to see him in an offbeat role . Another point of interest for film buffs , Jay Silverheels appears in an uncredited role as Tom Osceola , one of the Seminole Indian brothers on the lam from the law in the movie's back story . For an actor as typecast as Silverheels ( Tonto in the Lone Ranger ) , it's always a pleasant surprise and treat to see in an entirely different setting . " Key Largo " ranks right up there with " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " and " The Maltese Falcon " , and perhaps just a notch below " Casablanca " among Bogart's finest films , and a true classic worthy of the name .
" You have to look your team member in the eyes . "	There's an uneasy " is that all there is ? " subtext running throughout " Friday Night Lights " - it's there in the pre and post game revelry ; it's there in the storefront " Gone to the Game " signs ; it's there in the radio talk show snippets that alternately proclaim and shred the embattled coach , and it's there in the memories of those who either once lived or who want to live the dream of winning a championship . When I view a film like " Friday Night Lights " I'm more interested in the characters and their motivation than in the outcome of the big game , and on this score the movie delivered in a big way . For Coach Gaines ( Billy Bob Thornton ) , winning the state championship is not an option , it's a matter of where he and his family will live next year . The followers of the Odessa-Permian Panthers take their football seriously , as do all the fans of all the football teams in all the towns of East and West Texas . In that regard , the movie realistically depicts the rabid and obsessive fervor that grips the town on game day after game day . For the players , it seems that there is no time to relax , and life outside of football is virtually non-existent . Team quarterback Mike Winchell ( Lucas Black ) is in the game because he has the talent , but it's never quite clear that he even likes to play . Running back Boobie Miles ( Derek Luke ) has an ingratiating charm , you'd like to smack him for his cockiness , but he puts points on the board . Receiver Don Billingsley ( Garrett Hedlund ) faces a tougher opponent at home than he ever sees on the football field , his father ( Tim McGraw ) is a one time football champion himself , who can't crawl out of bottle or the memories of his championship season . When Don drops a pass in practice , the father's reaction is one of rage and humiliation , so much for positive reinforcement . The movie follows the Permian Panthers on the way to the final state championship game with all the highs and lows , wins and losses in between . It's a harrowing ride , particularly after superstar Boobie blows out a knee , and refuses to face the reality of life without football . After all , this was to be his ticket to the big time , pro ball and all the trappings that go with being a football hero . The locker scene between halves of the championship game is a defining moment . Coach Gaines can get into his players like no one else can , and he finds just the right words to inspire his players to do the undoable . You just know how this game will end . Or do you ? For me , the movie succeeds in challenging the viewer to re-evaluate one's concept of winning and losing , knowing that when the game's over you have to be able to look your fellow players in the eye and know that you did everything you could for the team . And once the game is over , the game is over , there's no going back and no do-overs . In that respect , it's a lot like life .
" I know what gold does to men's souls . "	The great movies never grow old , they age like fine wine . " The Treasure of The Sierra Madre " is such a film , a classic tale of corruption and greed that follows the trail of three would be prospectors , and ends as a rich morality tale reminding us that the best things in life after all , can't be bought , sold , stolen or given away . For fans of old movies , the casting of the principals may not seem to work on paper , as Humphrey Bogart , Tim Holt , and Walter Huston form as disparate a trio as ever to assemble on screen . The way the story brings them together is a minor act in itself , as the camera follows Fred C . Dobbs ( Bogey ) through the dusty streets of Tampico , Mexico , living on handouts and a dream . His chance meetings with Curtin ( Holt ) form a bond that sees the men through a rigorous work detail and a wild bar brawl against their smooth talking boss McCormick ( Barton MacLane ) . When the time comes to move on , the pair seeks out the wisdom of an old codger who's been around the block and back a few times . Though the most memorable line of the film involves ' steenkin ' badges ' uttered by Gold Hat bandit Alfonso Bedoya , the best lines belong to Howard ( Huston ) , but you better be attentive and listen closely . As he shows Dobbs and Curtin how to wash sand for fine gold nuggets , he comes up with one himself - " You gotta know how to tickle it so she come out laughin ' " . Later , as Dobbs begins his descent into paranoia and begins talking to himself , Howard challenges him accordingly - " You got somethin ' up your nose ? Blow it out , it'll do you good . " In fact , Huston's a scene stealer more than once in the film . My favorite occurs when about midway through their trek into the mountains , Bogey's character is getting worn out and is ready to quit . It's then when Howard reveals they're actually in the middle of a workable vein , and he goes into a comical jig that's just plain fun to watch . Do they teach that in acting class ? However it's not just for comic relief that Howard is so important to the story . Watch his expression and knowing eyes when Dobbs and Curtin shake on their deal the very first time . Later , he's the moral center and conscience of the trio , figuring it's just as well to divvy up the gold as it's mined so each man can guard his own share . Bogey's character is the first to allow his greed to take over , while Curtin falls in right behind . The introduction of Cody ( Bruce Bennett ) offers yet another psychological angle for the film to explore , as the original partners debate whether to kill him , run him off or take him in . It's the only time we have a hint that Howard's character may have a dark side as well . For his part , Bogart accomplishes a masterful turn as the down and out bum with dreams of glory , creating one of the great morally tragic figures in movies . Watching him wrestle his conscience after he shoots Curtin , then going doubly mad when Curtin's body is gone in the morning is Bogey at his best . That he meets his end ignominiously seems only proper as befitting his traitorous character , one who's willing to sell out anyone in his path . I guess the true measure of the film's greatness is it's ability to hook the viewer in a way that makes you feel you're a participant in the adventure . Come on now , didn't you shudder with disbelief when the ' steenkin ' badges ' hombre trashed the bags with gold dust , figuring it was only sand to weigh down the hides on the burros ? I'm glad Howard was allowed to put his own unique perspective on things as a desert wind storm blew away a hundred thousand dollar fortune . Remarking that theirs was a ten month old joke in the making , he philosophically offers - " The gold has gone back to where we found it " , as if that was just the way it was meant to be . For film trivia buffs , ' Treasure ' is just that . Study the face of the young Mexican boy selling Dobbs a lottery ticket in an early scene . Doesn't it have an unusually uncanny resemblance to that of adult actor Robert Blake ? Back then he was known as Bobby . And how about the white suited American who's constantly tapped for a handout by Bogey's character . That would have been Director John Huston in an uncredited appearance . Tim Holt's actor father Jack Holt also appeared uncredited as a flophouse bum in an early scene . Later the two would actually portray for the first time in the movies a father and son in the 1948 Western " The Arizona Ranger " .
" I am a Jedi . . . , like my father before me . "	I recall the controversy some time prior to the original theatrical release regarding the title . " Revenge of the Jedi " was scrapped because it was deemed too harsh for mainstream movie audiences and didn't fit in with the noble character of the Jedi Knights . I couldn't quite understand that argument considering all the country had gone through after Watergate and Vietnam , and since movies and other forms of entertainment were getting more and more outrageous . Still , " Return Of The Jedi " works pretty well to convey the essence of the story , as Luke Skywalker stays true to his promise to avoid falling to the peril of the Dark Side of the Force . As I watched the film today , I wondered about the chronology and aging of the principal characters against the progress of the story , so I managed to dig up a Star Wars time line as published in one of the Dark Horse Comics from 2000 . Even though " The Empire Strikes Back " occurs three years following " A New Hope " , ' Return ' occurs only one year later . It appeared that Mark Hamill aged considerably more than his co-stars in the intervening years between the first and third movie , a period of six years . Maybe it's just me , but since it was noticeable , I thought I'd mention it . Though I found ' Return ' as compelling and entertaining as the rest of the series , a couple of things did bother me back in the day , and those thoughts still linger . After the destruction of the original Death Star in the first film , I thought it was a little lazy to return to the same concept with an attack strategy that was fairly similar the first time around . The Ewok population on Endor may have distracted from that scenario , but the resolution was basically the same . The other thing , given the huge popularity he achieved after brief appearances in the films , it was somewhat disappointing to see how easily Boba Fett was taken out during the battle at the Sarlacc Pit , given his vaunted reputation as a fearsome galaxy bounty hunter . With the back story created for Boba Fett in " Attack Of The Clones " , I wonder if Lucas would have offed him so unceremoniously if Episodes IV , V , and VI were made chronologically following I , II , and III . Something to think about , considering how much more was written about Boba Fett in comics and books after his death in ' Return ' . Say , did anyone else notice that Lucas cleverly reversed the " I love you " / " I know " responses between Han and Leia as he prepares to join the battle on Endor ? I only managed to catch that because I watched the films back to back over a couple of days . Not that I'm a huge Star Wars fan , but that's something that stood out . With the original trilogy completed in 1983 , it would be a long wait until " The Phantom Menace " appeared to begin the story of Anakin Skywalker some sixteen years later . Yet it only seems like yesterday that all the episodes burst on the scene to create the greatest sci-fi adventure ever . The Force will be around for generations to come to thrill and entertain as they did from the very start .
" Made it Ma , top of the world ! "	OK , so here's a question - who killed Ma Jarrett ? Big Ed ( Steve Cochran ) terrorizes Verna ( Virginia Mayo ) by stating that he'll tell Cody Jarrett ( James Cagney ) how she shot Ma in the back . But because Verna gets to Cody first , she tells him the same story , but with Big Ed the perpetrator . I believe most viewers of the film take it on faith that Verna did it , but I think the story leaves enough room to consider that it could have gone otherwise . In it's way , the movie creates the same kind of dichotomy as another of Cagney's famous gangster films , " Angels With Dirty Faces " . Did Rocky Sullivan die a yellow rat or did he do it for Father Jerry ? It can be endlessly debated , and depending on your point of view , either scenario is possible . That's one of the reasons this is such a great film . Certainly , it's one of Cagney's greatest performances , and he goes at it with gusto . The jail house mess scene when he learns Ma is dead is Cagney at his maniacal best , improvising as he goes leaving even director Raoul Walsh guessing where it's heading . One wonders if it's one of those headache attacks that Jarrett's suffered ever since his father died , or the actualization of a sentiment he later shares with inmate Pardo / Fallon ( Edmond O'Brien ) - " Maybe I AM nuts " . Hey , wasn't Margaret Wycherly great as Ma Jarrett ? Couldn't you just picture her in a Texas Death Match against Margaret Hamilton's Wicked Witch of the West from " The Wizard of Oz " ? You believe it when she says of Big Ed - " Anytime I can't handle his kind , I'll know I'm getting old . . . " It's a testament to Cagney's portrayal that even as the film's protagonist , you don't identify with him enough to want to see him get away with it . He casually guns down a railroad engineer in an early scene because the man remembered and spoke Cody's name . Later he gives new meaning to the term ' ventilate ' when he airs out the stuffy trunk that contains Parker , one of Big Ed's inside men at the penitentiary . By the time the film builds up to the explosive finale , you come to see that Verna was right - you can pump him full of lead and he'll still keep coming at you . Say , did anyone make a connection when the radio broadcast of the train robbery made reference to the ' High Sierra ' tunnel ? That's another film that comes to mind when considering the great ones of the ' s gangster era , along with Edward G . Robinson's " Little Caesar " ( 1931 ) and Cagney's own earlier work , " Public Enemy " from the same year . Of them all , Cagney's Cody Jarrett is undeniably the most vicious and tortured villain of the lot .
" My hobby is stuffing things . . . "	Chances are that if you go into this movie cold without knowing anything about it ( I know , that's almost impossible ) , you'll be about a half hour into the picture and wondering what the title might be all about . Sure Marion Crane ( Janet Leigh ) seems highly erratic when questioned by the patrolman , but hardly psychotic . It's not until director Hitchcock suddenly pulls the rug out from under the forty thousand dollar robbery setup , and Marion falls victim to the frenzy of a slashing knife accompanied by the now historic soundtrack that's been indelibly identified with " Psycho " , that we get the idea that this is not your standard mystery . This is a classic and historic movie , the first on many levels to create a new kind of horror film . Hitchcock was a master of thrills and suspense without ever relying on violence . Here he allows a slight departure from that formula , but without overemphasizing the gore . When the naked Marion Crane is attacked in a shower , completely helpless , it was the birth of a new genre , which unfortunately has degraded into the sensationalist slasher schlock of present day . In " Psycho " , you never see it coming , except for that shadowed figure behind the shower curtain , but by then it's too late to gasp , you're caught up in the on screen event , and it leaves you breathless . Some viewers call it a perfect film . I don't know if I would go that far , as I've thought about things I might have changed in telling the story . When Marion leaves the used car lot under scrutiny of the highway patrolman , it makes you wonder why he didn't follow up his instinct that there was something fishy going on . Then at the end of the film , the way the psychologist explained in detail the nature of Norman Bates ' psychosis , made it seem like it wasn't enough to let the viewer arrive at a conclusion for oneself . But those nitpicks aside , one has to give credit to the principals for pulling off a great psychological and horror thriller . Anthony Perkins couldn't have been smoother , and it's not until at least a second viewing that you realize how wonderful a set up you have to the film's dire outcome . Sitting there talking to Marion among his menagerie of stuffed birds , Norman Bates gives a subtle hint as to the horror about to unfold - " You know what I think . . . , I think that . . . , we're all in our private traps , clamped in them , and none of us can ever get out . . . " Watch this one alone . . . , at night . . . , in the dark .
" I would never want to belong to any club that would have someone like me for a member . "	Virtually every line in " Annie Hall " is funny , and virtually every funny line is brilliant . The advantage of watching the movie today on DVD or VHS is that you can rewind to hear the dialog repeated , whereas in 1977 when the film came out , I probably missed a good five minutes trying to recover from the lobster behind the refrigerator scene . You know , the one about using a dish of melted butter and a nutcracker to scare the lobster out of hiding . It's impossible not to picture that , and when I do , I almost hit the floor rolling . Surprisingly , watching the film today it doesn't seem dated . Perhaps Annie's ( Diane Keaton ) wardrobe is , a definite product of the Seventies , but the nuances of love and life's miseries resonate strongly in the story . It's the story of Everyman and Everywoman just trying to get along and have some fun along the way , in a world divided into two parts , the horrible and the miserable . Irony of ironies , who could have known at the time that Frank Sinatra's appearance to Annie in a dream could have real life repercussions almost two decades later , though it wouldn't be Annie the Chairman would want to suffocate . Hey , was that Mick Jagger at the party ?
" Get back , get back , I'm going out . "	" Dead End " is a great film . Nominated for a Best Picture Oscar in 1938 , it was in good company with " Lost Horizon " , " The Good Earth " , and eventual winner " The Life of Emile Zola " . It's appeal today is in the harrowing contrast of high society glamor amid tenement squalor , the lives of those caught in urban poverty highlighted by a road sign marker at the end of a street facing New York's East River - Dead End . The principal players are Drina Gordon ( Sylvia Sidney ) and Dave Connell ( Joel McCrae ) , but it's not their story . The film's dynamics come from the Dead End Kids in their first film role , and how they relate to a street punk who made good , or bad as it were - Humphrey Bogart as Baby Face Martin . Martin's celebrity status is shielded by plastic surgery , but those close to him don't want to know him , much less recognize him . Marjorie Main's brief but searing appearance as Martin's mother involves a callous rebuke - " Don't call me Mom , you ain't no son of mine , what do you want ? " Not fully recovered from this dismissal , Bogey's character is dealt a second blow by the appearance of former flame Francey ( Claire Trevor ) . Though her profession is not mentioned by name , the viewer gets it , and so does Martin . When he hands over a wad of bills to make her go away , the effrontery of her request for another twenty is like a punch in the gut . Trevor's screen time is mere minutes , but her portrayal earned a Best Supporting Actress nomination . It would take another Bogart film for that honor , a decade later in 1948's " Key Largo " . The core group of Dead Enders make their screen debut here - Billy Halop , Huntz Hall , Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Gabriel Dell and Bernard Punsley . Their street gang camaraderie is put to the test later on in the film when Gorcey's character ' Spit ' rats out Tommy ( Halop , as Drina's brother ) . He should pay for that indiscretion with the " mark of the squealer " , but Dave Connell , the conscience of the East Side , saves Tommy from going over the edge , maybe in more ways than one . The moral center of the movie rests on Connell's shoulders . He had dreams once , now hindered by poverty and depression , and a hero's reward might make a difference . It's an auspicious start for the Dead Enders ; their best work seems to be in their early movies where they provided a supporting presence . The following year's " Angels With Dirty Faces " is a classic , pairing them with Warner Brothers ' top two gangsters - Bogey and James Cagney . In between , there was " Crime School " , another Dead End / Bogart team up , in which Leo Gorcey's character once again rats out Halop . Billy Halop would wind up headlining a film with Bogart in 1939's " You Can't Get Away With Murder " . Notable performances are turned in by Ward Bond as a doorman for the society folk , and James Burke as Mulligan , the neighborhood beat cop . Allen Jenkins portrays Martin's sidekick Hunk , he doesn't have a lot to say , but gets it done with a scowl and menace . His appearance as a character actor in the era's films are always a welcome treat . Bogey should have taken his advice when he had the chance - " Never go back , always go forward " .
" The thing is , you can come from nothing , and be something . "	This is a great movie , and for a lot of different reasons . I've read the comments from the naysayers on this board , and it's too bad modern tastes have become so jaded as to dismiss a film that relies on values instead of shoot ' em ups . If I hadn't read that James Cagney was dubbed for his dialog in the story , I never would have known ; give the guy some credit , he was eighty four years old when he made the movie . Wheelchair bound or not , I thought it was an exceptional performance . Oddly I had never even heard of the movie until reviewing Cagney's film credits , and I managed to source a DVD copy through a private collector . If you listen closely enough , you'll take away two great pearls of wisdom from Terrible Joe - age reduces everything , and you can make a rock out of glass if you really want it bad enough . That rock in turn becomes a diamond by the end of the picture , and will elicit the same response as Cagney's finale in " Angels With Dirty Faces " , but for a different reason . Some great surprises here - the first sit up and take notice scene was Floyd Patterson appearing as himself , only to be followed by one of the greatest self promoters of all time , New York Mayor Ed Koch as just that , a boxing promoter ! He's only on screen for a short time , and you'll wonder if that's really him or not . As for the story , you might expect it to dissolve into cliché once it gets under way , but there are enough twists to keep you focused . As Joe Moran's granddaughter , Ellen Barkin grows into the role as the movie progresses , and her character develops as a result of her involvement with boyfriend Nick ( Peter Gallagher ) and the book deal with Poppa . As Moran's best friend Troy , Art Carney also holds a few keys of wisdom that he shares with Ronnie ( Barkin ) and the viewer . Cagney and Carney - funny how they're separated by one letter , but they show that they're pros in scene after scene . Listen , if you're a Cagney fan , you owe yourself a viewing of his swan song performance as Terrible Joe Moran . You won't come away feeling sorry for him as some would have it ; quite the opposite , you'll get a warm feeling for one of the greatest actors of all time .
" Well I guess I'm gonna strike you as being the unrefined type , huh ? "	Marlon Brando has always been one of my favorite actors , " On The Waterfront " is on my personal Top Ten list . However I'm just getting around to some of his very early work , " The Wild One " being a recent example . In " A Streetcar Named Desire " , Brando strongly impresses , but not as one might expect from his first appearance on screen as a handsome , macho leading man . His character here isn't much more than a chauvinistic slug , a brutal bully when his buttons get pushed , and they seem to get pushed often . Stanley Kowalski is the kind of character that gives all ' Polacks ' a bad name , a term I use with some familiarity as my own name ends in ' ski ' . The movie itself has a feral quality , dripping with the steam and passion of a hot New Orleans night . It's best expressed in the relationship between Stanley and his wife Stella ( Kim Hunter ) ; some of their scenes together are downright lusty and passionate . The introduction of Stella's sister Blanche Dubois ( Vivien Leigh ) sets off a ticking time bomb that threatens and eventually does explode to bring the story to it's dramatic finale . Even on a first time viewing , it's easy to pick up on Leigh's theatrical roots in contrast to the acting styles of the other principals in the film . She's a difficult character to pin down , most times it's hard to know whether she's a sympathetic character or a manipulative one . Director Elia Kazan uses a variety of camera angles and lighting techniques to bring out the dichotomy in Blanche's persona , and she alternately appears lovely or haggard , sometimes within the space of mere seconds . It's really a wondrous characterization to behold . Note in particular a scene in the latter part of the story when Blanche reacts to Stanley complaining about steam in the bathroom . Her eyes roll into a hideous distortion as she reacts to Stanley's verbal assault ; it made me wonder from what depths Leigh was able to summon that guttural response . With all eyes on Brando and Leigh throughout the film , the roles of Stella and Mitch Mitchell ( Karl Malden ) seem overshadowed to a large degree , yet were strong enough to earn their respective players an Oscar win in supporting roles . I thought Malden was even better in " On The Waterfront " , but I guess timing is everything . This is quintessentially an actors ' movie , and you'll keep coming back for the performances again and again . Forget that ' Stellaaaaah ' film clip you saw in great movie highlights , what you want is the entire story that builds to that dramatic and stunning climax .
" Besides , you can't have a Kansas City shuffle without a body . "	Maybe fun is not entirely the correct word to describe my viewing experience for this film , but I have to say that watching it was a blast . With only the odd trailer or two and some IMDb viewer comments to go by prior to seeing the movie , I was prepared for a more typical kind of ' mistaken identity ' film . That gimmick usually works against the protagonist , but this time around it's the title character Slevin that's creating the smoke and mirrors . Come to think of it , maybe even the promotional clips were intentionally in on the ruse ; all seemed to suggest Bruce Willis as the lead character . So successful was the movie in laying the groundwork for the first major plot twist , that when it happened , I literally sat up and said to myself - " Slevin really killed Yitzchok - What's that all about ! " From that point on it was a different movie , with Slevin's complete change of character and a juggling act to figure out if Goodkat would complete his contract with the Rabbi . All of the films's principal characters turned in not only credible , but outstanding performances . The surprise characterization might have been that of Lucy Liu as next door neighbor / coroner Lindsey . By the time we get that far in the film , I was already hedging my bets against her ' hit ' by Goodkat , so the surprise was going to be how Slevin would square it with his partner . Pretty much all he had to do was ask , but the way it played out allowed Willis ' character to provide his own job reference - " I'm a world class assassin f . . . . . . d . How do you think I found out ? " Along with " Inside Man " , 2006 has already provided a strong early dose of exceptional caper films , so if that's your pleasure , I would recommend both highly . A word of advice though , they're probably best viewed without trying to solve them with the action still rolling . The fun isn't so much in the destination , but the ride that gets you there .
" Control the cash box and you control the world . "	One of my fondest holiday memories of some forty plus years ago has to do with attending Christmas Eve midnight mass , then coming home to watch " A Christmas Carol " on one of the local TV stations . Sadly , it's almost never televised anymore , so when I found the movie on cassette in a second hand store for a dollar ( somewhat Scrooge-ly there I must admit ) , it was like finding Aladdin's lamp with all it's attendant power to fulfill a wishful longing . I managed to contain my enthusiasm for about four months until today , just after the stroke of midnight to watch the film once again , for the first time in easily a dozen years . It was as great as ever , the passing of time removing none of the magic of seeing it for the very first time so long ago . I'm heartened to read so many of the positive comments for the film from posters on this site , both in the comments section and on the message boards . Obviously it has touched many people over the years in a way that I'll not attempt to intrude upon , as many of the posts are so much more eloquent than I might attempt . Suffice it to say that for me , the Alastair Sim version of " Scrooge " is the definitive portrayal , with the film on a pedestal above all of it's imitators . I've seen the George C . Scott and Patrick Stewart pictures once each , but there's no yearning to see them again . Yet with this " A Christmas Carol " , I'm now secure in the knowledge that I can tune in any time , meaning of course , each and every Christmas Eve until the darn tape wears out . By then though , I'm sure I'll find a way to replace it , even if it means digging just a little deeper to keep the spirit of the season in it's proper perspective .
" Where you almost mean what you say ? Where laws almost work ? How can you live like that ? "	Another reviewer on this board made a good point ; history classes in the 1950's and 60's were quite devoid of true life cases that helped shape American politics and policies prior to the Civil War . In my case , it was as if not much occurred between the presidencies of Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln , with names like Van Buren , Harrison , Tyler , Polk and Fillmore relegated to the dustbin of history . As we learn in the " Amistad " story occurring in 1839 , the country was already bracing for a conflict over the slavery question . Senator John C . Calhoun ( Arliss Howard ) was flexing his oratory muscles for debate on the issue , and the scene where he challenges President Van Buren ( Nigel Hawthorne ) at the dinner table is particularly compelling . The performances as well as the film itself appear award worthy , and the movie seems to have been overlooked somewhat in that regard . In a year when " Titanic " was destined to overwhelm in terms of sheer spectacle , I find it hard to imagine that a title like " The Full Monty " was deemed more worthy than this . I suppose that shouldn't really surprise followers of the Academy Awards , as recognition doesn't always follow quality . Speaking of performances , this is one film where the actors dissolve into their characters better than most across the board . Matthew McConaughey acquits himself well as lawyer Baldwin , and Djimon Hounsou is riveting as the slave Cinque . I would have liked to see Morgan Freeman delivering more power to the story , but within the parameters he was given , he's solid as ever . The tour de force portrayal of course is given by Anthony Hopkins as former president John Quincy Adams , his speech before the Supreme Court is mesmerizing to help turn the tide for the slaves on trial . Brilliantly done . It was also interesting to note how newspapers of the era were as editorially slanted as those of the present day . When we see the first pass of the New Haven newspaper regarding the slaves of the Amistad , the caption reads ' Massacre At Sea ' . Quite different from the way sympathetic readers would eventually get to see it - ' Freedom Fight At Sea ' . In all aspects , the film brilliantly conveys the innate resonance and power of language .
" You and I , I don't think we're on the same page . "	As I read the negative comments of other reviewers in this IMDb forum , and listen to New York critic Jeffrey Lyons pan the updated version of " War of the Worlds " , I can't help feeling how wrong they are . The film without question is groundbreaking , earth shattering and enlightening , all with no pun intended . A mere dozen or so minutes into the movie , Stephen Spielberg has the audience wrapped up tight in this alien adventure , and doesn't let go until the closing credits . As much as it's star Tom Cruise is currently grabbing publicity headlines with his personal life and attacks against psychiatry , all of that is forgotten once the action gets under way ; it's his mission to save his fractured family amidst the chaos and rubble of an alien invasion that quickly grabs our attention and doesn't let go . To be sure , there are elements of the film that defy credibility , other posters have commented on a character's use of a camcorder after all other forms of electrical and battery equipment shut down following the aliens ' lightning strikes . For my part , I found it incredible that the single operating vehicle commandeered by Cruise's character Ray Ferrier encountered not a single meaningful roadblock until it was overcome by the panicked crowd in upstate New York . The scientific explanation for the underground location of the aliens I found to be rather ingenious , the critters drove down on their own lightning bolts . Contrast that with the one offered by militant Ogilvy ( Tim Robbins ) who offers shelter to Ray and his family during the destruction of Athens , New York - the aliens have been here and planning an invasion for a million years . Though Tom Cruise offers a generally excellent performance , it's co-star Dakota Fanning portraying his daughter Rachel who's a genuine scene stealer depicting a huge range of emotions as the film progresses . Relative unknown Justin Chatwin is Rachel's protective brother , and his finest moment comes when he squares off against father Ray over his motives in trying to bring the family to Boston to reunite with their weekend vacationing mother . Well , maybe not , his heroic side is revealed when he helps panicking citizens attempt to escape the alien attackers via a Hudson River ferry . More so than most disaster movies , this film actually made me think about what I might do facing similar circumstances , not that an alien invasion might take place in my lifetime . The film does an excellent job showing the reactions of average people to an unbelievable and mind numbing series of events . Who among us would resort to Ray Ferrier's unseen , but definitely alluded to action after he blindfolds daughter Rachel and closes the door behind him to deal with the increasingly irrational Ogilvy . What would you do to insure your family's safety ? Fast forward to the film's end , and it does conclude rather abruptly , though true to the original version of H . G . Wells ' novel . I'll be looking forward to seeing the film again , this time with an eye out for the original 1953 movie's star Gene Barry in a cameo appearance .
" You know it occurs to me we might not get away with this one . "	If you were a kid growing up in the 1950's ( as I was ) , certain impressions remain with you to this day . I was only three years old during the months of depicted in this film , so I don't have first hand memory of Edward R . Murrow's broadcasts . However the paranoia of Communism remained for the remainder of the decade , and with it came the " duck and cover " air raid drills and canned food storage drives aimed at keeping children safe at their elementary or parochial schools . Imagine being a kid and wondering if the Commies might be sending their warplanes to America to drop bombs on us . Replace that fear today with the threat of international terrorism , and it appears that times haven't changed that much . " Good Night and Good Luck " plays as a unique microcosm of American life during the ' 50's . Smoke filled rooms and drinks after work were about as natural as breathing . David Strathairn gives an incredible performance as Murrow , made all the more remarkable for his virtual lack of emotion . I'm sure that at some time in his life the newsman must have cracked a smile , but you would never know it here . With dedication of purpose and carefully chosen words , Murrow's mission is to expose the truth , with courage and principle . Lately I've been getting a retro ' 50's fix of era TV Shows , movies , and commercials , and this movie supplies a well integrated blend of the politics , news and commercialism of the time . What it does best though is explore one man's battle against narrow mindedness . On that score , it's a classic real life story that can help us all learn how to agree to disagree .
" In my opinion , the existence of life is a highly overrated phenomenon . "	In anticipation of the movie , I read " Watchmen " just about a month ago , it was my fourth time . Each time , I came away with a greater understanding of the characters and story , in no small part due to the extensive narrative offered as backup to the panels one most closely associates with the comic book medium . To enjoy the movie , I don't think it's a prerequisite to read the book first , but I will say this - a viewer going in cold will have no idea that some of the scenes in the opening montage preface events in the story , like the young Laurie Jupiter watching her mother argue with her then husband ( who wasn't revealed by name in the movie version ) . I think having that insight only brings a greater satisfaction to the viewer who has an insider's understanding of where the story is going . What most impresses me with the film adaptation was director Zack Snyder's attention to detail , reminiscent of the same way he approached " 300 " , another graphic novel by veteran writer Frank Miller . Granted , the ending , which many devotees of Moore will find fault with , is somewhat different from the original , but I was left entirely satisfied with the way the movie handled it . So much so , that I was left wondering why Moore hadn't come up with a similar ending himself , it seemed to make a whole lot more sense given the attention to Dr . Manhattan's self imposed off planet exile . Even in the graphic novel version , the alien creature construct ( ' the squid ' ) , seemed clunky , perhaps more so in the artwork then in the concept . I say this after the fact of course ; upon an initial reading , the story flows quite logically in regard to Ozymandias ' scheme to defuse tension between the world powers . What truly amazed me about the movie was how the entire back story of the characters meshed perfectly with events happening now , with no disconnect to the chapters of the original graphic novel . That , and the virtually perfect casting of actors for the lead roles . The only character that I had some trouble with was Matthew Goode's portrayal of Adrian Veidt / Ozymandias , I was expecting someone a little older and perhaps a bit huskier in physique . But Billy Crudup , Jeffrey Dean Morgan , Patrick Wilson , and especially Jackie Earle Haley were perfect choices for their characters . Put Heath Ledger's Joker up against Haley's Rorschach and I think you'd be hard pressed to come up with a clear winner . The role of Laurie Jupiter could probably have been handled competently by any number of current young actresses , but with all said and done , Malin Akerman did just fine . As for the run time of nearly three hours , I might be in the minority on this , but I didn't have a problem with the length and pacing of the picture at all . In fact , I'm looking forward to the extended version when it eventually comes out on DVD . I don't understand why movie goers seem to have a problem with anything much over ninety minutes or so ; for my money , as long as the quality matches the content , more is always better by me . I mean after all , I'm going to a film to escape for a brief time from some of the lunacy going on in the world , so keeping me in my seat for an additional hour isn't the worst that could happen . With minor nods to the present , the " Watchmen " set in the mid 1980's doesn't seem like it would be much different from a fictional universe set in the present day . I'm thinking specifically about the notion of super power rivalry over finite resources and energy supply , and the ever elusive concept of a just and lasting peace between the major players on the world stage . In that regard , I'm reminded of a similar theme at the center of a movie that came out more than a half century ago . In " The Day The Earth Stood Still " ( 1951 ) , the Earth's major powers were faced with the threat of annihilation from an alien source if they persisted in continuing a rivalry that might lead to nuclear annihilation . The Ozymandias solution , for all it's intended ' good ' effort to sacrifice millions to save billions , in the end would never achieve success for the simple reason posited in the graphic novel by Dr . Manhattan , and in the movie by Laurie to Dreiberg in a closing scene - Nothing ends , nothing ever ends . . . " For all his effort , Adrian Veidt achieved only a temporary goal .
" To survive one must have a plan . "	Confined to a single set , the master Alfred Hitchcock directs a compelling psychological drama that uniquely challenges the viewer to reflect on his own reactions to the events presented on screen . In the early going , would you have thrown the German overboard , or acted as a humanitarian ? What about later , after Willy ( Walter Slezak ) is exposed as a scheming Nazi captain deftly maneuvering the boat to his own country's supply ship ? Would you have the stomach to assist in cutting off a man's leg ? The movie doesn't allow much time to think about it , but that's how life works sometimes . The film opened to immediate critical acclaim during it's first week of release , however when a negative reviewer opted to focus on the treatment of Willy's character , it called into question whether the story was sympathizing with the Nazi cause . Fearing even further backlash , Fox studio head Darryl Zanuck withdrew the film from general release . To my mind , the issue was dealt with rather expertly in the story . Even though Willy was a cunning schemer who took control of the boat during a storm , he sealed his own fate by going too far to keep Gus ( William Bendix ) quiet . Hitchcock accepted a rather difficult task in taking on this assignment . Restricted to just one set , he employed what was until then the most extensive story boarding ever utilized for a movie . The entire movie was drawn out ahead of time , with a myriad of camera angles and weather related elements to convey something different in practically each scene . It works exceptionally well , as one is never left bored with static images or a fixation on any single character or situation . As for characters , the one cast member with any name recognition at the time was Tallulah Bankhead , who portrayed the journalist Constance Porter . Bankhead was extremely difficult for the other players to work with , and she lorded her celebrity status over all of them . Staffers on the film were intimidated by her name dropping , yet in Hitchcock , she found a kindred spirit , someone she could talk with endlessly on the set . For those who scour Hitch's films for his cameo appearances , " Lifeboat " presented a dilemma , but that was overcome with a little gimmickry . During this time , Hitchcock was trying to lose weight , succeeding in going from three hundred pounds down to two hundred . In the movie , Kovac ( John Hodiak ) is shown reading a newspaper , and the camera lingers on an ad for ' Reduco ' , a weight loss product and ' Obesity Slayer ' . The director's full frame profile is used for the before and after comparison , prompting numerous viewers of the time to inquire where they could buy the product , but of course it was all made up . If ever there was a film that employs symbolism , this one is a treasure trove . It was interesting to me that the first time one gets a view of the entire open sea is right after it's revealed that Mrs . Higley's ( Heather Angel ) baby is dead . That effectively places the boat's survivors in touch with their own mortality in what might be a hopeless situation . What does it mean when the lone black Joe ( Canada Lee ) doesn't participate in the gang up on Willy ? Gus changes his name from Schmidt to Smith . The prospect of life giving fresh rain is replaced by sunshine instead of a storm , but which is better ? There is something meaningful and fascinating to be taken away from this film in virtually every instance . If all that weren't enough , it was an unusual coincidence of timing that had me see this film when I did . The Cardinals captured the 2006 baseball World Series just a couple of days ago by defeating the Detroit Tigers , four games to one . In the story , William Bendix ' character Gus ruminates on the state of baseball at that time with - " St . Louie's the team to watch this year " !
" There's some good in this world Mr . Frodo , and it's worth fighting for . "	" The Lord of the Rings " continues it's epic quest in this second installment of the trilogy , as the original fellowship is disbanded and it's various members must continue the good fight . While Frodo and Sam pursue their mission to Mordor , Pippin and Merry manage to escape the Uruk hai into the Fangorn Forest and their own adventure with the Ents . Aragorn , Legolas and Gimli traverse the Riddermark into the realm of Rohan . The One Ring begins to deepen it's spell over Frodo who questions his worthiness and stomach for the mission . This facet of his character allows Sam ( Sean Astin ) to portray his devotion and loyalty to his master , particularly when Gollum makes his appearance and becomes their guide . Gollum's looks are rivaled only by his treachery , and the duality of his personality is given emphasis in the tortured conversations he has with himself . I was a bit surprised at the way Gollum was portrayed in " The Two Towers " ; his cameo appearance in the first film as a slinky black cave denizen more closely resembled Tolkien's description and corresponded to the mental image I took away when reading about it . At the same time though , there was almost a comic element to it , whereas his physical features presented here more accurately allowed for a menacing but tortured creature . Even more fantastic creatures find CGI life in the film ; I found the presentation of the Ents to be masterfully done . The " olyphants " were a neat touch and I was happy to see them included . Of course the orcs , wargs and Uruk hai all personify the evil that befalls Middle Earth in this dire time , and their presence instills fear and dread for the heroes all along the way . There's a lot going on in the film , and repeated viewings are helpful , along with an understanding created by reading Tolkien's story . Though not entirely necessary to enjoy the movie , I feel it grounds the viewer in the rich background of the characters and locations . Actually , the books and the film complement each other nicely , even though the movie of necessity must leave out some elements . There is no doubt that " The Lord of the Rings " has earned it's reputation as one of the greatest epic films of all time and the best fantasy film of them all . At the same time , it does a wonderful job of examining such themes as honor , loyalty , friendship and love as it's characters interact with each other and find common ground against a threat to their very existence .
" Put aside the Ranger , become who you were born to be . "	Weary beyond words , Hobbit companions Frodo and Sam continue their journey to destroy the One Ring , with the sinister Gollum still their guide . The film opens interestingly with Gollum's origin story , capturing his descent into depravity and madness , finding the ring in much the same manner in which he lost it . The ring has the power to affect it's bearer , and not for good . With the battle of Helm's Deep over and Saruman's power gone , the attention focuses on the capital of Gondor , Minas Tirith . There the race of men must make a last stand before the growing might of an unseen enemy , while those visible are more of a threat than ever . " The Return of the King " in it's way is as much Aragorn's story as it is Frodo's ; a reluctant noble struggling to find his destiny who comes to accept and eventually embrace it under the tutelage of the White Wizard Gandalf . The subtle subtext of Aragorn's relationship with Lady Arwen of the Elven realm leads to his triumph with no illusions for Eowyn , establishing a noble grace and dignity for the new King . Upon my second viewing of the entire trilogy , I was surprised at how my attention was continually drawn to the character of Samwise Gamgee , Frodo's faithful companion . This in large part to the excellent portrayal by Sean Astin , showing a range of emotions throughout the film that proffered him as the most well developed character of the story . He's a loyal friend through thick and thin , understanding clearly that by the journey's near end , Frodo's mind may no longer be his own . Gimli is another character to keep a close eye on for the understated humor John Rhys-Davies brings to the story . The personal competition he began with Legolas ( Orlando Bloom ) in " The Two Towers " finds comic resonance here ; as Legolas brings down a rampaging olyphant on the Pelennor Fields , Gimli tempers his congratulations with " That still only counts as one " - marvelous ! With the One Ring destroyed , so is Sauron's awesome power , and a quest resolved for the fortunes of mankind . The film's multiple endings encapsulate just as many feelings in the viewer , those of loyalty , honor , love , sacrifice and friendship . As a unit , the Lord of the Rings Trilogy stand as probably the ultimate in cinematic adventure to this point in time . Truly , I can only make one suggestion to make the series even more poignant , that for a film that reveals the discovery of the One Ring by Bilbo Baggins , the basis for the adventure that begins in " The Hobbit " .
" How do you fight an idea , especially a new idea ? "	The word that kept coming to me throughout my viewing of " Ben-Hur " was ' grand ' ; the film has a wondrous feel of grandeur even in it's most serene moments . The vibrancy of it's color comes through gloriously , perhaps in part due to it's treatment on the four disc DVD special edition . It's a film that one can easily use to describe the term epic , the type of movie that comes out perhaps once in a decade . I'm particularly impressed with the way director William Wyler managed to intersperse defining moments of Christ's life in a way that did not detract from the character of Judah Ben-Hur ( Charlton Heston ) . Those include the Sermon on the Mount and the washing of Pilate's hands as the Judean governor turned Jesus over to the mob . In those instances , Ben-Hur is shown consumed by the urgency of his quest to oppose Roman authority . He is not a direct witness to Christ's mission , yet those pivotal moments come full circle when Ben-Hur realizes that the man to be crucified is one and the same who showed him a kindness as Judah was marched off , condemned to be a galley slave in a Roman war ship . The scene in the movie that everyone calls to mind obviously is the chariot race . Magnificently staged in an era bereft of the kind of digital effects available today , the segment withstands the passage of time for excitement and believability . What I found particularly intriguing was the incredible stunt work that had it's birth in the early days of the Western film genre , most notably in the work of Yakima Canutt . To my surprise , Canutt's name appeared in the credits as head of the second unit , along with his sons who took up their father's mantle in the business . The scenes of chariot drivers falling victim to their reckless abandon has the indelible stamp of Yakima Canutt all over it , owing in large part to stunt techniques he developed back in the 1930's . But back to the spiritual message . Judah Ben-Hur's ultimate victory does not involve hand to hand combat with an enemy , or leading a citizenry to revolt against a tyrannical Roman governor . It has all to do with the quiet power of Christ washing away the world's sins along with the disfiguring leprosy of Judah's mother and sister ; the same power that compels Ben-Hur to give up his sword , instead of wielding it for hateful revenge .
" Technically speaking , the procedure IS brain damage . "	After repeat viewings , it's still difficult to understand if this movie is brilliant or a director's simplistic mind game . Lately though , I'll side with the former . What the movie does is make you think , think about what's going on in the film , and maybe even what's going on in your own life . Because ultimately , we are our memories , and without them , we are merely shells . The disorienting camera angles during Joel Barish's ( Jim Carrey ) mind wipe procedure create an unsettling discomfort . Joel hears the voices of the technicians Stan ( Mark Ruffalo ) and Patrick ( Elijah Wood ) as Joel's breakup memory with Clementine ( Kate Winslet ) is being erased , and he furiously attempts to hang on and not let go . It's a torturous struggle as both the good and bad memories hold sway at different times . What Joel , Clementine , Stan , Patrick , Mary and Dr . Mierzwiak all seek are best expressed in Clementine's own words - " . . . you'll remember me in the morning , and you'll come to me , and you'll tell me about us , we'll start over " . Probably more than anything , " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is about starting over . The futility and frustration of life and relationships are set aside when love conquers petty disappointments , and you have someone who understands you can turn to . Focus on the memories .
" My grandfather's work , was doo-doo ! "	I was all set to turn in last night when I saw " Young Frankenstein " in the TV listings for the Fox Movie Channel without commercial interruption . Can the movie really be over thirty years old ? This flick is as refreshingly funny as when it first came out , and a wonderful showcase for the comedic talents of everyone involved . Even though the entire film is hilarious , I'm sure most viewers have their favorite bits . I bust a gut whenever I hear Igor's ( Marty Feldman ) ' take the bag response ' . And for sheer genius , the ' Puttin ' on the Ritz ' number has me rolling each time . Not only does director Mel Brooks send up the original 1931 classic , but also it's offshoots , 1935's " Bride of Frankenstein " and 1939's " Son of Frankenstein " . Horror fans will recognize the references , done to exaggerated but laugh out loud effect . It's a blast that Brooks was able to locate the lab equipment props from the original film to use in his spoof , how much more authentic can you get ? There's not a single reason anyone should miss this flick . This is the standard by which all film parodies should be measured , with respect and a bushel full of laughs - Blucha ! ! ! !
" Remember what Bilbo used to say , it's dangerous business Frodo , going out the door . "	When I first read " The Hobbit " and " The Lord of the Rings " Trilogy back in the early 1970's , I recall saying to myself that the story would make a wonderful movie . " Star Wars " still hadn't come out yet , and realizing that the available technology could not do justice to the fantastic world presented by J . R . R . Tolkien , it was simply best left to the imagination . Well , imagination has found life in " The Fellowship of the Ring " , a truly profound epic that sets the standard for film fantasy , just as the books did for the written word . Upon first seeing it during it's initial release , I couldn't have been happier with the amount of detail it offered while remaining true to the original adventure . Everyone imagines what a story and characters look like in their own mind ; it was as if Peter Jackson tapped a great cosmic consciousness to deliver a tale that captured the tone and pacing of the novel dead on . I feel that readers of the trilogy have a leg up on the characters and locations of Middle Earth , as they are revealed in the film quickly and with nominal explanation . For example , when the Black Riders appear for the first time , it's difficult to grasp what they're all about , other than the fact that they're after the ring . Strider's explanation of the Nazgul is perfect - ring wraiths who were once men , neither alive nor dead , who always feel the power of the ring . Coming to the movie with that understanding ahead of time helps the viewer have a greater appreciation of the action taking place . The real magic of the movie for me is the seamless manner in which the various races coexist and interact with each other . Though levels of unfamiliarity and distrust appear , can anyone coming out of the movie doubt that elves , dwarfs , hobbits and wizards actually exist . Even orcs and evil Uruk hai have a place in this world , for without the danger they pose there is no triumph . If the movie captures your imagination and you haven't read the trilogy or it's prequel " The Hobbit " , you'll be doing yourself a favor to do so . There in even more exquisite detail are nuances such as Elvish poetry and additional characters that provide more depth and color to the world of Middle Earth . It's a world easy to get lost in , and makes one appreciate a writer of legendary proportion who invented a land , people , and language all of his own that can now be shared with everyone .
" I couldn't help it boss , I tried to take it back but it was too late . "	I had forgotten this was a Stephen King story , probably because it's basis in the supernatural doesn't delve into the realm of horror . The terror here is provided not by a demonic clown or a shop keeper from hell , instead it has a human face . In fact a couple of human faces , in the form of sadistic killer ' Wild Bill ' Wharton ( Sam Rockwell ) and corrupt prison guard Percy Wetmore ( Doug Hutchison ) . Their characterizations are just a few of the excellent portrayals in a film that leave one with mixed emotions and perhaps a misty eye or two . Michael Clarke Duncan casts a large shadow as accused killer John Coffey ; his introductory walk on the ' green mile ' has a numbing influence on prisoners and guards alike . For an actor who virtually came from nowhere , his performance is extraordinary , shaded with subtle nuance and deep emotion . His characterization is deftly complemented by the core guard group headed by Tom Hanks ' Paul Edgecombe , and includes David Morse , Barry Pepper and Jeffrey DeMunn . Speaking for myself , the film's run time of just over three hours is hardly noticed , it's that gripping and absorbing . It puts the viewer through an entire range of emotions ; the scenes that develop the duplicitous nature of guard Percy are particularly unnerving . Wouldn't it have been interesting to throw Percy and Wild Bill in a cell together for a mid film half time show ? Once one realizes that Coffey will ultimately walk his last mile on death row , the mind races with thoughts of how he'll be found innocent and exonerated of the murder of the two young farm girls . Coffey's own thoughts on the matter only partly put the viewer at ease , there still remains the sense that justice demands an entirely different outcome . Coffey's execution is powerfully emotional , and calls to mind the finale of " Angels With Dirty Faces " , when the execution of Cagney's character elicits the same misty eyed response . I include both films on my list of all time favorites , each a classic in it's own way .
Klaatu , barrada , nikto . "	I saw this film for the first time just a few years ago , and it immediately became one of my top ten films of all time . I would have to say that's in good part due to the way Michael Rennie portrays the alien Klaatu , entirely disciplined and intent on completing his mission on his terms . Never once does he get riled or become argumentative with those who oppose him , his is a carefully reasoned approach , best stated in his conversation with Professor Barnhardt ( Sam Jaffe ) - " I'm impatient with stupidity , my people have learned to live without it . " One of my favorite scenes has to do with the way Klaatu improves the Professor's math formula , and then reveals how it was good enough to allow travel between planets , very cleverly done . Having Klaatu integrate into human society by way of the boarding house was an effective way to demonstrate his willingness to learn and understand human behavior . It's not surprising that his closest ally would become young Bobby Benson ( Billy Gray ) , still uncontaminated by the shortcomings of being an adult . Their relationship allows Bobby to call him a screwball without disapproval , but I'll admit that line catches me off guard each time I hear it . I have to say , upon repeat viewings the robot Gort leaves something to be desired in the way of costuming . Other sci-fi films of the era did a much better job in the way of special effects , notably 1953's " War Of The Worlds " . Still , the emphasis wasn't so much on Gort , even in his role as protector of planets . Fortunately , he had Klaatu's discipline to render weapons harmless instead of destroying humans . The movie employs what I like to refer to as the ' Twilight Zone ' look in it's presentation ; there's something about it that set that series apart from other black and white shows of the day . I don't know , maybe it's just me , but it seems I can discern that style of cinematography from others of that era . In it's way , the movie is a bit like an expanded episode of " The Twilight Zone " , only without a twist ending . In that regard , the film allows the viewer to come to his own conclusion , although based on what I've come to understand about human nature , " The Day The Earth Stood Still " would never have a sequel .
" I think you and I are destined to do this forever . "	So it finally happened , a DC Comics movie adaptation out-marveled the Marvel folks , and to such a degree that it might be quite a while before anything comes close to topping " The Dark Knight " . This was the severely grim and gritty version of the Batman , ushered in by Frank Miller's initial treatment in the landmark graphic novel " The Dark Knight Returns " in 1986 . Miller's portrayal of the iconic super hero took the gloves off as far as politically correct behavior goes . The movie explores this theme at many levels , and would have served up enough of a plot to keep this viewer interested even without the explosions , chases and general mayhem that modern day audiences need to get their fix on . Actually , the Joker summed it all up quite brilliantly hanging upside down from one of Batman's cables over the streets of Gotham , as noted in my summary line above . In the comic book world , they HAVE been fighting each other forever , or as long as forever exists since the creation of Batman back in 1939 ; the Joker came on the scene in 1940 in the comic , Batman # 1 . I don't think this could have been the same picture without Heath Ledger in the role of Batman's all time greatest nemesis . His portrayal blows away Jack Nicholson's performance in 1989's " Batman " , and that's through no fault of Nicholson's . Today's films are a product of harsher and deadlier times , and it's striking that Ledger's characterization would define the Joker as an extremist , perhaps even a terrorist . More than once I found myself questioning what was going on during the opening bank robbery scene . The bad guys were offing each other based on instructions delivered by the Joker , and you suddenly come to the realization that this domino game had to end with one man standing . It's how we're introduced to Ledger's definitive Joker , a performance that won't be topped . Another thought came to me as I watched the story unfold , and that was how similar the coin toss gimmick paralleled the one in " No Country For Old Men " . Harvey Dent ( Aaron Eckhart ) began using the tactic following the death of Rachel Dawes ( Maggie Gyllenhaal ) , and I began picturing Javier Bardem in the role of The Joker . Hard to imagine who might have been the more evil character , Bardem's Anton Chigurh in a more realistic setting , or The Joker in a fictional Gotham City . Fortunately , not a choice one would normally have to consider . I'm a little bit on the fence as to Christian Bale's portrayal of The Batman . He's more than adequate as Bruce Wayne , but the voice he gives to the Dark Knight seems a bit melodramatic . Granted , he couldn't use the same voice as his alter ego , but there were times that it sounded so forced as to come across as parody , and other times just goofy , almost a throwback to the Adam West days of the TV Batman . Strange , but have you considered that no one ever calls him the Caped Crusader anymore either ? All in all , great performances all around . Gary Oldman's portrayal of the new Commissioner Gordon was excellent , while Michael Caine as Alfred , and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox were solid even with limited screen time . I thought about Katie Holmes just once while making a mental comparison when Maggie Gyllenhaal first appeared on screen . Truthfully , they looked similar enough to effect the transition smoothly to the point where it wasn't distracting for me in the least . Obviously , the set up for the next sequel was firmly set in place with the creation of Two Face , the now alter ego of District Attorney Harvey Dent . The rendering of Dent's burned face was boldly executed and quite marvelous in it's own grotesque way . I'll be looking forward to the next installment . And NOW , for a personal rant . I probably should put this in parentheses because it doesn't have anything to do with the movie , but for this picture to be # 1 on the IMDb list of all time best movies after 4 days of release is incomprehensible , if not downright laughable ( and I did rate it a 10 myself ) . I think there should be a moratorium of at least a couple of years before a film qualifies for IMDb ranking , giving the dust some time to settle from all the grand opening hoopla that surrounds a picture like this . I feel the same way about other recent movies like " No Country For Old Men " and " There Will Be Blood " , both of which garnered numerous awards and fan approval . But if they're to be considered among the best films of all time , they'll be considered that way a decade from now without the need for multiple votes from over zealous fan boys .
" Gee I'm glad you turned up , we've been lookin ' inside every cake in town . "	Just a great piece of Golden Age Hollywood entertainment , and this coming from someone who doesn't generally take in a musical complete start to finish . The ' Singin ' In The Rain ' number I could watch over and over again , it strikes a wonderful balance of joy , freedom and artistic expression . Besides that , it's flawless , making me wonder if it could have possibly be done in one take . Curious though , if you watch closely , you won't see any ' rain ' hitting Gene Kelly's face . Though it's primarily Kelly's vehicle , I was sure impressed by the little bit of dance time Donald O'Connor got . That ' Make ' Em Laugh ' number was funny and bold , and if I had to say , might have been the best part of the film . OK , for me it was , without taking away anything from Kelly , especially the numbers done with the exotic Cyd Charisse . Growing up in the Fifties and Sixties , one would see all of these greats show up on a variety show every now and then , but this movie puts into perspective just how great each performer actually was . It seems to me the film got away with quite a bit in the sly innuendo department , some cleverly low key and some right out there . The Kelly / Charisse flapper number gets downright steamy at times even while it looks as innocent as all get out . For a head spinning double take , you don't get much more brazen than Lina Lamont ( Jean Hagen ) - " Well I can't make love to a bush . " " Singin ' In The Rain " is one of those films that will continue to wear well and entertain audiences for a long time to come . It captures the grandeur of that Hollywood Golden Age without getting overly theatrical and choreographed , and with a great blend of romance and comedy mixed into the story . It's the kind of film they don't make anymore , and in a way , that's just a bit too bad .
" So what happens , he gets the title shot outdoors in a ball park , and what do I get , a one way ticket to Palookaville . "	Theatrical trailers are supposed to promote the movies they represent , but the one for " On The Waterfront " actually got it right - the ' one motion picture you must see ' . It's not just hype , this is masterful cinematic story telling at it's best with a flawless cast , led by Marlon Brando in arguably his career defining performance . My favorite movies tend to be about classic underdogs rising up against insurmountable odds , ultimately rising victorious , and in some cases as you have here , bloody but unbowed . This one will always be in my personal top ten . A lot of it has to do with the dialog , sharp and witty , directly to the point . As in this early exchange between a couple of supporting players : ( J . P . , Johnny Friendly's loan shark ) - " When I'm dead and gone you'll know what a friend I was " . ( Dugan responding ) - " Why don't you drop dead now so we can test your theory " . Once you've seen the picture once or twice , it's worth it just to go back and study Brando in his characterization of the young dock worker Terry Molloy . Virtually every one of his scenes is deftly nuanced , it all comes across so natural and convincing . The best of course is the gut wrenching car scene with his brother Charley ' the Gent ' ( Rod Steiger ) . For Terry , it's agonizing to know that he coulda been a contender , and you know Charley knows it too . Certainly the Academy knew it , proffering on Brando it's Best Actor award for his portrayal . In fact , Oscar found favor with the film in a total of eight categories , including Best Picture . One of the great things about these classic films is the perspective they give of simpler times in a bygone era . When Terry and Edie ( Eva Marie Saint ) discuss her schooling and where she lives , she describes Tarrytown as being in the country , a place Terry doesn't like because the crickets make him nervous . The last time I was in Tarrytown I would hardly be able to describe it as ' country ' , and it certainly didn't take a half century to get that way . " On The Waterfront " is one of those films that just get better with repeat viewings , and in my case , I try to do so annually . It's a treat just to kick back and enjoy each actor's performance and their contribution to the total package . Like the trailer says , it's a motion picture you must see .
" It was beauty killed the beast . "	It's rare for a movie remake to equal , much less surpass the original . Peter Jackson's " King Kong " is an exceptional film that stays true to the core of the original 1933 movie , embellishing it with rich color and dazzling the viewer with a frightening array of prehistoric monsters and even inventing some new ones . Once you land on Skull Island , be prepared for a non stop roller coaster ride and adrenaline rush scenes that will make you go " Wow " ! The film's opening almost makes you wonder if you're watching the film you set out to see . There's a wonderful montage of 1933 New York City street life , with the bright lights of Broadway sandwiched by shots of depression era poverty . The setting allows us to meet the principals in their natural element , Ann Darrow ( Naomi Watts ) is a struggling young actress thrown out of work by the chains thrown on the doors of her failed theater play . The always optimistic , yet scheming movie maker Carl Denham ( Jack Black ) comes to Ann's rescue by first offering her a meal , and then by offering her an adventure . Black's portrayal of Denham is much more of a conniving show man and outright liar than Robert Armstrong ever was . The 1933 version of Jack Driscoll seems to have been split into two characters for this film . There's the updated Driscoll ( Adrien Brody ) , a playwright who becomes enamored of Ann at first sight ; in the original film , Driscoll was a crew member on the ship . The addition to the cast was the inclusion of a leading man for Ann , Bruce Baxter ( Kyle Chandler ) , self absorbed to a fault and in love with his own image . Baxter's presence was rather useful , as his character had a role in the outcome on Skull Island , and he didn't get in the way of the romantic angle between Ann and Jack . Arriving at the waters of Skull Island , Denham wastes no time getting down to it . He's on a boat heading for shore while Captain Englehorn ( Thomas Kretschmann , another great casting choice ) is still wrestling his ship away from the dangerous outcrops surrounding the island . The inhabitants of the island are visually intimidating and savage , as much if not more so than the creatures we're yet to meet . The haggard old witch of the tribe utters only one recognizable word - " Kong " . Members of the landing party meet their fate early , as the savages size up Ann Darrow as a suitable sacrifice for their island god . From here on out , action takes over , with stupefying monster sequences following each other in rapid succession . Kong's initial appearance to capture Ann is almost tame by comparison to his battle with the band of Tyrannosaurus Rex's . What was accomplished via stop motion photography in the original is replaced here with CGI effects that offer a seamless array of hideous and gigantic beasts . In an ode to the earlier film , Kong dispatches one of his T-Rex opponents with the same jaw cracking guttural intensity that leaves one breathless . Adding depth to the film is a sensitive exploration of the relationship between Ann and Kong . While the 1976 remake seemed to suggest an almost laughable sexual chemistry between the characters , the new film uses humor effectively in a way one might not expect . Once Ann understands that Kong will not harm her , she sets out to test his personality with an exhibition of athleticism and dance , garnering the ape's attention . Kong's facial expressions and mannerisms are so lifelike and real , it's difficult to know when gorilla ends and Andy Serkis begins in his characterization of Kong . I was pleased to see that Jackson expanded on a scene in the movie following Kong's destruction of the log bridge connecting the two sides of the island . In the 1933 film , a deleted scene explored what happened to the survivors who fell off the bridge into the deep chasm below . Various explanations exist for the " spider pit " scene to have been removed , but here what happened is revealed in all too gruesome and yucky glory . Those of faint heart and stomach be warned , one of the crew meets his maker in a totally innovative way . As exciting as the jungle sequences are , the New York City adventure is equally up to the task of providing more thrills and suspense . It was a kick to see another tribute to the 1933 movie performed by native dancers on stage when Kong is first introduced to civilization . They wore the same type of outfits and danced the same routine as in the original . Kong's rampage in New York is dramatic and effectively done , particularly his escape from the theater , crumpling row upon row of seating in his blinding fury . As one would expect , there is no match for Kong on the ground , as he lays waste to all manner of vehicles . With news of his escape , Ann attempts to find and calm the beast . In a wonderfully creative scene , Kong is introduced to the concept of ice and snow , and for one brief moment we believe that maybe this one will end differently . The first sight of the biplanes however sets you up for the finale you already know is coming , with a feel that transports you back to an earlier era . Kong's defiance as he stands up to his tormentors will set the new standard for iconic images , while Ann Darrow invites us to shed a tear along with her , as the muffled sobs of some theater patrons around me confirmed . As Kong valiantly says good bye , Carl Denham pays tribute to the fallen " Eighth Wonder of the World " with a paraphrase of the Arabian proverb he used to introduce King Kong to a New York City audience - " It was beauty killed the beast " .
" You're telling me I should take my daughter to a witch doctor , is that it ? "	When I reflect back on the movies of the 1970's , I'm struck by how many of them helped reinvigorate their respective genres . There was " Star Wars " for fantasy , " Alien " for sci-fi , and " Jaws " for the shark crowd , though I don't think that's really a genre . For horror fans , " The Exorcist " was the one that had everyone talking in 1973 , and not only talking , but lining up around the block to get a chance to see it . In fact , the first time I tried , the person directly in front of me in line was the last one allowed in for that showing . When I finally did get to see it , the experience left a marked impression . It was fascinating , horrific , sensational and scary all at the same time . Having read the book , I wondered how much liberty would be taken with the story , but it was pretty much all there . At the time , hands down , it was the most frightening film I'd ever seen . The movie played last night as part of AMC's Halloween Fest , and though largely sanitized for TV , the impact of the film is still alive and well . It's a movie that plants a nagging seed of doubt in one's mind - what would happen if Satan himself could take over the body and soul of an innocent young girl ? The gradual unfolding of the parallel stories in " The Exorcist " are built on credible real life situations , so that by the time Linda Blair's demon face appears on screen , you're ready to grab the holy water and say a prayer . Now if you're a younger viewer born of a more recent era , I'll grant that the film might not have the same effect . Though Blair's possession makeup was visually stunning at the time , special effects since then have far surpassed that effort . But it had to start somewhere , and as a precursor to virtually everything that followed , this was the one to top . And when Regan's head spins , yikes ! , but I thought mine would too . For 1973 , that was an incredible piece of work , with visuals that stay with you long after the film is over .
My personal Top 10 list now includes Kill Bill II	I just watched Kill Bill II for the third time , and am now convinced it belongs in my personal Top 10 list of all time favorite movies . Now to put that into perspective , the list also includes Casablanca , On The Waterfront , To Kill a Mockingbird and The Day The Earth Stood Still . I'm not much for the crop of current films , but when I reflect on Kill Bill II , I'm impressed with the raw edge and suspense of Quentin Tarantino's writing and direction . The movie stands on it's own legs and does not need Volume I to make it's statement or for one to understand Beatrix Kiddo's story . At the time of this posting , there are 594 other member comments for this film . So there's nothing more I can bring to the table that hasn't been shared before , other than a total recommendation to view this film and enjoy it's powerful story .
" Gentlemen , you can't fight in here , this is the War Room . "	This film is quite literally a blast , with no pun intended . The Cold War paranoia of the Fifties and Sixties is personified in the character of General Buck Turgidson ( George C . Scott ) , and will resonate with anyone who grew up during that time , especially if you had to go through those ' duck and cover ' air raid drills as a kid . In my case , you had the frequent feeling that at any moment , we could be in ' nuclear combat toe to toe with the Rooskies ' . The brilliance of the movie has a lot to do with it's tongue in cheek observation of the five star military mind . Both Turgidson and General Jack D . Ripper ( Sterling Hayden ) exemplify the ' get them before they get us ' school of war strategy . I've never seen Scott play a role with such maniacal glee , his verbal sparring with President Muffley is hilarious , the more so because he's trying to tell it straight and he sounds absolutely absurd . Peter Sellers is brilliant in each of his portrayals , I had the impression that his Dr . Strangelove characterization might have been the basis for the German police inspector in " Young Frankenstein " . What's great about his performance is that none of his characters look at all like each other , and if you go in to the film without knowing it , you would think that Mandrake , Muffley and Strangelove were performed by different actors . Without researching any of the background of the film , I would guess that the name of the Soviet Premiere was a parody of Nikita Kruschev , what loyal American during the time wouldn't have loved to tell him to ' kiss off ' . Though the movie is loaded with inspired comedic gems , one of my favorites has to be Mandrake attempting to make a call to the President . In totally illogical irony , he has to resort to using a phone booth at a high security strategic Air Force Base . And without the correct change - beautiful ! Even if you haven't seen the movie , the classic clip from the film everyone can relate to is Slim Pickens on that bucking bronco joyride to Armageddon in all of it's patriotic glory . It only reinforces the idea for me that somewhere out there , some crazed despot right now is strategizing emergency war plans and retaliatory safeguards , and is only too ready to drop the big one . Before that happens , let's hope that cooler heads prevail and work it all out ahead of time in the war room .
" No ! Try not . Do . Or do not . There is no try . "	The summary line is one of my favorite movie quotes of all time because it embodies a philosophy and a discipline . Whenever I hear someone say ' I'll try ' , I already know it's a cop out with no intention of getting involved with the task in question . Had George Lucas ' tried ' to make the movie , it would never have gotten done . I guess that's why Yoda is my favorite Star Wars character . Yeah OK , he's a puppet , but the character of Yoda is like the Spock of the SW universe , a stabilizing force ( Force ? ) who helps Luke remain grounded and in control of his emotions . I recall some disappointment the first time I saw this film during it's original theatrical release relative to the Han Solo cliffhanger , somehow I felt it took away from the structure I was looking for in the chapter following the original " Star Wars " . Viewing it today I don't feel the same way . It dealt a momentary reprieve to the Han / Leia romance and allowed for analysis of the Darth / Luke relationship . Vader's attempt to shield his son from the Emperor by promising a turn to the Dark Side was ingeniously turned on it's head with Vader suggesting young Skywalker use his power to defeat the Emperor . The scene was cleverly done and Luke's response hinted at things to come in " Return Of The Jedi " . My most recent viewing of this episode was only the third time since the original theatrical release , and I find that it hasn't lost any of it's impact , maintaining a vitality and excitement that time hasn't diminished . Watching the remastered DVD version , particularly with the sub titles , offers an entirely new perspective when you can pause and rewind to understand better what certain characters said . Perhaps that's why I found it a lot easier to keep track of the fine points of the story , place names like Hoth , Yavin and Bespin , and secondary characters like Governor Tarkin . All those subtle points add a more defined structure to the story , and helps one appreciate much more the intricacy of the universe created by George Lucas .
" May the Force be with you . "	I couldn't let the thirtieth anniversary season of " Star Wars " slip by without a commemorative viewing today to remind me of the start of this hugely successful franchise . Though it's not one of my own personal Top Ten films of all time , I can understand how so many fans come to see it that way . At the time it was a seminal film that reinvigorated the sci-fi genre ; my first viewing when it debuted in theaters garnered more than a single ' Whoa ' with each new scene and concept that hadn't been done before . I was particularly intrigued with the names of the characters George Lucas created for his heroes , sounding uniquely original and matching their physical description and characters . Could Luke Skywalker , Han Solo , or Princess Leia have been called anything else ? How about Jabba the Hutt ; he looks exactly how a Jabba the Hutt would look if there was a Jabba the Hutt . Makes sense , doesn't it ? I get a kick out of the nay sayers on this board who have such a fierce guttural reaction to the success of the entire Star Wars franchise , never missing an opportunity to thrash it unmercifully . The best response to that I guess would be that they represent a mere six and a half per cent minority of the IMDb voting history for this film that give it less than a 6 . 0 rating . It reminds me of that joke about the one in three people who might be crazy , and your two best friends seem alright . Something to think about . Anyway , there's no point in detailing the film since virtually every one on the planet has probably seen it at least once , even my wife . My son , who was born in 1977 , has probably seen it thirty times a year every year since he started watching movies , kind of a record in itself I would think , allowing him to quote virtually every line of dialog from the movie . Such is the compelling nature of true Star Wars fans , who while watching , find themselves in a galaxy far , far away .
" It was beauty killed the beast . "	There are a handful of movies , my favorites , that I watch annually - the original " King Kong " is one of them . My timing this year is appropriately planned , the Peter Jackson remake is just a few weeks away . Generally , it's almost impossible to surpass the original of any title , but I'll keep an open mind . In the mean time , I'm still in awe of the cinematography , effects and story line of this 1933 classic . Right from the opening line - " Say , is this the moving picture ship ? " - you know something special is about to happen . Promoter Carl Denham ( Robert Armstrong ) is embarking on a fantastic voyage , and as the viewer tags along , all concerned are about to undergo a harrowing and exciting adventure . His discovery , Ann Darrow ( Fay Wray ) exudes a likable shyness along with her understated good looks , and if she has any reservations about Denham's offer to star in his movie , it's quickly replaced by the action , adventure and romance on the voyage to the mythical Skull Island . It's not on any of the navigation charts , but it's the perfect destination for Denham's recklessness and secrecy . " Did you ever hear of . . . Kong ? " Considering that the film was made over seventy years ago , I'm constantly amazed at the technical wizardry and attention to detail employed for what could have been just another monster movie . And make no mistake , this is the quintessential monster film . Once Kong makes his grand entrance to abduct the " golden woman " , a host of prehistoric beasts appear in rapid succession in grand stop motion photography . We're treated to a stegosaurus , brontosaurus , tyrannosaurus rex , a huge snake like lizard , and a pterodactyl , all supplying varying degrees of menace to Kong and humans alike . What's fascinating though , is the intricacy of the scenes , the predatory wagging of the T-Rex tail as he does battle with Kong , the flow of blood from the dead beast's head , the appearance of the scavenging prehistoric vulture feasting on the body . And it's not just the visual , the sound of the cracking jaw when King Kong defeats his enemy is raw and guttural , complementing a truly visceral confrontation . Kong's brief brush with the island natives after forcing his way through the wooden barricade is also remarkable for it's brutality . More than once , Kong is shown chomping on unlucky victims , while others are shown summarily trampled underfoot in the soft island mud . It's a fitting preview for the destruction in New York , where Kong's new enemies are photographers , trains and aerial dive bombers . Who can forget the pathos in the creature's face as he nurses his gunshot wounds , about to fall to his death from the Empire State Building ? The movie ends as it began , paying homage to an ancient Arabian proverb - " It was beauty killed the beast " . If you pay close attention , you'll be able to pick out the differences between the full body Kong and the separately constructed head and face used for close up shots . The full size Kong , an eighteen inch puppet , has a head that tapers more or less to an upward point , with a ridge line above the eyes . The closeup Kong's face is rounder and squatter , with those unmistakable canines ready to do business . " King Kong " would go on to create an entire genre of big ape movies , including it's own spin off , " The Son of Kong " , also featuring Robert Armstrong reprising his Denham character . Quite a few years later , Armstrong appeared in " Mighty Joe Young " , whose title character was a much more " normal " sized gorilla . The 1940's and 50's were ripe with " B " grade fare dealing with gorilla and ape themes , but by then it was usually a man in a monkey suit doing the honors . But they all owe it to the king of movie monsters - " King Kong " .
" No one ever leaves the Star , that's what makes one a Star . "	Watching the film I felt a little bit like William Holden , a bit out of place but fascinated by the intrigue and insanity of it all . There can be no doubt that the movie is one of the best of all time , it's stars feed off each other in a macabre dance , best exemplified by the makeshift New Year's Eve Party . Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) spins an artful web for Joe Gillis ( Holden ) , the spider and the fly in this case need each other in a symbiotic relationship that will ultimately lead to doom for both . The characters themselves almost seem larger than life , a particular line by Desmond confirms it . When Gillis first recognizes her as a former silent film star who used to be big , she replies - " I am big , it's the pictures that got small " . That line lingers over the entire story the rest of the way , for a faded film queen with delusions of grandeur who can't recognize that her time is past . The card scene with Buster Keaton present adds further resonance to the masquerade , that was a great touch . Perhaps in a different way , Max von Mayerling's ( Erich von Stroheim ) story is just as compelling , the former husband turned butler who desperately trades loyalty for individuality . His time has also passed , but he manages to ride it out as nobly as he can . The finale when he takes over the direction of ' The Great Norma Desmond's ' return is brilliantly conceived and movingly portrayed . Lights , camera , action , fade out - all smoke and mirrors where a fire once burned . It's interesting that " Sunset Boulevard " and " All About Eve " came out the same year , each casting a wary eye at their respective venues , Hollywood and Broadway . Following recent viewings of both , I would have awarded the Best Film Oscar to ' Sunset ' , a much darker film at heart with greater irony . Though not totally overlooked , the film failed to capture any of the ' big ' awards , having to settle for recognition in writing , scoring and art direction . A thought came to me as I watched Holden's character packing his bags in an attempt to flee the madness . Can you picture the film a quarter century later with the benefit of an Eagles soundtrack - " You can check out any time you like , but you can never leave " . Yes I know , it wouldn't have worked with the tone of the story , but the line fits . Oddly , this is so far the only movie I've seen with Gloria Swanson , and she was terrific . One couldn't imagine anyone else in the role , except perhaps Bette Davis , though she wouldn't have been in her fifties yet at the time of the picture . For his part , Holden displays just the right amount of angst in his role as the kept man , balancing an out of work career with the momentary hope of redemption that a successful screen play might bring . Both sizzle on screen , lending credibility to characters who can only arrive at disastrous outcomes , sort of long term contracts with no options .
" One of us lost our frame of reference and I'm gonna go look for it . "	Frame of reference is an important part of the experience when it comes to viewing " Crash " . While difficult to separate ones own " self " from race and ethnic considerations , the power of the film directs us to challenge our preconceptions about others of different backgrounds . Though the movie relies on more than it's share of coincidence , the events proceed in a way that leave one disoriented when something doesn't occur the way we might expect . The Persian's revenge for example , becomes a life redeeming experience when his weapon fires a blank at a young girl ( wearing an invisible cloak ) . Even the man's explanation is at odds with our mindset ; an ( guardian ) angel saved the Persian from a life of regret , not the life of an innocent . Name actors never threaten to overcome the story here ; presented as an ensemble cast they merge with their characters to make us forget their celebrity status . Particularly convincing in this regard is Sandra Bullock , so expertly cast against type that it's almost shocking to watch . No single character dominates , as lives merge on the collision course of human frailty . My primary interest in viewing the film was to see how it stacks up against the other Oscar contenders for 2005 . With no knowledge of the movie ( I don't even recall seeing a trailer ) , I'll be interested in seeing how it fares against it's more hyped competition . It could well be the best film of the year in a year marked by radically different themes up for Best Picture .
" Do not expect to return home alive . "	I'm trying hard to recall the war movies I've seen that offer a balance between the humanity and atrocity of two opposing sides the way " Letters From Iwo Jima " does , and I can't think of one . That is where the film excels , and if one has trouble calling it an anti-war movie , at least it's a pro-life one . The film surpasses Eastwood's tandem effort , " Flags Of Our Fathers " in my estimation , but then , they are two quite different films , even though they have the same historical battle at their core . What's difficult to understand , even as the movie makes clear , is the average Japanese soldiers ' willingness to die in battle for honor and duty to the Emperor and homeland . My summary line above was spoken by a Japanese officer , stated without reservation or with intimation of victory or defeat , but as a matter of fact . It's hard to imagine that an entire nation operated on that principal just a little over a half century ago . The vignette pieces of Eastwood's film serve the story well , as the backdrop of the invasion creates a realization that Iwo Jima will fall without additional Japanese troops or air cover to provide reinforcement . Perhaps wisely , the statistics of the thirty six day battle in March , 1945 are intentionally left out . They are grim , of twenty two thousand defenders on Iwo Jima , only 217 prisoners were taken , the rest fell in battle or to suicide to avoid the humiliation of capture by the enemy . American casualties topped six thousand , with another nineteen thousand wounded , requiring the use of whole blood and plasma on a scale never utilized in combat before . Reflecting on those numbers is a totally inadequate exercise and virtually impossible to comprehend , and yet this was a single battle field in the Pacific theater . If you care to learn more of this battle and the war in the Pacific , an excellent resource is the documentary series " Crusade In The Pacific " , utilizing film footage from cameramen on both sides of the War . One of the episodes deals with " Bloody Iwo " , and the viewer will be stunned as I was to see how Eastwood's depiction of the landing , invasion and ensuing battle resembles the real thing . Both the documentary and " Letters " will leave you with the impression that our global leaders still haven't gotten it figured out yet , that war is devastating and senseless , and we never truly learn from the mistakes of the past .
" Who are those guys ? "	" Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " is in my all time top ten movies , and has been for quite awhile . At the same time , I can't say that it's my favorite Western , as the film almost transcends the genre to become the quintessential buddy movie . In their respective roles as Butch and The Kid , Paul Newman and Robert Redford develop a magnetism and charisma that give the movie it's tremendous appeal . I recall the first time I saw this movie upon it's release in 1969 and how original many of the scenes and concepts played out , from Butch's put down of Harvey Logan's ( Ted Cassidy ) challenge at Hole in the Wall , Sundance's gunpoint strip by Etta ( Katharine Ross ) , and the humorous exchanges between the bandits and E . L . Harriman's trusted train guard Woodcock ( George Furth ) . Life on the run never seemed as glamorous as Butch and the Kid attempting to outwit " those guys " . Even the final scene , with the Mexican troops encircling the " yanquis bandidos " location , I kept wondering how they were going to get out of this one . The film also cleverly introduces one of the year's top hit tunes with " Raindrops Keep Fallin ' on My Head " , though if you want to be critical , it wasn't raining during the segment in which it runs , which on reflection doesn't seem to make sense . But the upbeat tempo of the tune does support the light hearted action on screen and just works . Some veteran character actors perform admirably here as well . Of particular note is Jeff Corey as Sheriff Ray who carefully orchestrates his own bondage by the boys lest he be considered in cahoots with them ; and Strother Martin as the Bolivian paymaster who hires Butch and Sundance as the proverbial foxes in the hen house to guard the company payroll . The scene with the Mexican bandits was reminiscent of an earlier era's treatment in " Treasure of the Sierra Madre " , though with dire consequences for the banditos this time around . At just under two hours , the film seems to fly by , a testament to intriguing and involved story telling . Even when you know it's over for Butch and Sundance , you're hoping for one more exchange before lights out , such is the camaraderie one feels for the film's protagonists . This is a movie I return to at least once yearly for a good old dose of action and humor , and it still delivers time after time .
" Nobody knows anybody , not that well . "	I have to admit it took three viewings of " Miller's Crossing " to fully understand the nuance involved in the development and relationship of the characters , and just what Tom Reagan ( Gabriel Byrne ) was doing to juggle the precarious balance between life and death in the middle of a mob war . Even then I made liberal use of the re-wind button to replay scenes and conversations to be sure I had it all right . When all is said and done , this is just a brilliant film , my favorite among the Coen Brothers movies . I don't want to get into a lot of the story details like others on this board have . What I'd like to consider are a couple of thoughts I had after my most recent viewing . I was wondering whether the movie would have had more impact if it ended right at the point when Tom begins to place that last bet after the hit on Bernie ( John Turturro ) . It seems to me that would have cemented the idea that Reagan was as cold hearted a killer as Eddie Dane ( E . J . Freeman ) . Not that the actual ending wasn't satisfying ; it got to the heart of Reagan's loyalty , which after all wasn't so much to Leo ( Albert Finney ) , but to himself . The other thought had to do with the Coen Brothers use of a classic element utilized frequently by the master himself , Alfred Hitchcock . A maguffin in film is a plot device that might seem important but winds up having no bearing on the outcome of the story . In that regard , think about how many times Tom Reagan's bookie Lazarre winds up being mentioned in the movie . Yet the character Lazarre never actually appears in the story , nor do we ever hear Lazarre's voice in connection with Tom's bets . True , a couple of his toughs work Tom over outside the phone booth after the phone call to Bernie , but that just adds to the mystique of the unseen bookie . Very clever actually , and something you don't even think about as the story unfolds . One of the things I got the biggest kick out of was Johnny Caspar's ( Jon Polito ) use of the term ' schmatta ' to describe Bernie Bernbaum . Growing up with a Polish grandmother , ' schmatta ' is a word I remember as referring to a dish rag . Which seems kind of appropriate , because Bernie seemed to have the temperament of a wet dishrag , especially in that ' find it in your heart ' scene . Yeah , ' schmatta ' , that's just so colorful not to be part of the current vernacular . Anyway , " Miller's Crossing " is a great movie with terrific characters and an intricate plot that out-stings " The Sting " for witty dialog and a grand double cross . If you're looking for a rumpus , this is it !
" And the omens promised bad luck , which moated and dungeoned him . "	What's incomprehensible to me is why this film didn't gain any traction during it's initial theatrical run . I couldn't even a locate a theater within fifty miles that was showing it and had to wait until this week to get my hands on a library copy . Which points to another problem - I never even saw this picture come out for sale in any of the major retail outlets , and I'm in a Walmart at least four times a week . I just watched " The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford " twice in two days , back to back . It's a stunningly visual film , with cinematography that will take your breath away . Two scenes that stand out for me include the dark of night arrival of the Blue Cut train , and Jesse ( Brad Pitt ) riding into the sun after the exchange with young Albert Ford . It's apparent that cinematographer Roger Deakins was after a certain look for the film , and the result is poetry in pictures . As for the story , it balances an intense character study of nineteen / twenty year old Robert Ford against the dynamism of one of the nineteenth century's most famous historical figures . That Jesse James was an outlaw is almost besides the point . For Bob Ford ( Casey Affleck ) , Jesse was a larger than life figure who he worshiped from an early age ; to meet and ride with him was almost beyond his comprehension . The scene that best conveys Ford's hero worship came when he described the similarities between himself and Jesse at the dinner table of the Ford homestead . That scene among many others convey just how masterfully Casey Affleck portrayed the troubled soul of his character . So I'm watching the scene of Bob Ford in his meeting with Governor Crittenden , and I'm saying to myself - boy , the governor sure looks a lot like James Carville , famed Democratic strategist and loyal Clintonista . Having to satisfy my curiosity , I look up the credits and WAIT ! ! ! , that IS James Carville ! ! Where in the world did that casting decision come from ? And you know what ? He wasn't that bad ! ! Without hesitation , I'd recommend this one to all Western movie fans because of it's treatment of a renowned historical figure , and also to non-Western fans for the intensity of the personal stories on center stage . My second viewing of the movie seemed even quicker than the first , and at two hours , forty minutes , that's no mean feat . What makes the film even more compelling is the follow up to the actual event of the title , as Bob Ford's brush with fame and notoriety is examined right up until his own eventual undoing . Here's hoping that " The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford " experiences it's own revival of sorts so that more film goers can enjoy the complexity and wonder of this stunning picture .
" . . . ahh , Juicyfruit . "	Though it may not rigidly adhere to the novel , " One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest " is still a riveting story , moved along powerfully by the roiling battle of the minds between it's principals , Randle P . McMurphy ( Jack Nicholson ) and Nurse Ratched ( Louise Fletcher ) . When I was much younger I often found myself with the same attitude as many of the reviewers here that find fault with a less than faithful line by line adaptation of the source material . However having seen enough films that stray from the original novel , I chalk it up to the poetic license taken by the screenwriter in an effort to tell an effective story . In my case , I had read Ken Kesey's novel before the film was made , and then again after seeing the film during it's original theatrical release . Honestly , unless you read the book and watch the film virtually back to back , I don't think you'll come away from the movie unimpressed . In fact , the one difference I can recall with clarity between the two concerns an element in the novel that I'm satisfied was changed for the movie . In the book , the character of Cheswick drowned during a recreational swim in the pool . This is one of my all time Top Ten films , and I'll continue to watch it again and again . With Nicholson's first appearance on screen , you can note the glint in his eye that would also serve him well in 1980's " The Shining " . His aggressive behavior has managed to secure confinement to a mental institution instead of a work farm where he quickly understands that his nemesis Ratched operates the asylum much like a a rigged carny game . It's interesting to note that throughout the story , Ratched's hairdo is uniquely styled to resemble a pair of horns , and she's more than willing to offer McMurphy and whoever takes his side a devil of a time . My favorite scene of the film relates to my summary line above , when The Chief ( Will Sampson ) reveals he's not deaf and dumb , and McMurphy revels in the fact that the Indian might be an even bigger con man than himself . It was McMurphy's cultivating of that relationship along the way that helped The Chief understand that he could be as ' big as a mountain ' . I can think of no other film ending that winds up being so depressing and uplifting at the same time ; you'll want to believe the Chief when he tells his friend he's coming with him . It's a chilling moment . With a repeat viewing , take note of the Chief's expression when McMurphy attempts to lift the sink to win a bet in an earlier scene . It's where the seed was planted for the Chief's escape . It's a tribute to all the talent involved in this movie that makes each character vivid and memorable , even those that don't have any lines . Danny DeVito , Sydney Lassick , and Christopher Lloyd are stand out in their respective roles , for each virtually their first major big screen appearance . Brad Dourif is probably my favorite modern day character actor , his work as Doc Cochran in the Western series " Deadwood " is tour de force . Interestingly , in addition to ' Cuckoo's Nest ' , Ken Kesey also wrote what remains to this day my favorite novel , " Sometimes A Great Notion " , telling the story of an Oregon lumber family . Even though that story is told from the perspective of differing narrators , it moves along seamlessly without confusing the reader , and in many cases , one doesn't even recall the switch taking place ! That book was also made into a film with the same name , but you might find it broadcast under an alternate title , " Never Give An Inch " .
" I just want to be somewhere , don't you understand ? "	I've seen this Western a couple of times before , but today I really watched it . It's surprising to me that it's not mentioned in the same breath as " High Noon " and " Shane " as icons of the genre . Gregory Peck delivers a solid and respectable portrayal of a gunslinger willing to give up his weapons if only time and circumstances would allow him to do so . Instead , Johnny Ringo ( Peck ) is persistently challenged by young toughs with something to prove , thereby providing a lot of sudden unnatural deaths in his vicinity . Like " High Noon " , the film delivers a slowly mounting tension , not as ominous as that of Gary Cooper's classic , owing perhaps to the ease with which Ringo disarmed the three brothers on the way to Cayenne . Nevertheless , there's a sense of unease that pervades throughout , as minor sub plots intervene to focus on the gunfighter as well as the man . Ringo's relationship with Marshal Strett ( Millard Mitchell ) is particularly compelling , as the former outlaws discuss their lives , Ringo lamenting the road not taken . Curiously , this was the second movie within a week I've seen in which the main character , at thirty five years old , felt over the hill and feeling life had passed him by . ( The other - Warren William's title character in 1939's " The Lone Wolf Spy Hunt " ) . Interestingly , the movie offers it's share of humorous asides ; I got a kick out of Ringo's request to Mac ( Karl Malden ) to get his saloon helper un-astonished . The others usually came at the expense of the punks Ringo is forced to throw down with , as when one of the barber shop crowd asked Eddie ( Richard Jaeckel ) if he could have his saddle if things didn't go well . Then there's Hunt Bromley ( Skip Homeier ) - " Well he was never much fun to have around anyway " . There's also the reaction to the marshal's declaration that Ringo's son Jimmy was partial to Wyatt Earp . The best though had to be the women's citizen committee getting to meet Mr . Ringo , just a well crafted scene bringing out the nuance and dichotomy of Peck's character . Unlike many of the posters for the movie on this board , I never got the impression that Peggy Walsh ( Helen Westcott ) was married to Johnny Ringo at the time of his arrival in Cayenne . That she called herself Mrs . Ringo at the funeral was a way for her to vindicate a life led in secrecy for which she now holds no shame or remorse . I guess one could look at it either way , but not once did any of the characters close to either ever hint at their being married , certainly Marshall Strett or Molly ( Jean Parker ) would have known . All in all , I felt this was a finely written story that deftly handled it's principal characters , even though the finale proves ultimately tragic for it's hero . One identifies with the marshal , who admonishes the cowardly Hunt Bromley with - " Get killed somewhere else " . Ringo , before he dies might have been even tougher on his killer , advising the punk that he'll eventually get exactly what he deserves .
" I can tell you a thousand tales of the men and women who have hunted this evil bird . "	" Casablanca " may have the most quoted lines in film history , but " The Maltese Falcon " , pound for pound , or I should say scene for scene , has the snappiest banter and greatest one liners of any film I've ever viewed . Most of them come from private detective Sam Spade ( Humphrey Bogart ) , and the tighter the fix , the more clever they are . My personal favorite is " How'd I kill him , I forget ? " , when Polhaus and Dundy ( Ward Bond and Barton MacLane ) interrogate Spade about the death of his partner . In fact , if you're not paying attention , a lot will sail completely over your head , so it's best to watch the film distraction free and with a scorecard to keep track of the players . The cast is a colorful lot , populated by both good guys and bad guys ( and gals ) . Mary Astor turns up early , and with more than one identity before Spade pins her down as one Brigid O'Shaughnessy . She's on the trail of a fortune disguised as a pawn shop rarity , a black enameled bird rumored to be the fabled Maltese Falcon . Hot on her heels are Kasper Gutman ( Sydney Greenstreet ) , in league with a sinister Joel Cairo ( Peter Lorre ) , and a hot headed gunsel named Wilmer Cook ( Elisha Cook Jr . ) . Each is a dangerous character , but Spade sizes them up appropriately . Of Wilmer - " The cheaper the crook , the gaudier the patter . " Have you ever heard a better description of a crook too big for his britches ? Understated though her role may be , Spade's assistant and gal Friday is a sheer delight ; Effie Perrine ( Lee Patrick ) appears to have been around the block a few times , and could be a worthy gumshoe herself . Note how she describes Iva Archer's belongings on the night her husband died , with an eye for detail and a sense of mystery . Sam knows he has an able assistant there , makes you wonder why he hasn't made a move on her himself , though he'd already compromised himself with his partner's wife . That's why it comes as somewhat of a surprise at film's end when Bogie's character comes through it all lily white , willing to throw Brigid over in the name of fair play and standing up for one's murdered partner - " Don't be too sure I'm as crooked as I'm supposed to be " . He'd already served up all the suspects to Polhaus in as neat a bundle as the real one , the black statuette , which turns out to have been a stand in for the real thing . It's still out there somewhere , casting it's lure for another gang like Gutman and company . Wondering aloud what the " dingus " sitting on Spade's table is , his reply to the detectives sums up what the film's three murders can only hint at - " The , uh , stuff that dreams are made of " .
" People gotta talk themselves inta law and order before they do anything about it . . . "	" High Noon " has always been one of my favorite Westerns , heck , it's one of my favorite films altogether . The theme music stays with me for days after each viewing , not such a bad thing , though my humming does grate on the rest of the family . My unofficial count after today's viewing caught eight instances of the theme interspersed with scenes from the movie , not counting the complete rendition offered at the opening . Director Fred Zinneman broke ranks with many Western film traditions in his approach to this classic , and concentrated on three main ingredients to build suspense in the story . The threat imposed by the returning Frank Miller was continually reinforced by the still shot of the looming railroad tracks on which the villain would arrive . Marshall Kane's ( Gary Cooper ) repeated requests for help would be summarily turned down by virtually everyone in a town that feared for each individual's personal safety . Thirdly , the repeated use of the clock image , beginning at 10 : 40 A . M . , is used as the countdown mechanism to herald an impending confrontation ; it's use helps build suspense right up until the fateful steam whistle sounds at high noon . The reason fans can relate to Gary Cooper's take on Marshal Kane is a movingly human one - he can admit that he's scared . Yet there's that gnawing sense of duty to service and facing one's challenges that surfaces and takes over to drive Kane toward his destiny . That doesn't mean that Kane can't despair when his only ally deputy Herb ( James Millican ) backs out . Sure , John Wayne might have handled it differently , but that character would have been a caricature . Kane was about to face his mortality , and it wasn't a rosy picture . One thing did puzzle me though . Once the showdown began , the first time Kane is fired upon by an off screen gunman , the bullet strikes the side of a barn about a foot over his left shoulder . At the same time Kane grabs his upper left arm as if he was wounded . His shirt from that point on is torn as if damaged by a bullet . The ballistics involved for that scenario just doesn't work , the bullet would have had to bounce off Kane's arm in an impossible trajectory . I got a kick out of Lloyd Bridges ' recollection of the fight scene in the stable between his character Harvey Pell and Kane . Lloyd's son Beau was six years old at the time and he wanted to witness the filming of the scene , so dad hid him in the hayloft above the stable . When Cooper doused Bridges with a pail of water at the close of the scene , Beau burst out laughing , and they had to shoot it all over again ! Upon repeat viewings , you might pay attention to some of the nuances that give the film even more subtlety and substance , like the look Helen Ramirez ( Katy Jurado ) gives Harvey when the Kane's ride back into town , or the barber regarding the number of coffins the town has on hand . I got a kick out of that actually , note the sign in the barber shop offering ' Complete Funeral Service and Undertaking ' . Nice touch . For it's effort , " High Noon " took home four Academy Awards , led by Gary Cooper's Best Actor . It's theme music was rewarded with a Best Original Song along with a Best Scoring Oscar . Not too shabby for a genre traditionally overlooked by the Academy . For me , " High Noon " is one of those pictures that I like to bring out about once every year or so just to keep me focused on what good , tight story telling is all about . It's a classic underdog tale that ranks right up there with films like " On The Waterfront " , and " To Kill a Mockingbird " , as the lone protagonist finds the will to rise to the occasion and stand up for what's right . For Western fans , it stands alongside " Shane " as one of the best of the genre , without using a lot of complex techniques to explain itself .
" A hell of a place to make your fortune "	First off , the Western is my favorite film genre , however " Deadwood " transcends that genre so completely that it seems like a new one altogether . If you can , try to get your hands on the Season I DVD set with the special features disc . I was surprised to learn that many of the main and supporting characters beyond Wild Bill and Calamity were in fact also based on real life people . Al Swearengen ran an operation that took in between four and six thousand dollars a night , while other notables with a true history include Doc Cochran and the Reverend Henry Smith . Though the story playing out in the series is often a product of creator David Milch's ' imaginative reality ' , that in no way lessens it's impact as a narrative of the Dakotas and it's overly rich history of villainy , debauchery and profanity . Deadwood itself grew from a small mining camp to ten thousand inhabitants in a dizzying matter of three months in 1873 . Word of a substantial ore find literally led to the phrase ' there's gold in them thar hills ' , creating an endless stream of immigrants to the Badlands . The territory itself was relegated to the Sioux Indians , and the U . S . Government was supposed to keep settlers out . But as everyone knows , money talks . With a series so rich in characters and story lines , it's hard to pick a favorite . Backed against the wall I'd have to pick Brad Dourif's portrayal as Doc Cochran as my own choice , but that's today . Individual episodes offer stunning performances by William Sanderson as E . B . Farnum and Robin Weigert as Calamity Jane . Of course , series stars Timothy Olyphant and Ian McShane have rewritten the rule book for Western heroes and villains with their portrayals . It's too bad Keith Carradine couldn't hang around more than four episodes as Wild Bill Hickok , but he drew those darn aces and eights in Deadwood . Not for the squeamish or faint of heart , " Deadwood " remains true to the gritty origins in the mud , blood , manure and urine of it's namesake . Prepare to be shocked , terrified and at times even amused , but most of all , watch " Deadwood " to experience one of the most unique television events ever created .
" I've built up my hatreds over the years , little by little . "	The first hint of Daniel Plainview's unheralded villainy comes when he snubs Preacher Eli Sunday's request to perform a blessing upon the strike of the local oil well . You already have a sense of it as Plainview plies the unsophisticated rubes with a pittance compared to the value of their underground wealth . Those scenes conjure up ideas of what it must have really been like during the heady days of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century robber barons . Greed and power , pure and simple , taken well beyond the measure of Humphrey Bogart's character in " The Treasure of the Sierra Madre " which director Anderson watched faithfully prior to his filming of this modern masterpiece . If you need only one reason to watch this film , it would be Daniel Day Lewis ' excruciatingly sinister performance as the oil baron Plainview , setting a new low in human depravity with his ' You're just a bastard from a basket ' speech to adopted son H . W . ( Dillon Freasier ) . But unbelievably , he tops even that with the ' I drink your milkshake ' tirade against preacher Eli ( Paul Dano ) . Brilliant in it's intensity and yet unmistakably devoid of any sense of human decency and compassion . It's as if he were describing himself when in an earlier scene , Plainview maintains that " There are times when I look at people and I see nothing worth liking " . " There Will Be Blood " is an intense and tumultuous character study of a man bent on personal success , whose methods and motivation can only result in personal failure as deeply devastating as the fortune he amassed .
" Just remember , beautiful , everything gets old if you do it often enough . "	It would have been impossible back in 1971 to predict which of the film's actors would have gone on to bigger and better things . As it was , this was my first look back then at folks like Timothy Bottoms , Jeff Bridges , and Cybil Shepherd . Tell me now , who didn't immediately fall head over heels for Shepherd after seeing this flick back in the day ? As for Ben Johnson , his role here cemented my admiration of his work as an actor , having only seen him in various support and bit roles in Westerns prior . And for some odd reason , that bit of trivia about Cloris Leachman having been a Miss Chicago in 1946 somehow remained fixed in my mind for all these years . It was compelling to watch her character's appearance and demeanor change so dramatically throughout the picture , no doubt the basis for her Best Supporting Actress win for that year . I'm getting around to watching a whole host of pictures that I saw only once when they first came out , and I was somewhat surprised today to discover how bleak this picture actually is . Small town lives and ambitions crushed by mediocrity and boredom , punctuated by events that in some ways wind up defining the rest of their existence . Depressing realities for people like Lois Farrow ( Ellen Burstyn ) , who marry for convenience and wind up living lives of quiet desperation ; she sums it up herself - " Everything is flat and empty here " . Sure there's a way out if you're someone on the outside looking in , but it's never that easy , is it ? One's life becomes entangled and ensnared in relation to others , and the next thing you know , you wind up working till you're a hundred ( Eilleen Brennan's Genevieve ) to take care of your obligations . The other aspect of small town life touched on was observed by waitress Genevieve - " A person can't sneeze in this town without somebody offering a handkerchief . " I don't know if anyone growing up in a big city can relate to that , I myself grew up in a town twice as big as Anarene , that is to say , a village of twenty two hundred instead of half that . It's true , you have a pretty good idea of what's going on with just about everyone else , and the flip side is they know about you too . When Genevieve made the remark , it was Sonny's ( Tim Bottoms ) first inkling that he just might be in trouble . And the odd thing is , he's never really called on it in a big way , even though each revelation that he's having an affair with a married woman comes as a jolt . Even the coach , as subtle as a brick in a punch bowl - " You know a man never ought to cheat , unless it's for a good cause " . The film is full of intriguing little nuances like that , masterfully directed by Peter Bogdanovich , who broke from conventional storytelling by filming in black and white , and replacing a traditional score with background music from juke box tunes of the era . The silence during Jacy's ( Shepherd ) diving board scene is particularly noticeable , until giggles break out as she subconsciously trips up to conceal her embarrassment . A well played scene that looked like it could have come from , well , real life . Aside from the story , I was intrigued by the selection of films playing at The Royal . An opening scene had Spencer Tracy's " Father of the Bride " , and an assortment of posters offered " Sands of Iwo Jima " , Cagney's " White Heat " , " Winchester 73 " and " Wagon Master " . That last one was a cool choice , it was one of Ben Johnson's few starring roles . I haven't seen that one actually , I'll have to get my hands on it . " The Last Picture Show " won't appeal to everyone , it's a dismally bleak picture for a lot of it's run time . But it's a fascinating one as well , and one of the best examples of pure cinema from the 1970's I can think of . Highly recommended as a movie , and more so as an experience .
" Revenge is a dish best served cold . "	And so , the Star Wars saga comes full circle , with the final pieces of the intergalactic puzzle falling into place . Of course we knew the major elements about to be revealed , but to see it done so effectively is a tribute to the epic story telling genius of creator George Lucas . I recall the controversy about the working name of Star Wars Episode VI - Revenge of the Jedi . Back in 1983 it was thought that the title suggested too much violence , and not a fitting description for the forces of the " good " side . But for this installment of the series , " Revenge of the Sith " is certainly fitting , as Anakin Skywalker's turn to the Dark Side under his master Chancellor Palpatine / Darth Sidious is fraught with betrayal , violence and murder . The movie opens with the same grand scope as previous films in the series , but taken to even more cosmic proportion with jaw dropping sequences of outer space grandeur . Fleet cruisers jet by gigantic space stations as naturally as city traffic . Fans of space opera will no doubt thrill to the spectacle of color and sound offered here . The relationship between Padme Amidala ( Natalie Portman ) and Anakin ( Hayden Christensen ) is handled intelligently , even as the young Jedi is manipulated and convinced by Palpatine that the future of the Republic belongs in his own capable hands as dictator of the galaxy . Padme's refusal to side with her husband is of course the turning point in the marriage , with the safety of her newborns of uppermost importance . I guess what bothers me most about the movie though is the reason given for Padme's death during childbirth , having lost her will to live . This is not the character we saw in the prior two films ; after all , she had the regal bearing and demeanor of a queen , and the shrewd tenacity of a planetary senator . To just " give up " , even under the horrendous circumstances of Anakin's turn is a situation not adequately dealt with in the movie . General Grievous - great name for the robotic leader of the clone army , but what's with the persistent cough . Perhaps it made him seem more vile , but why would a robot suffer a human malady ? His running battle with Obi Wan Kenobi was a highlight of the movie . Christopher Lee - now there's an actor who's first film credit dates back to 1948 , and who's come a long way from the horror remakes of the 1950's and 60's , to star in the two major epic movie sagas of our time - " The Lord of the Rings " Trilogy , and episodes II and III of the current Star Wars series . It seems he only gets better with age , as his portrayal of Count Dooku / Darth Tyranus shows . Ewan McGregor does an excellent job of preparing us for the Alec Guiness version of the Jedi Master of " Star Wars : A New Hope " . When he appears in the latter part of the film in the straw colored robe , I immediately thought of the scene in Episode IV when Princess Leia's hologram image reaches out for " Obi Wan Kenobi - you're my only hope " . Following the death of Jedi Mace Windu ( Samuel L . Jackson ) , Darth Sidious gives the command to wipe out all the rest of the Jedi Council . Was it intentional , or merely coincidental , that the orders were carried out in the fashion of a sci-fi " Godfather " ? Only Obi Wan and Yoda had the wisdom and foresight to condemn themselves to exile so they could fight another day . Kenobi's mission to Tatooine to deliver the newborn Skywalker was a stroke of storytelling magic , bringing his personal adventure in the Star Wars saga full circle as well . But can the Star Wars story EVER end ? The franchise lives on in a myriad of media , and it seems that there are even more adventures and characters whose stories must be told . One can only hope that the creativity and ingenuity begun by George Lucas in 1977 continues to live on in the hyper space region of entertainment known as The Star Wars Universe .
" You're gonna need a bigger boat . "	Roy Scheider ad-libbed the ' bigger boat ' line , and as sometimes happens , it became a classic . I just viewed the film once again in it's entirety , one of the few times I've done so since it's original release . It holds up amazingly well , and retains all the thrill and horror that it did during the summer you were afraid to go into the water . Although he appeared on screen earlier , Robert Shaw's fingernails on the chalk board at the town meeting was the perfect way of introducing Amity's potential savior . What he might not have known about rogue shark mentality and territorial behavior is provided by Richard Dreyfuss ' character , derided by Captain Quint as a mere college boy , but with enough sea smarts to know that this could be the big one . Boy , was it ! I forgot about the dead sailor in the hull of the boat discovered by Hooper ( Dreyfuss ) . It's still one of those unexpected ' oh s - - - ' moments in movies that works even after the gimmick has been played out countless times since . What's remarkable about the film is it's ability to convey unspeakable horror in a way that doesn't get in your face . The opening scene is a perfect example , but how about when that patrolman's leg gets lopped off in the water and slowly floats down to the sea floor - the stuff nightmares are made of . Filmed in the vicinity of Martha's Vineyard in the fictional town of Amity , the picture also explores the crass commercialism of summer tourism winning out over safety concerns . Murray Hamilton's Mayor Vaughn is a master of the spin machine that successfully lures the crowds to the beach on the Fourth of July , right before the fireworks break loose . The beach reporter on the scene is none other than Peter Benchley , who wrote the novel and screenplay . When I saw this movie when it first came out , I recall doing an ' aw c'mon ' when Brody shoots the cylinder in the shark's mouth sending it to fish heaven . But you know what , it might have been luck , but it certainly wasn't for lack of trying . It took Brody six shots before connecting with the big bang ; just in time too since he was going down with the ship . Did anyone else besides me forget about Hooper in all the excitement until he surfaced to hook up with Brody after the fish fry ? It's amazing how certain movies have a way of weaving their way into your subconscious . More than thirty years later , " Jaws " still heralds that two beat ' da-dum ' every time I go to the shore or take a walk on the beach . I can't even think about telegrams without recalling that goofy ' Saturday Night Live ' skit with the candy gram shark knocking from behind the door . Such is the power of film . I think I'll go for a swim .
" Now it all turns psychological , gentlemen , "	The more films I view , the harder it is to dole out a rating of ' 10 ' , and I've never been liberal about it anyway . With " Das Boot " , I have no such reservations . Here's a film that takes all your preconceived notions about Nazi villains and stands them on their head , by portraying a World War II submarine crew as human beings , facing life and death daily in the cramped confines of an underwater prison . Not only does one come to understand their plight , but sympathize with them as well , to the point of hoping that they make it through their Atlantic ordeal . The only problem being that once they do , a cruel fate intervenes to usurp the lives of innocents in a way that their harrowing underwater ordeal could not . Perhaps part of the reason that one identifies with the German cast has to do with the treatment of Adolph Hitler in the story . Not once was he identified as a Nazi hero or figure of respect . Early in the film , the Captain ( Jurgen Prochnow ) himself establishes his posture as less than a fan of the Fuhrer . The much later scene of the celebration in Vigo painted an even more resolute snub of Hitler by the officer crew of U-96 , along with their elite German hosts . It is possibly the only time I've witnessed anything less than outright undying loyalty to the Nazi leader by members of the Party . Told from the German point of view by director Wolfgang Peterson , the story opens with the staggering statistic that only twenty five percent of Germany's forty thousand submarine sailors ever made it home alive . By Autumn 1941 , the battle for the control of the Atlantic Ocean was turning against them , ominously conveyed by the Captain himself - " Those Brits don't make mistakes anymore " . It's stated not in anger or defiance , but as a statement of fact , one which further emphasizes the plight of this enemy sub . Men crack under the pressure of battle , as personified by Johann ' the ghost ' ( Erwin Leder ) , who has a nervous breakdown before he can be of use to his Captain one last time . So fascinating is Peterson's direction , that the entire time the sub lies doomed on the ocean floor , this viewer finds himself saying a prayer along with the crew for that one unbelievable miracle that might pull them through . Through it all , I maintained such an alert focus that I managed to catch a continuity error . When Lt . Werner ( Herbert Gronemeyer ) returns the packet of letters to Ullman ( Martin May ) that he volunteered to forward to Ullman's pregnant girlfriend , it was only half the size of the original bundle . Prior to seeing this movie , it would have been hard to imagine a war film to be as compelling that hadn't been produced by Hollywood . However by any account , " Das Boot " ranks up there with not only the best war stories ever told , but one of the best movies ever committed to film . It deserves a strong recommendation .
" I ain't like that anymore , Kid . "	There's a compelling scene in the movie where the scarred whore Delilah ( Anna Levine ) offers William Munny ( Clint Eastwood ) a ' free one ' , not from herself , but from one of the other girls . Munny's response has to do with the scars they both carry as a burden in their lives . For one brief moment , Delilah takes comfort in the fact that someone finds her beautiful after the savage attack that left her disfigured , and Munny realizes there are only just so many things he can hang on to before reverting back to his true nature , a grim , cold hearted killer . It's fascinating to follow the rebirth of William Munny as a paid assassin after ten years of trying to scrape by as a pig farmer , the last two as a widower . The cocoon he weaved for himself to honor the memory of Claudia Feathers slowly unravels after that first conversation with the Schofield Kid ( Jaimz Woolvett ) . With friend and former partner Ned Logan ( Morgan Freeman ) rounding out the trio , Munny is an unwilling participant in the reliving of his past , hazed even back then by the taint of alcohol and binge induced black outs . Would Schofield be amazed that Will escaped certain death by taking out not two , but three gunmen ? The legend it seems , is greater than Munny is willing to allow . Had he heard his daughter's question , I wonder how he would have answered - " Did Pa used to kill folks ? " I've spent some time thinking about the fact that Eastwood , in his early sixties , was portraying a character in the story in his mid thirties . All the math works , we see that his wife died at twenty nine , and his oldest son is about ten years old . He gave up his outlaw ways ten years earlier when he married . The reason I bring it up is because in 1950's " The Gunfighter " , Gregory Peck's character felt over the hill and washed up at the age of thirty five . The harsh conditions of the late 1800's had a lot to do with the shortened life expectancy compared to today , and was exacerbated by one's choice of profession . When I saw the film when it first came out , I'm sure I chuckled when Will couldn't get on his horse the first time , but now I have a different view . Munny had become not only morally crippled , but physically crippled as well in an impoverished life with no hope of bettering his family . If one could write a thesis on the character of Will Munny , the same would be true of his antagonist in the story , Little Bill Daggett ( Gene Hackman ) . The marshal of Big Whiskey establishes his complexity early in the story with the way he handles the situation with ' the hard workin ' boys that was foolish ' . Trading off a handful of horses for the scars on Delilah , Bill has a peculiar way of dealing with human lives . His savagery in dispatching English Bob ( Richard Harris ) has the effect of getting us ready for the assault on other would be takers of the whores ' gold . " I don't like assassins , or men of low character . . . " ; Little Bill was not looking in the mirror when he said it . As the story progresses , it's interesting to examine how Munny's partners on the trail drop out when faced with the prospect of pre-meditated evil . Ned Logan's decision to leave was a bit surprising considering the past he had with Will , but necessary for the film's finale to explore Munny's loyalty to a friend . You had to know that Schofield's body count was a complete fabrication , once the reality of his face to face latrine assassination crept in . Munny's analysis said it best - " Well you sure killed the hell outta that fella today " . I like to think that The Kid made it back to Sally Two Trees . The measure of justice one might be expecting on a first time viewing of the movie is prominently shaken at the climax when Munny calls out the owner of the saloon . It's a jarring prelude to the calculated shoot out so engrossing to writer Beauchamp ( Saul Rubinek ) . It's not about a hero exacting a measure of fair play , but the cold reality of giving back far more than anyone ever bargained for . If you were a resident of Big Whiskey , you believed Will Munny when he challenged them all to bury Ned Logan proper , or he'd return to kill their friends and burn their homes . The fury of Munny's vengeance lends further support to the Schofield Kid's most damning assessment of the once and present outlaw - " I ain't like you Will " .
" Everybody comes to Rick's . "	" Casablanca " has been my favorite movie for the past thirty years , and each annual viewing further cements that standing . For me , it's the perfect film , with perfect characters , locales , action , romance and dialog . In fact , it is the most quoted movie ever , including a line that was never even uttered ( Play it again , Sam ) . It's hard to imagine that during the studio days of the 1940's , " Casablanca " was just one more movie being pumped out a week at a time by Warner Brothers . The story itself , based on a stage play " Everybody Comes to Rick's " went through continuous rewrites , even as filming was under way . Fortunately , the vision of a handful of gifted artists ultimately found it's way on screen , with a cast as colorful and star studded as any before or since . Even the music , composed for the film by Max Steiner is perfect , dominating the Paris flashback scenes of Rick and Ilsa's fleeting romance . Now picture if you will , the original contenders for the three acting leads in the film ; Dennis Morgan for Victo Laszlo , Ann Sheridan for Ilsa Lund , and George Raft or Ronald Reagan for the part of Rick Blaine . If that had actually occurred , the result may well have wound up in obscurity , but instead , Warner Brothers went out of their way to hire on Ingrid Bergman , on loan from David Selznick in return for Olivia DeHaviland . For the part of Victor Laszlo , Warner signed up Paul Henreid who was under contract to RKO Pictures . Coming off a successful on screen collaboration in " The Maltese Falcon " , Humphrey Bogart as Rick was once again supported by Peter Lorre as the scheming Ugarte , and Sydney Greenstreet as the conniving owner of the rival gambling joint , " The Blue Parrot " . Rounding out the major film credits , Conrad Veidt successfully sneers his way into Rick's world as Nazi General Major Strasser ; and for sheer delight in a characterization , there's none to equal Claude Rains ' portrayal of Prefect of Police Captain Reinault . Rick and Ilsa may have always had Paris , but Rick and Reinault have always had Casablanca . The ultimate outcome of the film was not known during early film production in May of 1942 . It was not until brothers Julius and Philip Epstein , brought in for their humorous wit , both got their inspiration in a single moment while driving down Sunset Boulevard - " Round up the usual suspects " . Cleverly interjecting the elimination of the hated villain Strasser by the film's hero , the film successfully answers the question of who gets the girl . Ilsa , in love with one man but devoted to the cause of another , must resign herself to the fate entrusted to Rick the night before - " You have to think for both of us , for all of us " . Even world events conspired to help " Casablanca " achieve it's unparalleled success . Originally to be released in June 1943 , Warner Brothers ' dedication to the war effort was matched by the Allied landing in North Africa in November 1942 , in Casablanca . Shortly after on Thanksgiving Day 1942 , the film opened in New York following a wildly enthusiastic pre-screening . And in a well timed follow up , the general release date of January 23 , 1943 coincided with a conference between President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill in Casablanca . " Casablanca " cemented Humphrey Bogart's reputation as a romantic leading man , and made Ingrid Bergman a very popular star . Though each would continue on in highly successful careers , they would not appear in another film together , and that's probably for the best . Both artists achieved their master work in " Casablanca " , and how do you top a perfect ?
" Well Ben Hawkins , how would you like a career in show business ? "	When I was a kid growing up in the 1950's , an annual tradition with my father was taking the family to the local county fair . Right off the main runway next to the Sportsmen's Show , there was a montage of banners that promoted the various curiosities and dare I say it , freaks , that were to be found within . I don't recall a hawker outside with the verbal skills of Stumpy Dreifuss , but I could only imagine what might have been found behind those curtains . I guess it was my Dad's caution and experience that always prevailed ; he knew for example , what the ' man eating chicken ' was all about . Who would ever fall for a gimmick like that ? - while the carny operator collected his quarters hand over fist . So much of ' Carnivale ' has that strangely familiar tone to it , and yet , it's one of the most unique productions one can ever experience . I wasn't sure going in if I would like it much , and I think it was the third episode before I really got hooked to the degree that I had to watch a couple shows each day until I got through the entire two seasons . What's very eerie about the series is that it's grounded in a reality of our country's history that not many people are truly aware of . We hear a lot about The Great Depression today because of what's going on with the current economy , but the Dust Bowl didn't get much more than a footnote mention in any American History class I ever took . That's why the opening of every episode creates such a stark contrast to the story about to be told , as we see images of the rise of Fascism in Europe , while Babe Ruth circles the bases to the cheers of his fans . It's all very disorienting to try and understand that all of this history was happening at the same time . There are so many great characters and performances in ' Carnivale ' , that it's pretty safe to say there isn't a single standout . I think my favorite is Samson ( Michael J . Anderson ) , the midget who walks tall as the nominal boss of the carny when he's not reporting to Management . But that's not to take anything away from any of the other principal players , each of whom are entirely transformed and consumed by their portrayals in the course of the story . You never feel you're watching actors playing a role , only characters that continue to grow and develop with each successive chapter . The other component of this series that captures the imagination is the language and ' code ' of the carny . You could go to a strip bar today , but somehow it sounds a lot more colorful if you could catch someone dancin ' the cootch ending with a big blow-down . As for drama , The ' Babylon ' episode was remarkable in it's treatment of a ' life for a life ' . The way Samson upheld the code and still found a way to deliver his own brand of justice made for an intriguing hour . Knowing the series had been canceled , I had some trepidation about getting the box sets comprising the two seasons , but I think the final episode wrapped things up well enough given the constraints that it was under . The battle between good and evil that played out between Ben and Brother Justin ( Clancy Brown ) resulted in a victor , however temporary that might have been . Had the series continued , we might have learned that the evil spirit of Brother Justin had taken over the body of Sofie . At least that's what I came away with , along with a nagging suspicion that Professor Lodz ( Patrick Bauchau ) would have surfaced again in some way , shape and form . We may never know of course , but with the two seasons of programming we do have , it wouldn't be the worst idea to go back and do it all over again .
" Well it's what people know about themselves inside that makes ' em afraid . "	I'm perfectly willing to allow Clint Eastwood his pronouncement of ambiguity regarding the character of ' The Stranger ' , and have read with interest the many opinions offered in the reviews and threads on this site . I've seen the movie at least a half dozen times over the years , but today it was with the express intent of crystallizing my opinion . As I've felt all along , the character of The Stranger is indeed a mortal man , the brother of the slain town marshal Jim Duncan , and I'll get into that in a minute . Let's keep in mind that Eastwood himself has had quite some time to reflect on his direction and portrayal in the film , and the subject of a ghostly apparition had time to take hold of viewer consciousness . The film itself has added to the controversy , at least twice via statements made by hotel owner Lewis Belding ( Ted Hartley ) . The first time occurs right after he supervises the evacuation of his hotel , remarking disparagingly to the Preacher ( Robert Donner ) - " . . . they're emptyin ' my whole hotel , throwing out paying guests right into the street just to make room for our new guardian angel " . Later , when addressing Lago's citizens at a town meeting right after the dinner scene with The Stranger and Callie - " . . . couldn't be worse if the devil himself had ridden right into Lago " . So right there you have the seeds planted for both an avenging angel and a demon bent on revenge . There IS a real mystery to the film , but it's not the identity of ' The Stranger ' . To fully understand , it's important to view the movie in it's unedited form via tape or DVD . Watching " High Plains Drifter " on TV , even a cable channel leaves too much out , particularly in the way of dialog , and especially regarding the character of Callie ( Marianna Hill ) and her relationship to the people in the town . The movie offers two flashback scenes , the first by ' The Stranger ' only about twenty minutes into the story , the second by Mordecai ( Billy Curtis ) , again shortly after the evacuation of the hotel guests . In both flashbacks , one is able to recognize every citizen of Lago that we already know by name , EXCEPT ONE . About midway in each scene , a character is shown entering from , and then retreating back into the shadows , with half of a bearded face visible . It's the face of The Stranger . The reason Eastwood's character can recall with clarity what occurred on the night Marshal Duncan was killed is because he was there . The mystery then becomes why he was powerless at the time to intervene on his brother's behalf . Presumably he wasn't a citizen of Lago , or he would be recognized , so there must have been another reason for him to be there . Visiting his brother , certainly , but for reasons unknown and unexplored , ' The Stranger ' did not become involved at the time of his brother's death . The one person who had an inkling to The Strangers ' identity I feel , was Sarah Belding , making reference to the dead marshal in an unmarked grave . But The Stranger wasn't biting , he intended to remain anonymous , a position he affirmed when he first checked into Belding's hotel and didn't register . Sure he could have used a phony name , but then some of the mystique he was attempting to establish would have been compromised . I'm quite intrigued reading some of the threads maintaining certainty regarding The Stranger being a ' spirit ' citing reactions the character has , as if one could actually know how a spirit would go about his business . But since we're playing that game , I'd offer two reasons why he couldn't be a spirit or a demon . On the ride into town , The Stranger's reflection is shown on one of the store front windows as he goes past . Then in the first bar scene , The Stranger's arm casts a shadow on the wall as he takes his beer . Granted , most of my spirit and demon lore has come from other movies and popular literature , but I believe that both of those occurrences aren't possible with beings from the other side . What REALLY intrigues me now is if Eastwood was clever enough to consciously plant those things in the film to keep everyone and his brother ( no pun there ) guessing . Oh , and one last thing - if The Stranger really WAS a ghost , then who's ghost was the horse he rode in on ? When I first entered a rating for this film on IMDb , I gave it a strong ' 8 ' as one of the upper echelon film Westerns , right up there with " High Noon " , " Shane " , and Eastwood's own " Unforgiven " . However now , after having so much fun watching and re-watching the movie , and reading some of the great discussion on this site , that has to warrant at least two bonus points , I'm re-establishing my rating as a ' 10 ' . One last thing - if you're interested in hearing Clint Eastwood himself describe who / what the character of The Stranger represents , head over to his website at http www clinteastwood net welcome2 htmlFollow the links to the movie , and then click on the audio icon for " High Plains Drifter " .
" Most times a man will tell you his bad intentions if you listen , let yourself hear . "	I hadn't realized what a consummate actor Robert Duvall was until " Open Range " . When his character is on screen , one gets the impression that it's really Boss Spearman on display , a cantankerous trail boss with a lifetime's worth of defining right and wrong . His world view is based on honesty and integrity , and doesn't allow for sixteen year old card cheats . Charley Waite ( Kevin Costner ) is of similar stripe , but he shows it more liberally , by booting his card cheat hired hand into the river . Those who complain that the early scenes move too slowly overlook the profundity of the set up . A man doesn't leave his friends behind or take the easy way out . He can't abide a murdering dog who would murder his dog . Backed into a corner and forced to take a stand , one begins to understand that there are " things that gnaw at a man worse than dyin " . There's a defining scene for Costner's character as the men lie under the night time prairie skies . Charley's midnight confession about his murderous past takes on added dimension as the camera slowly pulls away to reveal his cartridge belt . It adds perspective to the final showdown ; Charley's role as strategist has him lay out the confrontation right up to the part where they might get killed . And then the bullets fly . But it's justice , not revenge , that tempers this gunfight , even when Boss has Baxter at his mercy he defers to his own advice to Charley earlier . Justice , not revenge . Both as a an actor and director , Kevin Costner seems to be a lightning rod for his projects . " Dances With Wolves " , and " Field of Dreams " have been equally applauded and derided by movie goers over the years , and " Open Range " follows that pattern . For my part , I found it to be a masterful story transcending it's Western genre formula , finding poignancy in it's tale of men willing to focus on what's right , not who's right .
" The list is an absolute good , the list is life . . . "	Probably the most powerful and important film one can watch in this or any lifetime . The Nazi atrocity is presented in stark images of horror beyond comprehension and even the power of one's own imagination . The scene that brought that all home to me was the one in which the young Jewish boy made his way down into the latrine to escape the nightmare of separation from his family , only to find others had beaten him to it . Such desperation , such will to survival . Liam Neeson , Ben Kingsley and Ralph Fiennes are superb in their respective roles . The filming in black and white is only appropriate for an era of history devoid of color . Amon Goeth ( Fiennes ) crystallizes the Nazi sentiment toward an entire race with one line to Helen Hirsch ( Embeth Davidtz ) - " I realize that you're not a person in the strictest sense of the word " . " Schindler's List " is hardly the type of film one can consider a favorite , it's reach goes far beyond entertainment . It deserves it's recognition as one of the best films of all time , it's power resides in giving literal interpretation to the message ' never again ' .
" We've come far , you and me . "	It seems that films that achieve both critical and financial success , directed by successful actors will always gain their share of controversy . Mel Gibson's " Temptation of the Christ " comes to mind as a recent example , as well as Kevin Costner's " Dances With Wolves " . The critics may have their say , but Costner's 1991 Best Picture effort is epic in all of it's facets , from the gorgeous cinematography to the heartfelt saga of Native American peoples and their treatment at the hands of the white man . I'm constantly enthralled by the lyrical names of Indians ; this film offers Chief Ten Bears , Wind in His Hair , Stone Calf , Kicking Bird , and Stands With a Fist . Generally the names say something about a person's character or physical traits , certainly a lot more colorful than Smith or Jones . Even Indian language contains reverence for nature and life that is not found in most other tongues , and sadly so in an increasingly furious paced world . Lieutenant John Dunbar ( Costner ) learned this for himself when relegated to an abandoned " soldier fort " by a pants pissing , suicidal commanding officer at Fort Hays . His journey would be filled with physical demands and frustration attempting to communicate with his newly discovered Sioux friends , yet the relationship goes both ways , and the Sioux are in constant amazement at this soldier who " dances with wolves " on the prairie . One of the movie's great scenes and a favorite of mine as well is the one where Dunbar , Kicking Bird ( Graham Greene ) and Stands With a Fist ( Mary McDonnell ) attempt to teach each other their names . At least " Dumb Bear " didn't stick with the lieutenant . Set in 1863 , the movie does well not to mention any of the famous historical figures of the era from either race , as many films are prone to do . So we have no reference to Custer , Sitting Bull or Crazy Horse . Also unusual is the placement of a warring Pawnee raiding party in hostile opposition to the more peaceful Sioux tribe . Depicting their savagery in the attack on wagon driver Timmons ( Robert Pastorelli ) who pleads mercy for his mules , director Costner appears to be offering a balance to his film , showing that good and evil can be found in all races and cultures . The message running throughout the film is that taking the time to learn about someone who's different can be a life changing experience . " Dances With Wolves " can be viewed , understood and enjoyed on many levels , and it has aged well since it's 1990 release . It transcends it's Western genre limitations and offers the viewer a glimpse of what could be a better way .
" I'm gonna make it do what it do , baby . . . Yeah ! "	" Ray " is a triumphant , inspiring , yet unflinching glimpse into the life of Ray Charles Robinson , a brilliant song writer and musician for over fifty years until his recent passing prior to this movie's release . Ray , whose professional name became Charles in deference to boxer Sugar Ray Robinson , rode a tumultuous journey on his rise to stardom , due to escalating drug use and womanizing that even though it marred his character , did not detract from his enormous talent and business acumen . Jamie Foxx gives a truly admirable performance of the musical genius , right down to the look and mannerisms , I'm sure his role will garner Academy Award recognition , even if only a nomination . Other standouts include Kerry Washington as wife Della Bea , Aunjanue Ellis as Mary Ann Fisher , and Regina King as Margie Hendricks , lead singer of the Raelettes . Washington in particular challenges her flawed husband to face up to his demons , ultimately succeeding when Charles enters drug rehab to put his heroin addiction and guilt over his younger brother's childhood death behind him . Regina King is also compelling as Hendricks , whose soulful gaze for Charles when she falls in love with him is replaced by scorn , especially evident in the tune that was inspired by their breakup - " Hit the Road , Jack " . In it's somewhat documentary style , " Ray " successfully integrates social commentary along with entertainment , as we see how segregation held blacks inferior well into the 1960's . Charles ' 1979 recognition by the state of Georgia for it's prior disregard for his music and achievement is duly noted in the film . As far as films about music entertainers goes , this movie is richer and far superior to those of Charles ' earlier contemporaries Buddy Holly ( The Buddy Holly Story ) , and Richie Valens ( La Bamba ) . The songs chosen for the film , all sung by Charles himself , are a memorable tribute to the man who created them .
