Fame ! Ain't it a Drag	( Spoilers ) Redicules and bumbling film that wouldn't even be good , or bad , enough to make the famous Bad Movie TV show " Mystery Sicence Theater 3000 " . The movie is about this rock group the Take Ten , even though there's only five members in it , who's suddenly out it's lead singer Gordo , Greg Chipes , and is desperately looking for a replacement . You see Gordo found out who the members of the group really are and tried to make a run for it from the groups island , Compus , where they were all staying at . Captured on the beach Gordo tells the group members that he's going to spill the beans on them , to the National Enquire . Only to get spilled into the ocean by them never to be seen again . Coming up with this cock & bull story that Gordo was a drug addict and was sent by the group to some secret rehabilitation clinic they through their manager Alex , Adrienne Barbeau , conduct a nation wide search for Gordo's replacement . Narrowing the competition for Gordo's job down to three lucky guys Max Jonah & Shawn , Eric Dearborn Jeff Paterson & Coltin Scott , their flown to Compus for what would be a battle for the lead singers contest to see who's the one to finally replace Gordo . At the island strange things begin to happen in that Jonah turns out to be an undercover reporter working for a supermarket tabloid magazine , The National Enquire ? . He's soon discovered by the group members only to be iced and never seen or heard from again . Max who would give his right arm to make the group " Take Ten " ends up giving up a lot more , his life . When they feel he's not cut out to be with them and do a little bit of cutting up of Max on their own . Shawn who's at the island with his girlfriend Stacy , Ryan Starr , isn't really interested in becoming a group member , It's all Stacy's idea . He tries to leave the island only to be captured by the Take Ten and their manager Alex , who seems to have the hots for him , and . He's then put through this really weird ritual at a secret cave by the beach where Shawn as well as all the group members , striped down to his boxer shorts as the group preforms some kind of Satanic rites or ceremony on him . Shawn is at last rescued by his girlfriend Stacy who comes to his aid with a cross-bow . Later Shawn unties himself and takes what looks like a bunch of voodoo dolls and throws them into the fire , that the group set for their ceremony , causing them as well as the group members to burn to a crisp . The movie tries to give us a surprise ending which is about as effective as the rest of the story that preceded it : it's totally unbelievable . Were given this BS story about the group being around since the mid 1950's changing their name every five years or so . The rock & Roll group kept hitting the top Billboard Charts with hit after hit for the last fifty years starting with the 1954 Rock & Roll band Bobby Coolly and the Sea Sharks . As for the Busty Adrienne Barbeau who played Alex , the Take Ten's manager , looked like she was either out in the sun too long or went the distance in the boxing ring with " Iron Mike " Tyson .
What's Going On ?	( Slight Spoilers ) Running neck and neck with the ridicules " Exorcist II : the Hieratic " as the worst movie of 1977 " The Chiorboys " is about the most off-the-wall cop movie ever made that was so bad that even the book's author Joseph Wambaugh , that the movie is based on , disowned it never wanting to be mentioned in the same breath with the film . Having a bunch of beer and booze guzzling as well as mentally unstable LA police officers make complete fools of themselves is not very funny as the movie want's it's audience to think . These yo-yo's end up causing more trouble to the community as well as themselves then any gang of street thugs could possibly do and were supposed to like them ? There are a number of cops who have very serious mental hang-ups that leads to suicide and in the case of police officer Sam Lyles , Don Stroud , involuntary manslaughter but what that shows is how lax the LAPD is in allowing men with serious mental problems into it ranks . The cops in the movie " The Chiorboys " screw up almost ever assignment that their put on but what get's them in trouble is when Lyles , drunk and locked up in a police paddy wagon , goes wacko and blows away a park hustler when he tried to help him . Were shown at the beginning of the movie that Lyles has been suffering from a sever case of claustrophobia since he was in Vietnam but yet he managed to get into the LAPD where , being assigned a deadly weapon , he may very well be put in tight places where his phobia would take over his common sense . There's also the sad case of officer Baxter Slate , Perry King , who's suffering from very dark sexual hangups dealing with S & M that leads him to get involved with a dominatrix . When discovered getting his rocks off by his fellow cops Baxter begs them for help , all Baxter wanted was for them to talk to him , but is ignored which leads to him , feeling ashamed and abundant , shooting himself . With these two cases of police driven to he edge and beyond it's very hard to find anything funny in the movie that's supposed to be a police comedy / drama about the inner workings of the LAPD . Remarkably the most touching and understanding scene in the movie has to do with the uncouth and scuzzy head of the vice squad Sgt . Scuzzi , Burt Young . Talking to a young man picked up for soliciting in the park Sgt . Scuzzi takes the time to talk to him and treats the frightened 18 year-old with kindness and understanding like a father not a hardened cop on the beat . It turned out that Scuzzi letting the boy off without being booked didn't end his problems with him getting shot and killed later in the movie . Very uneven at best and mindless and offensive , to every race color and creed , at worse " The Chiorboys " totally misses the mark that it , and author Joseph Wambaugh in his book , tried to make about the pressures of being a policeman in a major US city . We get a bunch of stories of cops who are so unstable and unprofessional that they come across worse then any of the criminals in the movie and end up getting the worse of it when their ever called upon to arrest or restrain them . There's even a very disturbing scene when two of the cops Rules & Proust , Tim Mcintire & Randy Quaid , are on a roof trying to stop a woman from jumping to her death . Rules encourages instead of trying to talk her out of it where she ends up jumping to her death . The very contrive ending with officer Whalen , Charles Durning , confronting his boss Chief Deputy Riggs , Robert Webber , about him suspending some half-dozen officers , involved in the cover-up of the Lyles shooting was about as corny and unconvincing as it could get . That was supposed to be the high point in the movie that would make you forget just how silly and hare-brained it was up until then . Instead of making the movie " The Chiorboys " better it made it even worse if that at all was possible .
White meat or dark ?	A film so awful that even the biggest bad movie lovers would run for their lives as soon as they see the opening credits . " Shrike of the Mutilated " is so badly edited and acted it's a wonder that it ever would have made it to the silver screen to be seen by the paying public even in a place like the Qattara Depression . With a cast of characters so off-the-wall and obnoxious that you'll wonder just how the cameraman could have held the camera study while he was filming this " epic " without cracking up . There's Dr . Prell . A grade A nut-job par exultant , who's obsession with finding the Yeti has cost the lives of at least a dozen students who were nuts enough to go on his " field trips " that he organizes every seven years in different parts of the world to track and find the Yeti . Why every seven years ? Why not six or five or four or what ? There's Laughing Crow . A six foot six hairy Indian who likes to cook , swing an ax and play heartbeats in the evening who doesn't laugh or even talk . It seems that Laughing Crow encountered the Yeti eight years ago and hasn't been the same since . There's Spencer St . Clair . The only survivor of Dr . Prell's last field trip who upon hearing that Prell has another one in the works flips out and cuts his wife's throat . Who in turn electrocutes him by dropping a toaster into the bathtub where Spencer , fully clothe , plopped down after slashing her . And of course there's the mysterious Dr . Warner . who together with Dr . Prell likes to run around in the woods dressed up in white gorilla suites scaring and killing the students in their care ; and many many more .
It ' ll take more then one monkey to stop this show	Outrageous teen / horror movie about a bunch of young people kidnapped by this gang of spies led by a Dr . Myra and her obedient zombie slave Ivan on an island off the US coast . Dr . Myra is working on this serum together with her two hoods Wrof & Brandt to put into the US water system and make everyone in America become a mindless zombie . This will make it possible for the country that she's working for an unnamed Eastern European power , the Soviet Union ? , to take over the USA without firing a shot . These four teenagers who end up on the island Reg Skip Pam & Julie and are quickly captured by Ivan and put in a cage to be experimented on by Dr . Myra . The teenagers friends Morrie and Dotty go to the island looking for them but are told by Dr . Myra that there's no one there but later go to the local sheriff for help . The sheriff turns out to be working with Dr . Myra and her gang but when he and Morrie & Dotty arrive at the island he has a change of heart . The sheriff supplied Dr . Myra with drunks and criminals from his jail house and felt that innocent teenagers being used in Dr . Myra's insane ventures are a little too much and refuses to work with her and her hoods thus getting a bullet in his chest from Wrof killing him . Meanwhile the two girls Pam & Julie are exposed to the serum / gas and lose their brain-power and become zombies . Rag and Skip together with Morrie and Dotty break into Dr . Myra's lab and force her to gave the girls and antidote to give them back their minds after having Dr . Myra lose her with the same gas she used on the girls . It's then that a fight breaks out between the teenagers and Dr . Myra and her two hoods Worf & Brandt as well as Ivan with the monkey / gorilla , one of Dr . Myra's failed experiments , breaking out of the cage killing Brandt as everyone runs for their lives to the boat by the beach to escape . Having it out on the boat the teenagers overpower Dr . Myra and Worf and take them prisoner to the police and US military authorities on shore thus saving the USA from a covert takeover by a hostile power ; as for Ivan he completely disappeared right off the radar screen .
I gotta wash my hands he's splattered all over them !	SOME SPOILERS The only why you can make any sense of " Five Minutes to Love " is look upon it as some kind of metaphor to the the late 1950's and early 1960's " Beat " as well as " I'll do whatever I wan't " generation with Harry's junkyard as being the center of the Universe in the movie . Harry runs this junkyard together with two unstable work-hands . One an ex-high school football hero , Blowhard , who got into deep trouble when he knocked up a girl who , according to him , was making it with the entire football team . Left out in the cold and getting hooked on drugs Blowhard ended up in Harry's junkyard doing the kind of menial work that he feels is beneath his true vocation . That of being the CEO of a Fortune 500 multi-billion dollar cooperation . Also at Harry's junkyard is his live-in girlfriend who he pimps off to his costumers the Pooch . As well as Norman a mentally unbalanced lunatic who's got , if you believe what he says , an 180 IQ but wasn't smart enough to remember to return a number books that he checked out of the library . And , in his sick and disturbed mind , thus became a fugitive from the law for doing or not doing it . With all this going on at the junkyard Ben & Edna's , with their four month daughter , car breaks down outside the yard with Ben going in to get help , a starter , so he can get back on the road again . Harry who's been having trouble with the police about a number of stolen cars that ended up chopped up at his junkyard sees in Ben the perfect pasty to frame for the crimes . That he and his two employees Blowhard and Norman have been committing . Ben picked up by the police , on a tip from Harry , and brutally worked over to get a confession out of him leaves his wife , who's totally ignorant to what happened to her husband , at the mercy of the deranged Blowhard who chases her , with the baby in her arms , all over the place . All this to the sounds of such loud and brain-twisting jazz music that it makes the last stanza of the rousing 1812 symphony , with the cannons blasting away , sound like theme song of Mister Roger's Neighborhood ! We also get an incisive and penetrating speech by Norman about all the ills in the world around us and how life is not fare to a super genius like himself . Who's giant and unlimited intellect is being squandered away at Harry's junkyard because of his troubles at the local library which he , of course , had nothing to do with . It wasn't that the he was late in retuning the books it was the library that was wrong in it's unreasonable attempt of wanting Norman to bring them back ! The crazy story-line the ear-splitting music and the wild loud and over-the-top speeches go on and on until a new spin in brought out on the scene . That has to do with what Harry's been doing at his junkyard in regard to the stolen and chopped up cars , after the police could get nothing out of Ben , and that's that the brain addled Blowhard is the culprit in these crimes . Blowhard who's recovering from a stab wound that he got from Enda during his fight with her is now brought down to the police station where he's secretly given a knife by cop DeCarlo , whom Harry's been blackmailing , to do Harry in . As you would expect the butterfingered Blowhard blows it . Bumbling and stumbling all over the place Blowhard gives the cops enough time to come to Harry's rescue . The police get to Harry's junkyard just in the nick of time and gun Blowhard down before he can do any damage . Ben who was released by the cops now comes back to Harry's junkyard to have it out with him over what he did in framing him for Harry's crimes . This results in another ridicules scene with both of them slugging it out and Harry ending up , with a number of his ribs broken , in the Pooch's arms as the movie finally and mercifully ends .
Spider in the Ointment	SPOILERS Almost incomprehensible horror movie that goes into so much detail about this crazy mad scientist and his equally nutty daughter that you get lost in just what it's supposed to be about in the first place . We see at the start of the movie in a dream-like sequence Paul and Anna skinny dipping in a lake and then romping and making out in the grass , stark naked , as their suddenly attacked by this unseen shadowy figure . The camera then pans to Anna's chest and we see this black spider tattoo . You assume that Paul was killed before the credits are even over but then we see him driving in the German countryside and running into Anna who he photographs . Anna very upset at her picture being taken runs off in the wood and Paul , in a state of confusion , drives into the first town that he come too . It's here that Paul finds out that the town's most respected and richest man Huber is interested in his pictures and uses his creepy daughter Hellen to bed Paul down in his hotel room in order to steal them . The movie never explains what the connection between Paul and Anna is and why are both Huber and Ellen so interested in Paul ? Were also never told what did the opening sequence have to do with the rest of the movie anyway ? We get some idea of what's going on when we start to see Huber involved with spiders and spider venom in his lab and that he uses the expensive paintings , that he stole after the war , from the local church to secretly sell to unscrupulous art dealer in order to finance his experiments . Were never really told what he's attempting to do with the venom and why . it seems that he's trying to create a super powerful poison & nerve gas agent to either revive his beloved Third Reich but we never really know for sure if Huber is a fugitive fanatical Nazi or not or if he just wants to sell his super poison WMD , Weapon of Mass Destruction , to the highest bidder just to enrich himself . The movie " Venom " goes on with Paul finding that Huber's saw mill that employs almost everyone in town is being used to saw people , who are killed by the " Spider-Girl " Anna , to pieces and then have their bodies , or whatever's left of them , disposed of . There's a number of locals working for both Huber & Ellen led by this not so bright thug Johann who always slips up and is such a burden on Haber's & Ellen's work with the spiders that he's viciously whipped on Hellen's orders . later Johann get's his revenge on Ellen by beating her head in and leaving her for dead as hundreds of deadly spiders break loose from their cages in Haber's lab . " Venom " totally disintegrates , literally , at the end with almost everyone going up flames including what seem to be Anna's mother or guardian Frau Kessler . With the now totally insane Huber , doing an imitation of Anthony Perkins at the end " Psycho " , looking like his face was badly stung by his spiders who were just as outraged at his experiments with them as the audience was in being conned , through false advertisements on the DVD box , into watching the movie . You watch " Venom " expecting something to happen and all you get is a number of unrelated scenes and people , what exactly did that bunch of thugs working for Huber have to do with the movie anyway ? You also never get any intelligent answer to just what Anna had to do with Huber's experiments only getting some kind of lame explanation that she's being used by him like some kind of a scarecrow to scare people away from town in order to keep them from finding out about his secret experiments . Anna if anything else attracted Paul to the town and his being there spelled the end for Huber his daughter Hellen Frau Kessler and the rest of the gang of vicious and drunken hoodlums , including Johann , who worked for them .
Schweinhunt ! Take him out and Shoot Him !	SOME SPOILERS Called into the the office of the Moscow Bureau of Counter Espionage Vera Marocve , code name Miss V , is told by Commissar Krotov that he has a secret assignment for her behind the lines in Nazi occupied Paris . It turns out that the top Nazi spy Greta Hiller has been killed by the French Resistance and her body buried and hidden from the Germans . Vera then find out that Miss V is a dead-ringer for the dead Grteta Hiller and that will give her all the cover that she needs to find out what the Germans are planing in the conduct of their war against the Soviet Union and her allies the USA & UK . Outragiously bad wartime movie with Miss V together with the French resistance trapped behind the lines and a number of fellow Soviet agents in Paris saving a major US / UK convoy from being annihilated by a fleet Nazi U-Boats , or wolf packs , in the frigid North Atlantic . Being arrested by the Nazis almost as soon as she got to France Mis V doesn't realize that she was given a golden cigarette-lighter by the French Quisling , artist Henri Vevallier , that was really a conformation of her being the ace German Spy Greta Hiller . It was given to Greta by the Fuhrer Adolf Hitler himself for her excellent service to the Fatherland . With Miss V now accepted by the Nazi police and Gestapo as German spy Greta Hiller she get's in touch with Henri to have him get the important information ; a German planned attack on the convoy back to Moscow to prevent the evil Nazi plan from being executed . The usual wartime-propaganda that you would expect from a movie where the USSR the Evil Emprie , as President Reagen called it , is made to look as wholesome and as American as apple pie . Since the USSR was tying down as much as 300 German infantry and amour divisions in a life and death struggle with the Nazis on the Eastern Front , to the USA / UK engaging less then then 5 ( The Afrika Corps ) in North Africa , back then in 1942 when the film was released . Miss V using her wits and all of her charms to get her admiring but naive German officer boyfriend Col . Wolfgang Heinrick to tell her everything he knows about the secret German U-Boat attack planned on the allied convoy . Which in the end has him put against a wall and shot by the Gestapo . With the help of two allied soldiers trapped behind enemy lines , Steve & Gerry , Miss V and her Soviet contact Dr . Suchevcky in Paris Miss V gets the news back to Moscow before the Gestapo break into Dr . Schevcky's hideout , a gin mill , where he has a secret wireless hidden in a hollowed out beer barrel . Making their escape Miss V and her fellow Nazi-fighters make it to safety back in the USSR as Dr . Suchevcky stays and dies at his post , the radio , to get the vital information back to his boss and thus save the allied convoy from total destruction by the German Navy and Luftwaffe . Embarrassingly bad but still watchable , due to it's unintentional comedic story-line and acting , war-time movie . With the Commissar giving a patriot little speech at the end of the film about how we all have to stick together in our struggle against the Nazis . We also have a film clip of Adolf Hitler giving a rousing and rip roaring speech without sub-titles , that you can only understand if you know German , in what were told is in Paris but obviously in Germany , or the German city of Nuremberg . The speech goes on and on and on just to pad the , " Miss V from Moscow " , movie to make it over it's over 60 minute length in order to qualify it as a " B " or second , or third , rate feature film . At the end of the film we see Miss V and Steve dressed up as Russian peasants laughing and living it up in the USSR on the back of a hey filled horse drawn cart . I think that they were laughing at us , not the Nazis , for putting up with and taking seriously both them and the movie .
Take Off My Clothes ! What Are You Some Kind Of NUT ! ! !	( Some Spoilers ) More like a home movie then anything else " The Sex Killer " plot is your run of the mill sex pervert film with nothing to recommended it but a number of pretty girls , who for the most part end up getting strangled , and a look at the grimy streets and red light district of Manhattan circa the mid 1960's . Tony who works in a mannequin warehouse in the Garment District of New York City is a bit shy with women having trouble making any connection or striking up any relationship with them . We see at the start of the movie Tony going into a camera store and buying a pair of binoculars that he later uses to spy , from the safety of a high-rise buildings rooftop , on young women sunbathing in the nude . Getting all hot and worked up seeing all these busty young women , who seem to be posing for him , from his porch on top f the high-rise Tony get up enough nerve t go down to Times Square and pick up a hooker . Tony's encounter with the hooker turns out to be a total dud with him not having enough money to have any action with her . All the hooker allows Tony , who only has $10 . 00 on him , to do is watch her undress and nothing more . It's then that something inside Tony's sick minds snaps and sets him off to stalk down and murder a number of young women , including the hooker whom he picked up , mostly in their apartments that Tony breaks into . The film " The Sex Killer " runs it's predictable course with Tony getting more and more careless every time he gets away with murdering his victims . Tony in order to satisfy his sick sexual urges also rapes and violates the womens after he murders them having him dubbed by the local newspapers and police as the " New York Necrophilia Rapist / Killer " . Breaking again into a young woman's apartment in order to satisfy his now out of control and inflamed libido Tony ends up getting caught when she escapes from his clutches . Running out of her apartment and into the hallway , totally nude , the young woman together with a good neighbor , who gave her a robe to cover up , get a hold of a cop outside the building to arrest the murderous pervert . Chasing Tony up on the roof the cop pulls no punches , as he pulls out his revolver , blasting Tony and causing him to fall some 20 floors to his death below . Tony for his part was a very sick young man who desperately needed help to control and cure his uncontrollable and dangerous sexual desires . Unfortunately Tony didn't seek help and it was after he crossed that point of no return when he went from watching to murdering the women that turned him on that there was no help that society , other then long stretch behind bars or a cops bullet in his chest , could offer him .
Horror Hotel	SPOILERS With a gathering of family members and servants of the late Christopher Dean , John Carradine , to hear his last will and testament they get somewhat of a surprise in that the Dean fortune , some 140 million dollars . The money is to be divided between them but only after they successfully spend a week at the Dean mansion . There seemed to have been a mix-up in the story when we later find out that it's really an overnight sleepover , not a weeks vacation , at the mansion for the guests to qualify for Dean's money since almost everyone ends up dead by sunrise . The first victim of the Dean Curse have nothing at all to do with getting and money from the departed Christopher Dean estate the local sheriff Dan Garcia , Rodolfo Acosta . Acosta has his head chopped off refrigerated and then served on a platter to a shocked group of guests . Later that evening cute little Chin Greg and Laura's , Jeff Morrow & Marry Anders , little pet pooch is found dead outside floating in the pond . The movie has all the people staying at the Dean Mansion being picked off one by one until it's revealed who the killer really is . We then have what seems to be a double-twist in the story where the original killer is suddenly killed together with two of the last remaining guest . The real killer ends up not only getting all the loot , 140 million dollars , but then ends up not having to split it with his accomplice by doing him , or her , in by giving him a poisonous cookie that kills him on the spot . Nonsensical who done it , and haunted house , movie with a cast of such immoral and unlikable characters that even a mother , much less the audience , would have trouble liking . There's everything you can possibly think of in the move involving the selective guests that includes incest S & M sadism and of course double-dealing and back-stabbing not even counting murder . You just couldn't care less who of the guests survives to collect the Dean fortune at the end of the movie hoping against all hope then none of them do . Even the big surprise at the end isn't really that much of a surprise since the killer's identity is divulged with the film-maker having forgotten to keep his face in the shadows so you actual see who he is even before he reveals himself ! We then have a plot-twist that eliminates the killer together with a number of remaining guest just to make the movie a little more confusing then it already is . The final plot-twist , that you can see coming from as far as ten miles away , was just to show how smart the very obvious killer was which fooled almost nobody watching the movie .
Drink in good health	SPOILERS Almost Incomprehensible horror movie that can't seem to make up its mind to what it's all about involving these four kidnapped beauties who are needed to supply the heads of this cult of wackos with their blood to keep them alive . The actual head man , someone or something called Raul , of this cult is seen in more or less a cameo role with only his disembodied head seen in what looks like a red dyed water filled fish-tank giving orders to his under-links . What was even more amazing then Raul's head in its being able to stay alive without a body attached to it was its unique ability to both breath and talk , without gargling , while it was submerged underwater ! Raul's second and third in command is a couple of crackpots , Baru & Ranu , who've survived the ravages of both time and the aging process living to be almost 500 years old . It's because of the blood of the young woman who they had kidnapped by their hulking servants , a bunch of shaved headed mutes , that the two drink that's been keeping them alive and kicking all these years . The kidnapped girls-Laura Clair Ann & Bonnie-being of sound mind and body , and free of venereal disease , are to be used to supply Baru & Ranu with their youthful and healthy blood for their survive . It turns that Laura is given a free pass in not donating to the Red Cross in that she's actually an old flame of Baru who passed away some 500 years ago . Baru came to that amazing conclusion by his uses of automatic writing that had his hand , totally independent from his both brain and body , sketch an image of her before he even met Laura . Despite being offered the miracle of eternal life Laura is anything but impressed by spending the rest of her life , which would be eternal , with the creepy looking Baru who's anything but a Cary Grant or Tyrone Powers . Baru comes across more like an up to date , as well as better dressed , and modern version of the butterfingered Fritz ! Dr . Frankenstein's bumbling assistant in the horror classic " Frankenstein " ! After thinking things over Baru himself decides to join the girls with the exception of Claire , who stayed behind and ended up being eaten alive by a hoard of hungry rats , to make a break and escape from Raul , the head in the fish tank , and his partner Ranu's compound . It's later that Baru falls by the wayside , in the Philippine jungles , when his age catches up with him leaving him looking like a dried up and decomposed mango that even the ants and roaches in the jungle would avoid eating . The girls-Laura Bonnie & Ann - making good their escape from Ranu's hulking and diaper wearing thugs and reaching civilization are now in danger of being committed for the crazy and unbelievable stories they tell , the Philippine police , about their incredible adventures in the wild . This in effect gives Ranu and her boss-the head-Raul much needed breathing room to continue and conduct their criminal actions ! Of them having kidnapped and then sucking the blood out of young girls , like the one's who just escaped , to keep them alive forever .
Are you looking for Pazuzu or is Pazuzu looking for you ?	( Spoiler Alert ) Checking out all the facts about young Regan MacNeil ( Linda Blair ) exorcism , that cost the lives of both Fathers Merrin and Karres who preformed it , the Cathloic Church in Rome sends out to New York City the very reluctant Father Lamont , Richard Burton , to investigate the case and clear Father Merrin's name . There are rumors going around in the church that Father Merrin was in fact a devil worshiper . Father Lamont has had it with the exorcism business feeling that there's nothing that he , or anyone else , can do to stop the spread of " Evil " in the world . Still Lamont goes to NYC to see Ragen and if she has the ability to battle Satan's evil forces . As former African tribesman and now scientist and expert on the African Desert Locust Dr . KoKumo ( James Earl Ray ) told Father Lamont later in the film that Ragen can keep the locusts , the agents of Satan and his top man Pazuzu , from brushing their wings . Thus preventing Pazuza from turning them into gluttonous crop eating locusts into happy-go-lucky and harmless grasshoppers . What else can be said or added to this interesting observation that Dr . Kokumo tells us ? the story about the " Grasshopper and the Ant " ? Father Lamont becomes obsessed with this idea of using Regan as the catalyst to destroy Pazuzu and his hoards after he went to Africa after hearing Dr . Kokumo revelation . Lamont is so carried away with his obsession he's almost killed by a group of Africian villages for suspecting him of being in league with the Devil . Lamont meeting Dr . Kokumo has convinced him that Regan being the human version of the good female locust who can turn the " Evil " locusts into " Friendly " grasshoppers . Back in New York an almost deranged and driven Father Lamont is going to put Dr . Kokum's theory into practice ! The ending of the movie " The Exorcist Part II " is really too much with Father Lamont having it out with the " Evil " Regan who tries to seduce him and thus become corrupted by her . Meanwhile the good Regan , both parts played by Miss . Blair , just stands there on a ledge wondering what she's doing in the movie . As the battle between good and evil begins millions upon millions of locusts swarm all over the city of Washington D . C . All the action centers around the closed down and shuttered house where the exorcism of Regan took place four years ago . The scene with Father Lamont and the " Evil " Regan having it out in her bedroom is just too off the wall to watch without cracking up . Lamont looked as if he were drugged or drunk and acted as if he were a zombie throughout most the film . Lamont battling and ripping the " Evil " Regan's heart out has to be one of the most outrageous and ridicules scenes ever put on a movie screen . There's an even funnier scene earlier in the movie where Father Lamont and Regan had both their brains electronically synchronized , in a cheap hotel room in Washington Heights ! This brainless action was done so that Lamont & Regan could think alike in order to combat Pazuzu and his boss the one and only " Big Man " himself Satan . Richard Burton looks completely out of his head in most of his scenes in the film . I wondered if after making the movie Burton accelerated his drinking just to forget that he ever made it and thus also accelerated his untimely and early death in 1984 at the age of 59 . Linda Blair was a real knockout even at the early age of 17 . It's no wonder that after she survived from that disaster of a movie Linda became famous for playing roles of sexy frisky and hard hitting young women who can give as good as they take from the same as well as opposite sex in films like " Roller Boogie " and " Savage Streets " . Acadamy Adward Winning Actress Louise Fletcher , who played young Regan's psychiatrist and friend Dr . Gene Tuskin , also survived the movie , more or less , with her reputation still in tact . Fletcher happily got the roles in future films that her fine talents called for . Even more encouraging her role in " The Exorcist Part II " is almost totally forgotten by most of the movie going public . " The Exorcist Part II " was voted by both critics and movie goers alike the worst movie of 1977 . Watching it today , some thirty years later , the only thing wrong with that opinion is that it's not just the worst movie of that year , 1977 , but very possibly one the worst movie of all times .
Brain Drain	SPOILERS Sloppy and confusing haunted house movie that seems to have been spliced together by a bunch of film editors who were high on Johnny Walker Black . Nothing in the film " A Name for Evil " makes any sense including it's " Suprise Ending " which is no surprise at all since like the rest of the movie it predictably makes no sense to those of us watching it . Robert Culp as John Blake looks more confused and disoriented in the film then scared as the owner of " The Major's " place that was left to him by his great-granddaddy " The Major " who was a captain in the Confederate Army during the American Civil War . There's also a very unemotional scene , on John's part , at the funeral of John's younger brother Moss who was killed during the fighting in the War in Vietnam which has , or seems to have , nothing to do with the movie . At the start of the film " A Name for Evil " we have John quit his job as a big city architect and check out to the Vancouver countryside into his great-granddad " The Major's " place . John wants to get away from the dog-eat-dog world that he's been living in all his adult life thats been burning him out . At first you think that John's wife Joanna , Samantha Eggar , wasn't going with him since she thought he was a bit too hasty in his plans . Later Joanna pops up , like a ghost , at " The Major's " place and together with John they both start to get the place fixed up where they can live in it . John also gets Fats , Mike Lane , the local hotel manager car mechanic cook and all around handyman to have a number of the towns locals to also help fix up " The Major's " place . We later see workmen discover a hidden room in " The Major's " place where'The Major " kept his most secret papers and documents that hasn't been touched for some fifty years . Were never told just what was the reason for them being there in the first place , wasn't anyone interested in finding out what was in them ? Later a bunch of John and Joanna's friends stop over at " The Major's " place for the weekend to talk about old times . John , bored with the meaningless chit-chat goes outside and sees " The Major's " white horse , who if alive must have been close to 100 years old . Without a second thought John suddenly jumps on it's back and rides into town as it dumps John inside the local bar . Getting up off the floor John parties with the people there in a drunken orgy ! Was there supposed to be some hidden symbolism in this totally senseless scene ? Striking up a friendship with local girl Luanna Baxter , Sheila Sullivan , John and Luanna end up both drunk and in bed together the next morning from the all night partying . Going back to " The Major's " with his car , not his horse , John is surprised shocked confused , like all of us watching the movie , and finally outraged by Joanna's accusations of him brutalizing and beating her up the night before ! Being that John was with Luanna at the time he tells Joanna that she's nuts for saying what she did about him and that he could prove that he didn't . That truth by spending the night with Luanna was almost as bad , in Joanna's mind , as abusing and beating her . John in a fit of fury drives back to town to get Luanna to prove his innocence which sets up the films " Suprise Ending " that confuses you even more then you were confused already by the movie up till then . " A Name for Evil " is both an eyesore and headache to anyone trying to watch and understand just what it's trying to tell you which only those who wrote the script really know for sure . . I Think ?
Jungle Fever	SPOILERS Spending most of her adult life in the African jungles American missionary Dr . Jackson not only helped hundred of natives to see the light and better their and their friends and families lives but also helped herself to a fortune of some $20 , 000 . 00 in gold nuggets . that she found , with divine guidance , all around her mission grounds . Dr . Jackson also picked up in the wilds of Africa and secretly brought back home to America a jungle ape-man that she called Ingeena . Back in the states Dr . Jackson decides to make out her will and leaves everything that she owns , her house as well as her stash of gold , to sweet and pretty Eleanor who just got married at the local church to Robert Lindsey where Dr . Jackson was one of the invited guests . It turns out that Dr . Jackson knew both of Eleanor's parents who were killed in a tornado when she was only 10 months old and has been looking after Eleanor , behind the scenes , all that time . It's not fully explained in the movie but you get the impression that Dr . Jackson was in love or even had an affair with Eleanor's father before he married another woman her mother . After having her lawyer Mr . Bradshaw make out her will Dr . Johnson goes down to her laboratory and secret basement , where she keeps Ingeena hidden from the public . After mixing some chemicals she becomes very excited yelling that she just discovered the greatest secret in the history of mankind . As she runs upstairs to check out what composite of the formula she just discovered is Ingeena gulps it down , thinking that it's some kind of new and exotic jungle fruit drink , and then suddenly goes bananas breaking out of the basement and attacking and killing Dr . Johnson . The movie " Son of Ingagi " is an all-black comedy horror movie even though one of it's major stars , Laura Bowman as Dr . Jackson , can easily pass for white . The Lindseys , who had everything to gain by Dr . Jackson death , are suspected in not only her murder but later in the deaths of both Dr . Johnson's scheming and criminal brother Zino as well as her lawyer Bradshaw . Whom both the wild and crazy jungle ape-man Ingeena murdered . Robert & Eleanor moving into Dr . Johnson's home have no idea that Ingeena is roaming around and raiding the ice-box and stuffing himself with baloney and salami sandwiches while no one was looking . Having detective Nelson put on the case he always screws things up by sleeping on the job and trying to help himself to a free meal which the clever Ingeena always beats him to . Ingeena for his part starts to take a strong liking for Eleanor whom he then kidnaps and brings down to his secret hideout , the Lindsey's basement , to have a good time with . Being so enchanted with Eleanor's beauty the absent-minded Ape-man doesn't realize that he knocks over a gas lamp setting the basement and entire house on fire , Robert looking for Eleanor and noticing that there's smoke coming out from behind the wall of his bedroom goes together with the just awakened and totally bewildered Det . Nelson to the basement . After finding and slugging it out with Ingeena Robert rescues Eleanor and makes it out of the house and right into the arms of the police , lead by Det . Nelson's boss Chief Graves . It turns out that the apparently burned to death hero Det Nelson staggers out of the bushes with two sacks full of gold coins and nuggets that Dr . Johnson had hidden in her house . Robert & Eleanor thinking that they lost everything that the had in the world are now , with the gold belonging to them because of Dr . Jackson's last will and testament , rich and can start a new life and finally put the unpleasant and deadly episode that they had with ape-man Ingeena behind them .
What the Hell is That !	( Some Spoilers ) What seems at first like a " The Hills have Eyes " rip-off " Alive or Dead " is in fact in a class of its own . The film " Alive or Dead " starts off with busty and talkative Maria having a hot session of phone sex with her hot and horny , off camera , boyfriend Terry . With the battery of her cellphone losing juice Maria also finds herself stuck in the middle of the desert with two , not one , flat tires . It's then that the action starts with Maria instead of staying in the safety of her locked SUV wanders out in the night to check out an abandoned school-bus with the words , in blood , " help me " written of the side-window . The film then take you into a minefield of ridiculous situations involving Maria and her now friend , who was found tied up and hooded inside the school bus , and ally Sarah . All this leaves you more confused by the time the movie is over then you were before it even started ! The film has more then its share of nuts and they seem to pop up every few minutes just to both introduce themselves to the audience and then get killed off . There's first the unstable and creepy bus driver who we later find out is a happily married family man with a pregnant wife , Gretchen , back home . What he and Gretchen have to do with the other , if not the major , nut-case in the film Frank is very vague and left up in the air and to the confused viewers imagination by the films writers and director . Frank whom you at first thought was a real cool and straight up guy and in fact the hero of the movie later turned out to be a cannibalistic murderer who ate among others , one of the other nut cases to pop up unexpectedly in the film , the mad monk-like Howard's young daughter back in 1982 ! There's also the cute and cuddly but very undernourished boy cannibal Bubbles who's face looks like a pizza pie , with extra extra cheese , that was left in the oven long after it was already done . Bubbles is always seen munching on the-by then-dead bus driver's hand and pointing at his wedding ring which he offers to the amazed and terrified two girls Maria & Sarah as some kind of present . It wasn't until almost at the end of the movie that you realized that , with her wearing the identical wedding ring , the bus driver and Gretchen were in fact married ! MAJOR SPOILERS Of all the confusion in the movie the connection between Frank Gretchen and the bus driver is the most confusing of all . Were then given to understand that it was non other then Sarah's recently deceased father Dr . Benson who delivered Farnk some 40 years ago and that's the reason that the bus driver had it in for Sarah in , this is just my take in this crazy mixed up mess of a movie , Frank not the bus driver being the one whom impregnated his wife Gretchen ! This suspicion seemed to be confirmed by Gretchen herself when after being rescued by Sarah begged her to kill her before it was to late ! The too late was in her giving birth to the deranged cannibalistic and murderous Frank's offspring !
This Is Crazy !	( There Are Spoilers ) Usual slasher film with the story taking place in and around this God-forsaken mine outside the almost deserted town of Sutterille . After receiving a letter map and gold nugget from her brother Jared , Shadrach Smith , Clair and her husband Nick Breman , Carrie Bradac & Sean Hines , drive to the village together with four other friends and armature gold-prospectors Alx & Tori , Steve Wastell & Sangie , and Hayden & Rox Ann , Rick Majeske & Elina to stake their claim . It later turns out that the fact that Jared disturbed the long-forgotten gold mine caused the ghost of the notorious Jeremiah Stone , Vernon Wells , to come back to life and with that restart his reign of terror . Stone , or 49er , is about the most ridicules slasher / killer in motion picture history . Stone looks like he was buried for years under a few tons of coal runs around with this hook slicing people in two . After doing in almost the entire cast local hermit Aunt Nelly , ( Karen Black ) , who's daughter Eve ( Alexandra Ford ) was also one of Stone's victims , tells those still alive that unless they return the gold back to the Stone mine the crazed miner will never rest until he kills all those who still have it . Aunt Nelly is given just enough time to tell her story before she's turned into a human torch by Stone and ends up jumping into a nearby stream . The movie goes on endlessly with the killer miner on the rampage looking like he's about as scary as burnt toast and just as dark . Even those in the film seemed to show no real fear of him . In one scene when he broke into Aunt Nelly's house everyone inside all charged , instead of running away , him causing the ghost miner to lose his right arm ; Stone spent the rest of the movie with a miner's pick attached to his " stump " . Besides Actress Karen Black the film " Miners Massacre " also has veteran actors John Phillip Law and Richard Lynch as the town Sheriff Murphy and Old Man Prichard . Passable stuff but nothing special the movie has a predictable ending with the entire gold mine going up in flames . The audience given a hint by the makers of " Miners Massacre " that the end to this mindless lunacy is nowhere in sight and may very well resurface in the very near future in a possible sequel , God help us all !
Knock on Wood	SPOILERSMind boggling action movie that takes place on the eve of the British colony city of Hong Kong being handed over to the Red Chinese . The movie is about this group of Russian international mobsters who plan to blackmail the world with thousands of button , or micro , bombs . The Russians hide them in knockoff , phony high priced and name item , clothes and electrical equipment as well as toys . Then threaten to detonate them if they aren't paid , like cable TV , a monthly fee of 100 million dollars . Jean-Clude Van Damme is Marcus Ray a shady businessman who exports knockoff running shoes and jeans who gets involved up to his neck in the action . This happens when it's found out that his partner in crime the lovable and wise-cracking Tommy Hendricks , Rob Schneider , is an undercover CIA agent planning to get the goods on him , as well as his associates , in the illegal knockoff business . It soon becomes evident that knockoffs aren't the only headache on the minds of the CIA . It's found that their , the knockoff clothes and toys , are being used as explosives by the Russian mobster and suddenly Ray becomes a good guy in stopping , together with Hendricks , that from happening . Still Ray is hamstrung by ambitious CIA agent Karen Lee , Lela Rochon , who's playing double-agent in the film . This confuses both Ray & Hndricks to the point where all thee almost end up shooting each other . SPOILER ALERTIt turns out that the person behind this evil and grandiose plan is non other then the CIA chief in charge of covert Hong Kong operations himself chubby Harry Johnson , Paul Sorvino , who together with even chubbier Hong Kong crime kingpin Slim , Glen Chin , are working together with the evil Russians in this crazy and off the wall criminal venture . The mindless action is almost non-stop in the movie with Ray going from rickshaw races to food fights and warehouse shootouts and finally a showdown with the Russians . This happens on an outgoing freighter loaded with bomb laden ripoffs headed for US Pacific port cities to unload and , by remote satellite control , activate them . People in the movie seem to be killed over and over again coming back for more like walking dead zombies especially the Russian mobsters . Who have , for what at first seems like no reason at all , hoods over their heads . Later you realize that it , the hoods , were just there so you won't see or recognize them coming back to get themselves killed , by Ray & Co , all over again sometimes as much as three or four times . The leader of the Slavic mobsters himself is done in a number of times by both Ray & Lee only to come back for more . Thats until Ray , out of sheer frustration , finally finishes him off much like he would have done to a vampire . But not with the usual wooden stake driven through his heart but with a ten ton steel cargo container dropped square on top of his head ! All kinds of wild and far out zany camera angles make you dizzy following the non-stop action scenes with bad guy CIA turncoat Johnson getting the worst of it . Johnson gets knocked around all over the place then set on fire , with a bottle of deadly sulfuric acid , and then killed in a freighter explosion . Just when you thought the movie and Johnson were history he again killed in another explosion in his Hong Kong hideout . Johnson who at that point seemed to have come back from the dead has the same crazed and manic look in both scenes in both scenes that he was killed .
Boogie Woogie	SPOILERS Better then average special effects can't make up for the almost unintelligible story-line of the movie " Boogeyman " that seems to take young Tim , Barry Watson , into a kind of astral world where time and space as well as logic are non-existent . We first get to see Tim as an eight year-old boy terrified of the dark and feeling that there's some Boogeyman hiding in his bedroom closet . His dad , Charles Mesure , trying to convince young Tim that it's all in his imagination is suddenly scooped up by some unseen force and dragged into Tim's closet never to be seen again . Nothing seemed to have happened to Tim for the next 15 or so years until one Thanksgiving weekend where he at first gets some strange and eerie feeling that his mother , Lucy Lawless , who's confined to a hospital bed is going to die . Sure enough while spending the weekend at his girlfriend Jessica , Tory Musseh , family home Tim gets a call from the hospital that his mom passed away . Talking to his late mother's physician Dr . Mathesow , Robyn Calcolm , Tim is told that the best way for him to get over his grief and self-guilt about not being at his mother's bedside is to spend a night at her home ; the very place where Tim's fear of the dark and enclosed places , like closets , originated from . Meeting an old high school friend Kate , Emily Deschanel , at his mom's funeral Tim later has her come over at the deserted house where she undergoes the same terrors that Tim does . We also get to meet young and cute little Fanny , Skye McCole Bratuslak , hanging around the house as if she were a ghost . Fanny also seems to know a lot about the strange and unexplained goings on in the house with scores of little boys and girls like her materializing out of nowhere . Later Tim finds out that Fanny was a missing child since 1985 from a poster she had in her satchel and in the photo she didn't look a day older then she is now ! We then also get to see Tim's girlfriend Jessica unexpectedly show up at the house with both of them taking off for a motel only to have Tim , minus Jessica , back at his mom's house when he walks through a door in his motel room ! There's nothing in the movie that explains what exactly Fanny and Jessica were doing in Tim's mom's house and later we don't exactly know if Jessica was in fact killed even though we see her drowning in the bathtub at the motel . This all comes across more as an hallucination that a real event in Tim's now very disturbed and unbalanced mind . As for the sweet and mysterious little Fanny she disappears from the movie almost as fast as she at first appeared in it . It's then when the floodgate opens with the thing in he closet , or Boogeyman , coming out into the open with both Tim and Kate , whom you almost forgot about , battling it out with him for the movies big and very confusing final sequence . The only way you can make any sense out of the film is by explaining it away as some kind of paranoid induced vision on Tim's part in taking over his mind and distorting his sense of reality . If you try to rationalize what happened as fact you may very well end up in the same state of mind that Tim was in the movie and even in a bed next to his in the hospital mental therapy ward .
Behold the Confusion	( There are Spoilers ) Stylish but very muddled and confusing movie about this British computer geek Steve Wilson , Ewan McGregor , known to his associates in a top and secretive UK government spy agency only as " The Eye " . The Eye gets involved with a woman serial murderess Joanna Eris , Ashly Judd , after falling in love with her , from afar . The Eye somehow mistakes or associates her with his long lost daughter Lucy who was taken away from Steve seven years ago by his estranged wife . Lucy for some strange reason is played in the movie by two actresses who may very well be twin sisters Anne Marie & Kaihin Brown . The Eye is a bit of a recluse as he has almost no contact with the outside world with the exception of his handler or controller in the spy agency this woman only known as Hilary , K . D Lang . Hilary gets a bit annoyed and angry with him when he drops what he's supposed to do , spying and getting the goods on corporate criminals , and spends the entire movie checking out and spying on the sexy Joanna from coast to coast , and head to toe . Joanna ends up in the wilds of Alaska in this God-forsaken place called the " End of the World Cafe " where she's a waitress . The Eye get's to find out all about Joanne's secret life as a serial murderess when he's spying on this executive who's embezzling funds from his company who ends up being murdered by her . For some reason The Eye convinces himself that Joanna is his daughter Lucy and spends the rest of the movie following her , in secret . The Eye follows Joanna In cities as far away from each other as Boston is to San Francisco covering up about a half dozen murders she committed . In the end The Eye saves Joanna's life from this drug-addicted psycho Gary , Jason Priestley , out in the desert of Coloardo . Gary for some reason went berserk when Joanna refused to share a needle with him . The Eye trying to find out just who Joanna is tracks her secret past down to a school for troubled girls in Boston run by a Doctor Brault , Genevieve Bujold . Dr . Brault not only seems to be as unstable as Joanna but also thought her everything that she knows about being a successful fugitive from he law which she is now . Joanna who's psychotic hatred of men seems to stem from her being abandoned by her father at an early age goes through the movie murdering every man she comes in contact with . The weird and creepy Steve , or The Eye , not only covers up her crimes but commits a number of other killings as well ! The Eye gets Joanna's fianc the blind artist Alex Leonard , Patrick Bergin , killed by blowing out his limousine tires as him and Joanna were about to drive to the local church to get married . Later The Eye brutally beats up , with brass knuckles , the wild and crazy Gary whom he locked in the trunk of his car . Then put the car on auto-pilot as it drove around in circles aimlessly with Gary left to die in the burning Colorado desert . The movie finally ends in the cold and snowy wastelands of Alaska where The Eye finally gets enough nerve to meet and talk to Joanna who's working as a waitress in this Dead End Caf . After , again , saving her from getting arrested by the FBI for a number of murders that she committed only to later get shot by her when she has another one of her many psychotic fit's when she's alone with a man . It seems that the bullet that The Eye took from Joanna was either a blank or missed him entirely since The Eye immediately recovers from being shot ! he then chases Joanna , who carjacked his car , on a motorcycle that just happened to be outside the shack that he was staying at . The ending is as ridicules as the rest of the movie " Eye of the Beholder " with Joanna surviving a car crash landing in the ice of a frozen pond with The Eye , who she just tried to murder , coming to her rescue . Battered and blooded with blood stains under her nose giving her the look of having an Adolf Hitler-like mustache Joanna and The Eye kiss and embrace each other as the movie suddenly and unexpectedly comes to an end , leaving the audience in a state of total confusion .
A Devilish Mess	SPOILERS Utterly ridicules re-make of " Rosemary's Baby " that should have been apply titled " Samantha's Babies " that's so convoluted that the film seems to completely fall apart in the last twenty or so minutes . It's not until I realized , by reading the trivia part of the film on the IMDb that it's star David Hammings , playing the part of big shot book publisher and all around international power broker , Earl Sidny died during production that it dawned on me that the movie makers realized that had a king size turkey on their hands . They must have did everything possible to terminate it even at the cost of an understandable , no matter how clumsy , conclusion . Hemmings is so bloated and his voice , which I suspect was dubbed in , so low and raspy that he's both unrecognizable and hard to understand in the few scenes , before he suddenly passed away , that he's in . Having trouble conceiving the Howard's Samantha & Carig , Heather Graham & James Purefoy , go to this clinic in the little town of Westview that's been recommended to them where it's said that miracles are preformed . The clinic is noted for giving women , who are totally barren like Samantha , the ability to give birth to healthy and beautiful babies . Being artificially inseminated with her husbands sperm Samantha quickly get's pregnant and to both her and her husbands Craigs happy surprise she finds out from her doctor at the clinic Dr . Leeds , Debora Weston , that she's expecting twins . Craig a struggling writer who earlier in the film was introduced to book publisher Earl Sidney at a party in New York City is suddenly in demand to get his book published with Earl Sidney offering him$100 , 000 . 00 as a first down payment . It becomes obvious to anyone ho saw read or knows about the film or book " Rosemary's Baby " that Craig had made some kind of deal with the Earl . We later learn that Earl is connected to this church called " The New Light of Dawn " that in effect is a secret Sanatic Order . The church is also being involved with the reproduction clinic that Samantha is being treated at . You know where the movie is going when it then takes a sudden U-turn and we're introduced to this really creepy looking guy that for some strange reason Samantha , who at the time didn't know that he's a priest , takes a strong liking to a Father Carlo , Andy Senkis . Carlo shocks Samantha in telling her that she's carrying the spawn of Satan and that only he with some liquid concoction , that looks like a fizzed out glass of Mountain Dew , can save her . Samantha who seems like she's going through with Carlo's unusual plan suddenly , at his pad or apartment , takes the liquid that she's supposed to drink and splashes it in his face ! where it reacts like it was acid burning a bloody scare onto it ! Samantha trying to get away from the crazed Carlo is then chased by him , in a car , all through the reproduction clinic with Carlo mindlessly busting through one operation room to another until he crashes in Dr . Leeds ' office ! In what seemed to be a prediction of things to come , as the gasoline in the car is spilling all over him , Carlotells the befuddled doctor that " He who walks with Satan shall burn in Hell " and then sets himself on fire with a lighter . The ending is so confusing , which like I feel is due to David Hemmings sudden death , that it makes what you saw up to it , as bad as that was , almost entertaining . We get to see the two twin girls born to Samantha grown up as preschool toddlers . The twins have this weird and spaced out look on their faces and at the same time doing what they do best in being blood-relatives to the Devil , or Satan : Creating hell on earth for anyone that they come in contact with .
Crime Doctors Paris Adventure	SPOILERS Talky and boring " Crime Doctor " movie that showed , being the next to last of the series , that the " Crime Doctor " Dr . Robert Ordway was running out of patients and stories . Dr . Ordway had to go so far as to have the almost incomprehensible story explained during a rest period in a fight , that he had with the villain . Then after the Paris Police came to his rescue come up with another explanation and even later , as the movie ended , explain what happened again in the police station . With him getting a foot warmer from what turned out to be the partner , an art dealer , of the killer ! Giving a lecture on crime and mental illness Dr . Ordway is invited by his friend inspector Morrell to examine Henri who claimed that he killed his father but can't remember when or how . Henri had married against his fathers wishes Mignon Duval and he thinks that's why he murdered him . Still he can't remember how it happened and want's to now plead guilty and divorce Mignon in order to avoid her from having the stigma of being married to a convicted murdered . The movie gets even more confusing with Dr . Ordway and Henri's lawyer Jules Davdel feeling that he's either innocent or insane which will at least , if Henri did in fact murder his dad , spare him from being executed . Just when you think you got a handle to whats happening there's this artist Anton Geroux thrown into the mix who's a friend of both Henri and Mignon . Geroux is involved in copying masterpieces and selling them through his fence art dealer Louis Chebonet as originals . Everything starts to go haywire in the movie with Mignon's father Jules a professional knife thrower who's suspected in killing Henri's father , he was stabbed to death , who's himself later found dead in his apartment under the covers and under somewhat mysterious circumstances ! Later artist Geroux , who's suspected in Henri's fathers murder by Dr . Ordway , is brutally murdered when this unknown assailant breaks into his studio and hacks him to death ! This leaves Henri , whom Dr . Ordway is certain is innocent , off the hook since it would have been impossible , with him under 24 hour police observation , for him to have murdered them . This also proves that that since he had nothing to do with Jules & Geroux , who were suspected in his fathers murder , murders he couldn't have murdered his father either ! The big expose in the film to who murdered not only Henri's father but Jules & Geroux as well comes in this long and pointless auction , secretly set up by Dr . Ordawy , of one of the paintings that Henri's father owned that we find out was either a phony or the real deal ! The painting was switched by his killer who , feeling that it would be left to him in Henri's fathers will , now has to come out in the open to buy it and thus expose himself . Just too many subplots to keep up with what's going on and by the time you finally find out who killed Henri's father , together with Jules and Geroux , you couldn't even care less ! By the time the movie is over you feel just like like the " Crime Doctor " who , after the mental and physical beating he took in the movie , just wanted to take the first plane home and forget that he had anything at all to do with this mess .
Blue on Red	SPOILERS Garishly photographed in intense blue and red colors the movie " I Know Who Killed Me " gives us a clue to what's about to happen within the very first few minutes of the film . This all has to do with honor student and future concert pianist Aubrey Fleming , Lindsay Lohan . Aubrey is torn between following her music teachers Douglas Norquist , Thomas Tofel , advice in putting all her efforts into a musical , playing the piano , career or Aubery's real love in becoming world famous mystery writer . During the opening sequences of the movie there's a search for this missing girl , Jennifer Toland , who's eventually found murdered with her right hand and lower part of her right leg amputated . Jennifer will play a major part later in the film to not only bring out what the motives of her murderer was but how they connected her to both Aubrey and what later turned out to be her identical twin Dakota Moss also played by Miss . Lohan . Attending a New Salem high school football game to see her boyfriend the teams star running back Jerrod Pointer , Brian Geraghty , in action Aubery is later kidnapped by this Man in Blue who holds her hostage for some two weeks . Aubery is brutally tortured by her abductor and left for dead on the side of a road outside of town . Found with the exact same injuries as the late Jennifer Toland , an amputated right hand and foot , it's believed by the local police that Aubrey's abductor and Jennifer's murderer are one and the same person . The big surprise comes later when Aubrey regains conciseness and insists that she's not Aubrey Fleming at all ! She's a stripper who works out of the Strip Nightclub in the red light district of town called Dokata Moss ! The film has a difficult time getting the ball rolling in what exactly Dakota's state of mind really is . Is she really who she says that she is and if true were does that leave Aubery Fleming ? The unseen killer , or kidnapper , had somehow overlooked the fact that he had two , Aubery & Dakota , victims whom he kidnapped and brutally tortured were in fact related related to each other ! One of them , Dakota , not only wasn't whom he wanted to do a job on , by torturing and leaving her to die , but that in the end she would be the one who does a job on him ! Far too confusing to really follow " I Know Who Killed Me " leaves so many loose ends that you feel in trying to understand it's storyline that you'll slip and fall on your head like you would if you forgot to tie your shoelaces when you got dressed in the morning . Lindsey Lohan in what may be , I'm not really sure , her first adult acting part is surprising good as both Aubrey Fleming and Dakota Moss . I never expected Miss Lohan to be that believable in her two parts in the movie with all the bad publicity that she's gotten over the last two years as an out of control drug and alcohol abuser . The really big surprise in the film is not that both Aubrey and Dakota are really identical twins it's that their mother as well as father isn't Audrey's and Dakota's real parents Susan , Julia Osmond , and Daniel , Neal McDonough , Fleming ! Thats ' what fooled everybody in the movie and most of all the Man in Blue who's both Aubery and Dakota kidnapper and torturer as well as Jennifer Toland's murderer ! That major mistake on his part in the end was what not only tripped The Man in Blue up but caused the confused psycho to expose himself where he ended up getting run through by a hysterical and wildcat-like Dakota Moss !
The high cost of living and low cost of dying in L .	( Some Spoilers ) Dull as dishwater slasher flick that has this deranged homeless man Harry , Darwyn Swalve , out murdering real-estate agent all over the city of L . A because of the high prices that they charge for their proprieties . Looking like an extra from a Clint Eastwood " Spaghetti Western " Harry who's been living in abandoned houses eating dog food get's very upset where his quite lifestyle as a squatter is interrupted . This happens when a number of real-estate agents invaded his space in an attempt to sell the houses , that he's staying at to their potential clients . Joseph Bottome stars in this bottom-of-the-barrel horror movie as radio talk-show host Dr . David Kelly the handsome and popular host psychologist of the KDRX survival line . DR . Kelly is being sued by the family of one of his callers , Tracy , who ended up blowing her brains out while on the air with the doc who couldn't do anything to help her survive her ordeal of taking to him . The real-estate killer gets to talk with Dr . Kelly on the air about his adventures and the police try to get the doc to get his phone number and address , by keeping him on the line , but he refuses to in order not to hurt his rating by having potential callers not call in in fear of being monitored by the LADP . Kelly also is having a hot and heavy affair with a real-estate manager and agent the busty Lisa Grant , Adrienne Barbeau , who's office of sellers are Harry's main victims in he movie . Harry also gets to murder Lisa's main competition in the housing business the chubby and outrageous Barney Resnick , Barry Hope , who threatened to put Lisa out of business by any means possible even if he has to kill her . Getting Berney alone and with his pants down Harry slices his head off while he's being entertained by one of his clients , a hooker , whom he leaves dead and hanging together with the headless Barney . The movie ends with the deranged Harry taking Lisa hostage and having Dr . Kelly try to come to her rescue only to have Det . Shapiro ( Robert Miano ) , looking like e hasn't slept in a week , pop out of nowhere and blow Harry's brains out . Harry quickly come back to life minus the gay matter between his ears and gets himself killed for the second time in the movie by being thrown from a balcony and landing on the ground as a dozen members of the LAPD , M16 cocked and ready , come on the scene . Nothing in the movie " Opean House " worked with the tension laughable to almost non-existent . Even the hot sex scenes between Dr . Kelly and Lisa didn't save the movie since there were far too few , only two , of them and and sexy Adrienne Barbeau was a bit too underexposed , with not enough light and too much clothes on , in all of them . Harry the killer in the movie was also a bit to comical to be taken seriously in trying to make a point , to Dr . Kelly on the phone and in person , about the high rents and real-estate prices in the country and how people like himself find it almost impossible to find a decent place to live in . You can sympathize with Harry's concern about the high cost of living but be very critical of him in how he crazily went on in correcting it .
Bigfoot on ice	( Mild Spoilers ) The movie " Curse of Bigfoot " copies the earlier Bigfoot epic " Shriek of the Mutilated " with a Bigfoot hunter Norman Mason going out into the timberland country of Northern California with a troop of collage students to find the elusive man-like creature . Were first shown a number of film clips by high school teacher Dr . Bill Wyman about what Bigfoot-or Sasquatch-is really all about in his many sighting in both North America and the Himalayans Mountains where he's called Yiti by the natives who live there . It's then that Dr . Wyman introduces us , and his students , to a disheveled looking Norman Mason who's never been the same after he and his group of collage students encountered Bigfoot some five years ago . Were told by Mason that three of his students , as well as himself , have suffered deep psychological trauma after that shocking encounter and are now under constant and intensive psychiatric care . It's when Mason recites the story of his , and his collage students , encounter of the legendary Bigfoot that everything goes out of whack in that it isn't about Bigfoot at all ! It's in fact about this unrelated 100 , 000 year old Indian Mummy that he discovered outside the ghost town of Ivanpah California ! The Mummy came to life when it was exposed to the fresh air outside its tomb and , not having eaten in 100 , 000 years , started to search the countryside looking for a free , in that it didn't have any cash or credit cards , meal . The Mummy , not Bigfoot , ends up killing , and eating , a number of people but is later lured into a trap by Mason and his students as well as local Sheriff Walt where it's set on fire and burned to a crisp . The fact that there was nothing left of the killer Indian Mummy made Mason's story a bit unbelievable in that there was no proof at all that he ever had any contact with it or it even existed . Mason's story about three of the students with him ending up institutionalized also made no sense at all in that in his recounting of his amazing story they , the students , seemed to have been totally unaffected in their encounter with the Mummy . The film " Curse of Bigfoot " is actually two movie fused into one , like " They Saved Hitler's Brain " , being made some 17 years apart . The original film the 1958 unreleased " Teenagers Battle the Thing " had of course nothing at all to do with Bigfoot but the aforementioned Indian Mummy . The footage added on with Dr . Wyman was more or less an attempt to make the Mummy into a Bigfoot which turned out , after watching it , to be a complete and total failure . The most interesting thing about the film , far more than its depiction of Bigfoot , is that it has actor Ken Kloepfer in both the spliced together movies , some 17 years apart , playing the same role of Norman Mason !
I Wanna hear Some Bones Broken !	SPOILERS Romico doing sketches of scenery around town gets the attention of a gang of bikers who feel that their privacy had been invaded . The bikers then take it upon themselves to break the artists hands for doing it . You wonder just what's the big deal since the bikers , lead by this spaced out lunatic Keeg , are really doing nothing illegal at the time and can easily be photographed by dozens of people , including the police themselves who must have a number of their mug shots . The bikers getting Romico alone in his apartment house has Keeg slicing him in the stomach with a straight edge razor . Thats to teach Romico a lesson and keep him from drawing them but that just gets Romico , after he recovers , angrier . It turns out that Keeg and his gang are out on the streets picking up and recruiting young girls for this big-time Las Vages pimp that they work for . The thought that Romico's drawings of Keeg and his boys , and girls , will alert the local vice squad to his actions are as ridicules as Keeg himself . Since the Vice Squad headed by Det . Scott Bardy have been on to him for some time and must have an album of photos of his and his gang . The only reason you can gather for his unbalanced and bazaar actions is that he's suffering from some kind of paranoia from all the drugs and booze he's been taking and drinking . Romico injury meanwhile is being taken care of by this quack doctor and Lea who later turns out to be a spy for Keeg . The doctor gets Romico out of his apartment and into Lea's place where Romioc is given a bowl of hot soup and some close and warm attention from Lea has Keeg's bikers break into Romico's pad and steal his drawings . With Romico finding out that his place had been ransacked by the bikers and that his prize sword , who's significances is never explained to the audience , stolen he immediately goes to their hideout and beats up two of the bikers thus getting his sword back from them and leaving the place in shambles . This makes Keeg even more determined to do in Romico and then plans to kidnap him and break his hands so he'll never draw again . We also have this little episode in the movie where Keeg and his bikers rob this guy of his motorcycle in broad daylight at a local park beating him unconscious . All this seemed to be put in just to show how wild and crazy he and his boys . The scene had really nothing to do with either Romico Lea or later Janie , who was inducted into Keegs club and then gang raped and shot up with drugs and acid . It was Janie who wanted to join Keeg's gang , and then turned into a hooker and junkie by doing it , that eventually brought him down by almost dropping dead in the park . Janie tells the vice squad at the hospital what Keeg and his gang did , this gives the police the proof that they need to bust him and him gang . Keeg meanwhile had Romico kidnapped and brought to his hideout where his hands were about to be crushed in a vice . It's then that Lea changes her mind about betraying Romico and comes to his rescue freeing him by pulling a gun out on Keeg & Co . and having Romico released . The cops now on their way to the bikers hideout , after being told by Janie where it was , has Keegs about to take off but his biker moll Sandy is now afraid that he's leaving her . Keeg told Sandy Earlie that she doesn't have what it takes to be a member of his " exclusive " organization . Sandy grabbing Lea's gun and shooting wildly alerts the cops and has Keeg running for his life as all the other bikers scatter like a bunch of cockroaches when you turn the lights on . Onside Sandy who couldn't hit Keeg at point blank range in the clubhouse shoots wildly at the motorcycle fleeing Keeg from some 100 feet away , the gun actually jerks upwards before it goes off , and amazingly Sandy hits Keeg square on target killing him instantly . The movie ends with Sandy crying and holding the dying Keeg in her arms as the scene turns , or morphs , into one of Romico's drawings . More like a home movie then anything else with Bruce Dern as Keeg doing a good job looking like he's strung out on drugs . Chris Robinson as the sensitive and courageous artist Rominco looks as if he's sorry that he's in the movie and trying to keep a straight face in all the scenes he's in . Even when his hands are being screwed into a vice Robinson is so unconcerned to what's happening to him that he looks like his mind , or concentration , is anywhere but in the scene that he's in !
I know him ! That's Froelich , the mechanic on the Concorde !	( Some Spoilers ) The last and by far the worst of the " Airport " movies has ace airplane mechanic and all round handyman Joe Patroni , George Kennedy , now elevated to captain of the supersonic passenger jet Concorde who together with his co-pilot the hot shot Frenchman Capt . Paul Metrand , Alain Delon , are in for the ride of their lives . It turns out that big time business man Kevin Harrison , Robert Wagner , has been selling arms to countries like North Vietnam and terrorist organizations like Black September to make big bucks regardless of what those arms would do in killing innocent and American lives , like the GI's killed by them in the Vietnam War . About to be exposed by his lover news-reporter Maggie Whelan , Susan Blakely , Harrison plans to get her killed , together with the explosive evidence that she has on her , in a staged airplane accident over the Atlantic Ocean . Try as he may Harrison just can't put the Concorde down as he has heat-seeking missiles F-15 fighter planes and even the ground crew in Paris sabotage the plane in order to blow it out of the sky it's , like in that famous watch commercial , takes a licking but just keeps on ticking . With all his efforts gone by the wayside Harrison watching on TV the happy crew and passengers , including Maggie and the damaging documents , rescued from the snows of the Bavarian Alps , where the Concorde crash landed , he puts a gun to his head and pulls the trigger . The only thing that saves the movie is it's unintentional humor thats a laugh a minute and never lets up until the final credits . There's Soviet star gymnastic champion Alcia Rogov , Andrea Marcovicci , who beside having a wild and secretive affair with handsome TV personality Robert Plamer , John Davidson , gets so excited and carried away with the action on broad the plane that for a moment she completely loses her , phony as it sounded , Russian accent . There's saxophonist Boisle , Jimmy J . J . Walker , who's so stoned on pot that even if the plane crashed and was sent to the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean he'd be so whacked out of his skull that Boisle wouldn't even notice that he died . There's Loretta , Martha Ray , who's so nervous of flying especially if the plane she's on is continually attacked , like an USAAF B-17 over Germany in WWII , that she spends the entire trip hiding in the planes bathroom . There's also the totally unexplained ridicules and almost comedic chase scene with airplane mechanic Froelich , Jon Cedan , at the Paris Airport . Froelich who sabotaged the Concorde all of a sudden gets the willies for no reason at all after he drops some cash , that he was paid by Harrison to do the dastardly deed , at an airport medal detection machine . Froelich mindlessly runs and runs around in circles for some ten minutes and tries to either get run over or get on the toeing plane as if he either got a sudden change of heart , and tried to stop it from taking off , or just went off his bird and flipped out because of the pressure he was under . For all the positive publicity that the supersonic jet Concorde got in the movie in how indestructible it is it's days as a passenger plane were numbered . The plane was so noisy , keeping people who lived around airports from sleeping , and expensive , costing as much as $12 , 000 . 00 for a round trip from New York to Paris or London , as well as a threat to the environment , in it's gas guzzling , that it eventually priced itself out of business . By the summer of 2003 Ol ' Beak-nose as the Concorde was affectionately known finally , after almost 20 years in operation , went the way of the flying dinosaurs that it so much resembled and became like they did , some 100 million years ago , totally extinct .
Well at least now they won't have that house to play around with any more	SPOILERS Hell literally freezes over in this third and final chapter of the infamous Amityville House by the river with the place being blown to bits taking an entire crew of ghost investigators , or busters , and ghost detectives along with it . I wondered watching the movie unfold if it was the two investigative reporters for the skeptical Reveal Magazine John & Melanie , Tony Roberts & Candy Clark , trying to be too smart about their ability to expose psychic frauds that lead to the horrors that happened to them as well as everyone else in the movie . Doing their job in exposing psychic frauds both John & Melanie flush out the Caswells , John Beal & Leora Dana , in a phony and staged psychic reading that they gave them for their dead young son Ricky in , of all places , the Amityville Horror House . Feeling good about himself in his job as a " Ghost Exposer " John really goes overboard by buying the dangerous and haunted house himself since no one wants to not only live in it but even live next to it . With John about to move into the haunted house strange things begin to happen . The real estate agent Clifford Sanders , John Harkins , who sold the house to John is found dead by John on the steps of the house from an apparent heart-attack . Melanie who took a number of photos of John and Sanders finds that the photos of Sanders have a strange smug on them that when it's magnified , the smug looks like a little devil . Things start to get out of hand with Melanie ending up dead in a car crash where she burned to a crisp and John's daughter Susan , Lori Loughlin , drowning in the river outside the house . To the surprise of her mom Nancy Baxter , Tess Harper , she's seen alive walking up the stairs to her room dripping wet with a weird smirk on her face . John himself has a few close calls with death in an elevator in the building where he works and in his bathroom when he's confronted with live steam gushing out of the bathroom faucets and the walls in the bathroom closing in on him . With his co-worker , Melanie , roasted to death his daughter , Susan , drowned and his wife , Nancy , going insane John gives in and decides to have his house checked out by a " Ghost Buster " team lead by psychic expert and investigator Eillot West , Robert Joy , to find out and see if there's something to all this tragedy that struck John his family and friends . What the team finds out isn't pretty in that before their through checking out the Amityville House the Amityville House will be through with them . Passable horror movie that does have it moments and at least tries to make some sense to it's audience of what's happening on the screen with a very young Lori Loughlin and Meg Ryan as Susan Baxter and Susan's best friend Lisa who's also a armature medium and psychic in the film .
Dead in the water	SPOILERS Sargeant Melissa O'Keefe , Talisa Soto , of the NYPD Missing Person Bureau sets out for Hart Island with a burial unit of convicts to find and identify a young girl . The girl is believed to have be buried on the island's Potters Field and Melissa , who was abundant as an infant herself , has this strong identification with missing persons . Melissa wants at least to have them identified , when found , so that she can put their friends and relatives to rest by not wondering if their alive or dead . At the island there's a ground-breaking ceremony for a low-rent housing project , Hope City , with the city's mayor and multi-billionaire real estate tycoon Rupert King , Malclom McDowell . The hosing development is being built to keep the riff-raft off the city streets and hide them away there from the public for strictly " humanitariam " purposes . The fact is that King has other purposes for bringing the city's unwanted there and it's for him getting rich by using them as experiments for the pharmaceutical companies that he owns . You have to have a real strong stomach to sit through this film with people getting attacked by these super flies who not only infect them with their eggs but who cause their victims to burst open and decompose within minutes . The grossed out scenes in the film have countless maggots crawling out of the infected peoples corpses . The mad and arrogant King had been planing to do this for years by using Hart Island as a laboratory and the use poor and unwanted as guinea pigs . Now with him in trouble financially , he had six major failures in a row , this project The Hope City Devlopment will put him back on top but the over one million bodies buried in Potters Field have other ideas for King and their not very pleasant . It's too bad that almost everyone on Hart Island gets eaten from the inside out by the fly hatching maggots with the person that they were really after Rupert King getting his at the very end . Even though the movie was anything but rational and coherent , especially after some thirty minutes into it , it did for a time hold your interests . The cast also did a much better job then the flimsy material that they were saddled with . There was also the very effective and eerie atmospherics of the spooky Hart Island and Potters field that at times made your flesh crawl . But the plot fell apart with the flies becoming more and more unbelievable as they just seemed to come and go , as if they were out to lunch . Making it possible for those on the island to predict just when it was safe to go outside and eventually escape by boat . One of the most ridicules scenes I've ever seen in a movie is when King is attacked by millions of killer flies and to keep them away from him he blasts away at them with his handgun .
You will only do what I command you to !	( There are Spoilers ) Using the harmless front of a fortune teller to recruit an army of mind-numbed , and acid splashed in the face , Zombies Madam Estrella hooked into her dungeon of horrors her latest victim the overly drunk and obnoxious Whitey Robinson . Whitey felt that he was being screwed out of his valuable . 50 for a reading that the Madam gave him . With his faced splashed with acid Whitey is taken by Madam Estrella's faithful assistant Ortega into a room filled with likewise unsatisfied customers of hers . These bumbling Zombies , who in fact are alive not dead , are to be used later in a reign of terror that the crazed Madam inflicts on those she feels don't give her the respect , and money , that she so rightfully deserves . The film " Mixed up Zombies " has the sinister Madam Estrella get the fun loving and sweet Jerry to do most of her evil deeds . Jerry who at first wasn't that interesting of a subject when he had his fortune read by , the mixed-up in the head , Madam Estrella is then , on a second visit , hypnotized by her and sent out on a murdering expedition . For some strange reason Madam Estrella had it in for dancer Marge Neilson who was also one of her customers but unlike like most agreeable with the reading that she gave her : Marge , Madam Estrella told her , was to be murdered within 24 hours ! Marge together with her dancing partner Bill Ward were murdered , actually chopped up , by a hooded and hypnotized Jerry on stage as the two were doing their act in front of a standing room only crowd . Jerry's murder of both Marge and Bill was staged in such a surreal way that it took almost another ten minutes , when the homicidal Jerry attacked his girlfriend Angie , that you realized that it really happened and wasn't just a dream on Jerry's part . The movie , or better yet Jerry's murderous rampage , reaches a bloody crescendo when he together with a dungeon full of mixed up Zombies break out of their confinement killing their master Madam Estrella and her guerrilla-like assistant Ortaga . Mindlessly murdering everyone in sight the Zombies end up getting shot down by the cops at the carnival with the helpless Jerry , who's not really himself , chased down to the beach where he meets his fate on the rocks pounded by the mighty Pacific Ocean . Besides being filmed in color something almost unknown , back in the early 1960's , in cheap and shoe-string budget movies like " Mixed up Zombies " there's also a number of well staged song and dance act in the film . The song and dance acts are amazingly good and far better , which didn't take much , then the films almost indescribable storyline . The films longest and most unusual song number happens just moments before Marge and Bill are murdered by the Zombie-like Jerry . That's when were introduced by the M . C , James Bowie , of the " Hungry Mouth " nightclub , where most of the carnage in the movie happens , to what with the build up that he gets is to be our next American idol and singing sensation Don Snydner . Snydner singing his big hit and signature tune " How Do You Stand With My Heart " is so syrupy and out of tune that for a moment I expected the audience to stormed the stage and do the the same kind of job on Snyder that the mixed-up Zombies got to do later on in the films blood curdling climax .
The Yellow Peril circa 1939	SPOILERS Pre-Pearl Harbor depiction of the danger from the east that threatened America represented as a very militaristic Chinese regime that also seems to be allied at the time with Hitler's Germany . With one of the bad guys being a very German looking , with a thick German accent , Wihelm Von Brickner playing one of the Chinese espionage rings henchmen Marlin . In just two years after " Panama Patrol " was released the roles of the bad guys from the Orient were completely reversed with the Chinese being our friends and comrades in arms instead of our deadly enemies . There's also the fact that Chinese-American actor Richard Loo is in the movie portraying for once in a film a Chinese , who he is , instead of a Japanese , who he isn't . Going down to the Marriage Licenses Bureau to get hitched Maj . Leon Waring , Leon Ames , gets an emergency phone call to report to the State Department's Cipher Bureau . Waring leaving his bride Helen Lane , Charlotte Wynters , who's also a government decoding specialist , making her very angry to say the least on both her future husband and his boss . The D . C police Picking up this Chinese embassy worker Tommy Young , Richard Loo , who's been seen handing papers that he snuck out of the State Department . The D . C police have trouble getting him to talk about his covert activities . Young refuses to cooperate with his American captors by not speaking any English or handing over to them his passport . Chinese-speaking and also encrypted specialist Arlie Johnson , Abner Biberman , is then called in to get the closed-mouth Young to open up . As Johnson finally starts getting something out of the Chinese embassy worker in Chinese he's shot from behind from a hidden peephole in the wall by Marlin a German thug working for the Chinese government . Later we see Johnson as well as Marlin together at this New York Curiso Shop run by one of the heads of the Chinese spy-ring the half American half Chinese Eli Ming , John Smart ! Johnson it turns out is a spy who infiltrated the US Government Chipher Bureau and has been handing over sensitive information to the Chinese Government concerning the Panama Canal . The Chinese are planning , possibly with their future German allies , to blow up the canal locks and bottle up the US Pacific Fleet keeping it from being reinforced after a Pearl Harbor-like attack ! this is two years before such an event did in fact happen , on America ! Lame action sequences with Maj . Waring getting captured at least twice by the fumbling and butterfingered Chinese spies and all but walking away from them to freedom . There's a really insane scene later in the movie with Maj . Waring having it out with his kidnappers in a plane at 6 , 000 feet and after quickly dispatching the bad guys . It's then that the Major takes the controls and lands the aircraft as easy as Charles Linberg did in landing the St . Louis in Paris back in 1927 . The film is very interesting when it come to the art of decoding secret massages without the help of super computers , which weren't invented at the time , that shows how much brain power and hard work coupled with old fashion luck it took to break then Chinese secret code . Helen also gets into the act by getting herself kidnapped by Johnson as his spy girlfriend Lia , Adrenne Ames , the exotically beautiful daughter of Chinese spy-master Eli Ming . In the end Helen saves the day by leaving a trail of clues that leads her boyfriend Maj . Waring together with the local police and FBI to the Chinese spy's secret headquarters . It's then that the spy ring that included Johnson Lia and the big boss of the whole operation Suri , Philip Ahn , end up getting arrested after a brief struggle and shootout . In the end both Maj . Warnig and his finance Helen Lang drive down to Elton Md . where they'll be in the middle of nowhere and not be disturbed , like at the beginning of the movie , to finally get married .
Let The Sun Shine In	SPOILERS Uneven and somewhat ridicules thriller that has local psychic Sharon Avery , Tahneew Welch , going through all the slings and arrows from the police newspapers . Sharon eve has her befuddled and frustrated husband Larry , Currie Graham crewing the carpet as she's thought to be an unstable kook until her visions attract the serial murder Billy Morton . Whom Sharon claims to be in psychic contact with to make her his next victim . We see Sharon at first working with the police on a missing person case that she solves with the little boy later found murdered in an alley just where Sharon says he was . The killer who's on the scene follows Sharon back home in his car and runs her off the road causing Sharon to lose her eyesight . Back home and feeling sorry for herself and not wanting to live anymore Sharon ties a weight to her body and throws herself into the swimming pool but just there and then her visions , psychic not normal , comes back to her as she sees a young girl being murdered in a park . Quickly changing her mind , by swimming to the surface , about leaving this realm of existence Sharon goes back to her psychic visions in order to help the police to prevent or solve the murder . Back with the living it seems that no one knows , and Sharon never tells anyone in the movie , about her attempted suicide and new insight on going on living but the movie audience . Sharon desperately calls the police about her vision of murder and tries to stop it before it happens . The police that includes Insp . Frank Schumann , Michael ironside , and his partner Det . Fay Howard , Anne Marie Loder , are not at all impressed with Sharon's revelations . This action on the part of Schuman & Howard seemed a bit strange when we saw her earlier in the movie solving a murder for this same police department , and police officers , and probably having solved a number of other cases in the past ! Finding the missing girl murdered like and where Sharon said the police , and her husband Larry , are more against Sharon using her psychic abilities then ever before with the exception of the now believing Insp . Schumann who's told by his superiors to have Sharon put off any future missing persons cases . This gives you the impression that someone upstairs in the department is trying to have them covered up . The movie " Black Light " has Sharon's husband Larry , a computer software engineer , working with Dr . Anna Gdard , Lori Hallier , who's treating his wife to cure her of her blindness . Dr . Gdard thinks that with the help of a new visual system that her medical computer company is producing she can get Sharon's sight back . As Sharon's sight improves her visions are recorded on video tape showing just who the serial killer is which has him move in for the kill on Sharon to quite her , and her visions , forever . Full of plot-holes and misdirections by the movie-makers that by the time you should get really into the movie you lose all interest in it . Just by the credits you already know before the movie even starts that there's no suspense in " Black Light " to who the killer is since he's none of the people you would usually suspect in the movie are not playing the role of the killer ; he's just actor Billy Morton in the credits ! The ending with Sharon being chased by Morton is so ridicules with him acting more blind then she does and not even being able to find her even though she seems to know her way around the house and front lawn with out as much as tripping over anything . The films conclusion is too outlandish to even describe , you have to see it for yourself , with Sharon defying physical and mechanical science as well as common sense to do in the crazed killer and with Insp . Schumann who Morton strangled earlier in the movie comes back from the dead but not in time to save Sharon ; it turned out that Sharon didn't need his help at all !
Your now part of the family kid , keep smiling	( There are Spoilers ) Giving the mob a bad name by pushing coke / cocaine on the streets of New York City top mobster John Falcone , David Henry Keller , is called in and chewed out by the head man in the Mafia Don Ricci , Jake LaMatta . Falcone is told that from now on his drug pushing days are over and he's now back to shaking down and skimming off the pension funds of the city unions . Despite Don Ricci decision on his future Falcone has other ideas . Getting in touch with top New York public relations man Tod Barrett , Johnny Stoumper , to reinvent his image Falcone plans to knock off his replacement in the Mafia's drug operations Vince Petracco , Dan Lutsky . He also plans to take over the cocaine pipe-line from Columbia and the Columbia drug cartel in using a mercenary gang of ex-military men to take them out and then take over the cocaine trade in that country . The somewhat naive Barrett gets out tons of TV radio and newspaper spots about the " great humanitarian " John Falcone's work in his helping the poor hopeless and downtrodden of New York . Where behind the scenes Falchone starts a major and bloody gang war that results in dozens of people getting gunned down and blown up all over the tri-state area . With his top rival in the drug business Vince Petracco being blown to pieces , as he was getting his hair cut , at his favorite barber shop in downtown Manhattan . The mob gang war also effects the Columbian drug lords who came to the city to knock off Falchone in revenge for his having their cocaine operation taken over and men whacked . Which leads to them being easily wiped out as their more interested in getting high on coke then improving their aim and working in coordination with Falcone's enemy the Ricci mobsters . While all this is happening Falchone keeps Barrett in line by hooking him on coke-cocaine and later having his friend ace investigative reporter Marty Spostein , Steven Kaman , kidnapped and murder to bring the point home to the now terrified Barrett . Later after Barrett himself was kidnapped and tortured by Falcone's hoods he finds one of the Columbian mobsters stone cold dead in his refrigerator and his wife Whitney , Andrianna Mexwell , missing and possible kidnapped by the Falcone mob . Don Ricci himself escaping from being knocked off by Falcone's hoods lets out all stops to put an end to Falcone's reign of terror against the Five Mafia Famlies in NYC . But it's eventually the yuppie and nerdy PR man Todd Barrett , who reluctantly joins the Ricci Mob , together with part time boxer and Don Ricci hit-man Irish Mickey McCardle , J . Christian Ingvordsen , and Todd's wife Whitney who in the end does Falchone and his hoodlums in . Very violent but at the same time mindless gangster movie that has ex-boxing middleweight champ Jake LaMatta doing a good imitation of a Mafia Don and enjoying every minute of if . Johnny Stumper as Todd Barrett the PR man turned action hero is anything but convincing as he dukes , and shoots , it out with Falcone's hood at the conclusion of the movie . Todd uses up about as much ammunitions as a fully equipped German Panzer Division and not hitting anyone . Todd had to hit the gas tank of Falcone's car to finally put an end to this outrageously unbelievable but at the same time unintentionally funny gangster flick .
Sammy's Deathly Secret	SPOILERS In 1980 Cannon Films took an 1969 unfinished film with then unknown actor Robert De Niro called " Sam's Song " and then added in new footage , shot some ten years later , making the movie look like most of it took place in 1979 instead of 1969 , and called it " The Swap " . Robert De Niro who instead of being the kind shy sweet and sensitive young film director Sammy , who tried to get a couple of friends of his back together who were having serious marital problems , in the original film " Sam's Song " is made into the sleazy low-life porno film maker , of both straight and gay X-rated flicks , Sammy Nicoletti . Sammy is murdered at the start of the movie , when his head is bashed in by an unknown assailant , as he's sitting in his film studio in 1969 . Ten years later Sammy's older brother Vito , Anthony Charnota , is released from prison and the first thing he does is go out looking for Sammy's killer . Vito also felt guilty about Sammy's death because he promised his mom , who died due to a stroke because of the shock that Sammy's death brought on , that he would always take care and look after Sammy . Checking out all the leads Vito goes to see book publisher Erica Moore , Sybil Danning and in the flash-back sequences Jennifer Warren , who was with Sammy at a big house party that she threw at her Long Island estate . The last weekend of Sammy's life before he was murdered . Erica tells Vito that Sammy was with her and here husband Andrew , Jarred Micky , and his girlfriend Carol , Terrayne Crawford , at the estate and later on a ferry sailing off the Island . It turns out that there was a swap involved between Sammy & Carol and Erica & Andrew where Erica became romantically involved with Sammy and Andrew left Erica for Carol whom he later married . Vito Later tracks down Marge , Phylis Black , who he found out went to the cemetery every week to lay flowers at Sammy's grave . It turns out that Marge was an actress in some of Sammy's kiddie-porn films when she was 12 and 13 years-old . Together with Marge Vito slowly uncovers the reason for Sammy's murder and it had to do with him blackmailing people of wealth and power who financed his porno film career and in one case was a performer in a gay X-rated porno flick that Sammy directed . Vito hits pay-dirt when he comes across a number of films , that Sammy left to him which in them shows the person , with XXX sex acts . In one of them is the person who eventually murdered Sammy . Vito is drugged gassed kidnapped and shot during the course of the movie in his efforts to find Sammy's killer and exact justice & vengeance on him but , as it turned out , at the cost of his life . The ending of " The Swap " has almost the entire cast killed off by somehow trying to fit all the loose ends in this very uneven movie together but that makes the film even more confusing then it already was up to then . " The Swap " is a bargain-basement-type of crime movie , with organized crime implications added in it , that in many ways comes across more comical then serious . As for the dialog it's more tongue and cheek , " Hey I Can Take My Own Pants Off ! " , then anything else . The movies ending , that was so obviously forced and contrived , looked as if those making " The Swap " suddenly realized just how silly and inane it was and quickly rapped it up . This in order not to have people in the audience laughing themselves to death and having their family members sue Cannon Films for damages .
For men must work and women must weep	( Some Spoilers ) The movie " Queen of the Amazons " takes place not in the Amazon Basin in the jungles of South America but in darkest Africa's lion and elephant country . As for the fierce and feared , by the natives in the region , Amazon women warriors there about as threatening as the women on HBO's " Sex and the City " and as far as I could see-or count - there was only two of them in the entire movie . The movie actually begins in India where Jean Preston is looking for her husband , or is it fiance , Greg who was lost on a tiger hunting safari a month earlier . As it turns out Greg ended up in Africa where he was taken prisoner by a group of woman Amazon Warriors lead by their leader the fearless and beautiful Queen Zita . With the switch in locations , from India to Africa , we get to see lots of stock footage of life in the wild as well as natives doing their thing in dance routines body piercing and an amazing , all caught on camera , lion hunt where the natives take on the king of beasts with nothing more then spears and arrows ! To spice the story up a bit we have Greg working undercover for the local authorities to infiltrate and smash a contraband ring dealing with ivory tusks . Greg ends up-being the only man around - becoming Queen Zita's lover which greatly , after she finds that fact out from the Queen herself , upsets his fiance Jean Preston . The real hero of the movie turns out to be Great White Hunter Gary Lambert who together with his friend and five star chief , or cook , Gabby leads the expedition into the jungle to find Greg . Gary soon realizes that there's a traitor-who's working for the illegal ivory smugglers-in his group that includes , besides Gabby , Greg's father Col . Jones this nutty professor & friend of the Preston family Wayne Monroe . Gary as well as the films director also realizes , in the movie really going nowhere fast , that he has to find out who the traitor is before the entire movie audience falls asleep from boredom ! Well you can say the movie did pick up in the final minutes with Gary & Co . having it out with the contraband ring and the person behind it , after he came out in the open , getting his just deserts ; A poison dart shot from a blowgun by the other Amazon-besides Queen Zita-in the movie . As death was quickly overtaking him the guy-the traitor - still had to go on reciting his awful poetry that besides those of us watching had even the wild animals , like monkeys and exotic birds , going nuts !
When in Vlklava do as the Vlkavians do !	Off-the wall movie about werewolf hunter Stefan Crosscoe , Christopher Lee , hunting down a pack , in fact an entire town full , of werewolves in the Transylvanian town of Vlkava . In his battle to prevent a resurrection of werewolves , when the moon is full , from all over the world . This in celebration of the Queen of the Werewolves wild and sexy Stirba , Sybil Danning , 10 , 000th birthday party . Stefan got the bad news about the big canine get-together in Transylvania back in L . A where he saved Ben's , Reb Brown , sister the dead TV news reporter Karen Brown , Hana Ludvikova , tortured soul from eternal suffering , yes Ben's sister was a werewolf . It just so happened that Ben wanted to prevent Stefan from stabbing his dead sister but by her coming back to life , as a ferocious and blood-thirsty werewolf , Karen solved everyones , Stefan & Ben's , very pressing problem . Stefan together with Ben and his girlfriend news reporter and the late Karen's best friend Jenny Templeton , Annie MacEnroe , travel to Vlkava to prevent the wolf party from happening . It doesn't take long for the fur to start flying with the werewolves coming out into the open and having a wild time at the expense of the very few people in Vlkava who still aren't members , or werewolves . The many special effects in the movie with werewolves running amok keeps your mind off the almost incomprehensible story that keeps you interested with a number of wild soft-core orgy scenes . Including a manaja twa between Stirba and her fellow wolf man and wolf woman Vald & Mariana , Judd Omen & Marsha A . Hunt The sexy trio generated so much energy that it would heat a six story apartment building for an entire winters heating season . Taking on the werewolf cult with a number of townspeople Stefan and Ben have it out with them in the woods leading to Stirba's castle with the only thing that can stop and kill the wild and Satanic beasts silver bullets and titanium and silver knives ! You can just imagine what the cost of those expensive items Were . After the whole pack of werewolves are put away by Stefan & Co . the big secret is revealed about Stefan and what his connection , or relationship , with the evil Striba really is to the absolute surprise of no one watching the movie . The movie " The Howling II " ends to the sounds of a rock band pounding out an ear-splitting song . Were also titillated with the films closing credits having inserted into them a clip of buxom actress Sybil Danning , Stirba , stripping her top off , like she did earlier in the movie . Danning does it more times then the entire group of Dallas Cowboy Cheerleaders do when they undress to take a shower .
I promised that you all will be executed this morning , And I Keep My Word !	Embarrassingly inept propaganda film that seems to have been hidden away from the public for almost 60 years , since it's release back in 1942 , until the miracle of the DVD disc brought it back to be seen by a new , and stunned , generation of movie goers . It's the hight of WWII and the British want to start trouble for the Germans in occupied Norway by getting the Norwegian people to rise up against them . Sending a number of British agents into the country to try to rescue Norwegian General , and national hero , Heden lead to all of them getting captured and shot by the German Army . Desperate the British send a trio of secret agents lead by Capt . Robert Owens together with radio and all around handyman Sgt . Harry Hall and Norwegian patriot Let . Eric Falken to finally get Gen . Hayden out of the country and have him used on the BBC to rally his fellow countrymen to revolt against the hated Germans . Dropped into Norway by plane everything goes wrong for Owen's men almost as soon as they land . Eric's fiance Inga spots him and , unknowing to Eric , being a German sympathizer reports him and his fellow agents to the local Gestapo . The feared and effective Gestapo act like a bunch of buffoons as their knocked out and disarmed by Eric & Co . after they first disarmed and arrested them . Helped by undercover Norwegian Agent , the towns blind beggar , Spandling , Owens has the three Gestapo officers tied up . The British agents put on the Germans uniforms that are , miraculously , perfect fits for Owens Falken & Hall even though the three are different in hight weight pants and suite size . The Germans trying to untie themselves and not at all feeling threatened by a blind man , Sandling , sitting guard over them have the shock of their lives when Sandling becomes the worlds first suicide bomber ! Sandling blows himself the Germans and the entire building up in a massive explosion with a top secret Brtish super hand grenade that Owens gave him . The rest of the movie is all too predictable with the Germans making complete fools of themselves trying to capture the three British agents and screwing up at every opportunity . Owens and his men get to the prison camp where Gen . Haden is being held and have no trouble , being dressed in German Gestapo uniforms , in getting him out but need to get the general help for a broken arm he suffered during his rescue . Hiding in the cold Norwegian woods Owens sends Eric , who can speak Norwegian , into town to get help but he's again betrayed by Inga to the Gestapo . We later learn why Inga is so mad at her former lover Eric . Eric checked on her fathers sturdy and sea-bearing sailboat and held Eric responsible for her fathers death when he drowned in the dinky and water-logged dinghy that Eric left him when he tried to do the same thing , escape to freedom in England . The Germans again capture Owens , as Sgt . Hall gets away with Gen . Heden , and unlike with poor Eric whom they tortured almost to death the Germans try kindness with him by offering him a smoke . All this in order to get Eric to open up and tell them not only where Gen Heden is but what else is being planned by his superiors back in London in regards to the planned allied invasion of Norway . The ending of the movie makes you think that your watching a war movie about the D-Day invasion of France , with an armada of ships planes and thousands of allied troops storming the beaches , instead of a film about three commandos trying to get just one man out of Norway under the cover of darkness . " They Raid by Night " is worth watching only because it has actor Lyle Talbot as it's top star playing the head of the British rescue team Capt . Robert Owens . Fame would smile on Talbot ten years later when he met and became involved with legendary " Bad Movie " director Edward Wood Jr . and was cast in four of his cinematic classics ; " The Adventures of the Tucson Kid " and " Glen and Glenda " in 1953 " Jail Bait " in 1954 and what many consider to be Wood's greatest masterpiece his " Citizen Kane " the superb immortal and unforgettable " Plan Nine from Outer Space " .
Fish or cut bait	SPOILERS The film " Sea of Fear " is so handicapped by its cockamamie and overly complicated plot that it even fail as being an entertainingly bad film despite the many unintentional laughs in it . There's this psycho killer on the loose on this chartered boat out at sea who's murdering the passengers and crew with impunity . The killer is so stealth and acrobatic that he's able to disappear , on a moments notice , into thin air without anybody knowing or getting the slightest glimpse of him until he just about murdered everyone on board ! You know that the unseen killer has to be one of the seven people on board since he knows just what his victims fear most in the way they die ! This information on his part was in them telling him their darkest secrets during an evening barn-fire and BS session on the deserted beaches of Snorkel Island earlier in the film . It's when the ship's navigator Joel , Adam Mayfield , suddenly disappeared , possibly in the stomach of a Great White Shark , with the navigation equipment that things started to go down the drink with the passengers and the boat captain , Edward Albert , being terrorized and murdered by the shadowy killer . The acting in the movie , with the exception of Edward Albert , is so lame and unemotional that those the psycho killer does in evoke absolutely no sympathy at all in just how easily they end up being killed off ! It's as if that's exactly , in order to get out of the film , what they really wanted in the first place ! Besides the missing and left for dead Joel theirs Lance , Burgess Jenkins , who ends up being shark bait together with Derek , Christopher Showenman , who end up being deep sixth with the boat's anchor tied to his legs . As everyone on board ends up dead we end up with only Ashley , Caroline Walker , and the Captain left alive and it becomes apparent to the movies audience that one of the two has to be the killer but which one ! SPOILER ALERT It's then that things start to go haywire with the movie getting into high gear in trying to be some kind of super IQ , that only members of Mensa can figure out , whodunit with its slew of ridicules and unending twist endings . By the time you finally get it straight to who the killer is your brain had been so twisted out of shape that you don't even care any more . If the film just stuck to the basics of you garden variety slasher film it may well have been worth watching . Instead it tried to be so cute and overbearing in it trying to fool or impress its audience that it fell apart long before it revealed who its killer really was . About the only thing interesting in the film , besides it sunning at sea photography , was the reason the killer did in his victims . That I have to say was about the only thing that shocked me in that it was far more of a surprise in what the killer's motives were then who the killer was himself !
Runs out of gas	( There are Spoilers ) Homicidal nymphomaniac hooker Miya , Kari Wuhrer , takes over the life and car of 18 virgin , even though he's too embarrassed to admit it , collage freshmen Trent Colbert , Kristoffer Ryan . By the end of the movie Myia not only deflowers but give poor innocent and naive Trent a lesson in how to spot a dangerous nut job and keep as far away for him , or her , in order to keep from ending up turning into one . Hanging around a trucker rest-stop Miya is picked up by Roy , Burt Young , for some hot and heavy action , in the back seat of his buggy . Roy is either too drunk or stupid to realize that Miya is non other then his estranged daughter ! Outraged that Miya is reluctant to get it on with him Roy almost strangles her to death only to be interrupted by first year collage student Trent Colbert who plows into the rest-area side swiping one of the truckers . Seeing her chance Miya jumps into Trent's car and the two are off in what turns out to be the weirdest car chase ever put into a movie . Going all across the North Eastern USA the two end up involved in a truck car smash-up a murder and a shootout with the state troopers that then leads to Trent's parents home , with them being held hostage . It's there that there's another wild shootout between the crazed Miya with an entire SWAT team reinforced by the local police and state troopers . You would expect a movie like " Hit and Run " to be intentionally or unintentionally funny but it's not . In fact the film is very disturbing in how Miya treats everyone in the film that she comes in contact with even her perverted and child-molesting father Roy . Getting Trent to drive her all over the North-East Miya gets the poor slob drunk having it on with him in a motel room , together with whips handcuffs and a lighted candle . Miya also gets it on with the motel owner the horny Mr . Foster by tricking him into giving her his gun , as being part of some weird sex game . After holding Foster up she takes off with Trent's , who out cold in his motel room , wallet with some $400 . 00 in it yet doesn't bother to drive away with his car . Needing the money to pay for gas to get home to his parents for Thanksgiving Trent gets a call on his cellphone from Miya to pick her up at a local diner to get his money back . Like the jerk that he is Trent picks up Miya , who's now a fugitive from he law , and later gets involved with her father Roy on the open highway as he tries to run both Trent & Miya off the road . The chase ends up in this deserted wear-house that Roy chases Miya , out running him on a muddy road in high-heels , into with him getting it in the you know where with a blast from his own shotgun . Roy was so busy trying to take his pants off that he forgot he left the gun unattended . With both a holdup and murder , as well as a hit and run , charge against them the two desperadoes stop off at a S & M / Tattoo boutique where Trent gets his ear and nose pierced and is dressed up in leather and chains , by Myri , together with a matching his and hers dog collar . This in order to meet his straight-laced and conservative parents for Thanksgiving Dinner . Having a running shootout with the state troopers , with one of them ending up badly injured , the two fugitives from the law end up at Trent's parents Mr & Mrs Colbet , David Keith & Elaine Martyn home with the entire local police force , with a SWAT team , waiting for them there . Obnoxious movie with a truly disturbing final ending that made you wonder what exactly the movie was trying , if at all , to tell it's audience . You felt a lot of sympathy for Miya at first but as the movie rolled along to it's downbeat ending that evaporated as fast as a tray of ice cubs in Death Valley . Even though Roy was the most unlikable person in the movie at first by the time the film ended Miya totally eclipsed him .
Curses	SPOILERS Unconvincing werewolf flick set in todays Las Angeles that has just about everyone in the movie look foolish trying to be scared or scare each other . The werewolf looks more like someone in a gorilla suite then a wolf-man . Driving through the Hollywood Hills one evening brother and sister Ellie & Jimmy are distracted during an argument and then hit some kind of animal on the road . Losing control of the car Ellie slams into another automobile upending it with its driver Becky , Shannon Elizabeth , stuck in the seat hanging upside down . As both Ellie and Jimmy try to get Becky out of the car the animal that they hit earlier comes out of nowhere . Grabbing Becky and after forcing her out of her car it tears her apart as well as mauls both Ellie & Jimmy . Later that morning both Ellie and Jimmy start to feel a bit weird with Jimmy all of a sudden eating raw meat from the fridge . Ellie's sense of smell becomes so acute that she can pick up scents , like a person with a bloody nose , from almost 100 yards away . Even Jimmy's pet Dog Zipper is scared of him . When Jimm sticks his hand out to pet the pooch Zipper suddenly snaps at him and draws blood from Jimmy's finger . It soon becomes obvious to both Jimmy and Ellie that they somehow became " Children of the Night " werewolves and have to find the person who infected them to not only get cured of their affliction , by killing whoever he or she is . Ellie who's working as a producer of the popular L . A TV talk show hosted by Craig Kilborn is putting together a big shindig at her boyfriend's Jakes popular L . A night-club " The Tinsel " . She later finds out that he , the two-timing rat , was having an affair with one of her fellow workers Joanie . What she doesn't know is that it was Jake himself who attacked both her and Jimmy that evening as well as killed Becky and that he's the werewolf that's been terrorizing the L . A area . The fact that Jake is a werewolf is about the worst kept secret in the movie with him being overly obsessed with horror movies and even has a life-size display at his club of the 1941 werewolf version from the movie " The Wolfman " staring Lon Chaney Jr . On top of all that Jake even looks like a werewolf with his creepy and wild looking eyes flaring reddish nostrils and week old growth of beard on his face , that makes Jake look like a wolf-man without even the need of having to have any make-up on . The movie " Cursed " just never takes off with a side story involving Jimmy and school bully Bo who resents Jimmy for making eyes at his girlfriend Brooke . It turns out that Jimmy has Bo number by somehow being able to sniff him out . After walloping Bo in a wrestling match with his new found powers as a werewolf . The bullying and arrogant Bo , being both brought down to earth and humiliated , all of a sudden thinks that Jimmy knows his very deep kept secret that he's been hiding form everyone . The movie gets more confusing with the late Becky's friend Jenny also being stalked , in an underground garage , by a werewolf . Traping her in an elevator the werewolf tears her to shreds , it's later found out that her killer wasn't Jake but someone whom he infected . Outlandish final with the werewolf attacking " The Tinsel " night-club tearing it and a number of it's customers apart in what looks like a series of badly staged and executed gymnastic maneuvers . In a show of defiance the Werewolf unceremoniously gives the perusing police the finger . Both Ellie and Jimmy instead of trying to escape from the carnage , like everyone else , opt to stay behind for the movies big final , as Jake has it out with them in the film almost indescribable and mind bogging ending sequence .
Funny all the underwater scenes took place in the daytime	- SPOILES - Lame south of the border adventure movie that has something to do with the blackmail of a big cooperate executive Rosenlski the president of Unasco Inc . by on the lamb beachcomber David Ziegler who's living the life of Reilly , or Ziegler , in his beach house in Cancun Mexico . Having this CD , that he gave to his brother James , that has three years of phone conversations between Rosenlski and the President of the United States involved in criminal deals . This CD has given David an edge over the international mobsters who are after him . The fact that James get's a little greedy by trying to shake down Rosenlski for 2 million in diamonds not only cost him his life but put David in danger of losing his as well . Ropsenlski want's to negotiate with David for the CD by getting his ex-wife Liz to talk to him about giving it up , Rosnelski made a deal to pay off her debts if she comes through . David is later killed by Rosenliski's Mexican hit-man Tony , with the help of a great white shark , who just doesn't go for all this peaceful dealings on his boss ' part . Tony had taken the CD that Liz left for his boss at a local hotel safe and now want's to murder James , like he did David , and at the same time keep the CD to have something over Rosenlski . David who had secretly hidden the diamonds that James had on him at the time of his murder is now the target of Tony and his men to shut him up for good . David also wants to take the diamonds and at the same time give his boss Rosenlski the impression that the CD that David had is lost but use it later , without Rosenlski knowing who's behind it , to blackmail him . The movie " Night of the Sharks " has a number of shark attacks in it with this huge one-eyed white shark who ends up taking out about a half dozen of the cast members including Tony . David who's a firm believer in gun-control uses knives high explosives and Molotov cocktails , as well as his fists , to take out the entire Tony crew . Even the killer shark is finished off by Tony but with a hunting knife , not a gun . When it came to using firearms to save his friend and sidekick Paco a girlfriend Juanita and his priest Father Mattia lives from Tony and his gang guns were a no-no with David ; he was more of a knife and spear man then anything else . The ending of the movie was about as predictable as you can make it with David thought to be killed by the one-eyed shark later pops up out of the crowd , after Rosenlski was convinced that he's dead and leaves the village . David continues his life as a free living and loving beachcomber with no one looking to kill him and about two million dollars richer . to David's credit he had his friend Paco give Rosenski back his CD but under the conditions that if anything happened to him his cousin , who Rosenlski doesn't know who and where he is , will shoot his big mouth off and let the whole world know about his dirty and criminal dealings .
Eddy . . . Eddy Why Didn't You Listen ?	SPOILERS Standard late 1950's and early 60's fare that was cranked out of the great Hollywood " Dream Factory's " youth division back then that had nothing to do with what the title suggests : Beatniks and the Beat Generation but what the heck it's a catchy name and back in those days who would know the difference anyway . Things happen so fast in this movie that it leaves you dizzy after the first ten minutes and almost paralyzed that by the end you have trouble getting out of your seat . A gang of rootless and bored youths who seem to have nothing to do with their lives but rob bars and grocery stores as well as steal cars run into , literally , a top LA record executive Harry Bayliss , Charles Delaney , when they smash into his parked car . With everyone going into the popular Nadine's Diner to get something the eat and the record exec . going to call to get help for his damaged car . Then just like in the movies , gee I almost forgot this is a movie , one of the gang members Eddy Crane , Tony Travis , breaks into a song and dance . Eddy's singing so impresses Mr . Bayliss that he offers to sign Eddy up on the spot not only to a record contract but to put him on a top Rock & Roll TV variety show that very evening ! Talking about instant success ! Although Eddy and his friends aren't that crazy about going on the TV show , crazy is the word for these goof balls , Eddy reluctantly does go on and the rest , like what they say in ShowBiz , is history . Not the history that you would get in a movie about one going from rags to fame and riches but the history you get from any post office or police station by reading the history of the person on a wanted poster . I For one actually got to like Eddy and was rooting for him to make something of his life and get away from that group of misfits that he was part of . Knowing something about movies like " The Beatniks " I just knew that this wasn't going to happen . I just sat back and waited for the inevitable unhappy ending , and unhappily I wasn't disappointed . The movie has some of the most unrestrained and obnoxious acting that I've ever seen I my life . Peter Breck , Bob " Moonie " Mooney , is so ridicules and over he top as a psycho / killer that he came across comical more then anything else . " I Killed That Fat Barkeep " was one of Breck best lines in the movie as he yelled it at the top of his voice as the cops came looking for him at the hotel that he and his gang were hold up in . Peter Breck actually made the art of " Ham Acting " Kosher with his unbelievable and outlandish performance as crazy " Moonie " . The insane plot revolves around a bar killing and later a knife attack by the mentally unstable " Moonie " on Mr . Bayliss in the hotel room that Bayliss paid for Eddy and his gang of crazies to stay at . This all happened while Eddy was doing his gig on the TV show that Bayliss got for him with one of the gang members Red , Sam Edwards , under the covers in bed near dead after being shot ! All this after Eddy was well on his way on the road to success with him and his friends not having to be criminals anymore , this was was just to much to take as well as believe . Eddy who seemed to be getting his life back together and was very likable even when he was bad in the end gets his caring and sweet girlfriend Helen Tracy , Joyce Terry , who's a secretary at Mr . Bayliss record office to call the police on him . Eddy felt that he would chicken out if he had to call the cops himself as he and Moonie have it out in back of the record studio ; where he just cut his first record and is now in danger of getting cut to ribbons by the insane Moonie . The movie ended with Eddy as well as his former friend Moonie getting sent up the river for murder instead of Eddy getting sent to Hollywood to become the next great American singing idol . You have to say one thing about the movie " The Beatniks " they really knew how to use their imagination in Hollywood back in those days .
Everything has gotten so confusing around here that even the gorilla doesn't know who the gorilla is !	( There are Spoilers ) Wild and crazy gorilla on the loose movie that has the gorilla sending notes to his victims , by vine mail , telling them that they just got 24 hours to live . We never seem to know why the gorilla is targeting those who he eventually does in until the the very end of the movie which , the explanation , is so off-the-wall and confusing that when the movie is finally over your still not quite sure who the killer , or gorilla , is ! With two different people being exposed as being either the gorilla or the gorilla's partner in crime . The gorilla , Art Miles , himself is nothing but an innocent bystander who got caught up with all this monkey business that has to do with an Uncle Stevens , Lionel Atwill , who's been contacted by the Gorilla through his terrified maid Kitty , Patsy Kelly telling him that he'll be dead by midnight ! The gorilla also is heard speaking throughout the movie , without the slightest hint of a gorilla accent , on the radio giving instructions to those trapped , because of a violent thunderstorm , in Uncle Stevens ' mansion . With his niece Norma , Anita Louise , and her future husband Jack Marsden , Edward Norris , coming over for dinner Uncle Stevens has to cancel the engagement and call the Acme Detective Agency to send their best man , or in this case men , Garrity Harrian & Mulligan , the Ritz Brothers , to protect him form the rampaging gorilla . The gorilla seems to know his way around the house and is always a step ahead of the buffoonish as well as defective detectives , Garrity Harrigan & Mulligan , making them look and act more like monkeys then him . The three are then confronted by another gorilla , who has nothing to do with the gorilla's string of murders . This gorilla escaped from his keeper when he was bopped over the head by the other gorilla in order to have his , peaceful and law abiding , gorilla take the rap for the crimes that he committed . To make thing worse Uncle Stevens who hired Garrity Harrigan & Mulligan to protect him and keep the gorilla from getting to him ends up being kidnapped and possibly murdered by the gorilla . There's a whole lot of sub-plots in this movie that has to do with Uncle Stevens mismanaging his clients funds , which may well have been the reason for Stevens to get himself lost , as well as both this mysterious stranger , Joseph Celleia , popping up out of nowhere claiming to be an agent of the SEC , Security & Exchange Commission , who's investigating Uncle Stevens ' unethical financial practices as well . There's also this other weirdo A . P Conway , Paul Harvey , claiming to be one of Uncle Stevens clients whom he embezzled some $250 , 000 . 00 out of . And of course there's the great Bela Lugosi in what seemed like a cameo , even though he's on the screen almost as much as the star of the movie the gorilla , role as Uncle Stevens creepy butler Peter . The Ritz Brothers get to do their thing in making total jerks of themselves and making you wonder if Uncle Stevens , who was crazy enough to hire them , was in fact in on his own kidnapping in order to get away Scot-free with all the money he stole while everyone else , including the local police and SEC , was sent on a wild goose chase . The ending is just too much to even try to explain with the truth coming out about just who the gorilla is and what he was really up to . This all made you wonder if the theory of evolution actually works in reverse with the gorilla , the real not the fake one , being about brightest and the most intelligent person in the film .
Your Skin will Crawl ! Your Blood will run Cold !	( There are Spoilers ) Getting ready for the big New Year's party to be telecast coast to coast " New Wave " singing sensation and Hollywood Hot-line host Diane Sullivan , Roz Kelly , is to take , among other things , song requests over the phone as the New Year comes in on all the time zones covering the USA . Things start to happen even before Diane's show goes on the air with her friend and fellow " New Age " rocker Yvonne , Alicia Drtanifu , getting attacked and murder in her hotel room by an unseen killer . We later see Diane's young and a bit disturbed son Derek , Grant Cramer , pop into her suite telling his mom the good news that he's been accepted to play a part on the upcoming TV series " Spaceship America " . Diane just shrugs off what Derek told her as if she didn't her or care what his future held for him . With that Derek gets a bit odd ripping up the garland of roses he brought her and cutting up a red pantyhose and then putting it over his head ? The thought of Derek being the killer is quickly dispelled when we see " Evil " who after he calls Diane on the request-line , disuging his voice , telling her that he'll kill someone at the stroke of midnight at each of the time zones that cover the country . " Evil " breaks out , or was it in , of the Crawford Sanitarium and just as he said murders nurse Robbie , Jeannie Anderson , at the stroke of 12 on the Eastern Seaboard . " Evil " makes sure that his " Evil " act is recorded and calls back Diane , again on the request-line , showing her the proof of his " Evil " action by playing an audio tape recording of the murder . We do know what " Evil " looks like but were not exactly sure who he is until the last half-hour of the movie " New Year's Evil " which is about as big a surprise as " New Year's Evil " not winning the Academy Award for best picture for the year 1980 . Hard Rock music , that mercifully we get in small doses of , and drunk and drugged out party-goers have you almost want to turn the movie off before the big surprise is revealed to why " Evil " is on a rampage killing people who really don't have anything to do with his very personal problems that he blames on Kelly . Kelly for her part , like a real trooper , is determined to host the Big Shhhhow The New Years Eve Hollywood Hot-line even if it , or " Evil " , kills her . When later " Evil " gets into Kelly's suite and reveals , as if she didn't know , who he really is it becomes clear what his hang-ups are without him even having to spend something like ten minutes explaining them to Kelly and the , barley awake , movie audience . We also get to see what's really bothering the very sensitive and mentally unstable Derek who's dislike and resentment of Kelly seems to mirror that of " Evil " . " Evil " on the run from the police after failing to murder the object of his murderous obsessions , Kelly , but not having any trouble at all killing some half dozen other people who had nothing to do with his hang-ups . " Evil " puts on a rubber mask and instead of being taken into custody by the police jumps to his death from the roof of the hotel where Hollywood Hot-line is being broadcast . As the movie ends we see to our shock and surprise that " Evil " still reigns as the " New Year " crosses another time zone and claims another victim .
Fatally Flawed	SPOILERS Working like a dog at his job as an advertising executive to make life better for his screwy wife Jessica , Erika Eleniak , and his two young children Katie & Joshua , Ashly Hale & Nathan Tipple , Russell Landers , David Millbern , never saw what was coming until it was almost too late . This in regards to a hair-brained attempted by Jessica to get even with him in her misguided thoughts of Russell cheating on her . Just because Russell was coming home late from work and almost passing out from exhaustion in bed Jessica thought that he was playing the field back in the office , with the many sexy women co-employees there , and decided to get even with Russell by having an affair of her own . Getting in touch , through the internet , with an old flame back in high school Marcus Declan , Michael Bergin , Jessica planned to meet him in a swanky restaurant in downtown Seattle and take up where she left off back some 15 years ago . As you would have expected the two hit it off right away with Marcus realizing that Jessica was bored with her marriage and wanted some real hot and heavy action which he was more the willing to provide for her . It was only after Jessica found out that Russell was breaking his back to get a major contract , worth over 20 million dollars , that would put both her and the kids on easy street that she changed her mind about him . But by then it was too late Marcus was stuck on her like a stamp to a letter and it would take a lot of hot steam in order to get him detached . After the breakup with Marcus things started to get a bit strained for Jessica with her and Russell getting phone calls at night with the other party hanging up and not giving his or her name and even later Jessica's car was vandalized and family dog Lucy , played by Buddy the pooch , poisoned . It also came out that Marcus was indited in a murder back in Dallas Texas of Nicole Kingsley , Anne Opensha , in which he was found innocent . Feeling that he murdered , even though exonerated in a court of law , once and will murder again both Jessica and Russell try to get Marcus arrested by the Seattle Police only to find out that he's got air-tight alibis where he was during all the troubles that they , Jessica & Russell , accuse him of causing them . It's not until later that this mysterious and somewhat spaced-out young woman Lisa Calders , Juliet Laandau , shows up at the Landers home that things really start to pop . Claiming to be the attorney who got Marcus off , from his murder charge , back in Dallas Lisa start to formulate this plan to get the goods on him in his attempted murder of both Jessica and Russell that she claims that Marcus is planning . SPOILERSIt didn't take that much to figure out that this Lisa was a fake and had ulterior motives in both screwing Marcus and the Landers and it all went back to Dallas Texas and the murder of Nicole Kingsley and the person who really was responsible for her death . Very predictable and silly crime drama that has you feeling absolutely no sympathy at all for it's star Jessica Landers . Jessica was both selfish and ridicules in her dealings with both her loyal husband Russell and new found boyfriend Marcus . Scerewing , figuratively not literally , both Russell and Marcus Jessica in the end not only put herself in danger but her husband and children , as well as the family dog Lucy , as well . MAJOR SPOILERSThe ending was about as off-the-wall as you can imagine with the killer coming out of the shadows and revealing himself only to end up blowing his , or her , plan in offing both Jessica and Russell as well as the by now almost brain-dead Marcus . The badly disabled Marcus , with a bullet in the back of his skull , in his own way saved the day by coming back to life when you , as well as the killer , thought that he was history .
The Birds ! The Birds !	( Some Spoilers ) Dopey crime caper set in Bunos Aires Argentina with a bunch of singing crooks led by world renowned criminologist and author Ross Simpson , Rossano Brzaai . Frustated with his pet project , trying to have the perfect crime committed since the crooks he's hires to do it are nothing but a bunch of lame brains and butterfingers . Ross still thinks that the perfect crime can be committed if only those who are committing it have at least some gray matter between their ears . Not participating in any of the crimes that he organizes Ross isn't really interested in the money but the fact of him being able and smart enough in pulling it , the perfect crime , off . Ross ' mom gives him an idea by telling her not so bright son to at least make his hard work worth it by taking the money instead of letting the crooks take it which they never have the brains or smarts to do . It just happens that Ross , who a professor at a local Rome college , is given a one year vacation , with pay , and an all-expenses paid to travel to Buenos Aires Argentina to have the time to write his new book . Ross is also given from the class that he's teaching criminology sexy Leticia , Ann Margret , as an assistant . As soon as Ross arrives in Buenos Aires he concocts a plan to pull off the greatest crime in criminal history and this time he'll , not the crooks that he employs , end up taking all the marbles , $10 , 000 , 000 . 00 in jewelry . Overly plotted robbery of Buenos Aires famous Teatro Colon Opera house with a bunch of crooks learning to sing the songs , and lines , of the opera La Travita . As you watch the movie it becomes evident that all the work in learning to sing opera music was all for nothing , or just comedy relief . Since they just rob the 2 , 580 opera fans of their jewelry with out as much as singing a note or being on the stage . Back at his villa Ross runs into trouble with Leticla who suspects him of cheating on her when she sees him with the beautiful opera star of La Traviata , who's also involved in the robbery , and thinking that he's having an affair with her . The jealous Leticla almost wrecks the master plan , that Ross plans to put into motion , by throwing a fit and almost killing him with a kitchen full of plates and dishes that has him fleeing or his life . Meanwhile Back at the opera house the singing crooks are setting up the plan to put the entire audience to sleep just like they did to the audience watching the movie . Ross has the band of crooks that he crossed back in Italy in his previous " perfect crime " , who traveled to Argintina to get even with him , put on the heist as well in order to keep them , like Leticla , from killing him . In the end Ross pulls it off , the crime of the century , but ends up stiffing both the singing crooks and the crooks who he stiffed earlier in the movie . As he takes off with the millions in jewelry and the beautiful Leticla to his secret hiding place and also villa in Switzerland . The only hitch in Ross ' " perfect crime " was when the overjoyed Leticla seeing Ross , come back home to her in his villa in Switzerland , happily swings open the door at his bird house where all of his expensive parrots and exotic birds end up flying free . The movie " Criminal affair " , or what it's sometimes called in Europe " Criminal Symphony " or " Seven men with one Brain " , is only worth watching for the fact that Ann Margret is in it and has a lot of trouble keeping her clothes on all throughout the movie . Rozanno Brazzi tries to do an Orson Wells by writing directing and staring in the movie " Criminal Affair " but it won't be mistaken by anyone watching it for " Citizen Kane " .
Death by Boredom	( Some Spoilers ) Dull whodunit about a televised murder that wasn't planed by the person putting on the show . James Houghland , Charles Hill Mailes , is an idealist when it comes to his new invention of being able to transmit a TV signal across the world . Approched by agents from an unnamed country about buying his new technology he tells them to get lost which makes them very mad at him . Having a demonstration that evening of his new invention Houghland puts the people assembled there to sleep with a long and boring monologue about how we can now see events all across the world on his TV gadget without any relay systems . As Houghland gets to tell us about the continent of Africa and it's inhabitants , as were watching this all on what looks like a 32 inch black & white TV screen , Houghland suddenly looks as if he's either having an attack of indigestion or that he slipped on a banana peal and dies ! This believe it or not was the most exciting scene in the whole movie . It's determined that Houghland was murdered , even though there wasn't a mark on him , and the police are called in and seal off the mansion where this TV demonstration was taking place to prevent the murderer from escaping . Bela Lugosi plays a duel role of sorts in the film by being identical twins who are so identical that they have the same first and last names : Arthur Perry . Perry being a top engineer to Houghland in helping him create his new TV invention was on the scene at the time of his death and is suspected of murdering him . It turns out that it was his twin brother , also named Arthur Perry , who was there impersonating him the real Arthur Perry , and trying to cash in , by selling out Houghlands secret by getting an offer he couldn't refuse $100 , 000 . 00 . This from a rival communication bigwig Donald Jordan , Charles K . French , and then going to work for him . Perry is soon exonerated of the crime of murdering his boss Houghland by being murdered himself by the person who murdered Houghland . By now the movie is going nowhere with the cast just standing around looking off screen for directions from the obviously lost in space director . Then all of a sudden as if he rose from the dead Perry , the other twin brother , appears as if nothing happened to him ! He was undercover in the mansion during the entire incident . It turns out that not only is he the one who helped Houghland in his new TV invention but is also a agent for what looks like the FBI and breaks the case wide open . By Perry exposing the killer Dr . Henry Scofeld , Huntly Gordon , who was working for a foreign government who wanted to buy Houghlands invention ; but were given the finger by him instead . Using an interstellar frequency , a death ray , Dr . Scofield activated it as Houghland was giving his televised speech that interacted with the TV signal that eventually killed him . With that Dr . Scofield is arrested and casually led away by two plain clothes policemen . Who looked like their going out to dinner with him instead of taking him into custody for murder ! With the movie finally over we and the movie cast can now all get back to something far more exhilarating like breathing oxygen . Unbeliveably boring film with a very restrained Bela Lugosi who seemed to have trouble , like everyone else in the movie , staying awake . The ending of the film where Bela , Arthur Perry , slowly and methodically reacted the entire scene of Houghlands death , that was secretly filmed by him , was as complicated as a class in advanced quantum psychic at Harvard University .
Russian Roulette	( There Are Spoilers ) Doing his job tracking down fugitives from the law bounty hunter Sonny MacLaine dukes and shoots it out with three bad guys at the beginning of the movie " Standing Target " . Sonny has them hauled off to jail before we get a chance to catch our breath and get our bearing to what the movie is leading up to . With his girlfriend Casey pregnant Sonny's trying to be as sensitive as he can to her condition without letting it effect his job . Casey is also very apprehensive about Sonny being out looking for dangerous criminals to bring in . Since his dad who was also a bounty hunter was killed when Sonny was 10 years old and doesn't want her child like Sonny to grow up without a father . One day Sonny is approached by this elderly couple Laslo & Eva Kukock who want him to find their fugitive son Jonish . Told by the couple that they put up their restaurant , The Little Oddesa , as bail and if he's not returned to the court very soon they lose what they worked all of their life to achieve . Sonny at first isn't that interested in finding the bail-jumper but later does track down Jonish only to find out that his parents are dead ! It turns out that he's the nephew of Russian Mafia mob boss Tuzla , Len Doncheff , who grooming him to take over his crime organization . Jonish , played by Irish Patrick Gallagher , doesn't even look anywhere like his so-called white Russian parents Laslo & Eva looking more Mongolian then European , was he mistakenly switched at birth ? It turns out that Sonny was tricked into finding Jonish by a faction of the Russian Mafia so they can knock him off and that's exactly what happens when Sonny finds him . Uneven and somewhat boring action flick with Michael Dudikoff as Sonny MacLaine taking it on the chin as well as everywhere else from the bad guys and still coming back or more . Captured and kidnapped at least a half dozen times by the Russian mobsters Sonny keeps getting away , or is released by them , even though he's suspected of killing the mob boss ' faired haired boy and hair-apparent Jonish . It later turns out that Tuzla's hot headed and career climbing son Danny was behind Jonish's murder wanting to take over the organization himself after he does in both his dad , Tuzla , and his fellow Russian mobsters who are backing Jonish . Sonny gets help from Det . Racine and fellow , but retired , bounty hunter Jake . Which ends with both of them getting shot by the Russians with Racine being killed . Billy Dee Williams looks either bored or half-asleep as Det . Racine and only seems to be in the movie to lend it some creditability . And you can see the shock on Sonny's , or Dudikoff's , face when he's gunned down since it means that Dudikoff would now have to carry the movie all by himself . Trying to stop the determined Danny from wiping out the Tuzla Mob Sonny again messes up and gets there , the big mob powwow in the country , too late to stop the bloodshed . But he does get his man Danny who seemed to be the only survivor of the shoot-out to face justice . Nothing made any sense in the movie even Sonny's girlfriend Casey being pregnant with her looking as flat as a washboard even at the very end of the film when she was about to give birth ! You would have thought that the filmmakers would have at least stuffed a pillow under her blouse or did they just run out of money , by then , to buy one ?
Fuzzy	SPOILERS There's these two snot-nose teenagers out to clean up the neighborhood by setting homeless persons on fire . I guess murderers rapists and muggers were a little too tough for these fearless heroes to handle . This leads Det . Carella , Burt Reynolds , to go undercover in hand-me-down cloths as bait to catch these self-anointed crime fighters . It seemed that Carella was so surprised that the two were overage bed wetters , like you have to be a grown up to do these kind of things , that he loses his concentration drops his guard and almost gets burned to death by them throwing a lit can of gasoline on him . At the Boston 87th precinct police station there's a call demanding $5 , 000 . 00 or else the parks commissioner would be killed . Laughing off the threat a while later like the call said the commissioner is blown up in his car going to a political dinner . The threats to murder top city officials and the two young creeps setting homeless men on fire at first have nothing to do with each other at first . Yet by the time the movie " Fuzz " is over they somehow become connected to give the movie a happy , and ironic , ending . " Fuzz " is a M . A . S . H like story of police in the big city with some dozen sub-plots going on all at once . The sub-plots make you feel like your watching four or five movies , by turning the channels , at one time . For us guys in the audience there's busty and almost unapproachable especially by Det . Carella , who's can't even get into a single scene with her , Det . Eileen McHenry , Raquel Welch . Det . McHenry is assigned to the 87th as a specialist in rape cases . Later she's put undercover , or under the covers , with cute and cuddly as a Teddy Bear Det . Kling , Tom Skeritt , in trying to find who's extorting the city of thousands of dollars in threats to kill off it's top officials . The film " Fuzz " has a number of scenes that are totally unconnected with the extortion plot by this El Sordo , Yul Brynner , better known as the guy with the thing , hearing aid , in his ear who's the main villain in the movie . Where as for the two aforementioned wimpy teenage " crime fighter " , who fight crime by setting innocent and helpless bums or hobos on fire , are just too cowardly and stupid to be anything approaching a criminal master mind or villain like El Sordo the bald headed deaf man . Unelievably complicated ending with El Sordo and his gang about to celebrate their blowing up of Boston's City Hall going to a liquor store , to buy a bottle of champaign . The liquor store that's about to be robbed by these two not too bright hoodlums Tony & Pete , Don Gordon & Charles Tyner , of a big $86 . 00 in the till , with Det . Carella and his partner the bumbling Det . Meyer , Jack Weston , assigned to stake the place out . The shootout that follows foils El Sordo's plan to blow up City Hall with his plans discovered by Det . Kling who just happened to show up . The now on the run deaf one , soaked with booze after the liquor store shootout , ends up passing out along the docks only to run into the two teenage crime fighter , mistaking him for a drunken bum , who set the poor and almost unconscious man on fire with a Molotov cocktail . What's really interesting about the movie " Fuzz " is that it's two top stars Burt Reynolds and Raquel Welch weren't even on speaking terms with each other , on and off the screen . Which made it very difficult if not impossible for any interaction between the two . It was as if you were watching a split-screen of two different films with two totally different stories . El Sordo did somehow survive his ordeal as the movie ended to the tune of Burt's girlfriend , at the time , the late Dina Shore singing " I'll be seeing you " . Still after that final scene in the movie " Fuzz " that was the last time we ever saw him since there was no " Fuzz " sequel .
Crime Doesn't Pay ?	SPOILERS A bit ridicules made for TV movie has sexy and middle age gold-digger Isabelle Collins , Susan Tucci , doing a number on every man she comes in contact with in the movie . First winning over their hearts then their wallets and then , when their no longer any use to her , thrown in the wastepaper basket like a used up Kleenex tissue . Isabelle's first victim is non other then her abusive , on keeping Isabelle from raiding his bank account , husband Stewart , John O'Hurley . It's later in the movie when Isabelle gets very friendly with former plumber and now yacht salesman Richard Davis , Philip Casnoff , that she , without really telling him , has the totally love-sick Richard get a contract out on her unsuspecting husbands life . Getting this ex-convict , in fact as soon as he's released from prison , Daggett , Nicholas Campbell , to do the job on Stewart Richard soon finds out that he didn't get exactly what he paid , $15 , 000 . 00 in cash , for . Getting a little too greedy Daggett not only blew Stewart's brains out but took a solid gold watch , that Stewart offered him in order to spear his life , as well . The watch was easily traced to Daggett as he tried to pawn it at a local jewelry shop where he was quickly arrested . With Doggett spilling his guts out on who hired him to whack Stewart it doesn't take long for the long arm of the law to arrest Stewart's , by hiring Doggett , killer Isabelle's husband to be ex-plumber and yacht salesman Richard Davis ! Davis ' arrest by the police happens just as he and Isabelle took the vows of matrimony in a local church ! Isabelle manipulates everyone , exclusively men that fall head over heels for her , to her advantage by getting them to do her dirty work . Always playing the part of the naive housewife or widow or lover or even client Isabelle seems to live a charmed life always one step ahead of the law and police . No matter what she does Isabelle covers her pretty behind so well that it's almost impossible to pin her down on any , in having others do them , of the many crimes that she commits , through a second party , in the film . After screwing , figuratively as well as literally , her first husband Steven her second husband , for less then ten seconds , Richard and finally her , or Richard's , attorney Gavin Kendrick , Kamar De Los Rey , Isabelle knows that it's only a matter of time before the police get wise to her . With the D . A getting both Richard and Kendrick to turn evidence against her Isabelle now knowing that everything is fast closing in on her makes her final move . Getting everything in order , by transferring all her cash overseas , Isabelle and her 10 year-old daughter Ruby , Lauren Collins , shoot down to the passport office in order to get clearance , passports , to get out of the country . It's then when the cagey and clever Isabelle makes her first and possibly last and fatal mistake in the movie . Isabelle is told by the passport clerk , Don Carrier , she'll have to wait a full 48 hours for her , and Ruby's , passport to clear ! Just enough time for the police to find and arrest her ! Outlandish ending that goes against almost everything and every ethic that's in a film noir or crime movie . An ending that will not only blow your mind but your concept of what's right and wrong in the world !
The Attack of the Killer Avocado Man	Not all that bad horror , if you take it for an unintentionally comedy , film with it having a former member of the three stooges as well as the hilarious Stinky Davis of the Abbot & Costello TV show Joe Besser as a gas station attendant as well as one of the " Hands of Death's " victims . " Hand of Death " with it's star John Agar as the obsessed and crazed scientist Alax Marsh who ends up turning into what looks like a overripe avocado . Marsh runs and drives around L . A doing his best to terrorize everyone he comes in contact with but mostly leaving them in a state of total bewilderment trying to figure out just what the hell he , or it , is . Trying to perfect this nerve / hypnotic gas for the US military that would not only knock out anyone who's affected by it but turn them into obedient zombies Marsh working day and night in his out of the way desert laboratory . One day Marsh falls asleep and knocks down a bottle of the nerve agent and gets infected by it . The gas gives him the power to kill by just touching anyone . Later Marsh develops a leprosy-like appearance that even his own mother would run from . Killing everyone he as much as touches Marsh trying to hide his identity , as the killer Avocado Man , just puts on a Humphrey Bogart like trench-coat and fedora hat thinking that would be enough to fool anyone ! One of the craziest scenes in the movie is when Marsh pops into a taxi cab trying to communicate to the cabbie , Fred Korne , where he want's to go , to the beach in order to get a suntan ? The taxi driver turning around and seeing this weird and grossed-out guy isn't at all surprised or even scared at how he looks ! Is he used to picking up customers like him , looking like vine-ripe avocados , in the city's many farmers markets and fruit and vegetable stores ? Trying to contact his girlfriend Carol , Paula Raymond , so he can take her , I could only guess , to the local drive-in to see someone who looks a lot like him his screen hero " Ceature from the Balck Lagoon " . Marsh later gets to where she's hiding from him at her friends Tom Holland's , Stephen Dunne , beach-front home . As he breaks in Carol calls Tom gets the police who both come to her rescue . Marsh running along the beach and trying to take a dip into the ocean , with his heavy and bulky street cloths on , is shot dead and left floating on the waves as the movie finally comes to an end . Hard to believe that anyone would have been insane enough to take , much less pay for a movie ticket , " Hand of Death " seriously back in 1962 when it was released . " Hand of Death " looks like it must have been the final movie that was part of a quadruple feature following even the cartoons and coming attractions where by the time it came on the screen there was almost nobody left in the movie-house to watch it . Which may well have been the best thing that could have happened to the professional careers of everyone unfortunate enough to be in it .
Look at the Heptagram for answers	( Some Spoilers ) The movie " Encounters with the Unknown " just can't seem to make up its mind to what it's trying to tell you in the three supernatural stories in it . We get this prologue about this mysterious Rankin Cluster Phenomenon , discovered by a Dr . Jonathan Rankin , that supposed to be as many as 500 graves clustered together in a number of cemeteries all over the country . Were never told what its , the cluster phenomenon , supposed to be or represent ! Were then drawn to this funeral for young Jimmy Davis who was killed because of a dirty prank played on him by his three friends Dave Frank & Randy . Jimmy told by the three that they got a hot date set up for him is accidentally shot and killed by elderly Mrs . Wilson who , after mistaking him for a bugler , shot him when her gun went off . Jimmy's mother Mrs . Davis , the seventh daughter of the seventh son of her father-in-law , put a curse on the three boys telling them that they'll end up like Jimmy did stone cold dead ! One by land and two by air , in the span of 21 days after his funeral ! Seven days time for each of them to meet their maker , and just as she predicted that's exactly what happens ! Dave gets hit and killed by a car Frank dies in a plane crash and Randy perished when his parachute fails to open when he's out skydiving ! All the three boys die exactly seven , or 21 in all , days apart from each other ! The next two stories aren't much better , in fact their even worse . Story # 2 is about this hole in the woods that supposedly has the Devil living in it . and where little Jesse's dog Lady ends up falling into . Jesse's straight-laced dad Joe not beveling in all that supernatural rubbish that everyone in town is talking about , about the mysterious hole , decide to go it alone and be lowered down into the hole . Joe tries to get the mutt only to end up stark raving mad when he's brought back up , without Lady . He ends up running through the wood like a mindless lunatic ; were told by the narrator that Joe completely lost it and ended up in a padded cell in a local mental institution for the rest of his life . The third and final chapter to " Encounters with the Unknown " has to do with this young girl Susan who's haunting this bridge in rural Arkansas . We find out that she killed herself by driving her jalopy off the bridge and into the river back in 1929 . Susan's very strict father forbid her to marry the boy she loved Paul , he wasn't making enough cash , and drove the love sick girl , and possibly her lover Paul , to kill herself . Susan's old man is still alive , this after almost 45 years after the tragic incident , and has to put up with , what can possibly be , hundreds of sighting of his daughter from motorists . Susan gives her dad's address to any motorist who happen to cross the bridge at night when she's there hunting it ! This I assume is the old man's punishment from above in trying to interfere with his daughter Susan's love life and it's a purgatory on earth for him . There's nothing in the film that you haven't seem before with Rod Serling , sounding as serious as ever , pinch-hitting in some of the narration , he replaces the original narrator after the first five minutes of the film . The movie also has a very annoying habit of repeating itself , Mrs . Davis ' Heptagran curse is repeated almost a dozen times . There's what looks like an abridged version of the film in the last fifteen minutes . Probably in order to pad the film and make it look like a full-length motion picture .
It was just too much for the poor slob to keep in check !	SPOILERS Highly confusing and extremely muddled made for TV suspense / thriller that has two stories that come across as if they were two independent films playing together on the same screen at the same time . The movie " A Kiss so Deadly " starts off with Catherine Deese , Dedee Pfeiffer , and her collage room-mate Amanda Blake , Charlotte Ross , leaving a party late one night . Walking to Amanda's car their followed by this creepy-looking guy Yule Werb , Scott Simpson . The two girls later realize that their being followed by car and lose Yule in traffic . As were readying ourselves to see a movie about a crazed stalker on the looses all of a sudden the movie changes course with Catherine's father Tom , Charles Shaughnessy , popping up in her apartment the next day . Tom become smitten with her sexy and experienced room-mate Amanda , the poor man's hooked as soon as he laid eyes on her . Going to the Marlin Bay Club the next evening with some of his friends Tom spots Amanda there as a waitress and you can see that he's addicted to her and that he'll end up going down the tubes if he continues to try to get it on with Amanda . We have both Tom and the creepy Yule compete to who's the sleaziest one of all in the movie . With Yule slinking around the white sands beach , dressed all in black , and Catherine's apartment watching the girls , Catherine and her two room-mates Amanda and June ( Noelle Parker ) , with binoculars and taking their pictures . At the same time Tom is making a complete fool of himself trying to get into Amanda's , after having a one-night fling with him , pants as well as taking advantage of poor and introverted June ; this after Amanda was no longer available to him . You first get the impression that Yule has something to do with Tom and their acting , secretly , as some kind of tag-team of sleaze-balls and later feel that there's a falling out between the two . With Yule blackmailing Tom since he has the most to loose between the two , his wife Patty , Kerrie Kane , and his textile business . We also get confused signals to just what happened to Amanda when she's later murdered in her parked car outside the Marlin Bay Club . Since just the scene before she was waiting for a male friend , the bartender and bouncer in the club , to walk her to her car because Yule was there and eying her . You figured that she must have been with the bartender , off camera when she walked to her car ? Why then go by herself when Amanda was so terrified to leave the club with Yule snooping around outside ? The movie gets even more confusing when the off-the-wall Yule after threatening Tom , by phone , at the textile factory is later shot to death by the police as they catch him trying to break into the Deese's house . The film tries to put everything together at the end but falls sadly apart with the killer exposing himself with nobody watching really caring who he is by then . The Killer Insainly induces himself to get shot by the cops , suicide by police , as he pulls out what looks like a cap-pistol that he must have gotten as a prize out of a Cracker-Jack box . " A Kiss so Deadly " is only worth your time watching it because it's just too bad to be true and at the same time too good for bad-movie fans , in a cheesy and unintentionally funny sort of way , to be bad .
False Advertising	SPOILERS With the title of the film having the name of the killer fish twice not once you would expect to see them in action attack biting ripping and eating up almost everyone in the cast of characters . Instead you have to wait until the movie is almost over for you to get as much as a glimpse of the Piranahs . Even then all you see is the water bubbling and stirring around as a poor individual disappears under it assuming that he's being eaten , whole and alive , by the fish . The movie " Piranha Piranha " starts with this scary looking Piranha on the screen as the credits start rolling down butSPOILERthat's the only time in the movie that you ever get to see the killer fish or fishes you never get to see a Piranha is the movie again . What you do see is a travelogue of Venezuela and it's people and the Venezuelan jungle along the Amazon River basin . Together with a lot of nice and breathtaking photography of the landscape as well as the people and wildlife but that's about all . There is some kind of a story that has to do with this great White Hunter Caribe , William Smith , which ironically means Piranha in the native language spoken there , is this what the title of the film " Piranha Piranha " really meant ? " Caribe Caribe " ! The person Caribe is played by legendary Hollywood Hell's Angles biker and all around tough guy William Smith . At the beginning of the movie this trio of American tourists Jim Pendrake and his sister Terry , Peter Bown & Ahna Capri , and their American guide Art Green , Tom Simcox , are on their way into the Venezuelan jungles to go sight-seeing with Terry taking photos to send back home . Terry is terrified of guns as we learn that as a young girl saw her father get his head blown off by a gun . Even when Art saves her life using one when see's attack by a six foot long diamondback rattlesnake Terry almost belts him for having a gun ; which he promised her he wouldn't take along with him on the trip . At a jungle rest stop , or bar , the three run into Caribe who we first saw catching monkey's in the jungle at the start of the movie . Caribe makes himself more then welcomed by the three with his knowledge of the jungle and his half-baked philosophy about life and death as well as his ability to get them where their going to the local diamond mines deep in the Amazon basin . Even though a bit strange at first , the guy is so in to himself that he doesn't seem to notice that there are any people around him , Caribe turns out to be a swell and likable guy engaging in a long and friendly motorcycle race through the swamps and jungle with Art . Caribe even shows Terry , who at one time in the movie almost knocked his teeth out , the fine points of hunting and shooting wild game that he believes don't really die but become a part of him after he kills them ! A bit crazy but you have to admit this guy's got imagination . It's much later in the movie that for some strange reason , maybe it was the cheap booze that he was drinking , Caribe suddenly goes insane and become homicidal attacking and raping Terry and then murdering her enraged brother and feeding him to the deadly Piranha's . Trying to escape from the rampaging lunatic and then being forced to have to fight it out with him Art gets beaten up so savagely by the dirty-fighting Caribe that he's almost left unconscious . Just when Caribe's about to finally kill Art he's shot to death by Terry who after experiencing what this insane nut-job is all about finally decided that guns are indeed very necessary and should be used to kill on very rare but life-saving occasions . Worth watching , if worth watching at all , only for the scenery and nothing else . It's just a shame that the movie has to advertise as a killer fish , or Piranha , horror movie when if it was honest about itself it could have been a more or less average jungle adventure flick with Smith , he does have the build for it , playing Tarzan of the Venezuelan , not African , Jungle
Money is Power . . Power is Everything	SPOILERS Far out story about a missing two billion dollars that has been hidden for some twenty years in the lush jungles of Puerto Rico by the US military men who were supposed to burn and destroy it . Stacy Keach as Gen . Parker who's the big star in the movie " Sunstorm " gets knocked off some ten minutes into the film that may very well have been the reason that he accepted the part : He wouldn't have to suffer through the entire movie like those of us who did by watching it . If you forget the plot the movie " Sunstorm " does have both breath-taking photography of the Caribbien , Haiti and Puerto Rico , as well as a number of very beautiful women who just take you breath away : Elena Lyons , Romi Dias , Keren Nations , Rebecca Stauber and Natielie Aranda Clederon . But the story is so ridicules that even those natural , women land & aquatic , wonders couldn't save the film . Were told the story of what happened in the movie by FBI agent Frank Daniels , Ray Raglin , in a D . C bar and strip-joint talking to his close friend and Secret Service undercover man Jack What's-his-Name , Ron Hale . Frank starts off telling Jack as well as the audience that " you wont believe what I'm going to tell you " , he was right . By the time he's through with his long and boring story Frank put everyone asleep watching the movie and got Jack drunk trying to stay awake listening to him by gulping down drinks . Big-time international crime-boss Victoria Warren , Bo Derek , got the word from Packard Welsh , Michael Manasseri , that his dad Luke told him on his death-bed that he and Gen Parker and other top US military men hid some two billion dollars that they were supposed to destroy back in 1984 . The money printed by the Nixon Administration in 1972 was to be used after a possible nuclear war when the US Treausary system would be nuked . Hidden deep in the jungles of Puerto Rico Warren and her mob are out to get the cash as well as the signature plates that are needed to make it legit . We also have Gen . Parker come back from the dead , via a video tape , to tell his daughter Kelly , Elena Lyons , that she has three other siblings , Maria Natalie & Kristoff and possibly even a forth Ariel , I guess after a while the General lost count , that he never told her about while he was alive . This happens in the late Gen . Parker's lawyers office as it's shot up by Warren and Walsh's goons killing him , the lawyer . The rest of the movie has the four or five sisters , we never know just how many they are , and Gen . Parker's bodyguard and now his daughter Kelly's boyfriend Dave , William Haze , fighting the bad guys all over the island of Puerto Rico . Dave ends the whole scavenger hunt by setting off one of the box's containing the the hidden cash by using his cell-phone and calling the number of a phone in the C-4 plastic explosives that he hid with the money . Frank has at the end of the movie a big surprise to tell Jack as well as the audience but he's so long winded and boring telling it that only Jack seems to be impressed only for the reason that his life depends on it . " Sunstrom " is just too confusing to really understand what it's telling you . The actors in it , Stacy Keach Bo Derek Ray Raglin Michael Manasseri etc . , looked and acted as if they were just going through the motions playing their part in it and hoping , like Stacey Keach , to be killed off as soon as possible so that they could finally go home and pick up their pay checks .
Postage Due	SPOILERS Outlandishly complicated film-noir thriller that has the wife of some big time L . A gangster blackmailed by both her lover and his girlfriend as well as this Texas private investigator who doubles as a womens lingerie salesman at a local , exclusively for the rich and famous , upscale yuppie department store . You can never get a handle to what exactly big time city mobsters wife Lucinda , Susan Blakely , sees in her boyfriend Scott , Dale Midkiff , since he's about as far away from her in lifestyles and interests as the distances that the North & South Poles are from each other . Lucinda is living the life of luxury and sure as hell wouldn't want to give it up for this oily and sweet talking Romeo who masquerades around as some big shot businessman Using his girlfriend Charlene , Beth Toussaint , to double as his personal secretary Scott has Lucinda think that he's a big success by always never being able to answer the phone , when she calls him . Scott is always Trying to impress Lucinda in thinking he's always involved in some big stock deal or corporate merger . Lucinda is not stupid and can easily find out by just checking where the phone number belongs to , the bottom of the barrel Astor Hotel , that the heel is putting her on in order to fleece her out of a couple of hundred thousand dollars and then , with Charlene , check out of town like the two did a number of times to impressionable old but rich widows . It also turns out that this private detective , or private dick , named Norm , Mark Davis , is also on to what both Scott and Charlene are up to in their blackmailing Lucinda and is in turn blackmailing them in the fact that their wanted for robbing a rich Texas woman out of her life-savings . During all this Lucinda's mobster husband Gene , John Saxon , is busy getting arms and heads broken in his dealing with some very uncooperative home builders and union leaders It seems like Gene couldn't care less what Lucinda is doing behind his back as long as it doesn't interfere with his business practices . Norm starts to put the squeeze on the two blackmailing sleaze balls by first planting a bomb in their car , thats not powerful enough to kill them , just to get their attention and then somehow gets involved with Lucinda . Lucinda got so sick of being shaken down and was now ready to tell her husband the truth about her and Scott , in making her think that her lover , that very blackmailing creep Scott , is in trouble in that her husband found out about him and her and is going to have him rubbed out . Feeling that the best way to go with this , about to fall flat on it's face , shake down scheme is by playing on Lucinda's unnatural and even insane love for Scott . Norm while having a lunch rendezvous with Scott has the surprised and now ex-blackmailer , with Norm now taking over the job , get the living hell beaten out of him in full view , in Norm needing witnesses to make it look good , of some two dozen customers at a local Japanese restaurant with him being one of the persons who does the beating . Scott battered and bruised tells Lucinda that if she doesn't give the persons who worked him over the money , $100 , 000 . 00 , the next time he won't be so lucky . Lucinda not willing to part with the cash so fast and knowing form personal experience that it won't be the last time she'll hear from the blackmailers has one of her husbands hit-men , some creepy-looking guy with a beard and dark glasses named Albert , knock off the guys , including Norm , who beat Scott up . The movie then really goes off the deep end of reality when we then see Gene and the man for all seasons-like Norm , who we were just lead on to believe was killed , in a restaurant looking at a number of hot photos of his wife and Scott in bed together giving us the impression that Gene knew all about Lucindas cheating on him and that Norm was really working for him right from the start ! There's so many false deaths in " Blackmail " where we're lead to at first believe that the person , like Norm , that was killed can suddenly and without any explanation what so ever just magically comes back to life that you start to wonder to yourself if even your alive or dead by the time the movie is over . The film leads up to this unbelievable conclusion with Lucinda and Scott as well as her husband Gene and , the just who the hell is he working for anyway , private eye Norm ending up either dead or just faking it that it . This all makes you think if those involved with the movie ever bothered to even read the script and then seeing how ridicules it is would have just walk off the set and not come back unless major changes were made .
Off-Center	SOME SPOILERS incredibly confusing movie that looks like it's two films in one with a totally unnecessary surprise , more like an alternative , ending that comes after you thought that the movie already ended and where on your way to the exit . Having a chance encounter with financial expert Lucinda Harris , Jennifer Aniston , investment broker Charles Schine , Clive Owen , is short of cash to pay his fare on the Chicago Transit and she lays out nine dollars to keep him from getting thrown off the train . Very grateful for what Lucinda did for him Charles make a date to meet her the next day to pay her back , with interest . that leads to a dinner date and later a trip to a downtown Chicago hotel to spend the evening . An evening that would change Charles , and those near and dear to him , life forever . Barging in on Charles and Lucinda is this French-speaking hoodlum Philippe LaRoche , Vincent Cassel , who after brutally beating up Charles repeatedly rapes the terrified Lucinda and then takes off with Charles wallet and credit cards which Charles immediately canceled . Hurt , from the beating , and embarrassed for not doing anything to stop Lucinda from being raped Charles , at Lucinda's insistence , doesn't report the crime to the police which emboldens LaRoche to blackmail Charles shaking him down for $20 , 000 . 00 . You sense right away that something isn't right with Charles being so passive in giving in to LaRoche's demands and even more so Lucinda being so uninterested in her rapist being caught and arrested . Lucinda doesn't want her husband to know about it or if he does he'll take Lucinda's daughter Amber away from her for not being a good mother , or so she says . By not reporting the crime LaRoche is still on the loose and causing more trouble for her , and Charles , then any legal moral or divorce matter could ever do . Charles who's daughter Deanna , Melissa George , is in desperate need for a dialysis machine and a new drug on the market to cure , or help , her with her acute diabetes which he and his wife Amy , Addison Timlin , had saved up over the years $100 , 000 . 00 for . LaRoach back for more blood and money gets Charles to give him his hard earned savings without him even giving a thought about reporting this creep to the police or even taking matters into his own hands . The movie goes into a number of sub-plots that have some scenes look like their out of sequence with one of the people in it reportedly murdered and then showing up as if nothing happened to him only to get murdered again ! There also a scene where Charles discovers MAJOR SPOILER the truth about Lucinda and her connection with LaRouch and his strong arm associate and partner in crime Dexter , Xzibh . We later see Charles talking with Lucinda about her being raped and having an abortion as if what you saw earlier about her manipulating Charles , playing the innocent victim , never happened ! Charles finally gets up enough courage to confront the two vicious thugs , LaRouch & Dexter , as they plan , together with Lucinda , to get another sucker in a compromising position and then , after working him over , blackmail him . This time it backfires on them with Charles dropping the hammer on both LaRouch & Dexter which escalates when LaRouch comes to and gets involved with the unsuspecting and innocent John . Charles , in a wild gunfight with Dexter joining in wipes out almost everybody in the cast but wait there's still more , much more , to what's happening ! For that you have to end up behind bars , together with Charles , for the big " surprise " that's waiting for you and Charles in the prison laundry room .
A Fungus Among Us	SPOILERS Its a shame in that the actors and actresses put so much effort into trying to make " Acceptible Risk " believable when at the same time the script was a bummer right from the start and gave them practically nothing to really work with . The film starts off like your typical haunted house scenario with this yuppie couple Ed & Kim Wells , Chad Lowe & Kelly Rutherford , moving into Kelly's relatives , the Armstrongs , house in Marblehead MA . just a stones throw from historical Selem . Ed we learn is a hot shot young scientist with an Ivy league , Cambridge , education and is working on a cure for Alzheimers Disease . Ed's wife Kim is a pretty smart cookie herself but , unlike her obsessed husband Ed , has a bit more common sense in not getting involved in Ed's mindless experiments that eventually did him and a number of his friends and fellow yuppie whiz kids in by getting involved with his harebrained schemes . The Armstrong House turns out to have been a late 17th century , around the time of the Selem Whitch Trials , witches coven where there was all kinds of witches brews being cooked up . It's soon discovered that some of the ingredients , spores and fungi , to those devilish concoctions are still hidden inside the house three hundred years later ; with young nutty professor , or kid scientist , Ed Wells being to one to bring them back to life . The film has a hard time trying to connect the 17th century witches brew to modern day science and so does Ed . Later Ed gets involved in experimenting with the brew and finding out , by exposing himself to it , that it does wonders for his both IQ , raising it at least 30 points , as well as his sex life with the guy always horny and ready and willing to go into action , in as well as out of bed , at any moment of the day or night . What the brew also does is make Ed into a manic depressive psychotic where he becomes schizophrenic at everything he sees or hears with acquired super vision and hearing . Drinking the witches brew has Ed actually goes back in time , mentally as well as emotionally , becoming a brutal Neanderthal-type caveman hunting down wild game outside in the woods , and tearing it apart with his teeth , as well as losing his ability to eat with a knife and fork back at home . Wanting to make it big in pharmaceutical world Ed gets together with Wall Street high financier Standfield , Scott Hyland , and his fellow whiz kids and scientific geniuses Bobby Gloria and Sara , Sean Patrick Flenery Danielle Von Zerneck & Joy Tanner , who come up with this drug that they all test on themselves that's called Altra . Altra is supposed to clean out the Bata Amyloid plaque from peoples brain cells , the cause of Alzheimers . Instead the drug makes anyone who tries it on themselves , like Ed Bobby Gloria & Sara , lose their minds and go postal ! The acting is the only thing in the movie that keeps you interested in it with Chad Lowe really giving it all he's got as the mad scientist . Kelly Rutherford is about as good as one can expect as the abused , by Ed and his friends , wife who sticks by her man even when her man is a deadly treat to her and everyone else that he comes in contact with . Bobby really gets the worst , far worse then Ed Gloria and Sara , of it in having his brain cooked and stir fried by the witches . Bobby ends up not only killing Ed's next door neighbor Lois , Patty McCormick , by running her off the road and causing her to die in a flaming car smash up , just for the fun of it , but ends up murdering his girlfriend , and fellow science whiz kid Gloria . Ed who by now got both his act and brains together after doing a little mischief himself by viciously beating into a concussion poor professor Garvin ( Philip Troy ) , for just talking to his wife Kim , is now confronted by the completely crazed Bobby who desperately wants another dose of Altra , the witches brew , and wants it so bad even if he has to kill Ed , who's the only one who knows where the formula for the dangerous drug is , to get it ! that's just how crazy a normal and intelligent young man like Bobby , as well as Ed Gloria & Sara , became by exposing themselves to it !
Watchable Film Noir thriller	SPOILERS Thinking that he left this dark event in his past behind him Albert Straka , Jamie Kennedy , couldn't have been more wrong . With a new start in life and being engaged to a caring and lovely girl Emily , Lorie Heuring , the last thing that Albert thought that would happen happened . One morning two police detectives enter the antique shop where Albert is working and take him down to the police station for questioning for the murder of Frank Carreni , Michael Cavalieri , a person that Albert knew who now he would like to forget . Frank's body was found at the bottom of a bridge outside the city . The police pathologist determined that he was murdered somewhere else and his body dumped there . Under questioning by Det . Lukas Black , Sam Elliott , Albert is handed a seasons greeting card that he sent to Frank's wife Sara , Carlton Elizabeth . What Albert wrote to her was a lot more personal that your average greeting card . Albert not at all denying that he knew the Carreni's but he strangely seemed to be resigned to his fate , of being indited for Frank's murder . It at first looked to the movie audience and even Det . Black who was interrogating him that even though he had no love for Frank he didn't have it in him to kill Frank or anyone else for that matter . Momentarily leaving the interrogation room to get a drink of water Albert overhears two policemen on the case saying that Sara killed herself by jumping off the same bridge , where her husband Frank was found , a few days later . Albert quietly recounts the story about him and Sara and Frank and how he was in love and obsessed with Sara and how he resented and disliked Frank for how he abused her in his nightclub and at his home . Albert also talks about how he forced Sara to engage in all kinds of kinky sex that ironically in the end led to Frank's death . Albert recounts about that night when he got a frantic phone call from Sara that Frank was unconscious and possibly dead from one of those S & M sessions that he forced Sara to engage in . It was by answering that call from Sara that sealed Albert's fate in his going along with Sara's bazaar plan to make sure that Frank was really dead . What Albert didn't know was that there was a lot more to what happened to Frank that night and it wasn't just Sara that had something to do with it . Film Noir thriller that is a lot deeper and darker then you would have first thought . Sam Elliott is very good as Det . Black who knows much more then what he lets Albert and the audience on to on what is really behind Frank Carreni's murder as well as his wife Sara's suicide and you seem to sense that as the movie slowly unwinds to it's surprising ending .
When I say freeze that means your mouth too !	SPOILERS Typical 1970's black-exploitation movie with big macho bad a Jim Brown , as the genteel and soft spoken nightclub owner Mr Gunn , taking on the West Coast Mafia with a little help from his friends . The friends that help Gunn in wiping out the mob are the black militant members of BAG , The Black Action Group , a Black Panther like movement . Made up of mostly Vietnam Vets BAG is out to free the " Hood " - or East L . A-from illegal drugs and and the violence that result from them by using a little violence themselves . Gunn at first isn't at all interested in any violence in freeing his people from the mob that controls East L . A until his hot headed brother Scottie , Herb Jefferson Jr , gets murdered and left at his door-step . You see Scottie and members of the BAG had ripped off a mob controlled bookie joint and not only taken off with the days profits but the pay-off books ! Those books can implicate everyone in the city from the major and police commissioner on down in being on the take to the Mafia . You get the usual heroics that you would expect from a Jim Brown movie with Jim , as Mr . Gunn , going on a revenge trip in finding who was behind Scottie's murder and making him pay for it . It isn't an easy task for Mr . Gunn since when we first saw him he was a peaceful and law abiding businessman where violence was totally alien to him . By the time the movie ended Mr . Gunn had gunned down some two dozen people stolen a number of cars blown up half of the L . A dock and , after illegally breaking and entering into his swank apartment , worked over Ray Kriley , Bruce Glover , the mobster who did in Scottie . With all this law breaking all the LAPD had on Gunn was a reckless driving charge , with a stolen car no less , that was dropped making it possible for him to keep his liqueur license as well as control of his popular L . A nightclub " The Gunn's Cub " ! Besides Jim Brown the major reason for watching " Black Gunn ' " is actor Martin Landau as Mafia Boss Rus Capelli . Overacting like crazy Landau as Russ Capelli , who uses the cover of a TV used car salesman , came across more like a corny stand-up comic then a Mafia Chieftain . SPOILERS In the final showdown at the L . A dock Capilli has Mr . Gunn captured by his hoods but foolishly , with his obnoxious overacting , lets him get away . It's then that a machine-gun toting Gunn , together with members of the BAG , wipes out Capilli's whole organization . As for Carpelli he-or Martin Landau's stunt double-ends up immolating himself because he forgot , when a burning barrel of gasoline came barreling down on him , to duck !
Resurrected art	( Some Spoilers ) After being declared dead when his body was washed away in a stream where world famous artist Truman York , David Soul , and his girlfriend Diane , Christine Faust , ended up jumping into a stream with Truman's motorcycle as he tried to get away from the police who caught him with a packet of coke . Truman suddenly comes back from the dead , five years later , as he tears apart a painting at the Denver Nurian Gallery that Truman claims to be a forgery . Truman should know since the painting valued at over 100 thousand dollars and attributed to him wasn't painted by Truman ! Truman took some chance in coming back from the dead by now having all his many paintings value in the fact that he's still alive and active . Even more insane on Truman's part he now has Diana ' husband Joel McKelves , Mark Moses , gunning for him in his holding Truman responsible for his wife's addiction to drugs and her death in her being a passenger on Truman's motorbike in his run from the law . Joel McKelves getting the word that Turman is alive and well goes down to the hotel where Truman is staying at and attempts to shoot him only to have Truman get away in the confusion . Staying over at his wife's , also an artist , Lizanne's ( Maureen Meller ) studio for the night Turman is found with his head bashed open the next morning by some unknown assailant and guess whom the police suspect and arrest for Turman's murder ; the guy who earlier tried to kill him Joel McKelves . Perry takes the case not only because he feels that McKelves is innocent and that he's a good friend and collage fraternity buddy of his assistant Ken Malansky , Robert R . Moses . Perry quickly sees what has to be the real cause for what were the reasons for Trumans murder and it had nothing to do with Trumans love life or his involvement in McKelves wife death . It had to do with who was forging Trumans paintings and how they were used to snooker the public into thinking that they were real . There's a lot of brushing around the corners and filling in the blank spots in who's involved in this major fraud in the world of art collectors and sellers and it all boils down to the Nurian Gallery and both it's owner Renee Nurian , Jane Carr , and her creepy and somewhat mentally unbalanced top artist Damien Blakely , Scott Valentine . In a round about way of doing things the murderer of Truman York was not only murdered himself but by the very person who hired him to murder Truman . This strange scenario comes out in open court when Perry Mason ties all the strings together in Trumans murder and how Truman by him coming back from the dead set into motion all of the events that eventually lead to his brutal murder . A man so full of himself as the arrogant and boastful Truman York was turned out to be his own worst enemy who if he just stayed dead and buried in his new identity no one would have been out to get him . In the fact that whatever sleazy revolting and unlikable things that Trumn did in life in his faking his dead Truman didn't really have an enemy in the world .
Forget Me Not ?	SPOILERS Turning all the women in town , which has barely 100 residents , on with his saintly and pure of heart sermons and , in the privacy of an out of town motel , his hot and lustful sex Pastor Paul Keller , Nicholas Walker , is just about worn out when it comes to pay any attention , sexual or outer-wise , to his mousy and frustrated wife Martha , Ally Sheely . Being stuck with not only Martha but her son , Pauls step-son , Edger ( Vincent Berry ) who just can't cut it in his school work is about all the outside pressures that the good pastor can take . One of the many women in town whom the righteous Pastor Paul has his eye on happens to be Edger's sexy teacher Veronica Dow , Dara Tomanovich , whom he's been having a very raunchy affair with at the out of town motel . The motel is run by the love-sick , for Paul of course , Charlence Hunt ( Sally Kirkland ) who's been secretly listening into Paul and Veronica's love-making secessions and getting herself all hyped up over them . Paul , since he was a little boy , has had this phobia about water . This all stems from when Paul was a little boy and saw his best friend Frankie Serig drown in the local watering hole with him being unable to save his life . It turns out that for some strange reason Paul uses the name Frank Serig when he registers into the motel with Veronica . Insuring himself for a cool million Paul then plans to get himself permanently lost , by faking his own death , and then have him and Veronica take off with the cash and live , in sin , happily every after . Checking out the local river Paul then plans to find a way he can make it look like he drown without his body being found but freaks out when he , while on a rowboat fishing , sees a vision of young Frankie drowning in it . Cracking his skull , by falling down and landing on his head , Paul falls overboard almost drowning himself . Finding his way back to Charlence's motel Paul also finds that he doesn't know who he is which to the hot as a pistol , for handsome and sexy Paul's love and affection , is heaven sent for the love starved Charlence . Charlence takes all the advantage that she can of the confused and bewildered Paul by making him her both private and personal slave boy . It's after Paul's funeral that Martha is contacted by agent Tim Bishop , John Savage , of Luckland insurance the company that insured Paul for a million smackers and things really begin to get wild . Bishop not at all believing that Paul is deceased but at the same time not realizing that it's Veronica Paul's secret lover , not Martha who knows nothing about Paul's policy , that was supposed to be the soul beneficiary . While all this is happening Paul is being held captive by the insane with love Charlence at her motel with no idea what all this fuss about him is all about ! The film gets a bit convoluted when Bishop gets himself good and drunk and them showing up at Martha's house makes a complete jerk of himself trying to drunkly and sexually attack her where he only ends up out cold on her bed with his pants off . Bishop's bizarre behavior has Veronica , who knows that Paul is indeed alive , get Martha to blackmail him into paying her , and with the fact that she came up with this great idea , and Veronica the insurance money . The big stumbling block in the entire Paul business is that he's alive and that Charlence also knows that he's alive and with her insane actions threatening to expose that fact , to Bishop , and being stuck on Paul that she won't let go of her dreamboat even if it kills her or him . You can't help feeling sorry for Paul in all this since no matter what bad things he did in his past , and it was a lot , he wasn't exactly himself or anyone else , at the time of his demise . Being the nameless and mindless entity that he became when the ax came down on his head , in the form of an off-the-wall Charlence who together with Veronica and Martha , made it difficult to accept that Paul paid for his sins since he had no idea at all that he ever made them .
Graveyard Tales	SPOILERS Let me invite you for a stroll down " Graveyard Lane " so starts the movie as were introduced to R . J . Dobson the custodian of the Raven Hill Cemetery . Dobson tells the audience about the secrets of the cemetery by saying : Each marker , tombstone , withholds many stories some filled with happiness some filled with sorrow . I wonder what they would do if they had the chance to re-live their lives again ! What would you do ? All of a sudden Dobson stops his monologue and starts calling for his cat Pumha . Walking through the graveyard after accidentally stepping on the cats tail he finds the kitty at the headstone of Lewis B . Moffitt a medical student who died at the age of 22 in 1955 , and so the story begins . Lewis B . Moffitt wanted to become a doctor for all the wrong reasons . As a young boy he developed a fear of the dark when his grandpa died and was left to lay in state in his parents living-room . Terrified of the dark his mother told him that if he turned on the lights his grandpa would get out of his coffin and whack him . As Lewis grew up he wanted to become a doctor to overcome his fear of dead bodies like the fear he had of his grandpa when he was laying in state . What he liked to do most at the medical collage was to participate in dissecting of human bodies . Most of the students who were in the gallery watching these dissecting would get sick and leave the room but not Lewis he was fearless . A body that was dissected just before there was to be an initiation into the collage fraternity had a gold ring on it . At the initiation the next night Lewis was told that he had to go into the Raven Hill Cemetery Mausoleum where they keep the recently interred and bring the gold ring back to be accepted into the fraternity . Going into the cemetery that night Lewis finally makes it into the mausoleum and finds the body with the gold ring that he was looking for . As Lewis was about to get the gold ring off the finger of the body he hears a shriek of what turned out to be the custodians cat Pumha and as he turned in surprise the dead mans hand fell and grabbed Lewis . All of a sudden the fear that Lewis suppressed all these years since he was a little boy of the dark and dead bodies came back to him like a bolt of lighting and he fell to the ground dead , dead of fright . So ended the story of Lewis B . Moffitt the young man who tried to show that he can take the fear of being around dead bodies by ending up dead because of one . By the way on Moffitt's headstone was carved out the epithet " I FEARED NOT " . Far better then you would expect from the down right awful rating the movie has from the IMDb voters . " Ring of Terror " plays like one of those 1950's mystery / suspense shows like " Inner-sanctum " and " Strange stories " and is much better then most " Twilight Zone " episodes that I've seen . " Ring of Terror " did have an interesting story that didn't need any special effects and the acting was surprisingly good especially George Mather who played Lewis B . Moffitt . Watching the movie and knowing how bad the reviews about it were I expected to see a first-class bomb with the only redeeming value in it being some unintentional laughs but instead I was pleasantly surprised .
Beyond Comprehension	SPOILERS Sleazy as well as confusing movie that's hard enough to follow but has some of the worst dubbing I've ever heard . " Beyond Obsession " is so bad that you have to learn to lip read , as well as Italian , just to understand the plot which is a convoluted mess to begin with . Set in Morocco " Beyond Obsession " is a mind numbing love triangle between Matthew , Tom Berenger , a young and handsome American oil rig worker with Nina , Eleonora Giorgi . Nina'a also having an affair with her step-father Enrico , Marcello Mastroianni , who's in jail for the death of Nina's mother Barbara . Enrico being a former diplomat has privileges in jail that most of us don't even have being free where he seems to leave the lock-up almost any time that he feels like it . The prison officials also provide Enrico with a car for his transportation that he uses to keep an eye on as well as have an affair with Nina . Enrico out finding that Nina's having an affair with Matthew gets jealous and starts to put the screws on it to get Nina back to him which gets Nina very upset . We learn that Nina's mother , Barbara , caught Enrico and Nina in a hotel room years ago , when Nina was a teenager . After sending a letter to her mother , Nina's grandmother , Barbara tells her that Enrico is going to murder her she then overdosed on drugs , it was that letter that got Enrico behind bars . Later it's found out by Matthew that Enrico may very well be Nina's real father ! Nina's real father tells Matthew that he's not really sure if he is or not since him and Enrico where both having an affair with Barbara before Nina was born . Nina hurt and depressed over what's happening with all this gossip attempts , like her mother who succeeded , suicide . Matthew trying to straighten this mess out gets to have Enrico finally meet and talk to Nina's grandmother , who's dying of old age , in order to find out what this whole crazy story between Nina Enrico and Barbara was all about and separate the truth from the BS . Grandma tells Enrico that she sent a letter some time ago to Nina to give to the courts and police stating that it was Barbara who killed herself not Enrico who at the time was arrested by the police for her death . Nina's grandmother being a shut-in and cut off from the world didn't know that the courts and police didn't get that letter , and that poor innocent Enrico was in jail all that time . It turned out that Nina , in order to keep Enrico for herself and punish him for driving her mother to suicide , kept the letter from the police and had her lover Enrico in jail all that time as well as having complete control of him . With her grandmother dead and Nina now , after getting all her money and her house in Morocco to live in , goes off with Enrico to live happily ever . As for Matthew , who helped straighten this whole mess out , he's left holding the bag and out in the cold . Brain twisting movie that takes everything out of you and leaves you senseless trying to follow it . Poor Matthew he tried to get everything right but ended up only screwing himself in the end .
Bat's Are People Too	Overly contrived murder mystery with as many sub-pots as rooms in the massive Oaks mansion where most of the movie takes place . Famous murder mystery writer Cornelia Van Gorder , Agnes Moorehead , is taking time off from writing and spending the summer at the Oaks which she rented from Mark Flemming , John Bryant the nephew of Zenith Bank president John Flemming , Harvey Stephens . There's been this weird looking person known as " The Bat " who runs around with a sock over his head and a clawed glove that murdered a number of people at the Oaks the previous year . " The Bat " murderous escapades is making the hired help at the Oaks very nervous and they think that he's coming back for another visit . Almost from the start of the movie we see a large hole in the storyline about " The Bat " . Bank president John Fleming who's out in the woods hunting with his doctor Malcolm Wells , Vincent Price , tells the Doc . that he just stole $1 , 000 , 000 . 00 from his bank and hid it in a secret room in the Oaks . Fleming wants to fake his death by finding someone to substitute his body and then free from suspicion take off with the loot and live happily ever after . It turns out that the Doc . has ideas of his own and when a forest fire almost on cue , like you would expect to see a song or dance number in a musical , breaks out . Fleming is distracted Dr . Wells who shoots him making it look like his death was because of the forest fire , are the police in Zenith Township so incompetent that they wouldn't notice that Flaming died of a gunshot wound ? The entire movie centers around the hidden stolen bank money in the Oaks which makes the Bat's , whoever he is , murders the previously year make no sense at all since there was no stolen money for him to look and kill for back then ? Were given the usual suspects of who " The Bat " is but as usual the most obvious is the least one to suspect . We're shown right from the beginning that Dr . Wells is up to no good by murdering John Flemming so right away we know not to trust him and he also knows that the money is hidden in the Oaks . There's so many other sub-plots in the movie that you soon forget Dr . Wells and suspect almost anyone in the movie and as the movie goes on and the plot begins to become even more convoluted you even start to suspect yourself . If the movie tried to be a little less complicated instead of a puzzle that someone from the high IQ MENSA Society couldn't even figure out it may well have held ones interests but by the last half of the movie you were so lost and confused by the plot that you lost all interest in who the killer was . This loss of interest seemed to be shared by the movies cast as well who went from being terrified of " The Bat " at the start of the film to giving the audience the impression towards the end that they just wanted it to be over so they could collect their checks for being in the movie and go home .
He can be a co-worker or the quite guy who lives next door	( Minor Spoilers ) Very likely the very first of a series of Zodiac movies that stated when the real life Zodiac Killer hit the headlines back in the winter of 1968 . This endless string of Zodiac killings has captivated the imagination of both the public as well as the law enforcement agencies all over the country for almost 40 years with the killer , if he's alive , still at large . Were given two , not one , possible Zodiac Killers at the start of the film " The Zodiac Killer " with frustrated truck driver Grover and introverted post office mail carries Terry . Both persons have very serious personal problems in dealing with people . Grover is sensitive about his job as a truck driver as well as him being bald and wearing a very obvious wig when he goes to bars to pick up women which , in his mind , is the reason he has trouble making it with them . Grover doesn't seem to realize that it's really his attitude towards women looking at them as pieces of meat which is the reason that he turns them off on him . Grover is also very resentfully at his ex-wife Helen for keeping him from seeing his daughter because of his unfitness of being a father ; besides everything else he's also a drug and alcohol abuser . That eventually leads Grover to break into his ex-wife's home and after holding off the police , holding his daughter as a hostage , is gunned down and killed off in the movie . It's then when were introduced to the real , in the movie that is , Zodiac Killer Terry the Mailman who's a strict vegetarian and loves animals having about a dozen pet rabbits that he keeps in cages in his apartment . It's only too bad that Terry doesn't have the same humanitarian feelings for his fellow man and woman as well . Terry is a strange sort of nut in that almost all of the murders that he commits in the movie are totally unrelated to each other and for the most part are that of persons who have nothing but affection towards him . Besides murdering a number of couples making out in cars and in the woods Terry also murders two frail and elderly women , in the most shocking and bloodcurdling scenes in the movie , for no other reason then them having their cars break down ! In those two murders Terry seems to get more turned on in murdering these two senior citizens then any of the young and pretty women that he murders in the movie ! After murdering some dozen victims Terry just fades into the woodwork , like a termite , as he disappears into the mass of humanity of the city of San Francisco . Were given some insight to Terry's mindset at the very end of the movie but it's a little too late for his already long list of victims . Terry were given to believe has been suffering from extreme mental trauma because of his father being committed to a mental institution ; does Terry feel that his fathers mental illness is hereditary ? And is that the real reason for his unstable and murderous actions throughout the movie ? Better then you would expect from a bargain basement triple movie DVD " The Zodiac Killer " doesn't drag at all keeping your attention despite a number of unconnected scenes involving Terry's fascination with this reincarnation and blood-cult , that he's the only member of , that also believes in the lost Continent of Atlantis . When the movie sticks to the Zodiac Killer angle it's doesn't let it ' audience down . But when it strays into uncharted territory like the Atlanits murder cult and Terry's many super closeup , that take up the entire screen for long stretches at a time , it not only become boring but very annoying as well . The most interesting and shocking thing that the film " The Zodiac Killer " brings out is that a person like Terry , personable soft-spoken and dependable , can be someone that you've known all your life but in reality , with the secret and murderous double life that he leads , never really knew at all .
Deal or no Deal ?	SPOILERS Trying to have a baby for over a year Dr . Craig Burton , Arnld Vosloo , gets the good news from his wife Sherry , Jillian McWhirter , that she finally got pregnant and the two look forward to the blessed event . It's later when Craig starts to have a number of self-doubt if he's in fact the father and if the baby that Sherry is carrying is in fact human at all . Something about Sherry's conception and pregnancy just doesn't seem to be right to him . Getting a test on his sperm count it reveals that it's impossible for Craig to have children and later Sherry , with under two months into her pregnancy , begins to suffer violent spasms as if the baby is about to be born . Craig is also a bit worried about what happened when the union between him and Sherry happened that resulted in her pregnancy September 20 . It was on that very evening that he had strange experience of being paralyzed and Sherry abducted with two hours of his life completely erased from his memory . One of the many alien abduction movies that were inspired by books like the very first reported alien abduction story of Barney and Betty Hill in 1961 in the ground-breaking book " Incident at Exeter : The Interrupted Journey " and followed by scores of other books on the subject like " Commmunion " and " Missing Time " . The movie " Progeny " takes the story-line of what happened to both Craig and Sherry Burton in what seems like a sitting on the fence direction where you don't know for sure if what Craig , and later Sherry , believe happened to them really happened ? We get to see in a number of flashbacks with Sherry being abducted and lifted into the air and on to an alien spaceship . It's there where she's examined and impregnated by the alien's , who look like a bunch newborn tadpoles . Every time were about to have some proof if this really happened and if Sherry's baby is an alien we get sidetracked with the evidence evaporating into space , due what were lead to believe alien interference and manipulation . In one case the only person who could confirm Sherry's unusual condition Dr . David Wetherly , Wilford Brilmey , suddenly goes into cardiac arrest and eventually dies on the operating table never regaining consciousness ! Craig starts to go mad as he feels that Sherry's life is in danger and in desperation gets in touch with alien abduction specialist Dr . Bert Clavell ( Brad Dourif ) who you would think would be the the person , with the big build up that he gets in the movie , who finally brings Sherry back to normal but the exact opposite happens . Before Dr . Calvell could really do anything Craig takes charge of what to do with Sherry and just uses Dr . Carvell as a gofer to get a camcorder and videotape an operation he has planned , an abortion , for Sherry . Dr . Calvell quickly realizes that Craig is crazy as he commandeers the comatose Sherry out of her hospital room and takes over the operation unit in the hospital . It's there that Craig preforms one of the sickest and most gruesome hatched or cut-up jobs that you'll ever see in a movie . With blood gushing all over the place even splattering the lens of Dr . Carvell's camcorder with him nauseated at what's going on he just about had enough when Craig , who's by now completely off his rocker . Craig now decides to flat-line Sherry , or put Sherry into some kind of simulated death trace , in order to get the alien fetus to leave her womb ! That has the now sick scared and disgusted Dr . Carvell , at what the crazy Craig is doing , runs out of the operating room and out of the movie in a total state of panic . Craig's insane plan to save Sherry turns into a disaster with her dying on the operation table and him ending up in jail for the rest of his life in her , what else could you call it , murder . Were given another surprise at the end of the movie with Craig doing a disappearing act in his prison cell ; was he also abducted by the aliens to be experimented on like his late wife Sherry was ? The movie never makes the point if Sherry was indeed abducted and impregnated by aliens . After a while all that what were given to believe about her experience with aliens from outer space seems to be just a figment of her husbands wild and insane imagination . With the mind-blowing cut-up job that Craig did on her at the end of the movie you just lost all sympathy for him and felt like everyone else in the film that he deserves everything he gets by getting the book thrown at him in a court of law .
A Breed Apart	SPOILERS Flying to this island to spend the long weekend five collage students feel that it will all be fun & games there but are badly mistaken when they find out that the island was used to prefect genetically designed attack dogs who on top of everything else ended up being infected with rabies . The movie " The Breed " seems to have been inspired by the 1959 campy horror classic " The Killer Shrews " . Where in the movie the giant shrews were nothing but a pack of dogs dressed in moth-eaten fur coats where as in this movie at least the dog were dogs . Being warned ahead of time by this badly mauled and half-crazy man Luke to get off the island before it's too late the students headed by brothers Matt & John ignore the guy . Thinking that he's out of his mind the students don't realize that Luke was earlier attacked , together with his girlfriend Jenny , by the rampaging mutts who from the sight of him did a real number on Luke . Within minutes after his reappearance Luke is vindicated in his warning to the students when he's again attacked by the wild dogs who this time , unlike the last , finally finish him off . The rest of the movie has the two brothers Matt & John together with Noah and Sara & Nicki being attacked by the wild and rabid dogs who seem to be in the dozens and well fed even though there isn't a thing to eat , besides the students and fellow dogs , for them on the island . Taking out both Sara & Noah with Sara for a while becoming one of " Them " , in mind not body , the dogs seem to have the upper hand in finally ridding the island of its uninvited inhabitants , the students . It's not until Matt & John decide to break into the dogs deserted compound and get into the radio station to get help that the wild dogs start to back off . This venture on the brothers part later backfires with them overloading the radio tower with large amounts of electric currents that blows the place sky high . With the dogs now coming back home , to their compound , they begin to finish the job that they started in eating the remanding students John & Matt together with Nicki . The film " The Breed " predictably plays itself out as were all , together with the surviving students , hit with a surprise ending , like in most horror movies , that you can see coming from a mile away . SPOILERS Just when you and the surviving students think that their home free all of a sudden the dogs , or in this case a dog , pops out of nowhere as the screen goes black and leaves it up to the audience's imagination to what happens next .
The whole case is BS ! And your knee deep in it !	( Some Spoilers ) When two exonerated repeat sex offenders , Dean Harvey & William Bosler , are found poisoned to death with their long locks of hair shown off the main suspect in their murders is the Assistant District Attorney who prosecuted them Katy Wesson . Miss . Wesson , or Katy , has a near-perfect record in convictions with the exception of just two , in over well over one hundred , cases . The two that got away from Katy in having them convicted and put behind bars just happened to be Harvey & Bosler ! Put on the case of the poisoned and exonerated sex offenders are detectives Tom Chaney and his gay , who makes a point of that fact , partner Rod Lambeau . The two make a very strange pair with Chaney always looking for action in getting in bed with women he picks up at local nightclubs and the far more serious Lambeau looking for clues , and in some cases going undercover in drag , on the internet to track down criminals . Lambeau is also very into human psychology and body movements that in the end helps him break this very strange and baffling case . A fact that his partner Det . Chaney , who's only body movements he's interested in are that of sexy and curvy women , tragically overlooked . It's Det . Chaney who in trying to track down both Harvey and Bosler's killer gets , or so he thinks , romantically involved with Assistant D . A Katy Wesson . Katy who's been hearing impaired since she was a little girl has her weirdo as well as Siamese-twin-like , in that he seems to be psychically connected to Katy , interpreter of sigh language Josh Kane with her almost at all times . This get's Det . Chaney a bit ticked off at him in feeling that Kane , an obnoxious and overbearing pain in the neck , is standing between him and his love Katy ! At the same time Kane who has absolutely no use for Det . Chaney or his partner Lambeau is somehow involved with Katy's widowed mom Pauline Wesson . SPOILER ALERTMrs . Wesson is not only insanely overprotective of her deft daughter Katy but is also keeping a number of facts about her childhood from both the police , who are investigating her , and her psychiatrist Dr . Janice Blakin . Dr . Balkin is trying to cure Katy from an extremely traumatic event in her childhood : Katy's father's murder ! Det . Chaney has meanwhile gotten , to the point of losing his sanity and his job , completely infatuated with Katy . Det . Chaney's obsession with Katy gets to the point where he's given a warning from the court to stay within 100 yards from her in the fact that she accused him of not only constantly stalking her but also beating her up ! This whole off the wall adventure comes full circle when Det . Chaney , with the help of his concerned partner Det . Lambeau , finally realizes just who and what he's dealing with . By then that it's a bit too late for him to do anything but , together with Katy Wesson , suffer the consequences !
Within , bomber , sight of victory .	SPOILERS Being literally brought back from the dead to battle the Germans for God and Country legendary English gumshoe Sherlock Holmes , Basil Rathbone , is now in modern , 1943 , Europe . Holmes is in Zrich Switzerland trying to get his hands on Swiss inventor Dr . Franz Tobel , William Post Jr , and his new and revolutionary bomb-sight and bring them both back to England to have it , by the thousands installed in the RAF's fleet of Lancaster bombers . Getting Dr . Toben out the the Nazi agents clutches Holmes has Toben as well as himself secretly flown out of Switzerland on a RAF plane and back to England only to later run into his mortal enemy the never say die , he's supposed to have been killed in an earlier Sherlock Holmes movie , Professor Moriarty , Lionel Atwill . Moriarty has thrown his support in with the Nazis not they their paying him the price that he wants for his services but that he can have another chance in having a battle of wits with the great Sherlock Holmes who's on the other side , England , of the battle line . Much too over-plotted with a number of incidents like Dr . Tobel always getting lost and into trouble , and Holmes having to risk his life to save the bumbling fool . " Sherlock Holmes and the Secret Weapon " is more of a propaganda and rallying call for the troops kind of movie then the usual brainy and intelligence detective story that you would have expected in a Sherlock Holmes film . The movie gets so carried away with it's patriotism that in the end it abruptly cut short almost in mid-sentence , probably with the screen-writers realizing just how ridiculous it is , a big speech by Sherlock Holmes in praising the allied cause and how great his country England is in standing alone against the Nazi Juggernaut . Which at the time that he's giving the speech England was allied with both the USA and USSR in the war against Nazi Germany ! Even though he's supposed to be a criminal genius Prof . Moriarty seems to be either too dim-witted or just blinded by his own misguided hubris to not realize that he's being taken to the cleaners by the far much more , in fact it a miss-match , intelligent Sherlock Holmes . Holmes in a number of occasions lets himself get captured by Moriarty's thugs only to have him blow his cover and get Scotland Yard on his tail in finding out just where his hideout is . Tricking Prof . Moriarty by letting himself get captured , into leading him to the kidnapped Dr . Tobel , Sherlock Holmes has his friend Dr . Watson , Nigel Bruce , and the police get to Moriarty's secret hideout just in the nick of time before the evil Prof . Moriarty drains all the blood out of Holmes ' body thus slowly and tortuously murdering him . Even this ingenious way of killing somebody had nothing at all to do with Prof . Moriarty brilliant , though evil and perverted , mind but it fact it was Homles himself who gave Moriarty the idea to do it ! Moriarty as you would expect , from his limited or almost no success at all in the film , again showed that he wasn't up to to it in facing his nemesis Sherlock Holmes by brainlessly trying to make his getaway , not knowing that Holmes set a trap for him , through the London sewer system . Only to fall 60 feet straight down into the sewer and to , well that's what were made to think , his death in the slime and and " YUCK " waste products , both human and animal , where that both treasonous and murderous slime-ball so rightfully and deservedly belongs .
Where's the cops ?	SPOILERS " Blue Steel " is basically a film about a crazed Wall Street commodities broker Eugene Hunt , Ron Silver , who has a religious experience one night . At a neighborhood grocery store rookie policewomen Magen Turner , Jamie Lee Curtis , blasts away a robber , Tom Sizemore , who tried to shoot her as well as those in the store including Eugene . Ehgene crabs the dead crooks . 44 Magnum and takes off with it before the backup team came on the crime scene leaving Magen with no proof that the robber had a gun and leaving her open to disciplinary charges by the NYPD . Back home Eugene treating the . 44 as if it were a religious item to be both worshiped and revered . Eugene feels that Magen is the missing part of his religious experience and plans to get to know her to make it all complete . Eugene gets friendly with Magen by getting her a cab and then treating her to dinner at a swanky restaurant . Eugene even takes Magen on a helicopter ride over NYC at night . As Eugene wines and dines Magen he secretly goes out at night shooting people with her missing . 44 using bullets with Magen's name scratched on the casings . This gets Magen into even more trouble with the baffled police department thinking that she's somehow responsible for those murders . The crazed Eugene seem untouchable from both the police as well as the courts . No matter how much proof the police have on him his high priced lawyer always gets Eugene off on some technicality . Eugene even gets away with shooting Magen's best friend Tracy Perez , Elizabeth Pena , right in front of her eyes ! That cold blooded murder on Eugene's part still wasn't enough to convict much less arrest him for the crime ? After offing what seemed like scores of people with the police and the NYC justice department totally helpless to stop him the movie finally ends with a shootout between Magen and the crazed broker in the Wall Street section of Manhattan . The shootout starts in the subway and ended in the streets . Eugene ends up not only getting blasted with a full magazine by Magen but also run over by her . It seems that Magen is the only policeman , or it this case policewomen , on duty in the entire city , was the New York Police Force on a coffee break ? This movie is nuts and ridicules just like Eugene but one thing that it isn't is boring . It's a small wonder that anyone involved with this movie ever survived to make another film .
" Shicker " actually means drunk in Yiddish . Was there some kind on in joke in the perpetually inebriated professors name ?	( Some Spoilers ) San Francisco boat shop owner Dennis O'Brien hasn't been doing any business lately due to the sagging post-war economy on the docks . Supplementing his day job as a private dick Dennis get's a lot more work and action , as well as women , that he ever expected in that deary and empty shop of his . The film " Pier 23 " has our hero Dennis together with his constantly drunk companion Prof . Shicker get involved and eventually solve two different murder cases . The first has to do with an escapee from the " Rock " - Alcatraz Island Federal Penitentuary-who ends up dead in a shoot-out at the swanky Nubian Club in downtown San Francisco . The escaped convict was out to get some $5 , 000 . 00 in bookie money that the manager of the Nubian Club ripped him out off while he was in prison . The second murder case involves Dennis solving the mystery of why a professional wrestler-Willie Klingle-was not only allowed to wrestle despite having a serious heart condition but then purposely murdered in the ring by his opponent the guerrilla-like Ape Danowski . It later comes out that Willie was assured by the wrestling promoter Nick Garrison that the " Fix " was in and that Ape was going to throw the match . In both cases , or episodes , Dennis is constantly harassed and badgered by SF police inspector Lt . Bruger who's more interested in pinning the murders on Dennis , without any proof whats so ever , instead of finding the actually perpetrators ! The film is very hard to follow since you have no idea that your watching two , not one , movies at the same time until its just about over . Dennis is so cool at his job as a private detective that he comes across as if he's totally detached from reality . Only once did Dennis , in all the tight spots he found himself in the movie , show any real fear or emotion . That's when Ape Danowski grabbed Dennis in a python-like headlock almost squeezing the life out of him . Dennis ' good friend and leg-man or the guy who dug , or drank up , all the information for him Prof . Shicker , who's always chasing out the bars in the neighborhood , was the obviously comedy relief in the movie . Alaways on target with his tips Prof . Shicker's ability to stay lucid , in spite of him always being drunk , and on top of things made him a valuable asset in Dennis ' unique and unorthodox crime solving methods .
Psycho in the sky with no restraints	( There are Spoilers ) You at first feel a bit of sympathy for convicted serial killer Ryan Weaver , Ray Liotta , who's claim of never killing anyone and being set up by a publicity hungry L . A Cop Let . Aldo Hines , Hector Elizondo . With Weaver being by far the nicest , and most caring , person on the plane taking him back to L . A , from New York City , to face execution for the murder of five women . Weaver is kind considerate and even funny as he jokes with his US Marshall guards and the stewardesses as well as the few passenger's on the Christmas-Eve flight . He even goes out of his way to get the Marshalls who are holding his fellow fugitive from justice bank robber Stobbs , Brendan Gleeson , to let him go to the bathroom , with the guards present of course . When Stobbs complains about having to answer the call of nature . What no one knows until it's too late is that Weaver is manipulating his , and Stobbs , guards knowing that Stobb is determined to escape . Weaver uses Stobb by having him momentarily freed , to do his very personal thing , to help him makes his own getaway some 35 , 000 feet in the air over Akron Ohio . Catching his US Marshall guard off guard in the airplane restroom Stobbs murders him an loosened water faucet tube and after a wild shootout , where a bullet rips a hole through the plane fuselage . Weaver then shows his true self as he methodically murders everyone on board , with the exception of a few passengers locked in a storeroom . But keeps cute stewardess Teri Halloran , Lauren Holly , alive to chase her throughout the giant 747 for the remainder of the movie . You wonder just what Weaver is planing to do since he doesn't know how to fly a plane , much less a very sophisticated 747 Jumbo passenger liner . It becomes evident later that he just wants to have a good time in the few hours of freedom that he has left and then crash the plane into L . A proper killing hundreds of people . Making him more famous then he already is as the biggest mass murder in US history and at the same time sticking it to his captor Let . Hines for framing him for a killing , the only one , that he didn't commit . Completely changing his once nice and loving demeanor when Weaver turns into an uncontrollable and murderous psycho sticking out and Satanicly wiggling and flicking his tongue ; like a cross between a Gila Monster lizard and the crazed and outrageous professional wrestler Geroge " The Animal " Steel . Weaver is in full battle mode attacks the frail-looking Teri who uses her brains and courage to match his wild psychotic charges . In the end Teri has him go nuts , if he wasn't already , from frustration by not being able to finish off spunky Teri . Weaver finally loses his concentration and ends up getting a bullet right between his eyes from the very plucky Teri ; after being exposed to this insane lunatic changed her mind about her life long opposition against the death penalty . The movie went from the far-fetched to the unbelievable with Teri taking the very complicated controls of the 747 and with the help of ground control , namely British Airline Captain Samuel Bowen ( Ben Cross ) . Teri then flies the giant plane like a pro criss-crossing LAX in a blinding category 6 , out of 6 , rainstorm . Teri lands the Jumbo Jet almost on a dime after smashing into , or skimming across , the airports air control tower . Teri is also tracked by a USAF fighter plane who's ordered , by ground control , to shoot up the runaway only to have the reluctant pilot blow out the stuck Ford van , making it easier for Teri to land the 747 . It's hard to take the movie seriously but at the same time it's hard to turn it off since you just can't help wanting to see just how more absurd , if that's at all possible , it get's .
Over-Cooked & Half-Baked	SPOILERS Right at the start of the movie " Laguna Heat " you get an insight of what to expect . We see , in flashback , Tom Shephard's , Harry Hamlin , father , Wade , Jason Robards Jr , jumping off a pier by the Pacific Ocean not to kill himself but to temp the fates in seeing if he could evade and survive the rocks just as he hits the waves when they roll in . Tom is telling this to a psychiatrist who's treating him for depression after his partner in the LA police Department was murdered as Tom was unable to draw his gun fast enough to stop the street thug from killing him . Getting a transfer out of LA to Laguna Beach where Tom comes from to become a member of the local police department where his father worked as a cop for some 20 years . Over-cooked and half-baked the movie " Laguna Heat " has as many sub-plots as chapters in Leo Tolstoy's " War and Peace " and as many twists and turns as the Burma Road . As Tom begins his job there's two different torch-murders committed . Both persons Tim Algeron and Hope Chasen not only knew each other but that Tim left four massages on Hope's phone audio machine trying to warn her that she , as well as he , were in danger . Tom goes to see Tim's daughter Jean , Catherine Hicks , to get information about him but hits a brick wall . Meanwhile Tom's father Wade , who's running a mission in town for homeless drunk and drug addicted people in the area , who was a recovering alcoholic himself goes back to hitting the bottle because of the deaths of Tim & Hope who he was very close to . It turns out that the puppet master in this whole affair is the local mob boss Joe Datila , Rip Torn , who's also Tom's Godfather . All of a sudden we go back some forty or so years to find the answer to what's happening in Laguna Beach . Datila was a local hoodlum from New Jersey who moved to California after WWII to start his crime empire in Laguna Beach . Now Datila is about to become legit and very wealthy to the point were he's in line to be appointed US Ambassador to Belgium and about to close a deal with a group of Japanese real-estate magnets that will make him one half billion dollars . Tom also finds out that his mother , Colleen's , killer Azul Marcante , Dehl Bern , who murdered her when he was a little boy was paroled from jail just before the two murders of Tim & Hope and feels that he's the one who committed them . Tracking down Marcante at the Sun / Spot Hotel where he was staying and working as an artist Tom after chasing him all over the dance floor as well as in and out of the hotel rooms and bar shoots and kills him . Now here's were the movie becomes a little bit confusing . It turns out that Marcante was framed for killing Colleen by Datila who paid off the judge and witnesses to rule as well as testify against him . It turned out that is was really , are you ready , Tom's father Wade who killed his mother when he found her having an affair with , yes that's right , Marcante . Pulling out his service revolver Wade shot at Marcante but Colleen jumped in the way and took the bullet for him thus killing her . The biggest surprise of all is Marcante may very well be Tom's father ! Tom finds all this out from Datila's former lover Helene Long , Anne Francis , who said that she expects to be killed very soon by Datila to keep her quiet that's why she telling him all of this . Helene also told Tom that Hope's husband , Burt , was killed by , you guessed it , Datila's gangsters because he knew too much and was asking for more and more money to keep his mouth shut . Wade being blackmailed about killing Colleen and in debt to Datila then covered up Burt's murder . Helene also told Tom that was also the reason that both Tim & Hope was murdered , they knew too much and had big mouths that was a threat to Datila's future plans . Not long after Helen told Tom all this she was found dead from a drug overdose . With both Tom and the murdered Tim Algeron's daughter Jean feeling close since they both lost a parent to a criminal act they get even closer by burning up the screen in a number or torrid sex scenes that gave the movie it's name : " Laguna Heat " . It turns out that Datila was knocking off all the people who can blackmail him and keep him from becoming a US Ambassador and the only one alive who can give him any trouble is the almost , by now , dead-drunk Wade Shephard . Datila getting one of his hoods Harman , Jeff Kober , to do the job on Wade as well as Jean , for good measure , by setting them aflame and making it look like they were killed in a brush fire . Tom comes to the rescue and beats a confession out of Harman getting him to implicate Datila . Still Tom knows that if he has to arrest Datila he'll have to also arrest his own father for murdering his wife and Tom's mother Colleen which Datila covered up . As well as having again to arrest Wade for covering up Datila's murder of Burt Chasen . Unbelievably complicated movie that's far harder to follow and understand then graduating top of the class in a Ivy League College that after suffering through it makes you , like Wade , want to crawl into a bottle and do your best to forget that you ever saw the film .
It could have been an animal ? What if it wasn't !	SPOILERS The movie " Memorial Valley Massacre " tries to be different from your average run of the mill killer on the loose films and in a way it succeeded it what it set out to do . The villain in the film a clean shaven cave boy , John Caso , does kill more then half the cast in the movie by the time its over but at the same time you can't hold it against him for what he does . The cave boy we later find out was abandoned by his father and never had a normal childhood . This instilled a deep resentment in the boy for the human race whom he held , together with his dad , responsible for the predicament that he finds himself in : Living in a cave and living off the scraps of tourists who vacation in the valley . All this killing and destruction would not have happened if it wasn't for real-estate tycoon Allen Sangster , Cameron Mitchell , deciding to build a campground in the valley that the cave boy dwelled in . With dozens of campers in the area the cave boy just went wild , in his hatred for civilized man , going on a rampage killing some dozen of them by the time the movie was over . We have to understand the cave boys frame of mind in what he did . Feeling that the campers represented his father the cave boy took it out on them for what his dad did to him by leaving him out in the woods to fend for himself at an early age . Besides the interesting and deep psychological aspects , father and son relationship , of the film the rest of the movie was just too hard to take seriously even if you tried . The cave boy not only survived in the wild for some 17 years he also somehow learned how to drive heavy earth moving equipment , like bulldozers , and how to start fires . Not by rubbing two rocks or sticks together but by releasing gas from a gas-tank and then having the unsuspecting victim light a match blowing himself , and anyone within 50 feet of him , to pieces . The cave boy at first has the local park ranger George Webster , John Kerry , feel that it's a killer bear that's doing all the killing in and around the " Memorial Valley " campground . Together with his assistant Allen Sangster's son David , Mark Mears , Webster sets out to track down the killer bear before he does any more damage . Later when two of the campers bikers Eddie & Leon , Eddie D . & Don S . Fambeau , helping in tracking down the bear instead find the cave boy's home , with scores of human body parts and bones in it , thing really start to get unraveled . The cave boy feeling he's the victim of a home invasion loses it . Mad at what Eddie and Leon did , in stealing his prized skull , the cave boy comes out in the open killing everyone , including Eddie & Leon , that he comes in contact with . The movie ends on a high note , of sorts , with the cave boy finally finding his old man who in fact , instead of abandoning him , was searching for the confused young man all these years . SPOILER ALERT The heart-breaking ending has the cave boy , in his efforts to keep people from finding his secret lair , unwittingly do in his old man . All this happens when father and son were about to reunite , after some 17 years , and forget about the past .
Scales of Horror	SPOILERS A bit off the wall mad scientist , or herpetologist , movie about this harmless and kindly looking lunatic Dr . Carl Stoner , Strother Martin , who's come up with the bright idea of turning the human race into a half man half snake hybrid that will survive the terrors that nature and mankind has in store for it in the near future ; pestilence famine and nuclear war . As were told by Dr . Stoner in the movie snakes can survive many times as much radiation as humans can and eat once a month compared to people having to to eat three times a day . Experimenting in his lab Dr . Stoner did turn his assistant Tim McGraw , Nobel Carig , into a snake-man but it just didn't work out the way he planned it and had poor Tim taken away by this carnival owner Koger , Tim O'Connor , to become a part of his freak sideshow . Getting a replacement for Tim Dr . Stoner gets collage student David Blake , Dick Benedict , who unfortunately for the good Doc has his mosey daughter Kristina , Hather Menzies , fall in love with him This as David is slowly being turned , through daily injections by Stoner , into a King Cobra . The movie slinks along with Kristina later getting involved with this gorilla-like , in mind as well as in body , collage football player Big Steve Randell , Reb Brown . Steve just can't take no for an answer and tries to force himself on her only to be attacked by the Stoner's pet boa constrictor and his , and Kristine's , obedient serpent Harry . Harry old and not in the best of shape gets killed by the big ape who like the snake that he is slithers away from the Stoner residence and back to his collage dorm room . While there he a good time with one of the many bimbo's who are just nuts about the big guy's psychical attributes . Grieving for sweet old Harry Dr . Stoner gets even with Big Steve by sneaking into his dorm room and , as he's taking a cold shower , slips a deadly African Black Mamba in the shower stall with him then quickly putting an end to Big Steve's future adventures forever . Back at the lab David slowly starts to turn into a snake-man that puts his affair with Kristina , who has no idea what's going on , on hold as he slowly mutates into a giant King Cobra . The ending of the movie crosses into total insanity with Dr . Stoner , for reasons known only to himself , letting his prized King Cobra out on the lawn to have a game of tag with him only to get bitten by the killer snake and die ! Was this the directors bright idea of ending the movie ? As David turns into a King Cobra a snake-killing mongoose thats in a cage in the lab breaks out and attacks Cobra / David . The police who just shot and killed , by blowing it's head off , the King Cobra who killed Dr . Stoner break into the lab together with a hysterical Kristina who ends the movie screaming her head off as the closing credits start to roll . Worth watching only for the snakes in the movie who were both real and , in the case of the poisonous cobras mambas and pit vipers , un-fanged and not dangerous to the actors or stunt men , handling them . The acting especially on the part of Strother Martin as the nutty and dangerous Dr . Stoner was embarrassingly bad with him trying to be both a lovable Captain Kangaroo and sinister Mister Hyde type of guy and failing miserably on both counts , or parts .
Closer then you think	( There are Spoilers ) Somewhat muddled serial killer mystery thriller involving crime writer Kate Saunders who has somehow set off an internet crazed sicko to commit the crimes that she's writing about in her novels . Kate a victim of a crime that left her paralyzed from the waist down has gotten into writing about this psycho killer that she named Byron Gar or short for the " Gargoyle Killer " . Living alone in the wilds of Washington State Kate has her home turned into a massive electronic security command center with her vicious German Shepard-Te Amo-guard dog and a twelve gage shotgun as back up . With only good fiend and fellow paraplegic B . J helping Kate out , in building up her upper body , in rehabilitating herself she has no use for anyone else , besides her literately agent , on the outside world . It's when this person gets in touch with Kate through the internet that it becomes obvious that he's on a murder rampage and giving her the inside scoop on the crimes that he commits . Using the same M . O as Kate's fictitious killer Byron Gar , or the " Gargoyle Killer " , the man murders his victims the very same way . The killer grabs his victims , all young females , from behind before running a dagger or stiletto through them . After murdering his victims the killer writes with their blood on the walls or windows of his victims home the word " Sicka " or " Dagger " in Latin . With the local police and FBI called in to solve the copycat , from Kate's novel , killings the killer becomes more and more brazen to the point where he starts a nation wide spree of murders from Miami Florida to where Kate is in Northern Washington State . By the time it becomes apparent , after a major false alarm , who the killer is it's almost too late for Kate in that with everyone , with the exception of Kate , thinking that he's in police custody he pops up out of the blue and into Kate's living room . Average made for TV thriller with nothing that will really surprise you in who the killer is and what his reasons are for trying to implicate Kate in his string of killings that cover , from coast to coast , nine states ! There's also no solid information provided in the movie in who was responsible for Kate's falling down a balcony and crippling herself ! Which we constantly see over and over again in a number of grainy black and white flashbacks . As for Kate herself she in fact did kill her fictitious serial killer Byron Gar off in her second novel " Gargoyle II " which may have been the reason for the real life psycho coming on the scene . He felt that Kate was actually writing about him and when he was no longer around , in Kate's book , her decided to keep himself alive by keeping himself , in his murder spree , in both the news and in Kate's , by contacting her on the internet , mind !
It's all underwater	SPOILERS Sequel to the previous " Cabin by the Lake " the movie is about the making of a movie of the psychotic but gifted mystery writer Stanley Caldwell , Judd Nelson , last an incomplete work before he disappeared under the waves of Lake Summit . It's no surprise at all that the murderous Cardwell survived when we see him in a number of very unconvincing disguises . Cardwell is seen early in the film killing a number of people who have to do with the making of the movie based on his unfinished masterpiece . Meeting the co-director of the project CJ Reddick , JR Bourne , at the airport Cardwell disguised as the chauffeur sent by the movie studio . On the way to the set he murders CJ and takes over his identity . On the set as director's Mike Hetton , Brian Krause , assistant JC Reddick Cardwell continues his rampage that he stopped in the previous film " Cabin by the Lake " . Cardwellgoes on murdering everyone on the set who tries to distorts or rewrite the script that only Cardwell can understand and put on the screen . There's also a sub-plot in the movie with the brother of one of Cardwell's earlier victims , Kimberly , Paul Parsons ( Andrew Moxham ) trying to prevent the movie from being made at all . Since it capitalizes on his sisters death as well as Cardwell's other six victims in making a bundle off his crimes : At the end of the movie we see that the film made an astounding 36 million dollars in just the first weekend after it's release . I couldn't understand , not having seen the original " Cabin by the Lake " , why no one in the movie was able to recognize the crazed Stanley Cardwell . Since he wasn't at all hiding his identity and even acting out his earlier crimes in the movie he was directing with knowledge of those crimes that only the killer himself , Cardwell , would know ! For all his cleverness Cardwell for some strange and unexplained reason allows the script writer Alison Gaddis , Dahila Salem , to not only live after she found out who he is but even after imprisoning Alison in his cabin letting her go to see the final scene of the movie that she wrote . This ridicules act on Cardwell's part results in Alison coming to the rescue of the actors in that final scene who Cardwell wanted to die by drowning to give it , in his sick mind , total realism ! On the run and being cornered , at his cabin , by Alison Cardwell accidentally slips into a water filled bathtub and is then electrocuted by Alison with a plugged-in hair-dryer . The ending shows that you just can't keep a good psycho down with Cardwell , looking like he needs a shave and shower , back again reading in the " Daily Variety " the headline story " Cabin Drowns all Competition " . With a gleam in his eyes and smirk on his face a light-bulb lights up in his sick brain with plans for the next sequel with him of course being the one to direct and write it .
Tools of the Trade	SPOILERS Extremely violent and graphically bloody and brutal slasher movie that never really gets to the reason why all this carnage is happening on the screen . We get informed about the Lusman Arms apartment building from it's long time resident actor Chas Rocker , Rance Howard , and from the Los Angeles Preservation Society about it being used by this Masonic-like cult , Talman Lunar , in it's practice of Black Magic rites . Being built in the early 1920's most of the construction workers ended up either dead or insane for their efforts and for the next eighty years or so scores of resident ended up missing and never to be seen again . " Toolbox Murders " starts off like your average slasher film with both Lusman Arms tenants Daisy and Saffnon , Sheri Moon & Sara Downing , ending up with their head bashed in with a claw hammer and pinned to the ceiling with a nail-gun by the hooded killer . Later Physcical fitness nut Julia , Juliet Landau , also gets it from the killer as he drilled her to death with his power drill but there's nothing at all to indicate what this cult , The Masonic Talman Lunar Cult , had to do with these murders . Nell , Angela Bettis , who was a good friend of Julia felt that something terrible happened to her next-door neighbor and after getting no help from the building super Byron , Greg Travis , and the local police , Nell had cried wolf too many times for her to be believed . Nell goes to the Los Angeles Presevation Scociaty and finds out the secret of the Lusman Arms but it had nothing to do with the killing so why even be told about it ? The killer himself , who should have been at least eighty years old to have committing the killing at the apartment building since the 1920's , who at first seemed to be totally unconnected with the story about the Lasman Arms but later , when he's about to slash Nell to death , backs up in a state of sheer fright . Thats when he sees the Masonic symbols that she , it's never really explained why since Nell could have just wrote them down on a pad of paper , wrote on her arms . The killer then ends up falling down from her apartment window hanging with an electric cord tied around his neck . Uneven horror film that just never makes it's point but does have more then it's share of blood and gore with a number of truly shocking and effective jolts . Were also told , by Chas Rocker , that the hooded killer was born in a coffin with his mother dead and about be buried . Which , like everything else in the film , had nothing at all to do with the so-called curse of the Lasman Arms Building .
Does TV always give you that adrenaline rush !	Some Spoilers Being obsessed in capturing outlaw militia leader David Anderson , Brent Huff , ATF man Eddie Lyman , Jeff Fahey , got himself suspended for overreacting , to say the least , in a raid on Anderson's secret hide out . It's when Eddie's girlfriend Valerie Miller ( Beth Toussaint ) , as his press secretary , went on a train trip taking anti-gun campaigning Seanator Douglas Wilson , Eddie Hudson , down to Southern California that he , having nothing better to do , decided to tag along . Wilson plans to plead his case to the American public for unrestricted Federal gun-control laws in the congress which he hopes to get passed . It also so happens that Anderson has plans for the Senator and his staff that call for not only the use of guns , in all shapes sizes , but also the use of a suitcase nuclear bomb to blow up a good part of the Golden State ! The action , when it finally starts , is fast and furious with Eddie taking on not only Anderson and his gang of militia men but his own ATF who are anything but happy with him being on the train , and unauthorized at that , and jeopardizing all those aboard including Senator Wilson . Despite Anderson and Co . being the bad guys in the movie he at least had an excuse for not liking federal enforcement agencies like the ATF in that they were responsible for the death , in a wild shoot out , of both his wife and young daughter . It was also ironic that Senator Wilson who's so fanatically anti-gun also had his wife and daughter gunned down , like Anderson , in a drive by shooting but had the exact opposite opinion on firearms that Anderson had ! That was until the opportunity presented itself for Senator Wilson to get his hands on an assault weapon and then start blasting away ! As the movie went on it became very obvious to everyone , but the militia men , that Anderson was insane with some kind of a death wish and was not only planning to murder his hostages but himself and his gang of terrorists as well ! This had Anderson knock off more of his fellow militia men , who didn't have a clue in what he was planning for them , then even Eddie and the ATF did ! By the numbers thriller with really no surprises to offer it's audience but lots of mindless shootouts and explosions as well as a major train wreck . The only surprises in the movie was the nuclear bomb that Anderson planned to detonate on board the runaway train . Being the size of a can of aerosol hairspray I wondered if it , when activated , could have even blown up doll house much less a major town or city . And what was even more ridicules about the so-called nuclear bomb is that it took nothing more then Valerie pulling out a single wire , or plug , to totally disarm the thing !
A long way from home	SPOILERS Having trouble with the sluggish sales of his top fashion magazine " Image " owner and editor Rex Kingman , Lee Majors , plans to shoot his anniversary issue in an exotic and deserted Caribbian island far from civilization . With a bevy of his most gorgeous fashion models , to jump start his lagging publication . Being a man who knows what sells and what doesn't Kingman takes advantage of everything that goes right or wrong in selling his magazine . At that out of the way island things go a lot worse then anything that he could have even imagined . One by one almost all of his fashion models end up getting killed and their bodies lost under the warm Caribbians surf and waters . Until the only one's left are his lover Kate and her younger sister Rachel , Jennifer O'Neill & Venessa Angel . Kingsman is so distraught over what happened to his girls and even worse the impending collapse of is magazine " Image " that he starts to drink heavily and even take pills on the side . Where he becomes a total wreck of a man . The last straw is when Kingman , drunk and out of control , attacks and tries to rape young Rachel which has Kate , who still had some affection left for him , tell Kingman just where he can go . Kate also threatens to report him to the police when they get back to the states . The next morning waiting for the plane to show up , and take whoever is still left on the island back home , Kate is found dead floating in he swimming pool . Meanwhile Rachal , in a struggle with the now blind drunk and almost insane Kingman , ends up getting shot and killed by him . By now the man , Kingman , is a complete and utter wipe-out but wait there's more to the story then what you've seen up until then . It has to do with Kingman's past a past that finally caught up with him . Lee Majors as Rex Kingman is as sleazy and manipulating as anyone you'll ever see in this movie about revenge and retribution . A story that has to do with what turned out to be , for everyone in the movie , the swimsuit fashion shoot from hell . " The Cover Girls Murders " keeps you guessing to just what's going on until the very end . When it finally exposes to it's audience what was really going on in the movie , and what Kingman is really all about , you'll know what the the saying " What goes around comes around " really means .
When I think of myself I want to vomit	( Some Spoilers ) Tepid Europen thriller that's a bit too much to take especially it's overbearing and monotonous theme song " Fate Had Planned It So " thats played over and over in the movie " Orgasmo " like a broken record driving Kathryn West , Carroll Baker , as well as the audience to the point of a nervous breakdown . The plot of " Orgasmo " is anything but original with this boyish grease monkey Peter Donovan , Lou Castle , working his way into widowed American Kathryn West heart home and finally bank account . Peter does this with the help of his sister or is she his step-sister Eva , Cholette Descomber , who shows up later in the movie . Eva at first develops a strong liking for Kathryn and gets it on with her in a lesbian relationship with her " brother " Peter later joining them in a weird woman with woman and man manaja trios . Later Kathryn catches Peter and Eva nude and together in bed which makes her finally realize that she being taken by them for a fool and a ride . Kicking the two out of her villa they come back later with a batch of photos of her in bed with both of them to blackmail her . Kathryn foolishly gives in to their blackmail without as much as a whimper ! What could those photos do to her reputation anyway since she's a widow and not cheating on her husband or anyone else ? Meanwhile with all this going on Kathryn's lawyer Brion Sanders , Tino Carraro , is trying to tie up all the loose ends in her late husbands holding in probate court which , when finally ironed out , will land her an inheritance of some 200 million dollars . Peter and Eva slowly isolate Kathryn by getting rid of her two in-house domestics helpers Teresa and Martino , Lilla Brignone & Franco Pesce , leaving her totally at their mercy . Getting Kathryn hooked on sleeping pills and what seems like and endless stream of J & B whiskey bottles where she later is set up for the final coup De grace with a J & B flask spiked with a bottle of extra-strong sleeping pills . It's then at the end of the movie that fate that's been so tragic for poor abused alcoholic and pill addicted Kathryn and so fortunate for Peter and Eva makes a 180 degree and deadly turn in " Orgasmo's " long awaited surprise but very predictable ending .
Steven Seagal gets in touch with his feelings and touches a number of people with his fists and feet in this movie .	SPOILERS The years since Steven Seagal burst upon the screen as Det . Nico Toscani in the movie " Above The Law " back in 1988 have been like the seven fat years in the book of Genesis . By the time he made " The Glimmer Man " , some seven years later , Seagal had to wear extra baggy clothes to hide the extra weight that he put on his frame from all the success he had since then . Steven Seagal , Det . Jack Cole and his partner Det . Jim Campall ( Keenen Ivory Wayans ) , who only seems to be in the movie for comedy relief , are put on the " Family Man " murder case in L . A . The " Family Man " murdered some half dozen families and had them crucified in some weird ritual after they were dead . Seagal here plays a cop who who cracked up back in the early 1980's from the guilt that he felt about his service in Vietnam where he was known as " The Glimmer Man " ; a hard as nails killer who the enemy only saw a glimmer of before he did them in . Det . Cole , or Seagal , later went to Thailand and took up Buddhism and became a sweet and peaceful man who wouldn't hurt a fly ! Even though the movie " The Glimmer Man " is one of the most violent films that Seagal ever made . " The Glimmer Man " is an almost incomprehensible movie to understand and follow . It starts off with a serial murder and then goes to what seems like a weirdo psychiatrist Frank Deverell , Bob Gunton , who thinks that he's the Godfather and uses a gang of thugs to smuggle arms from the now defunct Soviet Union to a Serbian freedom fighting organization . This whole racket is run Det . Jack Cole's former boss in Vietnam Mr . Smith , Brian Cox , who's working together with the Russian Mafia . That's about the best way I can describe the plot in the movie . Early in the film Det . Cole's ex-wife Helen and her husband Andrew Dunleavy are murdered by the " Family Man " killer and it's made to look like it was Det . Cole who was the killer . This makes Cole realize that the killings are a cover for something more sinister . After breaking a number of heads and arms and legs of Russian gangsters and Deverell thugs Det . Cole finally gets to the bottom of what is really behind all these killings . The movie is so violent it made me wonder what Seagal , who had a lot of control of the material in the film , was trying to tell his audience , love your fellow man ? Since it went against everything that Buddhism stands for which I at first thought that the movie was advocating ! " The Glimmer Man " builds itself up to it's inevitable bloody conclusion at the Overington Hotel in downtown L . A where Det . Cole has the Deverell mob turn on each other . This all happened when Det . Cole had a tape recording of Deverell played back on the phone to his top henchmen Donald Cunningham , John M . Jackson . The tape said that his boss was going to turn Cunningham in to save his own behind . That lead to a shootout between the two at the hotel where they were supposed to find both Det . Cole and Campell , the C & C boys , as Cunningham trapped Deverell there without knowing that he knew about his plans to double-cross him . The hoods ended up killing themselves with , of course , the help of Cole & Campbell . Only Cunningham is left for Cole to do in at the end of the movie who after almost beating him almost to death ends up crucifying him ! Steven Seagal seems to really enjoy working people over in the movie , he does it with such relish and enthusiasm , despite his non-violent Buddhist beliefs . Seagal does it to the point where he beats them in some cases to death even when their no longer a threat to him at all ! when all he had to do is just put the cuffs on them and have them locked up behind bars ! This isn't by a long shot going to make too many people watching the movie get turned on to Buddhism which I assume the film wanted them to do .
Transmigration of the Soul	SPOILERS Predictable movie , up until the final few minutes , about a major change of life , or soul , of a decent person about to be married to his childhood sweetheart . Who turns into a cold blooded serial murder due to a sudden switch in personalities . Having studied and put into practice his theories of life after death in the laboratory , with dogs and cats , Dr . Dick Clark , Edward Keane , thinks that he can do the same thing with human beings . Fascinated with convicted serial murderer Wolf Panino who's due to be executed by the state Dr . Clark asks him if he can donate his body to him or science after he's put away for good by a 2 , 000 volt jolt of electricity . But the unfeeling for the future of humanity and arrogant Panino told the good doctor to take a hike and get lost . Attending a party at the home of his good fiend Hobart Bennett , Fredrick Burton , who's son Philip , Edward Norris , is soon to marry young and pretty Louise Hammond played by a very young looking but , 67 years old if you believe she was born in 1875 , grandmotherly Eleanor Lawson . Taking a ride home in his car it seems like Philip has been driving for some time as he swerves to avoid a truck and crashes right in front of his father's house with his head smashing against the car's dashboard . Not bothering to get Philip to the hospital Mr . Bennett together with Dr . Clark and Prof . Toller , Hugh Sothern , take him into the house only to find out that he died of shock . Hobart pleading that Dr . Clark save his son's life through the use of Soul Transmigration , that he perfected in his laboratory , has the doctor do just that ! But what nobody knew at the time was that the convicted killer Wolf Panino was being executed at that very moment and his soul was " transmigrated " into Philips body ! This resulting in the resurrection of the dead murderer . You can easily imagine the rest of the movie with Philip , now controlled by the dead murderer Panino personality or soul , going back to his old hunting grounds in the city slums and taking control of his old gang . After offing it's new leader Mitch Larson , Jack Buckley . Back home Philip's family and fiance are shocked by the sudden change of his personality . It's isn't until his father and Prof . Toller follow him to his gang headquarters at the Sporadys Bar and Grill that they finally realize just who Philip really is . Philip goes back to the old ways of Wolf Panino murdering anyone who gets in , or tries to get out of , his way including his old girlfriend Helen , Marlow Dwyer . Helen finds out that the new gang leader is from the richer part of town and that his father , Mr . Hobart Bennett , is a major banker in NYC . Continuing on his crime spree Philip is cornered in his father place , who was throwing a big birthday party for him , and is forced to reveal his " secret identity " after blasting away a cop Det . Bradley , Addison Richards , who invited himself to the party ; as he was out looking for Philip after him and his gang committed a warehouse robbery in the neighborhood . The surprise ending made the movie worth while since it help explain all the ridicules incidents that happened in it as just being a figment of one's imagination after he hit his head a bit too hard .
Wait this one out	SPOILERS Uneven movie about witchcraft in a small town in Mass . that transcends three centuries . Moving into the small town of Pinecrest Sarah Zoltanne , Sarah Citalik , and her mom Mrs . Resemary Zoltanne , Markie Post , realize that the house that they bought was once the home of a women Sarah Lancaster who was burned at the stake as a witch back in 1660 . Sarah is a very weird type of person dabbling in the occult and being able to make thing happen that have no scientific explanation like being able to know a person by reading his or her palm as well as having doors open and shut by themselves . At her new high-school it turns out that a number of students there are decedents of the people who immolated Sarah Lancaster back in the 17th Century . The students now feel that Sarah , Zoltanne , is the Sarah that was killed by their distant ancestors . Their also certain that she's now come back to exact vengeance on them for what they , or their the ancestors , did to her back then . The movie " I've been waiting for you " borrows a lot from the 1996 Wes Craven horror flick " Scream " . With the killer running around hooded with what looks like a witch mask , unlike the skeleton mask in " Scream " , and has a Freddy Kruger like claw hand as his , or her , weapon of choice . The killer targeting the offspring's of Sarah Lancasters accusers and executioners has Sarah , the present one , check up on the ancestry of those in the town of Piecrest and comes up with a clue to who the killer really is . kidnapped by the frightened high school descendants of Sarahs 17th century killers Sarah is taken outside town to be executed , by fire in order to stop the attacks on them . Only to have the real killer show up and thus exonerate her . The movie has so many loose ends that it at some point seems to be unintelligible to follow . The mysterious black cat Hecuba at first seems to have some connection to what's going on in the film but disappears , after about fifteen minutes into the movie , into thin air as if he were a phantom never to be seen again . The scene with Sarah's mom Rosemary towards the end of the film is also very confusing . With the masked killer stalking her in her house and then attacking her . Which was a bit out of character for the killer since Mrs . Zoltanne wasn't a descendant of young Sarah Lancaster's 17th century executioners , like those who the killer targeted throughout the movie . The ending sequence in " I've been waiting for you " is totally out of place , and makes no sense at all , to what we saw in the film up to then . Were given the impression that Sarah and one of the students were in some way working together in taking out the great - great - great - great - great - great - great - grand children of those who killed Sarah Lancaster back in pre-Revolutionary America . And as the movie ends were chillingly told by them that their grizzly work has only begun .
Your not making any sense !	( Some spoilers ) More like a private home movie then a major Hollywood studio made motion picture for the movie-going public " Ocean's 12 " doesn't make any sense at all with these dozen or so international super crooks . The crooks are seen jet-setting all over the capitals of Europe in an attempt to steal up to 160 million dollars . This is all done in a number of elaborate heists to pay off big time US hoodlum and owner of the Bellaslo Casino , who these same crooks ripped off , Terry Benedict , Andy Garcia . As if he were all knowing and omnipresent Benedict pops up all over the country in the strangest of places to surprise all the hoods involved in the robbery of his casino some three years ago . Telling the former crooks that if they don't come up with his money plus interest within two weeks they'll be as dead and buried as last years turnip crop . We have the happy go lucky robbers led by Danny Ocean and Rusty Ryan , George Clooney & Brad Pitt , go to Amsterdam to begin their scavenger hunt for Benidict's stolen millions by stealing tens of millions from others . For some reason the USA was too dangerous for them even though they've live there with all their ill-gotten loot for the last three years without having any fear of being arrested by the police . In Amsterdam we soon learn the real reason for Benedict's unusual actions ? Benedict seemed uninterested about getting his money back all these years but why all of a sudden is he now ? This super-duper crook Francois Touolur , Vicent Cassel , also known as the " Night Fox " want's to pit his wits and robbing skills and abilities against the crack Ocean 12 crew . Touolur wants to prove to them that he's the biggest baddest and best crook of them all . We also learn that it was Touolur who tipped off Benedict on the Danny Ocean's crews whereabouts to get them to come out of hiding , or retirement , to meet his challenge . The film " Ocean's 12 " get's more and more confusing as it goes along with hot-shot and pretty Interpole agent Isabel Lahiri , Catherine Zeta-Jones , joining in on the case and single-handedly screws it all up by being taking advantage of and then made to look like a jerk by Rusty & Co . Isabel also learns who her long lost father , who she thought was long dead , is at the end of the movie to the surprise of no one , on the screen or in the audience , but herself . No matter what fixes the Ocean 12 boy's get into they always end up on the winning side with the obnoxious and ridicules " Night Fox " . The " Night Fox " ends up looking like the narcissistic and arrogant nitwit , instead of the criminal mastermind , that he really is . The movie reaches the hight of self-mocking when we have Tess Ocean , played by Julia Roberts , impersonate actress Julia Roberts in an effort to have her husband Danny & Co . steal this " Golden Easter Egg " at the Rome Museum . Who should pop up at the museum but actor Bruce Willis who happens to be doing a movie with the real Julia Roberts in Mexico ! You have to give Tess Ocean credit for her acting since she completely fooled Bruce Willis as well as everyone else into believing that she was actually THE Julia Roberts and not Danny Ocean's wife .
Deary and confusing murder drama set in 1988 West Berlin	SPOILERS Just too hard to follow with too many sub-plots makes " Killing Blue " fall apart long before the movies unsurprising conclusion . That's about as exciting as an attack of insomnia . Berlin homicide inspector Alex Glass is having a bad time with his conscience after he mistakenly shot and injured a little girl in a blotched attempt to arrest a fugitive in a Berlin apartment house . Upset with himself and his work Glass starts to drink and goes into a deep depression over his actions that crippled the girl for life . Glass secretly buys her gifts and presents to make up for what he mistakenly did to her . Even his new assistant Shirley May notices Glass ' ugly demeanor with him treating her worse the the criminals that he deals with every day . It's then that something happens that changes Glass ' attitude when he becomes involved with the drug death of Ennis Warner . That leads right to Berlin District Attorney Michael Karstens doorstep who's daughter Monica was Ennis ' best friend . Being very close to Karstens as both a friend of the lawman Glass took a personal interest in Ennis's death . Finding that Ennis was a street hooker and druggie Glass tracked down her supplier lover and possibly murderer a small-time thug named Jack Miskowski . It turns out that Miskowski was with Ennis the night that she overdosed . The movie then takes a left-turn when high-priced hooker Lisa comes on the scene and Glass , after saving her from a over demanding customer , starts getting it on with her . Only to later find out , from a photo in Lisa's hotel room , that she and Miskowski are lovers as well as being involved in his drug and prostitution racket . It also comes to both Glass and Karsten ' attention that Karstens ' teenage daughter Monica is a junkie and is also getting her drugs from Miskowski just like her late friend Ennis did . Michael in trying to get Monica away from Miskowski's clutches tries to stop her from meeting him but loses track of her only to find Monica the next day at a construction site strangled to death . Miskowski now Monica's suspected killer gets away from Glass and the Berlin police in a sting operation they set up for him . It's then when the movie really turns upside down with Michael secretly meeting with Miskowski at an empty train station . With what at first looks like an exchange is about to be made between the two Miskowski gets a knife in his gut killing him with Michael taking off with a briefcase that the drug dealer had on him . In his car Michael finds out that he was doubled-crossed by the conning Miskowski but it's now too late for him to make things right for himself . Since Miskowski is no longer around to tell him where the " real deal " really is . Murder blackmail and a major plot twist are the main ingredients to this convoluted police crime drama . That has the victim change into the real villain in the film as we see that he's not the goody goody two shoes that we thought that he was a the start of the movie . Michael Karstens had very serious mental and emotional problems that he acted out some time ago and Miskowski somehow got a hold of a number of photos , or took them himself , that he was blackmailing him with . It also came out , unknowingly at the time to the audience , that Monica also knew about her step-father's secret life that in the end lead to her murder . It was Inspector Glass who had an idea of what was the real reason for Miskowski's death . By him keeping it from the public is what brought Michael out in the open and thus expose his reasons for not only killing Miskowski but the real and unnerving reason to why he did it .
Pay-Dirt	SOME SPOILERS Despite a great cast this Columbo episode is one of the most uninteresting of all the Columbo TV movies . Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , has to rely on modern electronic devices instead of his usual police instincts and dogged and unwavering determination , that in many cases drives his opponents batty , that lead him to crack open many a murder case . Columbo also as a side-kick in this movie the yuppie and by-the-book Sgt . Frederic Wilson , Bob Dishy . Sgt . Wilson in fact gives Columbo a taste of his own medicine with him acting like a nagging and obnoxious nudnick . Sgt . Wilson gets so under his partner and boss , Lt . Columbo , skin that he at one point in the movie Columbo seems to have just got up and left in disgust leaving Sgt . Wilson to do all the work in solving the murder case all by himself . Planing a fake kidnapping and ransom world famous botanist Jarvis Goodland , Ray Milland , has his good for nothing nephew Tony , Bradford Dillman , pretend that he's in danger of getting murdered by his kidnappers . Tony's wife Cathy , Sandra Smith , is told that if she doesn't come up with the $300 , 000 . 00 that his supposed kidnapper demands he'll end up dead . In fact both Jarvis & Tony staged this whole extravaganza and plan to split the money and leave Cathy , who's anything but a loving and caring wife , out in the cold and $300 , 000 . 00 lighter . With Jarvis getting the cash from Tony himself , disguised with a nylon sock over his head , both Lt . Columbo and Sgt . Wilson watch from a distance . Jarvis instead of going back to the two hidden policemen instead makes off to Jarvis ' secret hideout in the country where Tony is . As Tony is about to take off with his share of he loot he's shot and killed by his ungrateful uncle , and partner in crime , Jarvis Goodland . Lt . Columbo is certain that the kidnapping was staged and that one of the persons involved double-crossed the other , tony , to get the cash . Still Columbo has no evidence to prove it and that's where his partner Sgt . Wilson comes in . With his modern police methods Sgt . Wilson comes up with the missing puzzle that in the end would implicate the killer , Jarvis , in Tony's murder . Jarvis in the meantime is tying to frame Tony's widow in the murder of her husband by planting the murder weapon , a . 32 pistol , in her bedroom dresser . Jarvis , a real elitist jerk , who's just dripping with contempt at the annoying Lt . Columbo every time he has to talk to him feels that he got away with not only the perfect murder but with the $300 , 000 . 00 in ransom money . It comes as a big surprise when Jarvis finds Lt . Columbo in his greenhouse at 3 : 00AM in the morning with the evidence . The evidence that in the end would put Jarvis on ice and behind bars for the rest of his life . The gun that Jarvis used to murder Tony , as well as stage his kidnapping , was used a year earlier in Jarvis shooting at an intruder who broke into his greenhouse ! That bullet that Columbo found buried in the dirt of the greenhouse match the two bullets and gun that was used in Tony's kidnapping and murder . The murder weapon belonged to not Cathy , whom Jarvis was trying to frame , but to Jarvis himself ! There's also in the movie the handsome hunky and powerfully built William Smith playing the thankless and almost invisible role of Nick Cathy Goodland's secret and illicit lover . Smith would later in his career become somewhat of a cult movie legend in movies like " The Invasion of the Bee Girls " and " The Ultimate Warrior " . There's also that very underrated and timely end of the world movie that Smith stared in , the unforgettable to anyone who ever saw the movie " Twilight's Last Gleaming " .
A lifetime of mediocrity yes ! But still a lifetime !	( There are Spoilers ) Things couldn't be better for young Doctor James " Jimmy " Kildare , Lew Ayres , and his bride to be nurse Mary Lamont , Larrine Day , until Mary's brother Doug , Robert Young , shows up at Blair Memorial Hospital for a visit . Doug has this grandiose plan that will pull the United States out of the Great Depression now , in 1940 , in it's tenth year . Doug's plan is to retrain the population in modern science and engineering where there are tens of millions of skilled and high paying jobs just waiting for them to fill . This will not only solved the massive unemployment , running as high as 20 % in 1940 , crisis but create new industries that will also shrink , or completely wipe out , the National Debt . Big ideas need big bucks and that's were Doug wants Dr . Kildare to get in touch with multi-millionaire philanthropist Robert Chandler , Pierre Watkin , who's daughter's life Dr , Kildare saved some time ago . If Chandler goes along with Doug's plan and provides the millions that he needs to pull it off all his dreams , as well as the dreams of millions of Americans , will become a reality . Listening to Doug Dr . Kildare notices that he's a bit out of it hearing things that are in his head like imaginary bells going off . Doug in fact acts like a punch-drunk prize fighter who took one two many jabs and left hooks to the head . Dr . Kildare strongly suspects that Doug is suffering from a serious case of epilepsy which may well be hereditary and can also show up in his fiance Mary ! More afraid of Mary finding out about her brothers condition then anything else Dr . Kildare , in an experiment to find the truth , has Doug guzzle down a number of shots of whiskey . He also makes Dough stuff himself with , what looked like , a two pound juicy stake and wash it down with some half dozen cups of strong , minus cream & sugar , coffee . Sadly in Dr . Kildare's opinion , with Doug going nutty after wolfing down all that good food and drinks , Doug is indeed suffering from a form of non-spasmodic , yet still , epilepsy . It's now up to the Doctor to tell Mary , who by now has an idea of what's wrong with her brother , the truth and possibly , besides wrecking his and Mary's wedding plans , driving the poor girl to a nervous breakdown . It's then that Dr . Kildare's mentor and boss the head of Blair Memorial Hospital's , among other things , neurosurgery department Dr . Leonard " Lenny " Gillespie , Lionel Barrymore , comes , in his wheelchair , riding to the rescue . All Dr . Kildare had to do is find out if Doug's mental condition was either the result of an inbred biological or , as " Lenny " soon proved , outside or accidental condition . It turns out that Doug's brains had been badly scrambled in a car accident about two years ago . An accident that for some reason Doug , maybe the accident caused him to lose his memory , totally forgot about ! With proper hospital care as well as expert and successful neurosurgery preformed by Dr . Kildare Doug had completely recovered from his brain injury and by the end of the movie was as good as new . Now both Dr . Kildare and Mary can get married and as for Doug Mr . Chandler was so impressed with his idea of jump-starting the US economy that he donated to him all the millions that he needed to do it .
Incredible ! with the last once of energy remaining he's still trying to get to the source !	SPOILERS Far out yet down to earth sci-fi thriller about a number of mindless atomic zombies being used by a vengeful gangster to get even with those who had him deported into exile in Italy . Gangster Frank Buchanan getting involved with ex-Nazi scientist Dr . Wihelm Steigg has him create a number of zombies from corpses , that he stole from the local city morgue , to go out and kill those who had him sent away . By rejuvenating their dead brains cells with high doses of atomic energy Dr . Steigg is able to make the dead rise again as their sent out to kill those whom Buchanan commands them too . Leaving a trail of radiation in their wake the zombies , like the sparrows flying back to Capistrano , go back to where they came from their base in Dr . Steigg's laboratory . Buchanan , who's illegally and happily back in the USA , conducts his zombie search and destroy operations out of Dr . Steigg's secret hideout outside the city via a TV monitor that receives transmissions from the Zombies brains . With the murder of hoodlum boss Hennessy and D . A MacGraw a patten is discovered , by police lab supervisor Dr . Chet Walker , in their deaths . Both were involved in putting Buchanan behind bars and on a boat out of the country . It's now becomes apparent to Dr . Walker that former Buchanan Gang members Dunn & Banning , who gave evidence against him at his deportation trial , are the next to be knocked off and are given a round the clock police protection . With police Captain Dave Harris kidnapped killed and mind controlled by Buchanan and Dr . Steigg he's then sent back to his police station to finish off both gangsters Dunn & Banning , who are there in protective custody , in order to get his revenge on the whole lot : Hennessey MacGraw Dunn & Banning . By now Dr . Steigg is scared stiff that Buchanan's mad actions will lead the police to his hideout and wants to call it quits . Only to have the gangster kill him and take over the control of the atomic zombies . It's the mine controlled Capt . Harris who leads the police Army Marines and Air Force back to Dr . Steigg's and Buchanan's hideout as Buchanan sends them , his gang of atomic zombies , out to do battle with the US Armed forces . Winning the first round against the US Army the zombies also start causing havoc all over the state with them , by using their atomic brains , having planes fall from the skies trains derail and cars and trucks lose control on the highways and slam into each other . Just when it looked like curtains for the US Army and local police with the zombies , and Buchanan , about to take over its then when the mind numbed and brain dead Capt . Harris comes back to life . Breaking into Dr . Steigg and Buchanan's laboratory Capt . Harris nukes Buchanan , with a blast of atomic energy , and destroyed the machinery that controls the rampaging zombies causing them to drop harmlessly like flies . Captain Harris is the big hero in this film even though he never knows it with his brain in limbo only being , for a time , able to take orders from Buchanan . Harris somehow seemed to be able to get it all together in the end realizing , if only by instinct , that by following Buchanan's orders he was doing himself as well as his country , the USA , serious harm . You can't say that Captain Harris gave his life for his country in being destroyed together along with Buchanan and Dr . Steigg's zombie-control machinery since he was already dead . But at least he made his brief yet explosive stay on earth , as a living dead man , a rewarding one in putting an end to the evil Buchanan / Steigg atomic zombie menace .
Confused and Confounded	( Some spoilers ) Can be said to be one of bad movie director Edward D . Wood's forgotten masterpieces in that the movie was ghost written by the Great One using the name Larry Lee and even had in its soundtrack the music from Wood's greatest work " Plan Nine from Outer space " . One of the many " toubled youth " movies that came out of Hollywood in the 1950's and 1960's " Anatomy of a Psycho " has to do with young and confused Chet Marco , Darnell Howe . Chet's really a good boy who got caught up in the emotional whirlwind that he finds himself in with his older brother Luke a convicted murderer and sentenced to death now facing a one way trip to the gas chamber when the clock strikes midnight . Chet who looked up to his brother as a father figure since Luke brought up both him and his sister Pat , Pamela Lincoln , when his parents either died or deserted him , and his two siblings , honestly believes what his brother told him when Chet visited him on death row . Luke swears to his baby brother Chet that he was totally innocent of murder despite the evidence , including an eye-witness , against him . There's no doubt in Luke's guilt but the stubborn and delusional Chet has convinced himself that Luke was railroaded and nothing , not even his and Luke's sister Pat , can change his mind . After Luke's execution Chet went slowly insane getting together a number of his friends to get those individuals , the D . A Judge witnesses & jury , responsible for Luke's death which results in the brutal beating of the D . A , who prosecuted Luke , son and the burning down of the judges , who sentenced Luke to death , home . Slow moving at first with Darrell Howe playing the fast losing it Chet and becoming more and more unpredictable due to his deteriorating mental condition as he begins to look and act as if he were lobotomized or suffering from an OD of downers . The movie picks up when Mickey , Ronnie Burns , Chet's sister Pat's boyfriend gets into the act by first asking Pat's hand in marriage , and she accepts , and then going to talk things over with Chet at his and his friends clubhouse , the shack . Telling a shocked and totally nuts Chet that it was his own father Frank , Russ Bender , who's secret testimony sent his beloved brother Luke to the gas chamber Mickey's foolishly thinks that it would make things better if that fact came out ! We get to see Chet go out of his head ranting and talking to himself as well as talking to his now departed brother Luke , as if his ghost were somehow trying to contact him , as all hell breaks loose in the shack with Chet getting belted silly by , as he tried to attack , Mickey and then his friend Moe , Don Devlin , getting into the act and ending up with a knife , that the mindless and out of control Moe landed on , through his chest . Chet now seeing his chance to get even with Mickey and his father for Luke's death instead of calling for help to save the badly wounded Moe's life rams the knife into his heart killing him and at the same time concocts , with the other person in the shack at the time , his best friend Bobbie ( Frank Fillman ) that it was Mickey who actually killed Moe . It's when Mickey , who was convicted of the murder of Moe , is about to be sentenced that Chet starts to feel that he's not all there up stairs and with the help , or friendly persuasion , of friend and police let . Mac , Michael Granger , and a guilt-ridden Bobbie that after almost killing himself , by jumping off a telephone pole , Chet decides to go straight and set the record right so that he could be able to sleep at night and get back to sanity .
A tale spun by an idiot , filled with thunder and fury , signifying nothing !	( There are Spoilers ) This murder mystery that takes place in England should have been a piece of cake to solve for the great Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , by the very fact that the " murderers " was such a bunch of bumbling buffoons that they didn't even plan the murder in the first place . It was also the first and only time that I can remember in the some 70 or so Columbo TV movies that Lt . Columbo had to plant the evidence on the killers to get them , or the weakest link of the pair , to break down and confess his crime . Feeling that he's being used by legendary theater producer Sir . Roger Haversham , John Williams Shakespearean actors Nicholas Frame & Lilian Stanhope , Richard Besehart & Honor Blackman , have it out with the him in their dressing room when he threatens to destroy their careers . Sir , Roger ends up getting bopped over the head with a flying dish of cold cream splitting his skull open and killing him . Right away you see that this isn't a premeditated murder on he part of Nicholas & Lilian so they really don't have any real and air-tight plan to cover it up . Taking Sir . Roger's body and putting it into a trunk the two drive to Sir . Roger's estate in the country and leave it at the bottom of the stairs making it look like Sir Roger died from a fall . It just happens that Lt . Columbo is visiting England's New Scotland Yard at the invitation of Chief of Det . William Durk , Bernard Fox . Without breaking a sweat Lt . Columbo get's right on the case instinctively feeling that it's murder not an accident like the local police reported it to be . In the middle of all this both Nichols and Lilian are about to put on the play Macbeth which Let . Columbo is very interested in and gets a feed ticket , from Nicholas & Lilian , to see the play . Columbo also sees , it's never explained just how , that the two were responsible for Sir . Rogers ' murder but is unable to prove it . There's a load of hair-brained evidence like an expensive book a string of pearls an umbrella and some half dozen other objects that we get in the movie on how they all implicate both Nicholas & Lilian . Yet all these items are so flimsy that they all would be laughed out of court if they were ever presented as evidence of Nicholas & Lilian's guilt . We then , just to get things going , have Sir Roger's loyal butler Tanner , Wilford Hyde-White , begin to blackmail the pair to keep his job . Going to Tanner's place to talk over business , about how much he want's to keep his mouth shut , Nicholas murders the old guy and hangs him up on the chandeliers to make it look like he committed suicide because he supposedly killed his boss Sir . Richard and expected to be arrested by the police . This in fact would have been ridicules on Tanner's part because the police and Let . Columbo never suspected him in the first place ! With the story really going nowhere there's this big scene set up at the end of the movie with Columbo using the magic umbrella trick in proving that Nicholas and Lilian were in fact Sir . Roger's killers . Let . Columbo seemed to have completely forgotten about the butler Tanner's murder and didn't even bother to solve it . The set up to prove that Nicholas & Lilian killed Sir . Roger was so insane and hilarious that Nicholas , who's not wrapped too tight to begin with , had a psychotic fit . Nicholas totally freaking out seemed to confess to the killing in one of the weirdest confessions in the history of crime . Nicholas acting and looking insane ended up both mumbling incoherently his lines from the play McBeath in between his confession !
The Zombifiation of Planet Earth !	SPOILERS This movie has a new twist , or twist of lemon , on an old story about an army of flesh eating Zombies who are , in their own unique way , impregnating both Earth-men and Earth-women with their mutant offspring's . The Zombies in the movie don't come from the Caribbean or the African bush country but from the residue-that they were exposed to-of a pulverized comet that exploded when it struck the Earth's atmosphere . In the film the few human survivors of this Zombie , due to the dust of the exploding comet , onslaught are holding out in an abandoned underground NORAD command center . Running out of both food and water the survivors headed by former Hollywood macho superstar Chad , Tom Eplin , try to hold out as long as they can until help finally arrives . It's only later that Chad & Co . , some dozen of them , finally realize that their the only humans on Earth that haven't been Zombified ! We get a series of gory and grossed out scenes , like in most Zombie films , of Zombies attacking and cannibalizing their human victims . We also get the added attraction of seeing the Zombies impregnate their hosts by just having their victims breath the air that's filled with microorganisms that were laying dormant , until it hit the earth's atmosphere , inside the comet for millions of years . Back inside the NORAD command center survivors Steve and Mimi , Travis Brorsen & Roshelle Pattison , begin to realize , after a nauseating Zombie autopsy , that Mimi's pregnancy has nothing to do with her cheating on Steve . It was the result of the dust , from the comet , that she was breathing . SPOILERSSteve later also realizes that the way to stop the Zombie menace was as close to him as the nearest bottle of Yukon Jack or Smirnoff Vodka which the underground silo , thanks to Chad , was well stocked with . If Steve only knew this earlier it would have caused a lot of pain and suffering , for him and his fellow survivors , from happening ! Better then you would expect Zombie movie with the Zombies , all 40 of them , besides suffering themselves with human flesh look as if their having more fun then a barrel of monkeys in knowing that even if their dead they can still experience the joys of sex . But not quite the kind of sexual experiences that they knew , and participated in , while they were still alive and human !
I'd like a new dealer if you don't mind . And this time deal off the top of the deck not the bottom !	SPOILERS A big smash with her first crime novel the Illustrated Press ' ace police reporter Lorelei , who's knows as " Goldie Locks " to her friends , Kilbourne ( Hillary Brooks ) decides to quit her job at the newspaper and become a full time crime writer . Upset that his star reporter , as well as girlfriend , is leaving managing editor Steve Wilson , Phillip Reed , persuades Lorelei to stay for two more weeks until he finds a suitable replacement for her . In no time at all Wilson is contacted by the newspapers owner Amos Peabody , Charles Arnt , with the proposition of having his 20 year-old niece Susan , Ann Gillis , replace Lorelie . Susan being , by Uncle Amos , put through collage and journalism school is anything but interested in getting a scoop or story for her uncle's newspaper . While her naive Uncle Amos is paying the bills , for her collage car and rent , Susan is partying the night away and getting involved with a number of very shady characters in town most of whom she met , while gambling , at the notorious " Winners Club " . Wilson who had since ditched the classy and on the ball Lorelei has been getting romantically involved with Susan who unknown to the love-sick managing editor is taking him to the cleaners and taking him there big time . Through Susan Wilson gets involved with a number of dangerous hoodlums notably the owner of the " Winners Club " Chuck LaRue , Richard Travis , that leads to Susan being disappeared , or kidnapped , by LaRue and held for a $50 , 000 . 00 ransom . LaRue is so slick and slippery that he has Susan's Uncle Amos pay him the $50 , 000 . 00 for her release by making it look like it's a legitimate stock transaction without Susan's name never being even mentioned ! SPOILER ALERTSIt soon becomes apparent that the sweet and innocent Susan is anything but a crime victim in that she was never kidnapped , by LeRue or anyone else . In fact Susan was laying low while everyone the police Uncle Amos Steve Wilson , as well as the reporter that she replaced Lorelie Kilbourne , where out desperately looking for her . Wilson who got worked over by LaRue and his hoods at the " Winners Club " earlier is now determined to run him out of the state together his sleazy gambling operation that's cheats it's customers out of their hard earned cash . With Amos Peabody , who's very close and friendly with the governor , pushing for the state legislators to pass a bill to put LaRue out of commission LaRue has a " Trojan Horse " placed in his , and the Illustrated Press ' , home . This spy and traitor is giving LaRue all the inside information on what Amos Peabody is up to and at the same time , this without LaRue's knowledge , screwing him behind his back as well . Wilson finally seeing the light , in what a sucker he was up until then , gets to have himself involved with the LaRue gang by putting his life on the line and forcing LaRue's hand in attempting to murder him . This all played into LaRue's master plan to off not only Wilson but Susan , who it turned out was a lot closer to LaRue then we at first thought , and her secret boyfriend LaRue hood Jake Sabastian , Robert Kent . In the end , when all the dust cleared , Lorelie realized what a mistake she made in quiting her job at the Illustrated Press . It was Lorelie's decision to go solo , as a crime writer , that opened the door to all the damage and destruction that happened with the advent of Susan Peabody suddenly coming on the scene . Wilson also realized what a first class jerk he was by throwing the sincere honest and beautiful Lorelie overboard for the childish sneaky and unstable Susan . Steve Wilson should thank his lucky stars that he not only survived the mess that he put himself into but that Lorelie came back into his life as well as his newspaper .
Don't fight it you fool ! It's bigger then both of us !	SPOILERSHaving been released from a nearby veterans hospital for whats obviously , judging by his actions in the movie , sever mental problems Ralph Gordon , Anthony James , has become totally obsessed with a local teacher at the high school sexy Diane Marshall , Angel Tompkins . At the start of the movie we see Crazy Ralph following Diane around with his car a white and black hearse and constantly spying on her , as Diane sunbaths on the deck of her houseboat in the marina , with a pair of binoculars from an empty warehouse that he made his home away from home . Two local high school students Crazy Ralph's younger brother Lou and his best friend Sean Roberts , Randy Herrera Jr & Jay North , decide to check out Ralph's secret hideaway at the warehouse where Ralph , catching them by surprise , bayonet in hand startles the two boys causing his brother Lou to fall to his death . It's here where things start to get a little crazy , even for Crazy Ralph , with Ralph accusing Sean of pushing his bother to his death and then throughout the entire movie stalking him as well as Diane . , in one case with a ridicules-looking scuba outfit , unmercifully and almost driving the young man into becoming an alcoholic . Sean is also approached by his teacher the aforementioned Diane Marshall who seemed to have a crush on him for the three years that she's been teaching at his high school . Ralph already having it in for Sean over Lou's death is now even more nuts over his love from afar , Diane , choosing the young whipper-snapper Sean over him a seasoned combat veteran and , what he thinks he is , a sweet caring and sensitive lover . Shy at first when Diane just about throws herself at him Sean later raise to the occasion with a number of really hot and heavy , that stop just short of giving the film an X-rating , breathing sex scenes with the frustrated and dejected Ralph looking on with his powerful binoculars . It gets to where even Sean's parents and neighbors start to suspect that him and Diana are having an affair with the two going out night after night in local nigh-clubs and drinking themselves silly , even though Sean is underage , and necking like two love struck teens not caring who sees them even Crazy Ralph . Leaving for collage after the summer Sean seems determined to marry Daine , who's ten years older then him , no matter what his parents think . But just then a monkey wrench is thrown into the mix not only with Ralph getting more and more crazier over this , what's to him , sinful and unnatural affair but Diane's estranged husband Russ , Dick Winterstein , a barnstorming biker coming back to town to resume his role as Diane's macho and at the same time , he hasn't touched a woman during his three years of competition , sex-starved husband . The movie believe it or not is entertaining up until the last ten minutes or so when Ralph goes , as if he wasn't already , completely nuts kidnapping a terrified Sean and taking him up to his pad were for some strange reason he has besides an arsenal of weapons and a coffin that he sleeps in , like Bela Lugosi's Dracula , an upside down Yemenite flag ! Diane running to save her young lover Sean gets to the warehouse only to have the knife wielding and hot to trot Ralph assault her . After forcing himself on and raping Diana Ralph drops his bayonet where she quickly picks it up and runs the crazed psycho through killing him . Franticly looking for young Sean Diana finds him on the fire-escape dead strangled by the now also deceased Ralph as the movie ends in freeze-frame with Diana cuddling the dead Sean's head in her arms . The movie is not that bad at all until the depressing , and totally unnecessary , final death scene even though someone was already killed , Lou Gordon , earlier in the film . Ralph was just too unbelievable to take seriously with him popping up all over the movie with a frightening 15 inch bayonet in hand and no one but Sean seemed to ever even notice him like he was the invisible dead couple that only he like Topper , of movie and TV fame , could see . Jay North who was 22 at the time playing an 18 year-old did what was for him the best adult acting of his brief movie & TV career making anyone who saw him in the movie " The Teacher " forget that Jay was the utterly bratty and malicious " Dennis the Menace " ten years earlier on TV . Angel Tompkins was what every boy dreamed that their teacher would look and act , to them , like when they attended school and if that was a fact there would be no one ever skipping classes or plying hooky . But without a doubt it was Anthony James who stole the movie with his depiction of the psycho and sex crazed Ralph Gordon who really took himself , even though try as they might no one else in the film really seemed to , seriously . James came across as one of the most weirdest and off-the-wall movie villains since , another Anthony , Anthony Perkins put on a wig and dress impersonating his dead mother in Alfred Hitchchock's horror classic " Psycho " some fifteen years earlier .
Remember the Battle of Rodan ?	SPOILERS Going on a rescue mission a ship-load of Norsemen make their way across the Great Sea , Atlantic Ocean , back in the 11th century to find their great leader King Eurich , Mel Ferrer . King Eurich together with his band of Viking seamen disappeared in the wilds of Vineland , prehistoric America , some time before . Leading this rescue expedition is King Eurich's son the utterly fearless and courageous Thoruald , Lee Majors , who with his fellow Norsemen that included the on boat Wizard Death Dreamer , Jack Elam , who's always BS-ing and double-talking his way through the movie in order to avoid being put on a raft and sent out to sea by Thoruald as punishment for being a false prophet . Also on board is the gigantic and totally fearless and speechless Norseman Olif , Jimmy Clem , who had his tongue cut out in a battle off the African coast by the now honorary Norseman and Viking Thrall , Deacon Jones , a former African warrior chief who has since become Olif's best friend . Landing on the far northern coast of Vineland , that looks a lot like Florida , the Norsemen run into trouble with the natives who attack them relentlessly killing a number of them even though the Norsemen take out far more natives then they lose of their own . The natives who outnumber the Norsemen by a ratio of at least of 100 to 1 is what makes their battle with the Noresmen very one sided and in favor of themselves . It will only be a matter of time before natives finish off the reminding valiant , but very hopelessly outnumbered , Norsemen with their human wave-like assaults . One of the native women Winetta , Susie Coelho , who fell for the earlier " Blond Giants " or Nrosemen , led by King Eurich , get's in touch with Thoruald through sign language . Winetta tells him that his father is alive and being held captive together with a number of his Norsemen survivors by the native leader Klwnonga , Jerry Daniels , or Smiley . It was Klwnonga who double-crossed the friendly Norsemen by getting them drunk , as they were partying with the natives , and then after killing most of them had King Eurich and three of his fellow Norsemen blinded and put in a cave forced to grind whole corn kernels into cornmeal for the natives . Thoruald who for some reason doesn't have on the usual Viking horned helmet , that his fellow Norsemen wear , but what looks like an ancient Greek or Roman one with a black Lone Ranger mask under it is lead to the cave by Winette . It's there where his father , King Eurich , and his fellow Norsemen are being held captive . After knocking off their native guards Thoruald & Co . make a run for it through the woods to the safety of the awaiting Norseman ship but not after having it out with the perusing natives . The Norseman / Native showdown results in Klwnonga / Smiley getting his eyes badly damaged by Death Dreamer's pet hawk . Thoruald and his fellow Norsemen don't sail out of danger and out to sea until the mighty Olif who voluntarily , against Thoruald's orders , stayed behind to hold off the hundreds of attacking wild and screaming natives all by himself . After miraculously surviving the ferocious native assault , with about a half dozen arrows still stuck in him , Olif is then also rescued . This whole magilla , long story , is told to us in retrospect by the Norseman ship's houseboy , or ship-boy , young Eric , Chuck Pierce Jr . Eric has since become a full-fledged Viking Warrior like his friend and hero Thoruald who taught young Eric everything he knew about strength courage and most of all dedication to one's family friends and people . Thoruald also thought Eric not to give in or give up when all seems lost and hopeless and that more then anything else is what made the mighty Norsemen , or Vikings , the feared and invincible " Blond Warriors " that they were . Those hard hitting Norsemen were no one to fool around with like the natives in the movie sadly found out . These blond and fearless giants defeated against unbelievable odds all comers on four different continents , Asia Africa Europe and North America . It's and undeniable fact that the Norsemen could have easily conquered the entire civilized , as well as uncivilized , world back then if they only wanted too which they didn't .
I Am An , BS , Artist !	( Some Spoilers ) Leaving her future husband Quinn Harris , Don Harvey , cold and with his $5 , 000 . 00 wedding ring on the eve of their wedding day Barbara Richards , Tracy Gold , takes off to the Chicago airport to start a new life without him . Spotting music student Brianne Dwyer , Mirellie Enos , at the airport the psychotic Barbara strikes up a conversation with her . Finding out that she's going to New Hampshire to attend collage Barbara then follows her into the ladies washroom where after murdering her stuffs her body into her suitcase and then takes on her identity . At Wynton collage in NH Barbara , now known as Brianne Dwyer , gets to meet her new room-mate Jeanelle Polk , Shawnee Smith , and finds out that her dad , a widower , is the famous art critic as well as art connoisseur Russell Polk , Perry King . Russell ends up getting manipulated by Brianne when he comes to see his daughter with her using his and her mutual interest of the arts to get romantically involved with him . Before you know it Russell falls head over heels for Brainne who's as young as his daughter and at the same time is too reality challenged to see what the evil Brianne / Barbara is really up to , this leads to a bloody confrontation between Brianne and Jeanelle at the conclusion of the movie . Even by then when it's all too obvious of what Brianne is and what she'planning to do still the doltish and naive Russell doesn't seem to have a clue about her intentions until almost the end of the film . Having murdered both her parents in a house fire that she set at their home in Indio Calif . Barbara went on to murder a string of young girls , and then taking over their identities , for six years in over ten states before we were even introduced to her at the start of the film . The movie makes no sense at all with Barbara being able to get away with murder since she's so ridicules and stupid in the crimes that she commits that she should have been caught long before the movie even began . After murdering Brianne at the airport what does Barbara do ; stuffs her body into a suitcase and take it with her to NH . Why didn't anyone notice the smell of the decomposing body and alert the police airport or collage authorities ? Brainne then takes the body , in the suitcase , with her to Jeanelle's dorm-room for at least two or three days which should have stunk up the place so badly that the collage authorities , as well as the local police , should have been alerted . Later Branni dumps the body in a construction site on the collage campus . It lays there for something like five months with nobody working on the site noticing or smelling it ! Barbara later does get to meet , unexpectedly , her estranged and outraged husband Quinn who tracked her down to Wynton Collage , only to be murdered by her later , when he saw a photo of one of her painting that she gave him in a local Chicago newspaper giving him her new name and where to find her . Only sweet and caring Jeanelle got the drop on the evil Barbara / Brainne and what her intentions were . Her dad , and even the collage staff , didn't seem to have any idea at all about Barbara masquerading around as Brianne even when the real Brianne's mom Evelyn Dawyer , Lynne Van Dam , came to visit her daughter and realized she was missing and that Barbara may well have had something to do with it . The movie ended when Jeanelle , sick and tired of seeing her not to bright dad falling all over the sick and dangerous Barbara , confronted her at her fathers mansion . Jeanelle become engaged with Barbara in a vicious cat fight where Barbara tried to murder Jeanelle with a pair of scissors . Riussell even then was too brainless to realize what a lowlife and snake in the grass his new , and secret , love Barbara really was and it was only after he took a nasty bite , that almost ripped one of his fingers out , from her that finally convince him . The ending made the movie even more off-the-wall that it already was with Barbara again tricking some dope , a cop this time , into letting her hands be freed while she was being taken to the county jail to be booked for murder . This gave you the impression that there's going to be a " Face of Evil II " released in the near future .
Daddy's Home	SPOILERSSean Young as Chicago police sketch artist Gwen McGerrall looks so bored to tears in the made for TV movie " Evil Has a Face " that at times she looks as if she's about to nod off and pass out right there and then . Given an assignment to travel to far off Redmond Minnesota to help the local police track down a child kidnapper Gwen is about as interested in going up there as she would be in going to the Arctic but does it anyway . As we soon learn Gwen has very personal reasons for going to Redmond beside all her expenses being paid by the Redmond Police Department . It's there in the " Land of Ten Thousands Lakes " where Gwen was brought up . Gwen had been abused by her step father Henry Wills McGarrell , Cheicie Ross , who died in a car crash back in 1964 when Gwen was five years old . It was that the unknown serial child killer and kidnapper who's on the loose in that part of the state that reminds Glewn of her long dead " Daddy " whom she hates with a passion . With the help of local Redmond cop Tom Sawyer-yes that's his real name - played William R . Moses and kidnap victim Bria , Brighton Hertfort , Gwen gets wind of who the serial killer and kidnapper really is ! Or does she ! The evidence that Gwen comes up with later turns out to be bogus in that Bria , the only survivor of the serial killer , described him to be Gwen's own father who been dead for at least 30 years ! SPOILER ALERT It soon turns out that Bria accurately described the person who kidnapped her , which Gwen did a police sketch of , but she was off in how old he was supposed to be by almost a generation ! The movie started getting itself lost in time and space by the time Gwen finally realized whom the mysterious serial killer was . In that it showed that Gwen wasn't anywhere near the sharp and smart cookie that we were lead to believe , by both the Chicago and Redmond Police Departments , that she was . The killer himself was anything but a master criminal in that he was so out in the open and clumsy in his actions it was almost a miracle that he wasn't spotted and caught before he committed his first of a string of some dozen crimes . Even though she was anything but convincing in her acting I have to say that Sean Young , as cold and icy looking as she was , was a real turn on even , it gets pretty cold up there in Minnesota in the wintertime , with enough clothes on to withstand 30 degree below zero wind gusts .
Your not worth it !	MAJOR MAJOR SPOILERS The movie " Blind Injustie " tell it all just by its title . A blind women is brutally raped where she , in not being able to properly identify her attacker , then has a totally innocent man sent away for life by mistaking him for her rapist . The rape victim blind law student Diana Scott , Jamie Luner , picks out the man whom she's sure raped her out of a police lineup only by feeling a scare on his forehead . It later turns out , after he was convicted and sent up the river , her alleged rapist bible quoting Malcolm Humphries , Ted Sadomirsky , finds out that there's proof of his innocence . This came to Malcolm's attention through the prison grapevine in that this big mouth , and not to smart , fellow convict Anthony Davis , Thomas Mitchell , has been mouthing off about him . Davis has been going around bragging to anyone within earshot that he in fact committed the crime that the innocent Malcolm is doing time for ! The movie gets even more ridicules with Malcolm getting in touch with the women Diana Scott , who's now a big time lawyer , he supposedly raped and who's testimony convicted him . With Diana's and the local police cooperation Malcolm is subjected to a DNA test which wasn't available five years ago when he was tired and convicted of raping Diana . As you would expect the test comes out negative totally exonerating Malcolm of the crime of rape and having Diana go on a guilt trip in having the totally innocent Malcolm put behind bars for five years . It's when Davis realizes that his big mouth has now put him in danger of being tried and convicted of the innocent Malcolm's crimes is when the film , if it didn't by then , completely loses any kind of creditability that he had . What Davis does then is so off the wall and over the top that you start to wonder if it , his actions , are the results of him being out in the sun , on a Florida chain-gang , too long and as a result having his brains stir fried ! The film " Blind Injustice " isn't that bad at all if you like unintentionally funny movies that try to take themselves seriously and as a result fall flat on their face in doing it . The horrors of of a woman , and a blind one at that , like Diana Scott being raped is nothing to laugh at or make fun of . The same can be said of an innocent man being accused and convicted of the crime like Malcolm Humphries was in the movie . That person has to live with the stigma of being a brutal rapist in prison which can lead to him being murdered by his fellow convicts , who consider rapist among the lowest form human life , when his back is turned . It would have been better if the film focused more on the two victims in it , Diana & Malcolm , and how the crime changed their lives forever . Instead the film went completely overboard in making Davis who later ended up murdering some five persons four who were law enforcement officers , in an effort to prevent himself from being charged in raping Diana , the real star of the movie .
Mars needs air and water too	SPOILERS Far out story about a crew of five very human-looking Martians led by their captain Dop , Tommy Kirk , who land on Earth and gather five very attractive healthy and child-bearing young women . To bring back to Mars to help re-populate that dying planet due to the low birth-rate of females there . Called operation " Sleep Freeze " the Martians have just a few days to achieve their mission . I was prepared to get a few laughs watching the movie " Mars Needs Women " just by what it's title indicated but was surprised about just how serious and intelligent the movie was . " Mars Needs Women " is , I think , the first movie to ever even mention much less explain what DNA , Deoxyribonucleic Acid , is : The unique and individual blueprint of every single human and animal that ever lived on Earth . This in a movie released in 1967 when most people never even heard of DNA . The Martians abduct a number of women through their use of hypnosis , stewardesses exotic dancers and home-coming queens , to take with them back to Mars . Where the Martians there are desperately waiting for and eagerly wanting to impregnate them in order to save their dying race . Yeah thats all the Martians want from the young and shapely earthling . Having a good time making out with the beautiful young ladies never crossed their minds for one second . Dop falls in love with the woman that he's supposed to bring back to Mars with him the pretty as well as brilliant young Dr . Majorie Bolen , Yvonne Craig , who's a Pulitzer Prize winning author in the field of DNA and extra-terrestrial genetics . Dop has a change of heart at the end of the movie and scuttles the plan " Sleep Freeze " at the expense of his safety and well being back on Mars . The movie is much like another film about aliens who come to Earth to destroy it . Then one of them rescues the doomed Earthlings by giving up his life to save them like the plot in the movie " Teenagers from Outer Space " . The movie " Mars Needs Women " is not what you might think it is , cheesy and erotic , but very serious and will surprise you in how ahead of it's time it is in the science of human DNA . How it makes up what we all are at a time when the word DNA was just three letters in the English alphabet in the minds of those who heard it .
I want to die fighting the Japanese . . Not from starvation or malaria !	( Some spoilers ) A bit more accurate then the usual war movie that was cranked out of the Hollowwood studios during the Second World War . " Corregidor " honestly portrays the heroic US and Phillipino siege of the island fortress known as " The Rock . Corregidor held off massive Japanese attacks from land sea and air from the time that Battan fell on April 9 , 1942 to it's eventually surrender to the Japanese imperial forces on May 6 , 1942 , a total of 28 days . The movie starts on December 6 , 1941 at Manoi in the Phillippines with Dr . Royce lee coming to the islands with her live-in maid Hyacinth , Ruby Dandridge , from New York City . Royce meets her long and forgotten , on his part , love Dr . Jan Stockman , Otto Kruger , and in less then 24 hours the two lovebirds get married . After The Wedding , December 7 , 1941 , the Japanese air force strikes the wedding party as well as all the US bases in the Pacific West of Hawaii , notably Perl Harbor getting the USA into WWII . The surprise Japanese attack Kills the presiding priest , Frank Jaquet , as well as Hyacinth among other guests at the ceremony . Going north away from the advancing Japanese army the two , Jan & Joyce , link up with a group of US soldiers and travel , through the jungle and over the waters of Minila Bay , to the island of Corregidor for the US army's last stand against the Japanese . We then have a really schmaltzy love triangle between Jan Joyce and an old flame of her's back from her medical school days in New York US Army Dr . Michael , Donald Woods . Dr . Michael dumped Joyce back then when she , being a blue blood and having lots of the green stuff , rented an office for Dr . Michael's medical practice on the fancy and prestigious New York's Park Ave . The guy could have evened things out by not charging fees to his clients for his services if he had such a violent dislike for making money . While on the island we also have another war love story between US Army nurse Hey-Dutch Van Doren , Wanda McKay , and her US Army boyfriend Cpl . Pinky , he's called Pinky that's because he'll so large , Mason , Rick Villin . Both Pinky & Hey-Dutch end up getting killed in the fighting . Hey-Dutch from a Japanese aerial bombardment and Pinky from being machine gunned , by a Japanese Zero fighter plane , that he also shot down from his tail-gunner position on the last plane out of Corregidor . On the island Jan changes his mind about getting married to Joyce , this after three short months , and dumps her , like Dr . Michael did , back into Dr . Michael's lap . Jan also solves the problem of Joyce being torn and divided between him and Dr . Michael by having himself get killed by a Japanese bombardment . Leaving Joyce free to marry Dr . Michael , but even that didn't go too well with Joyce being forced to leave the island as Dr . Michael stayed behind to be either killed or captured by the invading Japaneses troops . I found the love triangle and love story , between Jan & Joyce & Dr . Michael as well as Pinky and Hey-Dutch , far more interesting the the battle action scenes themselves .
The exercise I'm giving these fat dames won't reduce a fever !	( Some Spoilers ) With the kids running rampant in the streets and popping pills at parties and social gatherings the local authorities are desperate to get a handle to just who's the main supplier of illegal prescription drugs to these uncontrollable juvenile delinquents . The big break comes when young Frankie Clinton is busted after he broke into a warehouse high on uppers . Clinton is the major pusher for the head drug dealer in Homestown Umberto Scalli who's been using a gym , the Diana health System , to work off the pounds of overweight middle-age rich women as a cover for his sleazy drug operations . Scalli's top deputy Hal Holmes recommends that his friend Bob should replace Clinton as chief drug pusher since he's very popular with the teen crowd . Bob can get the local teenagers to attend drug parties thrown by Hal at Scalli's mansion . What Hal , and Scalli , doesn't know is that Bob is going study with Margie Ballentine who just happens to be the daughter of crusading Judge Rosaliner Ballentine . Judge Ballentine is out to put an end to all this teen crime and drug use . The Judge also had Scalli put away for five years for drug trafficking and contributing to the delinquency of a minor . Shocked at first that his # 1 dealer has a girlfriend that's the daughter of a judge , who swore to put him away behind bars for good , Scalli realizes what a gold mine he just stepped into ! Scalli plans to get Margie to attend one of his parties at the mansion and after getting her high then having her photographed in the nude . Scalli can then blackmail her mom , Judge Ballentine , into laying off him and his criminal activities in and around town . Early drug-related youth crime film that goes a bit over the top with nudity and at the same time honesty about the good and bad things about prescription drugs , there was no illegal drugs like heroin or marijuana in the movie . There's also a very thought provoking speech by the doctor ( John Mitchum ) who was attending Margie who just tried to overdose on pills , after she found that Scalli had a photo of her in the buff , that was as informative now as it was when the film " Devil's Sleep " was released back in 1949 . Bob who's sister Jerri was going study with Det . Dave Kerrigan , who was assigned by Judge Ballentine to crack the Scalli / Holmes drug racket , got wind of his friend's Hal involvement with the ex-con and drug kingpin Scalli . Bob tries to set up the entire Scalli gang but is knocked out and left for dead by Pug the manager of Diana Health Club who's also Scalli's # 1 muscle man . Speaking of " Muscle Men " there's also Mr . America 1948 George Eiferman in the movie in a small part as an exercise instructor to the fat women at the club . Judge Ballentine shocked at the bind she's been put in by the blackmail photo of her daughter Margie disqualifies herself from prosecuting Scalli . Terri then goes undercover , and in her underclothes , as a member of the health club to get the negative of the Margie nude photo only to get caught by Scalli . This all leads to a free for all when Bob , who recovered from the beating he got from Pug , and his friends as well as muscle man Eiferman detective Dave and the Homestown PD come to Jerri's rescue in a scene that looked like it came from a " Three Stooges " comedy short .
I like Gunn better	SPOILERSNot really getting off the ground and scaring the audience " Voodoo Island " just goes from one scene to another until it finally ends , without really explaining all the weird things in it . With three out of four men of a survey team lost on this uncharted island in the Pacific another team is sent to find out what exactly happened to them . The only survivor of the group Mitchell , Glen Dixon , is more dead then alive with a wild look in his eyes , that he never closes , that has everyone on the set calling him " Winky " . Lead by TV personality Phillip Knight , Boris Karloff , the group lands on a nearby island to rent a boat and equipment to check out the mysterious atoll . Martin Schuyler , Elisha Cook , who owns the island is a bit taken that anyone will want anything to do with it . The group of people looking for the missing surveyors work for this big hotel magnate Howard Carlton , Owen Cunningham , who's interested in building a five star hotel there . So far so good as far as " Voodoo Island " goes but when Knight and his team including boat captain Gunn , Rhodes Reason , get on shore the movie just seems to go nowhere . Mitchell who was brought along suddenly came to life and made a brake for it . Dropping dead , this time for real , Mitchell is found by the pier with a voodoo doll that was made to look like him . Right there and then the rescue team should have realized what their in for especially when there was also found a Mawanga Bag , some kind of Voodoo artifact , indicating that their all targeted for death if they ever reach the island . Even though we have a number of flesh eating plants and some sinister Polynesian-looking natives who's chief , Fredrich Von Ledebur , looks strangely European there's nothing in the movie that really scares you . Even when the plants go into action attacking and killing Cliar ( Jean Engstrom ) , one of the rescue team member , the scene is about as funny or believable as the scene with Bela Lugosi and the rubber octopus in " Bride of the Monster " ! We do have a strange love triangle , which is about the most interesting thing in the film , between the macho boat captain Gunn and photographer Sarah Adams , Beverly Tyler , and the soon to be departed Clair . Clair an out of the closet lesbian really gets to hit it on with Sarah and at the same time sticks it to Gunn , being the macho man that he thinks he is , who also wants to get into her pants . I have a feeling that the movie makers had Clair killed off so early in the film to avoid anyone watching from figuring out , this in the innocent USA of 1957 , what exactly Clair was not only up to but who , a lesbian , she really was . Getting Clair out of the picture also made it possible for Gunn to finally get romantic with the , what seemed to me , stuck-up on men Sarah Adams . Sarah actually was getting real hot and heavy with Clair and was anything but defensive to Macho Man Gunns advances until Clair was finally dispatched from the scene . The movie plods along with the team finally reaching , after being captured by the locals , this native village and getting the lowdown from the natives chief and witch doctor Friedich Von Ledebur to what's going on . Von Ledebur has been running the place for the last fifty years and wants no one from the outside world to interfere with his operation . Being sick and tired of the excesses and corruption of the civilized world Von Ledebur just wants to live in peace , with his natives , which is why he has anyone , like Mitchell and the missing survivors , who enter his kingdom either turned into zombies or eaten by his plants . There's still the greedy and materialistic Schuyler and Finch ( Marvyn Vye ) , who's hotel magnate Cunninghmans advance man , to be taken care of with Fnch getting by far the worst of it . Schuyler is at least put to his eternal rest by jumping into the river and being eaten by the flesh-devouring plants . Finch's fate is far more saver ; he's turned into , by chief Von Ledebur , a card-carrying member of the walking dead !
It had to be Who !	SPOILERS Overly plotted Columbo movie that really doesn't seem to make any sense to the killer's real motives ; other then that she the museum curator Ruth Lytton , Joyce Van Pattenis , is seriously mentally impaired . Hiring her's nieces Jane Brandt , Jennie Berlin , lovers Dr . Tim Shaeffer , Jess Osuna , brother Milton , Peter Feibleman , as a security guard at the museum Ruth has big plans for him . One of Ruth's plans includes that the somewhat not too on the ball Milton participate in a robbery of Ruth's museum ! We see right away that Ruth is a bit off the wall in her being left by her fiance Mr . Brandt for her older sister Phyllis , Celeste Holm , and has been an embittered woman ever since . Her plans to rob her own museum using the somewhat dim witted Milton in order to get the insurance money for the items he'll steal made absolutely no sense at all . Ruth ends up murdering him , for everything that he did for her , as well as her brother Edward , Tim O'Connor . Edward just happened to come on the scene leaving the insured items in his office that Milton was to steal in the robbery that Ruth planned for him . Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , is called on the case and finds things a bit strange in that the murdered victim Milton Shaeffer was dressed as if he was going on a trip to the Caribbean instead of trying to burglarize a museum ? Columbo also found it odd that Milton and Edward were also found shot to death at the murder scene with the lights turned off ! Making it very difficult for him to believe that both men had shot each other , using one bullet each , in total darkness . We had already learned that the mentally unusable Ruth set Milton up to rob her museum promising to give him $100 , 000 . 00 in cash and a false passport to leave the country . Ruth instead double-crossed him by blowing Milton away . the fact that her brother Edward was also murdered by her seems a bit confusing since we never really know if his being murdered was in her plans and if it was WHY ? Also what was the purpose of Ruth setting up poor and confused Milton to be murdered in the first place ? The rest of the movie has Lt . Columbo , suffering from a very bad allergic condition . Sniffing and sneezing his way through the puzzling and confusing case Columbo also gets a new and very mod looking haircut by the nutty and outrageous hairstylist Darryl , Anthony Holland . Darryl also happened to have cut Milton's hair the day that he was murdered . Trying to get to the bottom of this strange and baffling case Lt . Columbo has Janie arrested for both Milton and her uncle Edwards murder . Not that he feels that she did it but in order to get the real killer , Aunt Ruth , to break down and confess her crime . Feeding Janie a whole lot of bull , as well as a cheese burger , about her Aunt Ruth in her prison cell Columbo in attempting to trap Janie in implicating her Aunt finally realizes that he has all evidence that he needs to arrest Ruth ! The evidence is as close to him as the ashtray that the chain-smoking Janie was using in her cell . One of the most confusing and illogical of all the Columbo TV movies where there's just no real reason for the people , Milton & Edward , to have been murdered . The fact that their killer Ruth Lytton was out of her head and as wacky as a cuckoo cuckoo bird showed that she didn't really need any reason at all to do what she did .
Hey Walt ! Can you get this puke out of here !	SPOILER ALERT Mind boggling police crime drama involving a police widow who falls in love with her late husbands murderer . The murdered cop in question Lee McLean , Jeffery Noudling , was killed by the drug dealers he was setting up in a sting as an undercover policeman . McLean who was addicted to drugs himself ripped off a cool one million dollars from Angel , Tim Daly , and his two partners Mia , Alice Carter , and Barclay , Joe Pantoliano , during a drug for cash switch then went terribly wrong . One the run with Angel & Co . breathing down his neck McLean screwed himself up by trying to buy drugs , with Angel's money , from one of Angel's street drug dealers with him ending up dead after he was finally tracked down by Angel & Co . With McLean taking the secret of Angel's money to his grave it was now up to Angel to find the only person that McLean could have entrusted it with his grieving widow Carol , Lauren Holly . The greasy and bearded looking Angel does a complete makeover looking like a 1980's Wall Street yuppie in trying to first romance Carol and then , with her guard down , find out where her dead husband stashed his hard earned , that cost the lives of some half dozen persons , drug money . The made for TV movie " Dangerous Heart " seems to be about the effects of the Stockholm Syndrome-where a crime victim falls in love with his or her victimizer-in reverse ! Angel who at first is in total control of the situation later lets his attraction , that eventually leads to love , to the totally clueless , in what Angel is really up too , Carol go straight to both his head and heart ! This strange change in Angel's personality is duly noted by his two partners in crime Mia and Barclay . Knowing that the love sick , for Carol , Angel can't be trusted . It's then that both Mia and Barclay try to strong arm , or even murder , Carol in order to find out where her husband Lee McLean hid the drug money that he ripped off from them . SPOILERS Angel now having divided loyalties between both his lover Carol and his crime partners Mia and Barclay becomes a schizophrenic for the remainder of the movie . This really gives actor Tim Daly , playing Angel , a chance to show his acting talents in this very unusual Doctor Jekyll an Mister Hyde type role . The poor guy is so confused in whom he supposed to be , the good or bad the guy in the movie , that by the time the film ends he , as well as the audience , is not quite sure what side he's on ! We do in fact , after all the dust settles , finally find out just where the missing drug money ended up . What we also find out is that Angel's idiotic and murderous partners Mia and Berclay were in fact on to where the cash was hidden ! But as you would expect from birdbrains like themselves they ended up killing , along with their freedom , the goose that laid the golden egg !
I know where all the bodies are buried cause I buried them !	( Some Spoilers ) " Candidate for Crime " is one of the most over-plotted of the Columbo series of TV movies that really doesn't make any sense after you realize how paradoxical it is . A candidate for senator in the state of California Nelson Hayward , Jackie Cooper , is so desperate to get elected in a special election that he concocts a scheme making the public believe that he's being targeted by organize crime for death because he's such a great crime fighter . It actually turns out that candidate Heyward is far better qualified to be a member of the Mafia then of the United States Senate . Hayward is also cheating on his wife Joanna , Joanne Liville , by having an affair with her private secretary Linda Johnson , Tisha Sterling . That greatly upsets Haywards campaign manager Harry Stone , Ken Swofford , who feels it would destroy his chances of getting elected if found out by by the media and his opponent in the race for the senate . Hayward thinks that the best way to get elected is to show the public that " The Mob " is out to get him and uses the excuse to check out of his hotel room , that's heavily protected by the police , by going to his wife's surprise birthday party . At the same Hayward has Harry impersonate him and end up at his , Hayward , beach house where he's secretly there and shoots him dead . Hayward does all this in order to makes it look like the person who murdered Harry , who's made to think that he's Hayward , was a Mafia hit-man . It looks like Hayward had Harry killed more out of him wanting to break up his relationship with Linda then anything else which was really foolish , and criminal , on Haywards part . Couldn't he wait until after the election , which was a week away , that he was projected to win by almost every political poll and then continue his affair with Linda ? Why murder his campaign manager and risk ending up not only losing the election but ending up in the San Quinten death house ? Let . Columbo , Peter Falk , who assigned to Harry's murder realizes that something just is't right in Hayward's whereabouts when Harry was murdered . It seems just too perfect for him to be at a birthday party for his wife Joanna at the exact time that Harry was killed . Also with Harry being such a good friend of the Hayward's why wasn't he not only invited to the birthday party but why didn't he even know about it , according to his personal diary . All these inconsistencies struck Let . Columbo odd and made him think that his murder was planned well in advance . It in fact wasn't a hit and run rubout by the mob who didn't know that the person that they whacked wasn't the person that they thought he was : Nelson Hayward " Champion Crime Fighter " . Columbo puts all the loose ends together and sets up the murderous and wife cheating Hayward but it's his very schemings , and paranoid , self that in the end seals candidate Haywards fate . It made no sense at all to me for Hayward to try to have himself get assassinated , by himself of course , at the end of the movie in order to gain sympathy from the public . At the time it happened the people of Califronia were already well on their way , according to the TV news reports , to electing him senator . Even if Hayward was behind in the vote it was already too late , with the majority of the vote already in , to swing the election in his favor anyway . Hayward was far to driven to get himself elected senator then having an affair with Linda . It made no sense at all for him to go as far as murder in killing his campaign manager Harry Stone , who was totally dedicated in getting Hayward elected to the senate , in order to continue his affair with her ! Peter Falk as Det Columbo had to keep himself more from cracking up then in getting the goods on Hayward . Which was as easy as pie for him in how ridicules Hayward was in single-handedly destroying not only his political career but his marriage freedom and Harry Stone's life as well .
A Doll's House	MAJOR SPOILER ALERT Really a case of severe post natal depression more then a " Rosemary's Baby " - like imitation the made for TV movie " First Born " is about a young woman Laura Davis , Elisabeth Shue , who goes off the deep end into La-La land when her pet dog Harper is accidentally poisoned after eating rat poison that she planted in her house . Being already pregnant Laura's deep guilt over Harper's death leads to her feeling that she won't be a good and caring mother to her soon to be born child . This leads Laura to conjure up all kinds of crazy scenarios about her being cursed , or hexed by evil spirits , in this case witch's , that not only drives her batty but also everyone else she comes in contact with including her husband Steve , Steve Mackintos . After her baby is born Laura starts to feel that it's not really her's in an obvious excuse to shirk any responsibility in properly taking care of it . This is for Laura to have and excuse in anything that happens to her child , a girl , being the results of supernatural forces not her own inability , due to her post natal depression , in being good a mother . The film goes on and on with a number of crazy incidents , conjured up by Laura , where the baby's life is always in danger when it fact it's not . The only one who's a threat to Laura's baby's health , or even life , is Laura herself . The worst thing by far that Laura does is accuse the kind caring nanny Mrs . Kasperian , Kathleen Chalfant , of trying to either kidnap or murder her new born child . This accusation by Laura is so ridicules that even the local police refuse to even entertain , much less act on , it . Coming up with stories about rats and sinister and bloated baby dolls doesn't help Laura either in making anyone believe her . All this causes Laura's mother , Blain Brown , to travel to New York from the other side of the country , California , to come over and look after her grandchild since Laura seems totally incapable of doing it . When the movie ends you get to see just how incapable of being a mother Laura really is !
The only point to the movie is that there's no point	SPOILERS " Cover Me Babe " is one of those anti-establishment type 1970's films where it's main character takes himself , and his future in film , so lightly that it's a wonder that anyone , in the audience or in the movie , take him seriously at all . Tony Hall , Robert Foster , a college student film maker does everything he can to destroy his future career , if he had one to begin with , in film . Tony makes sure that if he would ever need to be financed by a film studios in or out of Hollywood to do a project they would slam the door in his face . Smug arrogant sarcastic and unfeeling Tony goes through the entire movie totally detached from his friends and fellow students as well as those in the film business like Hollywood press agent Paul Rogers , Jeff Corey . That by the time the movie is over Tony doesn't have a friend in the world and at the same time doesn't really seem to care . All Tony wants to do is do is " his thing " which is being snobbish and aloof like those in the establishment that he despises , and who he's rebelling against , and if nobody likes it let them take a long walk of a short plank . Robert Foster tries to be " Medium Cool " in " Cover Me Babe " but comes across totally obnoxious as the very overly conceited vain and pompous as Tony . Tony forces both his girlfriends Melsse & Sybil , Sandra Locke & Susanne Benton , to forcibly make love in movies that he was making with Jerry & Ronnie , Ken Kercheval & Floyd Murtux , who were also friends of his . Tony also doesn't get along with his film professor in college Will Ames , Robert S . Fields , Tony doesn't get along with anyone for that matter . Ames ' is also in love with his girlfriend Meilssa and had an affair with her before she met Tony . It seemed to me that Prof . Ames had a grudging admiration of Tony's talents but Tony was so rude and uncivil to him that in the end Prof . Ames wanted nothing to do with him . Prof . Ames even wanted Tony thrown out of college when he found a film clip of a young couple making out , in a car at a local lovers lane , that Tony secretly filmed without their knowledge . Back at the college studio Tony has Meilsse almost raped on film in an " art movie " he had her " act " in . Later Tony had poor Ronnie , who was very shy with women , forced into a hard core sex scene with his , Tony's , other girlfriend Sybil . This action of Tony's part was so revolting that the cameraman , Sam Waterston , stopped shooting and walked off the set in disgust . Tony did show some talent when he touchingly filmed a derelict , Mike Kellin , at local park who spilled his guts out on how the world , and his ex-wife , treated him . That scene really hit me as well as it did Tony who was filming it . There was also a horrific scene , at a film exhibition in the college auditorium , that Tony shot of a man on a ledge of a high rise building being urged to jump by the people on the streets below , and then did . To the horror of those watching the film , to his death . It's been said that actor Al Pacino , who was a total unknown back then in 1970 , was first offered the role of Tony Hall and for some reason didn't get the part . Not getting that part very probably saved Al Pacino's movie and acting career .
Too many plots and not enough story	SPOILERS Underdevloped and overdone film that has at least four different plot-lines to it and not enough time , some 90 minutes , to fully explain them . Kate Wilson , Annette O'Toole , has been living with her old and infirmed mom Mrs . Wilson , Eva Marie Saint , since her husband left her without any notice and with a full closet of his dirty laundry . Working as a real-estate agent by day and changing into a red hot party-animal at night has her mom wonder if she actually does spend all her nights away from her at home , chit chatting and playing cards , with her friend Reba like Kate tell her that she does . One afternoon after work Kate , all dressed up to kill , is involved in a minor traffic accident with Betty Carlson and tow-truck driver Gary Smith aka Grafton just happens to come along to fix Betty's flat tire . From hearing them talk Gary finds that they both know each other from the Red Oak Inn . Gary turned on by Betty later sneaks into her house and after trying to rape her knocks her against the bathroom tub killing her . Gary paranoid that he'd be caught , because Kate saw him , is now on a mission to track her down and keep her from permanently talking to the police or anyone else . The movie also tried to cover Kate's relationship with her mom and her pick-ups or boyfriends that she had at the Red Oak Inn . Were given glimpses of Kate's childhood and the circumstances of her baby brother , Lawrence , death that her mom held Kate responsible for . There's also the suicide of her Mrs . Wilson's husband Burton who kill himself shortly after Lawrence's died . On top of all that there's the fact that Gary is a good husband and father but has this hang up with young women who's only way of showing them any affection is by beating their brains out . You put all this together in the movie with two detectives on the case of Betty Carlson's murder who , or at least one of them , acted towards old and sick Mrs . Wilson as if she were a captured Al-Qeada terrorist ! That by the time it was over you had no idea just what it was trying to tell you ? Was there a serial murder on the loose in the town of Santa Rosa ? We were told that earlier in the film but Gary's killing of Betty came later in the movie and for all intents and purposes it was his first , and only , killing and it was also not planned by him but something that went terribly wrong on his part . We also saw later in the film Gary not being able to murder Kate because he just didn't have it in him . So why were we given this red herring about a serial killer / rapist when he never was there in the first place ? There was also a hint in the film of Kate having a lover that she frequently met at the Red Oak Inn . But later , like with Gary , it really didn't pan out since Kate never gave him her real name and was having affairs on the side with other men she met there at the same time she was seeing him .
As for me I'm learning the rumba !	SPOILERS Picking up where the far better " Calling Dr . Gillespie " left off pretty but not too tightly wrapped together-up stairs - Marcia Brandburn , Donna Reed , is not quite sure whom to marry . Poor Marcia can't make up her mind between her two suiters the cutest and cuddliest sergeant in the US Army Sgt . Patrick J . Orisin , Michael Duane , or mad dog psycho killer and , what I assume , still fiance Roy Todwell , John Carvan . If the film " Dr . Gillsepie's Criminal Case " stuck to that story-line It may well have been far better then it ended up being . Instead we have about a half dozen sub-plots that make the film almost impossible to follow . Old man Gillespie is back played by the cuddly-far more then even Sgt . Orisin-and lovable Lionel Barrymore with his two new intern , but not yet doctors , assistants Red Adams & Lee Wong How , Van Johnson & Keye Luke . Both Red & Lee have a lot more pressing things to deal with here then in their previous film " Dr . Gillespie's New Assistant " . That movie just had the two young interns mostly deal with mundane and boring medical problems : Like life and death in the hospital's operating and emergency rooms . In this movie the hard working-working 14 hours shifts at the hospital-Chinese / American Lee Wong How spends all his free time in Brooklyn Collage learning a new and foreign language : Chinese ! As for the handsome but a bit on the shy side Randall " Red " Adams he's trying to get very friendly and romantically involved with the utterly gorgeous and loaded , with cash not booze , Blair Hospital nurse Ruth Edly , Marilyn Maxwell . Lee should't have any problem , with help from his relatives , mastering the Chinese language . But on the other hand Red finds it very difficult , if not impossible , in getting close to Ruth ! Every time the two are about to " do it " - kiss not hanky-panky-they end up getting interrupted with Red being called on a medical emergency ! As for Mister " G " - Dr Lenny Gillespie-himself he has his hands full not only with a ward full of children suffering from a deadly disease but him being kidnapped by " Mad Dog " Todwell whom he came to help at the state penitentiary . Doctor " G " want's to have the mentally and criminally deranged Todwell transferred to a mental institution that can cure him of his murderous abnormalities . In him being the all wise and all knowing man of medicine , as well as psychology , that he is Dr . Gillespie feels that a stay at the institution may well cure Todwell of his dangerous hangups , like whistles blowing in his ears , which a stay behind bars , with all those fellow convicts , won't ! Not leaving out WWII-this is 1943 - that's raging all over the globe the film has the added attraction of having a survivor , who lost both his legs , of the attack on Pearl Harbor US Navy man Alvin F . Peterson , William Lundigan . Peterson who feels that his life as a man is over with people having to opened doors and get up off seats , in the subway and buses , for him is miraculously brought back to feeling that he's whole again . In what is surly the most , if only , touching scene in the movie Peterson ends up dancing with the hard as nails-like a US Marine drill Sergent - Blair Hospital head nurse Molly Byrd , Alma Kruger ! Not the , as we an Paterson would have hoped , knock you off your feet blond bombshell Ruth Edly !
Tales from the Morgue	( Some Spoilers ) Very confusing movie about the last days of actor comedian John Belushi , Michael Chiklis , who after shooting himself up , with the help of his personal drug suppler Cathy Smith played by Patti D'Arbannille , with a combination cocaine heroin concoction-speed-ball-went into cardiac arrest and expired . It's then alone in the L . A County morgue that Belushi suddenly comes to life and ends up riding in a taxi cab with Angel Velasquez , Ray Sharkey , whom we find out is also like Belushi really dead , for some eight years , of a drug overdose . The rest of the movie has Belushi with both Angel's and Washington Post reporter Bob Woodward's , T . J Walsh , help review his short life , Belushi was 33 at the time of his death , and how he so royally screwed it up . The film " Wired " is so confusing in it going back and forth in time that you have trouble following it not knowing if the John Belushi on the screen is either the live or the dead one . We do have John doing a number of his memorable acts , on TV and in the movies , but their more or less padding giving the film , thats seems far to long , its 112 minutes of running time . The film really gets interested when it focus on Belushi's drug addiction that lead to his untimely death on the morning of March 5 , 1982 . Losing control of both his career and wife Judy , Lucinda Jenney , due to the pressures of being on top , as a Hollywood super star , John's reliance on drugs , mostly cocaine , took precedent over everything else in his life . Too strung out to work and feeling that he's soon to become poison , after a string of flops , in the box office Belushi just about gave up on himself . Belushi spent all his time , when he was supposed to be writing a script for his latest film , in his plush L . A hotel room getting himself high on the drugs that ended up killing him . Depressing movie that shows what drugs , legal as well as illegal , can do to you and those you love by letting them take control of your life . John Belushi's life as well as death is all too common in Hollywood with drugs , like cocaine , being readily available to big time actors and actresses like himself . Belushi's serious drug addiction wasn't a secret to those who knew him which makes his death even that much more tragic . Instead of trying to get him help , in drug rehabilitation , Belushi's desperate plight was put aside-by his employers - as long he brought the big bucks into the studios . It's when his career started to wane that Belushi drug dependency started to intensify and get out of control . John Belushi wasn't alone in having himself end up on a cold slab in the L . A County morgue ! He had a lot of help from those who encouraged and supply him with illegal drugs over the years . But in the end it was John and only John , by giving into his drug addiction and refusing to get help , who was more responsible then anyone else in having himself end up there . P . S It's Bob Woodward's biographical book on John Belushi's wild and stormy life , as well as his tragic but not at all unexpected death , that the movie " Wired " is based on .
Keep Walking	SPOILERS George Zucco , Dr . Llyod & Elwyn Clayton , does double duty here , probably because of the acute manpower shortage in Hollywood due to WWII , as twin brothers who represent good and evil in the movie " Dead Men Walk " as it sluggishly moves to a flaming and Armageddon-like ending . " Dead Men Walk " rips off " Dracula " and puts a different " spin " on it in a tedious and dull version of the famous Bran Stoker novel with George Zucco doing his best to make it all work but to no avail . Dr . Llyod Clayton battling his evil brother Elwyn , who turned into a vampire after his death , who also tries to kill and turn into a vampire like himself Llyod's niece Gayle , Mary Carllsle . Elwyn does this by making night visits , once is not enough ? , to Gayle's bedroom and sucking her blood , thats a new one , and thus making her a charter member of the living dead . The movie also has Dwight Frye as Zolarr Elwyn's creepy servant in death as well as in life always messing thing up for his master . In the end of the movie during the Llyod / Elwyn fire fight Zolarr is pinned to the ground by a fallen pedestal and during the entire scene keeps saying over and over again , ad nausea , to the annoyance of the every one in the movie as well as the theater audience " Master , Master " . The story somewhat confuses you when Kate , Fran Emmett , who's the only one at first in town to know about Elwyn being a vampire and later one afternoon when she's in the cemetery finds where his body has been hidden , by his servant Zolarr . Kate opens up the cover of Elwyn's coffin where you see the sunlight hitting him and instead of him shriveling up and turning to dust nothing happens ? This compared to when Elwyn and Llyod are fighting it out at night in the end of the movie in a burning house , Llyod is the one with the hat on , just the sound of a rooster crowing , thinking that it's dawn , was enough to do in the evil Elwyn even though it was pitch black outside ? the rooster could have also had the wrong time . George Zucco's acting in " Dead Men Walk " was far above the material that he had to work with but he could go so far in making his part , or parts , that he had come across effective and believable without looking silly at times . Dwight Frye did his usual creepy act as the cracked assistant or servant to the heavy , Elwyn , in the movie like he did in previous movies like Frankenstein and Dracula . Mary Carllsle was asleep or in bed in almost all of her scenes in the movie due to her loss of blood with Elwyn obsession in trying to get her to join him in the world of the dead . Nedrick Young as Dr . David Bently , Mary's boyfriend , was like Zucco ; much better then his role in the movie called for him to be . " Dead Men Walk " did have some good atmospherics especially in the graveyard scenes but overall it was just flat and uninteresting and never really scared you at all a total waste for everyone involved ; the cast as well as the theater audience .
Bug Out	MAJOR SPOILERS Not the either horror or suspense / drama that you would have expected from the films adds " Bug " is about two very unstable persons who in the end have their fantasies take control of their minds and lives with unimaginable , as well as deadly , results . Gulit-ridden after losing her six year old son Llyod in an Austin Texas supermarket ten years ago Aggie White , Ashley Judd , has since split up with her husband Jerry , Harry Connick Jr , and became involved with a lesbian lover R . C , Lynn Collins . R , C works together with Aggie in a gay bar not far from her home , a motel-room , in Oklahoma . It's when Aggie get repeated phone calls from someone who just listens but doesn't talk that she feels that her ex-husband Jerry , now an ex-convict out on bail , is harassing her . R . C brings a friend Peter Evens , Michael Shannon , home to party , on booze and coke , at Aggie's place who soon begins to take over her already fragile mind with stories of him being experimented on by the US Government since he was a soldier in the Gulf War . Going into the entire litany of Illuminati-like conspiracy theories , dating back to the first Bildenberg Group meeting in Holland back in the spring of 1954 , Peter convinces Aggie that he's been infected with bugs , or aphids . These bugs are to incubated in his body and then be let looses on the unsuspecting American public ! Aggie who at first feels , rightfully so , that Peter is a bit off his rocker soon becomes convinced that he's on the right track and becomes just as nutty as he is . Aggie's change of heart , or mind , about Peter may have had to do with the unexpected arrival of Jerry , fresh out of prison , who went back to his old habits of both mentally and physically abusing her . Jerry who has no use for Peter feeling that he's having an affair with his ex-wife Aggie tries to get under his skin , by having him lose his cool and thus get his chance to belt him , but with absolutely no results . Peter seems to be in another world with his obsession of government conspiracies and is only interested in his own body that he's certain has been contaminated with blood-sucking and microchip-like bugs ! Yes that's right Peter is certain that the bugs are being used as living microchips , created in a secret US Military facility , to keep track as well as control of the American People . With his mind now quickly going out of whack Peter goes so far as telling a by now hysterical Aggie that he and Timothy McVeigh , the late Oklahoma City Bomber , were infected with these bugs as a precursor , to see if it works or not , to infecting the entire US population . With Jerry , having run for his life from both Aggie & Peter , now out of the picture Aggie and Peter , who are now lovers , spend all their time in Aggie's motel-room . The two are left fighting off the invading armies of bugs , who exist only in their minds , with wall to wall coverings of aluminum foil and dozens of bug-busters or defused blue-lights . The ending has the what at first seemed harmless Peter go both nuts and homicidal cutting himself up , as well as pulling a number of his teeth out , and murdering his US Army appointed doctor Dr . Sweet , Brian F . O'Byrne . Dr . Sweet who came to help the poor and sick man was brutally attacked , when he tried to inject him with a sedative , by an insane Peter who stabbed the man to death with a hidden shiv . Peter in his unstable mind thought that Dr . Sweet was part of the conspiracy to infect the American population with genetically altered and man-made killer bugs ! Living on pizza and donuts in their eerily-lighted and aluminum foil plaster motel-room Peter & Aggie come to the fatal conclusion that the only way for them to prevent the government from inflicting the American population with the bugs is to get rid of the bugs themselves . Being that their the only ones infected with the bugs it was they who were to be gotten rid off ! Mind-blowing movie about mental illness that has you wondering if the bugs are real or not , we never really see them , even when the film finally ends ! The fact that the location were the movie was filmed was hit by Hurricane Katrina just days after it wrapped up can also give you food for thought in government conspiracies . Was the hurricane purposely created by the US Government to prevent the film " Bug " from being made and thus letting the cat out of the bag to what it was up to ! If it was the Government as usual screwed up by getting Hurricane Katrina to strike there a few days too late thus allowing the movie to be finished .
I thought I was doing the right thing	( There are Spoilers ) Trying to save her boss money , that she pocketed , in eliminating the middle-man in buying office equipment landed Lynn Schaffer , Stephanie Zimberlist , in a womens correctional facility for a ten year stretch . Trying to adjust to prison life Lynn soon begins to realize that the prison is not a correction facility but a prostitution ring , used by the prison guards . The guards farm the women prisoners out to local motels as hookers and keep the women in line by getting them , if their not already , hooked on drugs that are supplied to them by the prison guards themselves . The corrupt guards headed by the smirking and sleazy Sgt . Crang , Dan Lauria , also have their way with the women prisoners at the facility by constantly raping them . In a number of cases getting the women pregnant and having the fetus aborted by giving them drugs that cause a miscarriage to hide the evidence . Lynn seeing all this and also being a victim of Crang's sick sexual groupings in one case within sight of her husband Larry and 10 year-old daughter Karen , Gary Franks & Stephanie Sawyer , turned her into a curseder for womens rights in prison but at the cost of her as well as little Karen's , who was threatened with death by Sgt . Crang & Co . , safety . Not as brutal and graphic as most " women in prison " movies " Prison of Secrets " has the fact that it's based on a true story that resulted in the shake-up of a womens correctional facility where 20 male guards ended up getting fired and two convicted for sexual abuse of the women prisoners . It wasn't easy for Lynn to get her fellow women prisoners to go along with her in signing affidavits accusing Sgt . Crang of abusing them . Most of the women not wanting to rock the boat and end up in even worse condition that they already were in . It was Lynn's dogged determination and courage , by putting her health and life on the line , in her fight for them that turned the women around and tuned the tables on Sgt . Crang and his fellow corrupt prison guards in the end . Crang doing all he can to keep Lynn quiet , even threatening to murder her daughter , made her even more determined to get the truth out . With the help of her husband Larry , who's a talk-show host , Lynn made waves as far and as high as to the states woman Senator Green , Anita Finlay , who came to the correction facility with a task force to find out what was happening there and how the prisoners were being treated . Sgt . Crang pulling out all stops has Lynn thrown into isolation and replaces her with another women prisoner Angie , Fionla Houghes , who's been turning tricks to impersonate her as a last ditch effort to cover his , and is fellow prison guards , aes . All of Crang's efforts fall apart when Lynn escapes from her confinement and together with a handful of affidavit's that she hid in her bunk , from the women who were abused and exploited by him . Lynn gets to Senator Green just before she's ushered out of the prison by a nervous Sgt . Crang and his boss , the simple-minded and totally out of touch top prison administrator , Warden Stewert .
When one's strange fantasies takes over one's life	+ +Major Spoilers + + Former big game hunter and now deranged lunatic Byron Douglas , Clint Walker , comes up with some far-out ideas about life death and the human condition as well as how to bring a little life and excitement into the lives of the people in town by savagely murdering them and at the same time making it look like some kind of werewolf did it . Even though the movie tries to be suspenseful and keeps you guessing to who the killer is as soon as you see Douglas and how crazed and unstable Douglas is . Just by listening to his off the wall philosophy by talking about how one is most alive just when he's at he moment of death . This makes you almost look over his shoulder to see if you can catch a glimpse of the men in white with stun guns and butterfly nets ready to grab and restrain Douglas in a padded room at the local loony bin . You watch the movie hoping that whats on the screen is not really happening . In that that those making the film are just trying to keep you off the track by making you think that Douglas is the killer when the real killer is really someone else in the cast that you don't suspect . Still you just can't convince yourself that there's anyone more certain to be the killer then Douglas is and you end up being right . Were told that Douglas was attacked by some super wolf some time back in Canada which almost killed him and left him in the condition that he's in now . Trying to explain his mental and emotional state and at the same time throws off suspicion about him being the killer but even that falls apart at the end of the movie . The only way I could follow the story is by realizing that Douglas is crazy , which wasn't hard to do , so whatever he said and did in the movie made sense only to himself not to anyone else . The end of the film ripped off the movie " The Most Dangerous Game " by Douglas pitting friend and former hunting buddy now writer Peter Graves , John Wetherby , against himself in a life and death struggle to see who's fit and strong enough to survive . Even then Douglas cheated by having a vicious wolf as a partner and leaving Wetherby with a rifle with no bullets in it . Wetherby had to run for some distance to find a box in the woods with only two slugs that Douglas left for him . When it came to the hand to hand combat that Douglas craved for Wetherby pulled out a gun that he secretly had on him a blew Douglas away . Since Douglas murdered six people there was no point for all that ridicules game playing with him . A major flaw in the movie was why the police never thought of arresting Douglas even though he was the most evident and conspicuous suspect in town . It was nothing but a waste of time trying to figure out Douglas ' weird philosophy and sermonizing during the movie because it was just that , weird .
I'm taking her out to sea again , there's no point of me staying here	( There are Spoilers ) Surviving a violent Mediterranean Sea storm the skipper , Jurgen Prochnow , was unable to save the life of his friend and fellow seaman Paul Pelikan , Mario Stock , and his former , and now Mario's , lover Mona , Gvalyna Szapolowska . The Skipper hold's himself responsible for their deaths even though he was cleared of any wrong doing by a Seaman / Mariner Court . Losing his nerve and getting drunk the Skipper hangs out all day and night , for six months , at the local Califorina Club drinking instead of going back out to sea on his ship the Bella Donna . Things change for the Skipper when he's approached by a young British duet of singer and dancer Su & Lou , Patsy Kensit & Elizabeth Hurley . The two are dying to get out of this boring ghost town of Gibraltar and sail to sunny and swinging Barbados in the West Indies . A trip of some 2 , 500 miles that would take over a month . The Skipper needing a reason to go back to sea on his ship jumps at the idea that the girls proposed to him and the next day the Skipper together with Su & Lou and their pet pooch Willard sails past the " Pillars of Hercules " into the wide open and dangerous Atlantic Ocean . It turned out to be a voyage straight into hell . Great scenic and ocean photography with a number of spectacular sunrise and sunsets can't overcome the film " Kill Cruise " unconvincing script and totally unbelievable surprise ending . The ending is so off-the-wall that it makes you wonder if you fell asleep while watching the film and missed something that would make it at least plausible to the movie's story . A less then glamorous Elizabeth Hurley and down in the dumps-looking Patsy Kensit make up the trio , or quintet if you include the cute little dog Willard , on the cruise yacht Bella Donna . Thing start to get edgy when Su becomes jealous of the Skipper taking her friend , and possibly lesbian lover , Lou away from her as they both have a sexual tryst right in front of her . Su plans to murder the Skipper , as well as Lou , by first letting them drown at sea as they were both swimming , and making out underwater , by taking off with the boat Bella Donna . Later Su hides the insulin that the Skipper needs for his diabetic condition and his life is saved by Lou who finds it just in time , hidden by Su inside a world globe , just before in went into insulin shock . With the crazed jealous and murderously inclined Su on deck the movie then immediately changes course where we see the three on board with Su & Lou dancing and singing as if everything that we saw up until then was forgotten about . Then were hit with an ending that's straight out of nowhere .
She wore a yellow ribbon , or was it a scarf ?	SPOILER ALERT Overdone murder suspense / drama involving a former mental patient who ended up with a dead-end Job on the prestigious Oakville Tribune as it's obituary columnist . Denise Wilcox , Josie Bissett , has been working at the Tribune's obituary desk for some three years when something big finally opened up for her . That's when veteran ace reporter Stanley Morgan , Bill Lynn , suddenly collapsed and died of a heart-attack with his job expected to go to Denise . It came as a big surprise that the person getting Morgan's job , as it's star reporter , at the Tribune was non-other then Denise's ex-boyfriend Simon Casteillo , Grat Nickalls . The person who drove Denise to attempted suicide when she , and Simon , was a teenager ! We learn during the course of the movie , in a number of steamy flashbacks , that Denise's mother drove her insane when she broke up her relationship with Simon . This lead to her , after an attempted suicide , to be committed to the Cliffcrest Sanitarium . Recovered and out in the world Denise is now confronted with the very person , besides her mother , who was responsible for her mental problems Simon Castillo ! Not only that it's Simon who got the job , with him just being hired , that she always wanted ! This undoubtedly isn't going to help Denise's mental state which we soon see quickly deteriorate . It's just about the time that Simon shows up to work at the Tribune that things really start getting weird for Denise with her receiving on her computer messages of people who died , by being murdered , before they actually did . One of those persons is a woman whom Denise discovered murdered in the park while she was doing her morning jog ! It also happened that Denise possibly saw her killer who , running with a hood over his head , knocked her over while exiting the murder scene . All these incidents lead to Denise's sever mental problems resurfacing with only the Tribune's mail-room boy the kind and understanding as well as sensitive Luke , Craig Olejnik , trying to help her . Luke seeing what all this strain is doing to Denise goes out on his own in trying to find out who's sending Denise these strange message that by the time the movie is over lead to the deaths , that the massages predicted , of some half dozen persons . The last massage that Denise got predicted the death , by being murdered , of non-other then herself that's to happen at midnight the very next day ! We the audience are really left hanging , like Denise , in this muddled made for TV movie . There's so many potholes in the story that you feel like your walking through a desert minefield . There's an occult angle , Kali or Indian Tugee , to the murders that completely falls apart in that the person who comes up with it , and should have know better , occult store owner Zara , Julia Chantres , ends up becoming a victim of it . Zara's untimely death , by hanging , seemed to be an effort by the movie makers to not only kill her off but put Zara's cockamamie theories to who's been doing the killings finally to rest .
No Vacancy	SPOILERSTrying to be a combination of " The Texas Chainsaw Massacre " and " Psycho " the movie " Eaten Alive " falls flat on both accounts with it's only redeeming feature being the few nude scenes in it that are far more hotter than anything , including the Janet Leigh stripped down to her bra scene , in both of those films . The basic story itself is anything but new with this peg legged psycho Old Judd , Neville Brand , having a pet African crocodile that he had shipped to his home in the Louisiana Bayou to keep him company . The " Croc " liked Judd so much that he once grabbed his leg and bit it off clean from the ankle on down . Judd himself is anything but down to earth when it comes to customers who end up staying at his dingy , he seems to be behind in his electricity bill , hotel slicing them up and feeding their remains to the hungry crocodile who never seems to get enough . There's also the town stud Buck , Robert Englund , who uses Judd's place of business to bed down his many lady friends , mostly hookers . Judd who's also a bit of a religious fanatic is very resentful at Buck for using his place , where he murdered at least three persons in the movie , to have sex out of marriage . Things started to unravel for Judd when he ended up murdering , with his trusty scythe , ex-hooker Clara Wood , Roberta Collins . Clara was kicked out of the local madam Miss Hattie's , Carolyn Jones , bordello when she just couldn't cut it as a lady of the evening . It was when big stud Buck hot and ready for action unzips his pants and tried to lay it , his heavy duty equipment , on her that told a shocked and speechless Clara that she was in the wrong business ! Searching Clara out her father and sister Mr . Harvey Wood & Libby , Mel Ferrer & Crystin Sinclair , find out that she was at Judd's place just before she disappeared , in Judd's pet crocodile's stomach , from the face of the earth . With the sneaky Judd not being too cooperative Mr . Wood and Libby get in touch with the local Sheriff Martin , Stuart Whitman , who comes across , in how clueless he is , as the last person in town who you'd need to help you find anyone or anything ; Even a kielbasi sandwich in a Polish restaurant ! It's when things get completely out of control with Judd & pet doing in almost all of his hotel borders , including Buck , that Sheriff Martin finally gets it right . But by then almost everyone in the cast , including the totally out of his mind Judd , have ended up as pet food for Judd's hungry crocodile . Very badly filmed with almost no lighting at all , the movie looked like it took place from dusk to dawn , makes " Eaten Alive " a real danger to anyone watching it by contracting glaucoma or myopia . Neville Brand as the crazy nut-cake Judd was by far the best reason for watching the film . The guy really lets it all hang out together with his both wild unblinking eyes and glittering teeth that are as scary and dangerous as his pet crocodile ! Neville is also good at swinging his scythe in the movie looking as if he's auditioning for the role of the " Grim Reaper " .
Cash of the Titans ?	( There are Spoilers ) Overlong and mindless crime drama that has to do with this master bank robber Neil McCauley , Robert De Niro , who becomes the object of L . A police Let . Vincent Hanna's , Al Pacino , obsession , The two get involved in a battle of wits and bullets that turns the city of Las Angeles into Baghdad Iraq by the time the movie " Heat " is finally over . Inolved in a number of high profile robberies Neil has become a bit soft in his life long career in crime . Neil is planing to pull off just one more multi-million dollar bank robbery and then call it quits and retire . Let . Hanna on McCauley's tail want's to prevent him from pulling off his grand slam bank holdup but is always stymied as McCauley is one step ahead of him . Even though after the first armor car robbery , that resulted in the three armor car guards getting shot to death by McCauley & Co . , all McCauley and his gang did was do each other in . As well as being , or trying to be , double-crossed by big time mob money launderer Roger Van Zant , William Fichtner , who's over one million dollars in untraceable Bearer Bonds the McCauley gang took in the armor car robbery and attempted to sell back to him at . 60 on the dollar . This after Van Zant got back all the money that he lost in stolen bonds back which were covered by his insurance company . Were then bombarded with both McCauleys and Hannas personal life that goes on for almost an hour like a day time TV soap opera and really has very little to to with the movie's basic theme about crime and punishment in the streets and airport of L . A . All that confuses and bores you to the point that your almost put to sleep watching it . Who cares about Hanna's relationship with his old lady Justine , Diane Venora , and who she sleeps with ! Even Let . Hanna doesn't seem too concerned he's only angry that Justine's lover Ralph , Xander Berkeley , has the nerve to watch his TV set and couldn't care less if he slept with Justine or not . Det . Hanna's step-daughter Lauren , Natelie Portman , is so upset over his and her moms bickering that she attempts to kill herself . Lauren does this by slashing her wrists and then trying to drown herself in her step-fathers apartments bathtub . McCauley also gets involved with this young graphic designer Eady , Amy Brenneman , but it's so out of character for him that it leads to his ultimate demise at the end of the movie . McCauley juggling between Eady's going along with him , to heaven knows where , in his attempted escape from being captured by the police at the L . A Airport and then going out of his way to murder Wangro , Kevin Gage , at the airport hotel that's crawling with L . A policemen . Wangro who was involved in the opening scene armor car robbery was later kicked out of McCauly's gang , and almost killed by him . Yet how did Wangro somehow seems to have gotten a hold of McCauley's later plans to rob a midtown L . A bank ? it's never explained what and how Wangro knew about the impending bank robbery since he was totally out of the loop when it was planned and later executed ! And what exactly had Wangro's later involvement with the Van Zant mob have to do with him informing on McCauley's plans to the police ? There's also Jon Voight as this big mob honcho Nat who looks like General Custer at the Little Big Horn . Voight pops up every now and then in the movie , giving McCauley advice that's always on target , but who's part in the film is never really explained by the script writers . As well as not clarifying the story behind the Shiherlis ' Chris & Charlene , Val Kilmer & Ashley Judd . The wacky couples zany and bizarre relationship soon threatens to screw up all of McCauley's plans for his last big score . Chris gets badly shot up in the L . A bank robbery and looks like he's about to die from his wounds but then what seems like only hours later he shows up , with a new haircut , totally recovered ! Chris also comes up with a new identity that was so convincing that even Let . Hanna and the LAPD had to let him go free ! This after he was involved in the deaths of at least a dozen innocent people and L . A policemen that afternoon ! We earlier saw Charlene give Chris some kind of hand signal as the L . A police were about to pinch him , in a sting they set up for him . But all Chris did was turn around in his car and drive out of sight and like magic he was immune from prosecution ? The movies ridicules ending was about as exciting as a game of chess . Both Let . Hanna and his rival and adversary in the movie Neil McCauley are seen running for what seemed like the length of the Boston Marathon all around L . A Airport and it's surroundings . This was all done I suspect so those of us , still awake and waiting to see the big showdown between the two , could finally switch the channel and get back to watching something that makes more sense and is far more interesting ; like the Saturday Morning Cartoons .
Mind Games	( There are Spoilers ) Living with the tragic death of his first wife Wendy , Candice Daly , psychiatrist Dr . Ian Lazzare , John Savage , can't keep her out of his mind even after re-marrying a woman who's an exact replica of Wendy Teresa also Candice Daly with her blond hair colored black . Becoming a hopeless alcoholic Dr . Lazarre drinking become so acute that Teresa leaves him and that leads to Dr . Lazarre attempting to kill himself . Committed to the Blackhurst Instatute by Teresa and Dr . Lazarre's friend and personal lawyer John McNamra , Eric Pierpoint , Dr . Lazarre is put on drugs and kept from getting any sleep to shock him out of his drinking problems . But as we , and Dr . Lazare , also see his treatment has nothing at all to do with curing him but experimenting with his mind , or what's left of it , to see what make him tick with the experiments being conducted by the head of the institute the weird Dr . Vernon Requist , Malcolm McDowell . You have trouble with understanding the movie " Where Truth Lies " right from the start with Wendy's accident that later in the film turns out to be her murder . There's also this convict was treated by Dr . Lazarr who seemed to have later been executed a Jonas Keller , Denis Forest , who keeps popping up in the movie as if he were Dr . Lazarre's conscience or alter-ego . You at first think that Keller was the real reason for Wendy's death but it turns out that he had nothing to do with it so why is he made to be so important in the film not only in regard to Wendy's murder but to Dr . Lazarre himself ? At the Blackhurst Institute were at first given the impression that Dr . Renquist and his head nurse Racquel Cambers , Kim Cattrall , are not what they seem to be . It's even indicted that Nurse Chambers is a junkie that Dr . Renquist experimented with like he's doing with Dr . Lzarre . But as the movie moves to it's surprising conclusion it obvious that all that information we get from the movie makers of " Where truth Lies " are red herrings to throw us off what's really going on and why Dr . Lazarre was committed in the institute in the first place . The big surprise in the movie is not that surprising at all since we get a good idea to who's behind Dr . Lazarre's interment and what the reasons are for it is . Which Dr . Lazarre himself realizes but after it's too late for him to stop the person from murdering his second wife Teresa like he did his first wife Wendy . Very depressing ending where the killer gets poor Dr . Lazarre implicated in Wendy's murder only after he himself is killed by an outraged Dr . Lazarre , who earlier escaped from the Blackhurst institute , only to end up being committed for life to a mental hospital for the criminally insane . Passable thriller with John Savage doing his best as a man being driven over the edge in order to cure him of an mental illness that he only got from being institutionalized to cure it when he didn't have it in the first place .
Armstrong strong-arming the mob in a weak action film	SPOILERS The Russian and US Mafia's get together in the movie " Armstrong " in an alliance to take over the new Russian Nuclear Agency . The two gangster organizations plan to sell the dangerous and deadly nuclear weapons to the highest bidders who for the most part are terrorist-type groups in the Middle-East and Africa who have the millions to buy them . Bob Zorkin , Charles Naper , a former Navy Seal instructor is sent by the US government on a secret mission to Russia using the cover as an American tourist . Zorkin's job is to find out and report back to his bosses in the US Pentagon and State Department who's involved in the Russian government and military in dealing with both the Russian & US Mafia . Told that if the Russian government can't stop the gangsters , American & Russians , from selling the nuclear material It's his job to use his skills as a Navy Seal to take them out . Zorkin and his wife Susan , Kimberley Kates , are followed to Moscow by two mobsters from the US Ponytail & his bumbling assistant Eric , Joe Lara & Igor Porshev . Bob then goes to the hotel room where Rod Armstrong , Frank Zagarino , a former student and good friend of Zorkin is staying at . Armstrong is training the Russian secret service in the art of modern combat methods that he learned from Zorkin with the Navy Seals . Before you know it Zorkin is killed and later his wife Susan is kidnapped by the US / Russian Mob . The murder and kidnapping of Bob and Susan gives Armstrong the opportunity to show his stuff in taking on the two mob organizations and at the same time saving the world , or the city of Moscow , from nuclear annihilation . The two mob organizations , US Mafia & Russian , are trying to find out from Susan why her husband was in Moscow , as if they couldn't figure it out all by themselves . But the mobs main reason is to get Armstrong out of the way before he stops them from getting their hands on the nuclear weapons and also find what was on a tape that her husband Bob gave him . " Armstrong " really makes no sense at all with the US mobsters , for reasons known only to themselves , trying to trick the obviously drunk and naive Russians to get them to blow themselves up with the nuclear weapons that they were going to sell them ? The movie never takes the time to explain why ? Armstrong takes care of the both US & Russian mobs and the corrupt Russian military men single-handedly wearing a tuxedo that he had on when he attended the Russian Opera . Armstrong also saved the Russian president from being assassinated by Ponytail with his tuxedo not having as much as a tear or even a as much as a smudge of dirt on it after he took care of business . Armstrong's fight with Ponytail is also ridicules when after it looked like Armstrong killed him , by sticking a knife in his chest , Ponytail pulls it out and is even stronger and almost beats Armstrong with half of his blood supply drained out of his body . The reason for Ponytail & Co . being so eager to find the tape that Bob Zorkin gave Armstrong was also nutty when you finally saw the tape it . The tape showed what you and Ponytail and his mob cohorts should have already known . The secret tape showed that the US government was investigating the Russian / US mobs who it suspected of working with corrupt elements in the Russian Army to get their hands on Russia's nuclear weapons . Shouldn't they have know that just by Zorkin being sent to Moscow by the US State Department ? The action scenes in the movie were about the only thing worth watching , there was also a very explicit nude scene of Kimberly Kates going out of the shower , but for a plot and story that makes any sense at all , forget it .
My son is always where he is when he comes here , in town with the whores	( Some Spoilers ) More like a " Guess who's coming to the Funeral " type movie then the usual biker flick of the 1960's and 70's cranked out by AIP Pictures . " The Hard Ride " tries very hard to make some kind of social and political statement on race relations with the female star Sheryl , Sherry Bain , having had a hot and steamy affair with the dead US Marine Lenny , Alfonso Williams . Lenny's best friend and Marine buddy Phil , Robert Fuller , brought back his body from South Vietnam for burial but that angle falls completely apart within the first ten minutes of the movie . Lenny leaving behind his last will and testament to his adopted father Catholic priest Father Tom , Marshall Reed . Lenny only mentions Sheryl who you would think were inseparable as just someone Phil should look up . Lenny want's Phil to get the address of Big Red , Tony Russel , in order to give him his , Lenny's , prized chopper affectionately named " Baby " ! You get the feeling that it was " Baby " that Lenny was really in love with not his girlfriend Sheryl . Sheryl comes across more like a girl bartender that Lenny met in the local bar , where he got good and drunk , and only remembered her name at all because she served him a load of free drinks . Trying to find where Big Red was Phil get's involved with a local biker gang who's leader Grady , William Bonner , claimed to be Big Red in order to get Lenny's chopper Baby . Seeing through Grady's lies , calming to be an Native American yet having a full beard , Phil escapes from Grady's bunch on the wheels of Baby . At the place where Sheryl is working as a waitress , Mom's Diner , Phil gets her to take the afternoon off so she can help him find Big Red and have him and his bikers attend Lenny's funeral ; as well as sign Baby over to him like Lenny wanted in his will . The movie has both Phil & Sheryl go through a number of close calls with the highway police and a bunch of local sht-kickers all over Baby that Phil is using , together with Sheryl , as transportation in his quest to get to Big Red's place . Big Red's hangout turns out to be the notorious Shannon Whorehouse just outside this God-forsaken place called Dead Man's Point . Big Red having fun with one of the hookers is angered by Phil unexpectedly dropping in on him . When he sees the chopper Baby Big Red quickly changes his mind and as for the pretty Sheryl he suddenly gets the hots for her , despite the hooker that he's with . Later after him making a snide and offensive play for Sheryl it leads him and Phil to duke it out to the sounds of exploding artillery shells and machine gun fire just like in Nam . Back at Mom's Diner Big Red and his boys are about to attend Lenny's funeral only to have one of the main speakers , together with Father Tom , kidnapped by the Grady Gang in revenge for what he did to him earlier in the movie . Grady also steals Baby to keep all for himself . Big Red showing up at Grady's desert hideout with his bunch tells Grady that he can have and do what he want's to Phil but that Baby is his and with Phil , who's name the bike was legally in , being forced to sign Baby over to Big Red . This gives Big Red and his bikers just enough time to catch Grady & Co . off guard that leads to a wild and deadly free for all with Phil ending up shot dead by one of Grady's men . The movie's sad ending has not only Lenny but his good and close Marine buddy Phil buried together to a full US Marine honor guard with a tearful Sheryl and Big Red & Co . in attendance . Phil kept his promise to Lenny by bringing him back home to the states and making sure that he'll get a full Marine and Biker burial . What Phil hadn't expected was to always be at his side by being buried together along with him .
Darkness Falls	( SOME SPOILERS ) Serial killer on the loose in the north country using the six month winter darkness as a cover for his unspeakable crimes . With two drunken hunters Levi & Buffalo , Philip Granger & Ernst Harth , stumbling on the frozen body of Lucy Waters , Jennifer Martinez , it becomes evident later at the towns coroners office that she's been murdered . The chief of police of the little northern Alaskan town of Revelstoke Vance Corgan , Jeremy Ratchford , is then put on the case . We almost seem to know who the killer is by seeing the towns barber Dexter Miles , Malcolm McDowell , talking to his customer about killing someone that you love and how difficult it is to do it face to face , like Lucy was murdered by strangulation , then with a gun at a safe distance away . Our suspicions about Miles being the killer is later confirmed when he spends the next evening at the home of the waitress Sally , Brenda James , of Revelstoke's rowdy Liquor Pig bar , Sally's later found murdered the exact same way that Lucy was . Miles begins to become suspicious to the police finding him out when FBI Agent Crawley , Sarwin Sanford , and later his fellow agent Sedwick , Vince Murdocco , comes on the scene knowing that they , the FBI , are tracking Miles ' previous murders on the Pacific West Coast , that number about 50 . These murderers are very similar to the killings Miles is involved with up here in Alaska . With the prime suspect in Lucy's murder , Hawkins , found murdered himself in a hotel room in North Pole Alaska almost every male in Revelstoke , including Chief Corgan , is a potential suspect in her murder . Lucy had sexual relations with almost every man in town and they all had reasons to kill her to keep her from outing them . At the same time the FBI seemed to have overlooked the fact that Lucy was found to have been raped but the rapist , according to the postmortem report , was sterile which eliminated almost everyone of Lucy's lovers but Dexter Miles ! The film " The Barber " has Miles one step ahead of the police during the entire movie using the cover of night to get away with his crimes . Miles seems so sure of himself that he makes no effort to distance himself from the killings like admitting that he was in the small town of North Pole the day that Hawkins was last seen alive there . Miles also doesn't seem to care that he was seen with the victims at Revelstoke just hours before they were found murdered . Setting up Chief Corgan , by somehow planting DNA evidence , to implicate him in the deaths of Lucy Sally and later his secretary at the police station Jewels , Erin Wright , Miles has it all wrapped for the FBI to arrest the towns police chief who the FBI agent had thrown off the case because , of what they considered , his incompetence . Miles makes one major mistake he leaves a fingerprint on a beer mug that he gave Corgan as a Christmas present that matches one of his at the Jewels murder scene . Too gimmickry for my taste with Miles always a step ahead , or having fate or luck on his side , of the police and FBI to the point that the film comes across as if it wan't him to get away with murder . The movie tries to show it's audience how a psychopath , like Miles , has superhuman intelligence and unbelievable luck to prove it's point . Yes psycho killers are smart cunning and devious besides being extremely dangerous . A psycho killer can be someone that his friends and acquaintances my know very well , like a Dexter Miles , but will never suspect him in a million years but in reality most Psycho killers , unlike Dexter Miles , end up getting caught .
O . J as a private hard-boiled dick with a soft and tender heart	SPOILERS After spending a rainy Christmas Eve with the old lady , whom he's separated from , and the kids private eye Michael Brenner , O . J . Simpson , on his way home to his apartment in San Francisco stops at this lonely roadside caf for a cup of coffee . After being razzed by one of the costumers Joey Crawford , John Spencer , with cheap and off-color jokes , at his expense , nice guy Brenner gives the abusive Joey a ride back home where , after taking even more BS from Joey , he slips him his business card . A week later Brenner get's this letter and a message from his answering service from Joey about finding his missing girlfriend Dani Anatole , Irena Frris . There's also a $1 , 000 . 00 bill , a Grover Cleveland , in it as a retainer For Brenner to find Dani . It turns out that Joey was killed the night before in an " car accident " on purpose and Brenner , even though he realizes that he's new client Joey is no longer alive , takes the case anyway . O . J tries hard to be a tough as nails PI in the mold of a Humphery Bogart but come across just too unconvincing . Even when he's belted around in the film by a Chinese cocaine gang all O . J has to show for it is a small band-aid on his right cheek that actually makes him look cute instead of hard boiled . Brenner tracks down Dani , though a pad of food stamps mailed to her at her sister Catherine's , Cindy Pickett , mansion in the ultra rich Pacific Heights section of San Francisco . Brenner finds out that not only is she gone but that Dani is a cocaine junkie , with Joey as her supplier , as well as being involved together with Joey with the San Francisco Chinese mob . Going to see her cousin Riki Anatole , Cliff Gorman , the president of the very successful Anatole Fish Corp . Brenner senses that Riki had some relationship with Dani that he's keeping from him and that his wife Lilian , Maureen Anderman , knows about and is very upset by it . Brenner goes even deeper into this swamp of secretly that involves the powerful and well connected Anatole family by seeing the clans patriarch old man Orestes Anatole , Leonardo Cimino . It's Old Man Anatole who built up the Anatole fish empire back during probation in the 1920's and 30's . It tuned that Old Man Anatole made his millions by shipping booze , instead of fish , using the fish company as a front for his illegal operations and that his grandson Niki just stepped into his shoes . Niki instead of shipping booze in the San Francisco Bay area is shipping boatloads of illegal cocaine . Dani and Joey got hooked up with the dangerous Tan Ng gang which was moving in on Niki's drug operations and that lead to Joye's , and possibly Dani's , murder . Now that Banner was getting too close to what's happening , between the Anatole and Tan Ng drug gangs , his life is in extreme danger of getting snuffed out by either one of them . Cliff Goreman gives by far the best acting performance in the movie as the intense and moody Niki Anatole who even when he dies at the end of the movie put more life into his role then O . J does in his , as PI Michael Brenner , fully alive and kicking . The biggest surprise in the film has to be Niki's sarcastic and loud mouth wife Lilian who really knows all about her husbands infidelity and in the end did everything what she had to do to put a stop to it .
Where's Jack ?	( Some Spoilers ) Having set up his faithful wife Annie , Virgina Madsen , is his own murder as well as implicating her in a 2 . 7 million bank heist that he engineered adulterous ex-cop and bank security guard Jack Westford , Bruce Greenwood , plans to disappear off the face of the earth to live off his ill gotten gains . Jack thinks that he's now home free to flee with his lover , a former teller at the bank that he just robbed , Isbella Martens , Kristen Hockings , to Mexico with the stolen cash . It just turns out that Jack didn't expect Isbella's jealous and hot headed ex-boyfriend Ray Partana , Carlos Gomez , to be casing him out and seeing what he did in framing his wife by staging his own phony murder . Ray now wants payback his former girlfriend Isbella and whatever , Ray doesn't know exactly how much , money Jack histed or else he'll go straight to the local authorities , the cops , and tell them everything that he knows . Doing the stupid thing in confronting Jack , an ex-cop who was fired for brutalizing his prisoners , in his hotel room and demanding payback Ray gets it all right . Ray gets payback for trying to blackmail Jack by ending up with his guts spilling out of his stomach . With the boyfriend now out of the way Jack and Isbella are free take off south of the border with his old lady Annie holding the bag with a count of murder and grand larceny hanging over her head . It's then when Annie get her head and act together by playing junior private investigator and tracking down her rotten and good for nothing of a heel husband Jack ; all this while she was a fugitive from justice . A bit too much to take in Annie changing from a doting and naive suburban housewife into what looks like a tough " Biker Mama " , dressed in both denims and leather . Annie ends up doing what not even the police as well as that sneering full of himself and obnoxious bail bondsman Harry Carven , Eddie Velez , could do ; track down Jack and bring him to final and ultimate justice . Like a female version of the fugitive Annie is on and the run one step ahead of the police all throughout the movie in trying to prove her innocence in her husbands Jack murder . The fact that Jack is suspected in having been murdered by Annie is one thing but how did the cops and bail bondsman Carven , who's to get 20 % of the 2 . 7 million if he recovers it , connect her to the stolen cash ? The half-a explanation by the cops that she and Jack were in on the bank job and there was a falling out between the two , which lead to Annie murdering him , just doesn't wash with both Jack and the money never being found . Couldn't the police put together a far better explanation or scenario in the fact that both Jack & Isbella disappeared almost at the same time , with her quiting her job just two weeks earlier , right after the bank robbery ! In fact it was Annie who after finding a receipt for a diamond ring that her cheating husband Jack bought for his one and only love , whom he later murdered , Isbella proved that they both had the reason and means , by working in the bank , to pull off the robbery which the totally out of the loop and Innocent Annie didn't . Instead of going to the police , this while she was still on the lamb , with this very important piece of evidence Annie instead put her neck on the line tracking down Jack in Mexico to exact bitter vengeance on him for what he did to her . Maybe in Annie's mind this would be far more effective and justified then just having him arrested tried and convicted of his crimes . Crimes that Jack so maliciously concocted and framed her for committing .
A Man With A Plan	SPOILERS The only thing that seems to make any sense about the movie " Fog Island " is that the bitter and vengeful Leo Grainer , George Zucco , wanted to know for sure if any or all of the people that he invited to stay over at his home Alic Ritchfield , Lionel Atwill , Kavanaugh , Jerome Cowan , Syivla , Veda Ann Borg , and Emiline Bronson , Jaqueline Dewit , on Fog Island murdered his dear wife Karma . Finding out later in the film , at the cost of Leo's life , that Karma was murdered by his invited guests he could then die happily knowing that their greed would lead them right into the trap that he set for them . When Leo was framed by the above mentioned individuals for embezzling his company and sent to prison they not only looted whatever was still left in the company's coffers but in their mindless greed went to Fog Island . After not finding out from Leo's wife Karma where he stashed a large portion of his liquid assets , that they felt that he hid from them , they murdered her . His business bankrupt his wife dead and his future bleak Leo after getting out of prison had only one reason for living . That was to punish those who destroyed his life and murdered his wife Karma . At first you wondered why these people would take Leo up on his invitation to come and stay overnight at his home on the Island as guests ? They knew how much Leo hated them and how unstable and crazy he was . As you watched them in the movie you soon saw just how much their greed blinded them and distorted their reason from seeing this . Leo playing on their greed made them think that he had a large amount of liquid assets hidden somewhere on Fog Island . In the end Leo's guests didn't find any assets but got far more liquids that they could have ever hoped for . The good acting in the movie " Fog Island " by George Zucco and Lionel Atwill couldn't save the films very inane and uneven story . I could not understand why it was never really explained in the movie why Leo would hire an escaped convict Allerton , George Lloyd , to be his butler ? We always see Allerton snooping around the house and looking into every nook and cranny obviously looking for the money that he thinks that Leo has hidden there . Allerton is later confronted by Doc Lake , Ian Keith , Leo's former accountant and cell-mate . Doc gets into a fight with Allerton where he knocks him over a railing into the water and to his death . Leo who was in the background watching all of this seemed about as interested in what was happening as he would have been if he were watching the swallows flying north to Capistrano . There was also Jeff , John Whitney , who was not on Leo's guest list but who invited himself on the Island anyway . Jeff wanted to take Leo's pretty step-daughter Gail , Sharon Douglas , off the Island and away with him . The relationship between Jeff and Gail was so contrived and phony that you couldn't believe it for a second even if you wanted to . How did Jeff know that he and Gail would find a letter from Gail's mother , Karma , hid in a secret and hidden desk compartment insisting that she leave the Island immediately ? Did Jeff have a crystal ball that enabled him to see into the future ?
Castle Keeps	SPOILER ALERT Only worth watching for it's star attraction the bust-out Swedish actress Anita Ekberg in a duel role as top Italian fashion model Sylvia Morel and 17th Century burned at the stake witch Malenka . Sylvia gets the news that she inherited the Wadrick Castle and the title of countess on the eve of her wedding to handsome Dr . Pietro Lufuani . It soon turns out that Sylvia didn't just inherit the castle and title of countess but her creepy Uncle , the keeper of Waldrick Castle , Count Walbrooke's bloodlines . The Count's bloodlines goes back some 600 years to the area around the Carpathian Mountains in Medieval Europe . It's doesn't take a genius to realize that Uncle or Count Walbrooke isn't as young as he looks being that he died at least over 100 years ago . It's also very obvious , from the moment you lay eyes on him , that the pasty looking and ice cold to the touch Count Walbrooke is actually a member of the living dead , a blood sucking vampire ! Who needs fresh and above room temperature , at 98 . 6 degrees Fahrenheit , human blood in order for him to survive . Keeping the beautiful Sylvia under lock and key in his castle Count Walbrooke attracts the attention of not only her far off , back in Rome , fiance Dr . Lufuani but the terrified townspeople of near by Wadrick ! Of whom , mostly sexy and well endowed young women , the Count feeds , or sucks , on for his daily or nightly supply of human blood ! It also turns out that the Count later , after sucking them dry , turns his victims into vampires like himself to join his army of the walking dead . Traveling to Wadrick together with his friend Max Dr . Lufuani attempts to rescue Sylvia from Count Walbrooke's clutches only ending up a prisoner in his castle . Sylvia who during the entire time played along with her sinister Uncle Walbrooke , in making believe she was hypnotized by him , frees the chained up Dr . Lufuani just before the Count was to take a bite out of him . It's later in the movie that the good doctor gives the Count the medical prescription needed to cure his craving for human blood : A flaming stake in the heart cooked medium to well done !
The Scary Children	SPOILERS The Alpine Gothic horror movie Saint Ange throws at its audience a load of clues to what's happening at the now almost deserted orphanage in the French Alps but very rarely follows up in explaining them . Right from the start we're shown little Alex , Marin Chouquet , slipping in the the orphanage bathroom and cracking his skull but that's all were given about him . There's no follow up to what exactly Alex has to do with the movies plot ! Were then shown young Anna , Virginle Ledoyen , coming to the Saint Ange orphanage to work there as a cleaning lady who's hiding the fact that she's very pregnant . It soon turns out that Anna is fooling no one at Saint Ange to what her background is , does she have some strange connection to those working there ? , but those of us watching the movie ! The Dean of the now closed orphanage Madam Francard , Catriona McCard , the cook Helenica , Dorina Laza , and even the on and off handyman Daniel , Jerome Soufflet , all know the secret about Anna and tells her that , by just hinting at it , but never us in the audience ! You've really have to use your imagination in trying to figure just what the secret about both Saint Ange and Anna is and a big clue to that is the only remaining orphan still left at the orphanage Judith , Lou Dollion . Judith is a complete mystery , far more then Anna , in what she's doing at Saint Ange and the orphanages cook Helenica does everything possible to keep Anna from finding out the truth about her . It's when Anna starts to become friendly with Judith that you get a glimpse to what the big secret is about Saint Ange and that goes back some 12 years , the movie is supposed to take place in 1958 , to 1946 just after the end of WWII . It seems that a number of children mysteriously died at Saint Ange and the place has been haunted by their ghosts ever since . SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ONAnna now completely obsessed to find the secret of Saint Ange goes rummaging through the orphanage's discarded records and finds that she in fact was there some ten years ago about the time , after WWII , when all these children that Judith told her about mysteriously died . Not that really scary of a horror movie even though there is a scene or two in it that will have you jump out of your skin Saint Ange seems to really be about guilt and that guilt is what motivates Anna to do what she does throughout the movie . Anna's pregnancy is a constant , in trying to hide it , annoyance to her and seems to want to have it aborted . Being Catholic Anna is filled with guilt in both getting pregnant out of wedlock and at the same not able to hide that fact from Madam Franchard as well as everyone else at the orphanage . There's a strange scene with Anna finding in a deserted car on the orphanage grounds with a litter of kittens with their mother that Judith was caring for . Later the kittens are found drowned and it's made to look by whoever did the dastardly deed that the sweet kind and caring cook Helenica did it . This turns Judith against Helenica in thinking that she killed the kittens and has her , with Anna's help , discontinue her medication for her severe psychological disorder . At the end of the movie you finally get a handle to what's going on between Anna and Judith when Anna by taking a harrowing ride in a hidden dumbwaiter gets to the bottom of what's been bothering her , to the point of insanity , by getting to the bottom of the elevator shaft . It's there that all of Anna's fears , real and imagined , come to the surface . Something that Madam Francard Helenica and even the very unstable Judith tried to keep Anna from finding out .
This Caesar Comes To Bury You	SPOILERS Stylish and brutal " Black Caesar " is also a bit over-the-top in it's depiction of a Harlem hood working himself up to the top of the New York City mob syndicate and then losing it all in what seems like a matter of weeks if not days . Fred Williamson is at his all time baddest best as the super cool cat Tommy Gibbs the Harlem gangster with the heart of gold and fists of steel who takes on the Mafia with his brawn's and the crooked police and politicians with his brains and just when he's got it all blows it down the drain . Captain McKinney , Art Lund , who gave Tommy when he was 14 years-old the nickname " Limpy " , by busting his kneecap with his police nightstick , tries to do Tommy in by getting his former girlfriend Helen , Gloria Hendry , to steal a safe-deposit key from him . The key opens a box that contains the both explosive and incriminating Goosic ledgers that Tommy ripped off from Goosic's office when he was reviewing them . Goosic a top bag-man for the corrupt cops and politicians has a record of all the pay-offs that they got from the mob and elsewhere through the years . Tommy is using that information to blackmail McKinney , and all those corrupt officials in them , to keep the heat off him and keep him alive as well . Later getting shot on a mid-town street Tommy kills the hood who shot him and escapes from McKinney's men by jumping into a taxi and then goes to Coleman , William Wellman , his back-stabbing lawyer's office . Coleman turned out to be murdered by McKinney in order for him to get his hands on the Goosic ledgers after he , Coleman , doubled-crossed his client Tommy by giving them to McKinney . McKinney plans to pin the murder of Coleman on Tommy , to cover up his crime ! In short McKinney double-crossed the double-crosser , Coleman , to frame the double-crossed , Tommy , with a murder rap . McKinney instead of killing Tommy when he surprises him at Coleman's office forces him it spit-shine his shoes , now that's really rubbing it in . Tommy knocking his gun out of his hand paints McKinney's face with shoe polish and forces him to sing " Mammy " , McKinney's singing is plain horrible , before he smashed his head in with the shoe-shine box killing him . Still badly wounded Tommy goes to his old neighborhood in Harlem and is attacked by a gang of young toughs , Tommy Gibbs wannabes , but survives the ordeal to make a sequel to the movie " Black Caesar " : " Hell up in Harlem " . The most unusual aspect about the film " Black Caesar " is that it was so successful that it spawned a sequel the same year , 1973 , that it was released . Even though " Black Caesar " was to take place at the time that it was made and we see at the end of the movie a date , as if it had great historic and momentous significance , which flashed on the screen against the New York City skyline as being August 20 , 1972 ? What exactly was that day supposed to be in world history ? In the " Black Casear " sequel " Hell up in Harlem " were shown in the movie that most of the events takes place two or three years into the future or in 1975 and 1976 not 1973 when the movie was made and released ! It's as if the film were a sci-fi not crime movie ! Now how's that for keeping the right time !
Twisting the law only makes things worse	SPOILERS Highly contrived movie about a tough cop who likes to do things his way getting involved in a homicide that he tries to pin on a mobster that he had it for and end's up getting his girlfriend's , the dead man's ex-wife , father arrested for the killing that he committed . Ken Paine , Craig Stevens , was suspected of murdering Ted Morrison , Harry Von Zell , in a illegal gambling den run by mobster Tom Scalise , Garry Merill . Det . Dixon , Dana Andrews , goes to Paine's apartment in lower Manhattan to arrest him but gets into a fight with Pine and knocks him to the floor which ends up killing him . Panic-stricken Det . Dixon at first tries to impersonate Paine by making it look like he went to the train station and bought a ticket to Pittsburgh to get out of town . Det Dixon later comes back to Paine's room and puts his body in his car and drives down to the East River and dumps it there . Obsessed in pinning Paine's death , after it was fished out of the river , on Scalise as well as the murder of Morrison it soon turns Det . Dixon's life upside down since Scalise had nothing to do with the two deaths and Dixon knew it . When Det . Dixon's love-interest in the film Morgan's , Gene Tierney , the dead man's ex-wife's father Jiggs Taylor , Tom Tully , is picked up by the police and booked for Paine's murder it shows Det . Dixon that no matter how much you dislike a person and no matter how guilty you think that he is that by framing him it will only make things worse , much worse . Even though the movie tries to excuse Dixon for his actions it was like putting a square block into a round hole , it just couldn't do it . In the end Det . Dixon's conscious gets the best of him even though by then got away Scott-free with what he did . Good acting as well as on-location New York City photography makes the movie a success but it's story is just too contrived to be taken seriously . You have to say one thing about " Where The Sidewalk Ends " it tries to be different and has a plot to it that you never , if ever , saw in a crime movie back then . The story of Dana Andrews playing a tough but not what most people would think is a corrupt cop was a ground breaking phenomenon in American films back in 1950 . Det . Dixon only wanted to put the bad guys behind bars even if their innocent .
Boom ! Ba Ba Boom ! Ba Ba Boom !	( There are Spoilers ) Based on the 1963 Tennessee Williams play " The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore " the movie " Boom " is about a terminally ill rich high society widow who had outlived , not divorced , her six husbands and is now in the process of working on her autobiography before her final curtain call . A horror to work for Flora " Sissy " Golforth , Elizabeth Taylor , treats her servants that includes her ruthless and diminutive chief of security Rudi , Michael Dunn , and the on call doctor Dr . Evilo , Romolo Valli , worse then dirt . Consequently going into wild and uncountable fits as she pops pills and gets daily injections to keep the pain of the unknown and unnamed illness thats slowly killing her in check . Unexpectedly showing up at the island is poet Chris Flanders , Richard Burton , an odd sort of gentleman who hasn't really done anything worthwhile in the literary department in over ten years . Flanders is strangely attracted to the mad Mrs . Goforth who's looking to have one last fling before she goes out for good . The movie filmed off the island of Sardinia has Sissy living on this giant mansion atop a high cliff and just about driving everyone crazy to the point where they just , like her personal secretary Miss Black ( Joanna Shimkus ) , can't wait to take the first boat out . Yet at the same time are stuck there knowing that it would be inhuman to leave the screaming but dying woman to face death all by herself . Besides the somewhat odd-ball Chris Flanders there's also the utterly weird and even more mystifying Noel Coward playing , in a part that was originally written by playwright Williams for a woman , someone called The Witch of Capri . Coward , or the Witch , had so many blood-transfusions over the years that he doesn't have a single drop of his own blood left in his entire body . The Witch is also very privy to who Flanders really is , the Angel of Death , and knows of a number of persons , now all dead , whom he had visited over the years . Flanders dressed , courtesy of the lady of the house Sissy , in a dark and ominous looking samurai outfit together with a razor sharp samurai sword is not at all fooled by Sissy's wild and crazy actions knowing that her time of earth is fast coming to an end . He also archives the odd and almost unenviable distinction of being the first and only man in the glamorous Sissy Goforth's life to refuses to jump into the sack with her after she invited him into her bedroom ! A feat that must have taken almost Herculean will power on his part . We learn from both Flanders and the mysterious Witch of Capri , Noel Coward , that he was just an ordinary man trying to make a living , writing poetry , until some time back in California . Then Flanders helped a rich old miser from a local nursing home kill himself , by strolling into the Pacific Ocean , who like Sissy just couldn't take the pain anymore . Later coming under the influence or wing of an old Indian , or Native American , mystic Flanders then found his true reason and role in life and that was to be at the side of rich and dying men and women , like Flora " Sissy " Goforth . Flanders noble work is to ease them into the next realm of existence , death , with as little pain as possible . A bit hard to take at times with the then worlds most famous couple Dick & Liz having a ball interacting with each other on the screen to the point that you almost forgot that the very healthy and obviously well fed Sissy Goforth was actually on the brink of death . Richard Burton was a bit to old , at 42 , to be playing the young and wondering poet of the Tennessee Williams play Chris Flanders and his wife Elizabeth Taylor was much too young , at 35 , to be playing the much older Mrs . Goforth who had already been married six times . This took a lot out of the authenticity of the two parts that the leading two actors in the film played . The beautiful photography of the Mediterranen coast with the sea waves majestically crashing into the rocks did make the movie " Boom " more then watchable . There's also Miss . Taylor in an unforgettable scene dressed in a mind-blowing all-white Japanese Bobuki outfit , at a private dinner with The Witch of Capri , which was so eye popping that it would have turned heads and stopped traffic even at the very accident prone Indianapolis 500 .
Please be my Daddy !	SPOILERS One of the many Anti-Christ-like movies released throughout the 1970's 80's and like itself , " The Servant of Twilght " , the 1990's . That by that time just about exhausted it's subject matter : Satan's return in the flesh . Having this crazed religious cult " The Church of Twilight " led by the insane Saint Grace , Grace Zabriskie , together with her fanatical followers try to track down the boy Anti-Christ Joey Scaveilo , Jarrett Lennon , and kill him before he grows up and becomes too strong to be stopped , as Satan himself . The film has some dozen people including Grace end up dead before it's finally over . Just guess who ends up surviving this whole bloody mess to be able to do his dirty work in the future ? Poor private investigator Charlie Harrison , Bruce Greenwood , is seen at the start of the movie being wheeled into the local psychiatric ward suffering from a complete breakdown , psychically and mentally . All this from what he's gone through earlier in the movie that we see in a series of flashbacks . Having been hired by Cristina Scaveilo , Belinda Bauer , to protect her and her young son Joey from " The Church of Twilight " cult who targeted him for death Charlie at first took what Belinda told him at face value . Not at all realizing , until it was too late , that these religious nuts might have something to what they believe in . Always a step ahead of Charlie and the Scavilo's it turns out that the cult has a person very close to Charlie who tips them off to where he's taking Joey and his mom Christina . That leads to the three getting trapped in this safe house , out in the sticks , where Saint Grace and her followers make their move to finally put an end of Satan's big comeback in the world of the living ; and make it possible for the for events in the the book of Revelations to become a reality . With everyone of Saint Grace's people wiped out in the preceding shootout it was up to the only survivor of the cult the giant Kyle , Carel Struycicen , to do what he has to do in killing Joey and prevent him from growing up and destroying the world . Kyle just can't bring himself to do it so it falls on a frustrated and betrayed Grace's to do the nasty and dirty job b herself . It's then when she's suddenly attacked by a squadron of vampire bats who end up killing her by sucking her dry . Charlie begins to unravel when Christina , who Grace killed earlier in the movie , comes back to life after little Joey touches her and finally sees the light but by now he's already lost his mind . Everything Charlie now says about Joey's secret identity , the Anti-Christ , is relegated to mindless babble to anyone who bothers to even listen to him . Passablse thriller but nothing more with an ending that's just more confusing then what you saw up until then . Leaving you wondering what exactly was the connection between Joey and his mother Christine , did she know that he was the Anti-Chist ? Your also left wondering just why Joey was so interested in having Charlie as his daddy ? Was Charlie really his natural father ?
The Bride of Maniac Cop	MAJOR SPOILERS Exonerated of the crimes he was framed for not the dozens , most of them cops , of innocent persons that he wipe out in the previous two " Maniac Cop " flicks Officer Matt Cordell , Robert Z'Dar , was finally laid to rest in a lavish inspectors funeral courtesy of the NYPD ; Or was he ! It just happens that this Voodoo priest , Henry Pensen , for reasons known only to himself has resurrected Cordell to go out on the streets and do his thing ; Killing cops or anyone else who has the misfortune of getting in his way . While all this is happening Officer Katie Sullivan , Getchen Becker , known in the department as " Manaic Katie " ends up getting gunned down by homicidal psycho Frank Jessup's , Robert Earl Haley , girlfriend Terry , Venessa Marquez . Katie mistakenly thought that Jessup was holding Terry hostage . Video taping the shooting , from a safe distance , are these two freelance news photographers Bishop & Tripple , Bobby DiCicco & Frank Pesce . Smelling big bucks the two edit out in their tape that what Katie did , in wounding Jessup and killing his moll Terry , was in self defense ! Later Cordell will edit them out of the movie " Badge of Silence " ! On life support Terry is in no condition to tell her superiors at the NYPD that her actions was justified with Jessup suing the city for 30 million dollars for police brutality . It's here where Cordell comes in to straighten things out and have justice done and have it done his way . Cordell starts things off by killing everyone who , rightly or wrongly , was responsible from framing Katie , like they did to him , and hanging her out to dry ! The film has Katie's former police partner Det . Sean McKinney , Robert Davi , try to get Jessup , who's been hospitalized , to come clean and tell the truth about why Katie shot both him and Terry but Cordell beats him to it . Breaking into the hospital and murdering a number of doctors , feeling that their neglecting Katie , Cordell instigates a wild shootout by freeing Jessup , he was handcuffed to his bed , and handing him a . 38 police special . It's then that Cordell takes Katie , who dies because he unattached her from her life-support tubes , to the " Man " himself Voodoo Priest Pensen . The walking dead Cordell wants , what seems like , Pensen to preform a Voodoo-like wedding ceremony for the dead ! Which includes himself and his bride to be the equally dead Katie Sullivan . With both officer McKinney and the now late Frank Jessup's , who was killed in a shootout at the hospital , doctor Susan Fowler , Caitlin Dulany , coming to Katie's rescue , thinking that she's still alive , Cordell literally explodes ! This happens when Cordell finds out from Priest Pensen that both he and Katie weren't really meant for each other ! He was dead but she was deader ! The least effective of the " Manaic Cop " film trilogy " Badge of Silence " was only saved by Cordells actions in the film that again lead to some two dozen people getting murdered by him including the man who brought him back from the dead Voodoo Priest Henry Pensen . You get the impression at the end of the movie that the " Manaic Cop " was going to come back for a another go at it ! As it turned out it was the weak box office returns not the condition Cordell was in , charcoal broiled and extra well-done , that prevented that from happening .
Hippie Heaven ?	SOME SPOILERS Taking place in the cold and hard winter of 1970 in the slums of Cleveland Ohio instead of the tranquil and pleasant 1967 Summer of Love in the Haight Asbuary district of San Francisco . " Ghetto Freaks " is a film that tries to show it's viewers the life and philosophy of a hippie commune and how it , lead by their Guru Sonny , goes through life on the mean streets of a large northern industrial city . Sonny who's having trouble keeping the women members of his hippie group from not trying to form any meaningful relationship with him is also being pressured by his former drug supplier Billy Moose to get back pushing his junk on the streets and to his fellow hippies . We see at the beginning of the movie Sonny and his friends doing their thing and then being run in by the Cleveland Police for unlawful assembly in a local park . Getting out within hours after their arrest the hippie's go back to their loft and start to get high on pot and do sex as well as plan their next move in their war against the establishment ; which is demonstrating against the war in Vietnam and the exploitation of the masses by those in power . There's nothing really new in the movie we get a number of songs and orgies along with the hippies dancing to them . There's this scene of a young hippie girl afraid of being pregnant , it turned out she wasn't , and high on drugs feeling that she's about to give birth to a new planet , or world , instead of a baby . Later in the movie at a hippie nightclub with Sonny & friends the police raid the place to find Diana , a teenage runaway , who's parents want to prevent from going into the hippie lifestyle and ending up a drug addict or even worse . Sonny spotting the young and pretty Diana , between tripping out and having sex with his hippie girlfriend Clara , takes a shine to her and slips Diana his name and address for future reference . The next day Diana shows up at Sonny's pad asking him to take her in as a fellow hippie which Sonny does without as much as a second thought . Giving Diana the lowdown on what's expected of her by him and his fellow hippies getting high on drugs and having unrestricted sex as well as panhandling to get money to pay the rent . Diana immediately get involved in a drug induced sex session with him that ends up with the entire group joining in . Out on the bitter cold streets of downtown Cleveland Sonny and his gang , including Diana , are later seen hassling and pestering pedestrians for money handing out what looks like super-marker flayers to people for whatever anyone , insane enough to buy them , would pay for them . This entire scene looks like it was filmed on the spot with the unsuspecting people on the street , not knowing that they'll end up in the movie . The hassled and pestered pedestrians for the most part let Sonny and his friends have it about getting a job a bath and out of their faces . Sonny who seemed to have become a hippie to get away from his previous life as a drug pusher has been given the word , by his fellow hippie Mousey , that his former boss Billy Moose want's to talk to him about getting back as one of his drug dealers . Billy Moose feeling that his hippie friends would be a study source of income in buying his junk . Sonny , now a reformed man , want's no part of Billy Moose or his drugs . Being a man that doesn't take no for an answer Billy Moose has his thugs work over Sonny leaving him unconscious with a possible fractured skull . The next day we see Sonny , and his fellow hippies , without a mark on him out in the park again demonstrating against the " Evil Establishment " and almost getting beat up or run in by the very angry upright and working-class people . The very people who Sonny & Co . are supposed to be demonstrating for . Things get a bit confusing when we then see Billy Moose with his head bashed in and face black and blue getting his boys together to knock off Sonny claiming that he was the one who beat him up . I got the impression that Billy Moose got his injuries from getting high and then falling on his head breaking it ! Since we never saw Sonny lay as much as a hand on Billy Moose in the entire movie ! Unless this assault on Moose was supposed to have happened off screen or ended up being edited out of the film ! Determined to do in Sonny Billy Moose spots him and his fellow hippies , including Diana , walking down the street one evening and opens fire on them hitting and killing Diana . The movie ends with Sonny and his hippie commune friends glumly standing in shock over Diana's body as the police and para medics arrive to take her away to the local morgue . The movie " Ghetto Freaks " tries to show the hippie lifestyle of the late 1960's and early 1970's USA and does a pretty decent job of it . Were not shown that being a hippie was so great like most films with bigger budgets and well know actors and actresses did back then . But were shown instead that it was a dog eat dog existence where every day living in it could be your last like it turned out to be for poor and naive Diana .
Were going on our honeymoon in Hawaii !	MAJOR SPOILERS Supposedly based on a true story the made for TV movie " Engaged to kill " is so off the wall and unbelievable that , if in fact it did happen in real life , it goes to prove the famous saying that " Truth is in fact stranger then Fiction " . The movie starts off with a run of the mill kidnapping of pediatrician Abby Lord who's kidnapper demands from her husband-luxury boat salesman-Robert a cool million dollars if he even want's to see his wife alive again . Not going to the police but going broke in rustling up the ransom Robert together with his 14 year-old son Corey drop off the cash , in an out of the way garbage can , in the designated spot that the kidnapper told him to . Whaterver believability the movie had up until then totally evaporated with the actions of both the kidnapped victim and the kidnapper . Abby , who was supposed to be released anyway , makes her escape from the kidnapper's trailer with the kidnapper's girlfriend Sally getting killed , by falling out of the trailer and getting crushed , in trying to prevent her from escaping . It's then that the kidnapper decides to get even not only with Abby but her entire family by secretly bankrupting them as well as causing Abby to lose her job at the hospital ! This is all done by the kidnapper getting Abby's patients with the help of his accomplice-Sullivan - to accuse her of malpractice . SPOILER It's when the kidnapper , whom were not supposed to know who he is , finally shows up on the scene it becomes obvious just what he's planning to do . Get in good by being Abby's daughter's , Maddy , boyfriend and destroy the Lord family from within ! Of course this sleazy and smirking lowlife isn't up to accomplishing his mission by himself he has help in this mindless goon-Sullivan-that he hired to do most of the dirty , as well as murders , for him ! Everything is so predictable , especially the identity of the kidnapper , that there's no suspense at all in the movie . The only thing that surprises you is just how ridicules the kidnapper was and how he was able fool , among his victims , anyone in the first place . I for one couldn't understand the attachment he had to his airhead girlfriend Sally since he used her , like he did everyone else in the movie , for his own advantage and nothing more . As for the Lord family it was only Abby who finally got the drop on him but not in her realizing that he was in fact the person who kidnapped her ! But in Abby finding the smirking psycho playing - a game of internet poker - with her son's Cory's personal computer ! The ending of the movie was a totally mindless confrontation between the kidnapper with both Abby and her daughter Maddy whom he planned to slice up and force Abby to watch bleed to death . It's then that the crazed lunatic for no reason at all , but just to show how crazy he is , dropped his gun only to end up getting clobbered , with a polo stick , and put to sleep until the police came to finally put him away !
The Beard	( There are Spoilers ) Far fetched Perry Mason crime drama has Perry , Raymond Burr , get off the bench as an appeals court judge to take up the case of Air Force Colonel Kevin Parks , Larry Wilcox , who's conviction Perry Mason upheld on appeal ! Convicted of the murder of Mary Beth Sawyer Col . Parks is given a second chance to stand trial and prove his innocence when this man Lester McCarren , Joel Colodner , stepped forward and provided Parks with an air-tight alibi ; that he was with him on the Old Woods Road , some 50 miles away from the murder scene , the night that Mary Beth was murdered . Just before testifying McCarren gets an envelop slipped to him with his wife's golden heart pendant and a note telling McCarren that she'll be killed if he testifies in Parks favor . That's all it takes for the man to freeze up on the witness stand and suddenly lose his memory throwing away the last chance for Parks to be a free man . We see this obviously disguised person , dressed as a mountain man , who slipped the threatening note to McCarren . Later at a restaurant as McCarren tells Perry Mason that he can't tell the truth about what he knows about Parks being with him the night that Mary Beth was murdered this same mountain man suddenly shows up and has McCarren paged , by saying that it's his wife calling . It's then that he blows him away when he goes to the back to talk to her on the phone . Really making up for lost time the grizzled mountain man then goes back to the courthouse where Parks is in custody thus proving that he didn't kill McCarren and throws a stink bomb into a crowded elevator with Parks in it knocking everyone out . Then , wearing a gas-mask , the mountain man kidnaps Parks and drives him down to this deserted airstrip placing the murder weapon into the unconscious Parks hand ! All this to make it look like he's the one who murdered McCarren . The movie then goes into a number of different directions that involves the US Air Force with a pill popping fighter pilot Lt . Wilkes , Gary Hrshberge , who's being blackmailed in that he suffers from dizzy spells that would disqualify him from flying . There's Mary Beth's former boyfriend Daryl Herley , James McItire , who felt that he and Mary Beth were made for each other but it was that dirty rotten swine Col . Parks , together with his good looks and chest full of medals , who blinded the naive and very impressionable Mary Beth from seeing the fact . There's also suspected in Mary Beth's murder a real-estate tycoon Jason Slone ( Charles Siebart ) , whom she worked for as as a private secretary . There's also Slone's somewhat strange , who has a deep family secret that she's been hiding for years , wife Athera , Patty Duke . Not to overlook in the mix the mysterious mountain man himself who tries to murder Perry's private investigator Paul Drake Jr , William Katt , almost a half dozen times . The mountain man ends up having himself thrown from the second floor of a cafeteria breaking his neck and exposing just who he really is ; and he's not any kind of mountain man or anyone else who's in love with the great outdoors .
Your not gonna put me in this spot !	SPOILERS Somewhat silly crime movie having to do with a counterfeit ring being run out of a state prison and under the warden's , Warden Denby ( William B . Davidson ) , and his prison guards noses . The head guy running the ring from the outside is on the lamb fugitive Dice Mathews , Joe Downing . Dice together with his fellow hoodlums plans to launder the " hot " money by having it cooled off , three miles out to sea . Dice has this done at his ex-partner in crime the legit casino cruise ship operator Steve Parker's , Charles D . Brown , gambling boat the S . S Kismet . The job to find out who's responsible for both printing and laundering the phony cash falls on the heads of young hot shot Secret Service and Treasury Agent Let . Brass Bancroft , Ronald Reagan , and his comical partner and side-kick Gabby Watters , Eddie Foy Jr . The big break for the government agents comes when Parker sick and tired of being used as a laundry delivery boy , in cleaning up his dirty money , by Dice gets himself arrested . Parker does this by slugging a cop and ending up with a year , not the six months that he expected to get , in the can . Parker feeling safe behind bars then fingered Dice & Co . which had him and his boys busted by the Feds , while they were playing roulette on board the Kismet , and given long prison terms . It was Parker's misfortune that he ended up in the same prison where Dice and his boys were not in solitary confinement away from them where they can't get at him for being a snitch ! Getting a man on the inside of the Dice Prison Counterfeit Ring the Feds decide to sent Brass into the lions den to get to the bottom of who's behind printing up all this crooked money . Tough and more then willing to take chances , for the Dice Mathews Mob , Brass gets in good with Dice by taking the rap for a prison riot he instigated . Brass later ends up crashing out of prison with Dice and later is confronted by the real Mr . Big who runs the entire prison counterfeit operation . It turns out that Mr . Big , through his connections , found out about the Feds and Warden Denby's plan to infiltrate his gang and also who to the undercover US Treasury Agent Brass Bancroft's secret identity really is ! Ronald Reagan does his best to look and act tough as the tough talking and hard punching Brass Bancroft but ends up looking and acting ridicules . It's as if Reagan , as Brass , was an over-sized and over-aged member of the " Little Rascals " instead of a hard as nail G-Man . Even Reagan's clothes in the movie , as a convict , look at least three sizes bigger making him look more like a kid trying on his dads shirts and pants in his unsuccessful attempt to look like a grown up ! Reagan's prison cap is so big on him that it almost comes down to his eyes and ears ! In the end Brass does get the goods on the Dice Mathews prison counterfeit ring but only after getting shot a number of times , by Mr . Big , and sent flying , in a runaway automobile , to the bottom of a local lake . SPOILER ALERTSomehow surviving his ordeal , you couldn't say the same about Dice , Bass has Mr . Big exposed and then , in Mr . Big's attempt to make his getaway , shot to pieces by one of the guards at the prison . Uncharacteristically neither Brass or his goofy partner Gabby Watters get the girl Steve Parker's sexy daughter Peggy , Margot Stevenson , at the end of the movie . Peggy ends up getting hitched up to the manager of the S . S Kismet Gordon , Donald Douglas , who was shot and almost killed by Dice earlier in the film . As for the two Treasury boys they get their next assignment in tracking down and capturing the crazed and extremely dangerous ax murderer Butch Martin . The same Butch Martin who chopped to pieces a fellow government agent back in Kansas and swore to do the same to anyone else , like Brass and Gabby , who tries to arrest him ! P . S Besides the future Governor of California and later leader , as the Presiden of the United States , of the Free World Ronald Wilson Reagan being in the movie there's also the future TV Superman George Reeves in it as well . Mr . Reeves in a non-speaking part can be seen sitting directly behind Steve Parker as he makes his plea in court to the judge for leniency in his admitted crime of punching out a police officer .
Green with envy	SPOILERS Overly plotted and totally confusing thriller that has assistant D . A David Carelli , David Caruso , on the hunt for those who brutally sliced up and murdered a serial blackmailer who got way over his head in those he was blackmailing . Found cut to shreds in his mansion among his very expensive antiques , mostly from the Orient , Kyle Medford , Ron Ulsatd , sleazy and secret life as a master blackmailer hit the front pages of the local as well as national newspapers . It's Corelli who takes a very personal interest in Medford's murder only because his ex-girlfriend Trina Gavin , Linda Fiorentino , was one of the last persons to see him alive . This doesn't sit well with Trina's husband high powered defense attorney Matt Gavin , Chazz Palminteri , who feels that Corelli is using Medford's murder in making a play for his wife . Soon we find out it's Trina not Corelli who's making all the plays which involves the late Kyle Medford's home away from home on the Pacific Coast . It's there where Medford ran a prostitution ring , right out of his beach front house , that he used to attract very important people in the state to engage in . Getting the goods on the unsuspecting John's Medford would film them in action and use the photos and video tapes to blackmail them . The movies disjointed storyline has Corelli uncover a plot to blackmail the states top executive Governor Gov . Lew Edwards , Richard Crenna , by having him photographed in action with a hooker at Medford's beach house . When Corelli finally tracks down the hooker who " The Gov " was partying with-Patrice Jacinto played by Angie Evenhart-she clams up and refuses to give him anything but her name and occupation . Slowly putting the pieces together Corelli soon realizes that there was a lot more going on then just simple blackmail ! It's murder for both power and profit on the highest order . And possibly Even higher then the governor of the state of California himself ! And it's Corelli , by sticking his nose into the matter , who's next on the killer or killer's hit list ! The film " Jade " was so badly mishandled by its director William Friedkin that its screenwriter Joe Eszterhas tried to get his name off the movie's credits . As for the film's star David Caruso it ended his promising , after the far more superior " Kiss of Death " , movie career and had him slip back into where he came from doing TV police shows . The movie did have an exciting car chase all over the streets docks and at one point smashing through a Chinese Parade in the Chinatown Section of San Francisco that reminded me of that legendary car cases that Friedkin directed in " The French Connection " . There was also a number of X-rated scenes between Tria and Mr . Green , Robin Thomas , who was one of the blackmail victims at the late Kyle Medford's retreat . It was in these scenes , recovered from an almost destroyed video tape , that showed Tria's real connection to Medford and it wasn't , like she said , a casual one . In fact Trina was hooking for Medford in getting him people high up in government , and business , to be blackmailed by him . SPOILERS In the end it was no surprise to anyone watching , except Corelli and the SFPD , who in fact did old man Medford in since the evidence was there before his body turned room temperature . But it took a full confession by Medford's unsuspecting killer , that Corelli illegally audio taped , for Corelli to finally crack the puzzling case .
Rocking & Rolling with Deputy Rock	SPOILERS On a mission to save strippers from a life of sin Redwood County cop Lt . Krebs , Dennis Hooper , kidnaps Gina Moore , Asia Argento , right out of his police station . He then locks her up in the basement of his house in order to straighten her out and get Gina to change her sinful ways . Being a victim of a crime where her boyfriend Derick , Alex Zahara , was murdered didn't at all change Lt . Krebs opinion about her . He in fact treated poor Gina like an animal in a zoo using a combination of mental and physical torture on her . We get an insight in whats going on in Krebs unbalanced mind when we start to realize as the movie unwinds that he himself comes from a very dysfunctional family . Krebs dad was a cop who blew his brains out after he murdered his wife who incidentally was also , like Gina , a stripper . Back in town Lt . Krebs is not only the towns top cop but also has a side-job as the lovable and funny Deputy Rock a TV personality who teaches the little kids in town the difference between right and wrong . It's at a local school that Kleb is spotted by teacher Ruthie Taylor , Helen Shaver , who falls crazily in love with the big strong , and unknown to Ruthie at the time , crazy lawman . Ruthie is also involved with the towns TV station and is very eager to get Lt . Krebs ' show " Deputy Rock " national exposer . Not at all interested in Ruthie's ideas about making him a star Lt . Krebs is later confronted with a video tape , taken from a TV helicopter , of himself chasing and piling on to Gina . Who at the time the tape was made tried to escape from his dungeon . Hurt at not what Lt . Krebs was doing , attacking and brutalizing Gina , but at what she thought that he was doing on the tape , having consensual sex with her , causes an inflamed and madden Ruthie to blackmail the crime-fighting cop ; not realizing that he's not only a criminal himself but a sick one at that . Dennis Hopper as Lt . Krebs is in fine form playing the usual nut-job role that he's been doing since his great success as an ether sniffing psycho in the film " Blue Velvet " some 20 years ago . Crazed from the word go it's hard to take your eyes off Lt . Krebs whenever he's on the screen since you expect him to explode or melt down at any moment . Both Asia Argento & Helen Shaver as Gina and Ruthie play off each other . With Ruthie thinking that the younger and more attractive Gina had stolen that great hunk of a man , Lt . Krebs , from right under her nose . When it fact Gina would want to have nothing to do with that deranged lunatic and be more then willing for the love-sick Ruthie to be stuck with him . There's also Lt . Krebs second in command the naive but also love-sick , not for Krebs but for Gina , Sgt . Burns , Lochlyn Monro , who spends the entire movie trying to track down Gina . In the end Sgt . Burns finds her almost by accident at his boss ' , Lt . Krebs , house . Ruthie found out the hard way , at the point of a butcher knife , what a dangerous psycho the man of her dreams , Lt . Krebs , was . Now it's up to the totally clueless Sgt . Burn , with Gina locked in Lt . Krebs car-trunk , to find that out as well before Krebs murders him .
Snakes Alive !	( There are Spoilers ) Almost dropping dead from fright Evelyn Downs , Diana Douglas , the president of the Green County Historical Society and part time Witch saw something in Father Tom Farrow's , Fritz Weaver , coffee cup that left her stunned and unconscious . Later the confused and befuddled Father Farrow is told by the Monsignore , Norman Llyod , of his church the horrible secret of Farrow's lineage . Father Tom's Great-great-great-great-great Granddaddy back during the middle-ages in jolly old England did a number on the local Druids who were in league with the Devil . For that his's family was cursed since then by the " Evil One " with death and destruction . Now it's his , Father Tom's , turn to pay for what his long ago ancestor in England did . The brood of snakes , Cobras and Rattle Snakes led by Satan himself , in disguise as a giant King Cobra attack , move with lighting speed and kill about a dozen residents of Green County . But when it came to kill their intended target , Father Tom , as well as the two co-stars in the movie Green County's hospital director Dr . Maggie Sheridan & Herpetologist Dr . Paul Hendricks , Gretchen Corbett & Jon Korkes , the snakes just laid down and seem to play dead . There was an incredible scene in the movie when Maggie is at home and takes a shower and then drys and puts on her nightgown and goes to bed . All this with a deadly Rattle Snake slithering around in her bathroom shower and bedroom within inches of her ! Then for some unexplained reason the snake doesn't bother striking it's poisonous fangs into Maggie's body ? It gets even more ridicules when Maggie finally , after what seems like a half hour , sees the snake and then calls her boyfriend Dr . Hendricks for help . Dr . Hendricks gets out of bed gets dressed runs to her house , which is about a mile away , and then after pinning the snakes head to the wall blows it's brains out ! What was the snake waiting for all this time ? For Hendricks to come to Maggie's rescue and kill it ? Fritz Weaver looked like he would rather do something else then be in the movie . Weaver walks around during the entire film in a daze trying to figure how he ever ended up in " Jaws of Satan " in the first place . Maggie being a whistle-blower and trying to warn the public about the danger of the attacking snakes is almost kidnapped raped and murder by this psycho biker , Mike Smith the 34th . Smith the 34th was hired to stop her from letting the truth out by Green Country big business man Matt Perry , Bob Hanna . Perry has a lot to lose by the public being in fear and not venturing out with his dog track about to open with nobody showing up for the Grand Opening . This jerk was so determined to open the dog track that even after his 10 year-old daughter Kim , Christina Applegate , was bitten by a rattler at the track he still didn't want to have it closed down ! Maggie is saved from the crazed biker by non-other then Satan himself wearing a King Cobra outfit . The movie " Jaws of Satan " comes to it's inevitable and non-surprising conclusion with Father Tom running to the rescue of both Maggie and Dr . Hendrick , who ended up trapped in the snake cave . Father Tom then does an Exorcism in both English and Latin causing the nest of vipers to catch fire and go back to where they came from . What makes the movie " Jaws of Satan " worth watching is to see the actors in it play their parts completely straight . Not realizing just how absurd the movie was until they actually saw it and by then it was too late for them to quit .
Maybe we can work something out	SPOILERS " Certain Fury " comes across like an updated version of the 1958 Tony Curtis / Sidney Poitier Classic " The Defiant Ones " . The film has a bi-racial couple of petty criminals as white hooker and junkie Scarlet , Tatum O'Neal , and accused black car thief Tracy , Irene Cara , team up with each other in order to survive the cold and unfriendly streets of Vancouver Canada . The two top stars , O'Neal & Cara , first meet at the city's criminal court where a shootout breaks out . The murder and mayhem from the courtroom spills out into the streets ending up with at least a score of police and civilians gunned down before all the shooting was over . Both Scarlet & Tracy who had nothing to do with the shooting take off into the city's sewer system where above ground there's a city-wide manhunt out to get them . While hiding out in the sewers who's rat and sewage infested waters is cleaner then that of the pristine and sparkling waters of the Caribbean Sea around Bimini and Barbados the two girls are confronted by scuba diving police officer Buck , Frank Serio . Officer Buck after cornering the two triumphantly lights up a cigarette in order to toast his fine police work . By striking a match Officer Buck then ignites the sewer gases / fumes which not only toast but blows himself up to kingdom come . Now not only wanted for leaving the scene of a crime , the deadly courthouse shooting , Scarlet & Tracy are wanted for killing a cop , Officer Buck , and there's no chance at all for them to come clean and give themselves up to the police now . Even though innocent of Buck's death the police don't take kindly to cop killers , whom Scarlet & Tracy are now accused of being . The Vancouver Police , like everywhere else , have an unwritten policy of not taking cop killers in alive . The film has the hard tough and illiterate Scarlet bond with the well educated and socially refined Tracy who learn that the only way to survive is to work with each other instead of being at each others throats . Hiding out at Scarlet's drug pushing boyfriend's Sniffer , Nicholas Campbell , pad turns out to be a disaster for Scarlet's now new found friend Tracy . While Scarlet is out looking to get help from Sniffer's boss Vancouver drug kingpin Rodney , Peter Fonda , the hot in the pants Sniffer , seeing her nude in the shower , attempted to rape Tracy . This has Sniffer get into a fierce fight where he ends up getting his brains beat out by an outraged Tracy who easily , being that the guy was stoned out on drugs , overpowered him . Scarlet wasn't as lucky as Tracy was in her meeting with Rodney on his yacht . Rodney wanting to do with her not only slashed Scarlet's face with a switchblade but , the gall of her , berated Scarlet for spilling her blood all over his clean carpet after he cut her ! It's later when the two girls hide out at Rodney's combination drug and whore house in the crime-ridden section of Vancouver that their confronted by Sniffer , now fully recovered from the beating he took from Tracy , and his gang of drug pushers . In a do or die struggle with her now former boyfriend Scarlet puts the match to Sniffer , who earlier tried to shoot up a sleeping Tracy with an overdose of heroin , lighting him up like a Christmas Tree . Sniffers fiery ending also has the entire joint , drug-den & whorehouse , burn down together with the junkies pushers hookers and their johns who were doing business there . It eventually took Tracy's hurt and distraught father Dr . Freeman , Moses Gunn , who was still severely depressed over the recent and tragic death of his wife , and Tracy's mom , to convince the police that both his daughter Scarlet and her friend Tracy were innocent of the crimes attributed to them . It's with the help kindness and understanding of of police Lieutenant Sepier , George Murdock , who himself has two girls like Scarlet & Tracy back home that the shoot to kill order on the two fugitives was rescinded . But , and this is a big " But " , the problem now is how will that message get to Scarlet and Tracy before they them self , just by running from the law , end up doing themselves in !
Kiss That Baby Good-by	SPOILERS Some unknown serial kidnap / murderer is on the loose in the woods outside Durham North Carolina . It gets back to Washington that the niece of D . C PD Dr . Alex Cross , Morgan Freeman , Naomi , Gina Ravera , is missing and possibly kidnapped by the killer and has Dr . Cross shoot down to Durham to not only find Naomi but solve the crimes and catch the perpetrator . Alex Cross is a man not to be taken lightly by the local Durham PD or anyone else for that matter . He's a Inspector Doctor ( PHD ) of criminology in the police department of a major US city , Washington D . C . Cross is also a well known and top selling author of books about crime and a famous Forensic Psychologist who's wrote scores of collage papers on the workings of the criminal mind . On top of all that Dr . Cross has a degree in Pharmacology , the science of drugs and the effects that they have on those who use them . The police find one of the missing girls dead in the woods tied to a tree but happily for Dr . Cross she's not his niece Naomi . As all the leads are being checked out by the police Dr . Kate McTiernan , Ashely Judd , who works in the Durham General Hospital . Kate gets kidnapped by the killer and is drugged and put in a cell underground in the woods that used to be the basement of an old southern plantation . We learn from Kate , after her rescue , that the killer who calls himself Casanova , because he thinks that he's the world's greatest lover , likes to get beautiful as well as strong willed and psychically active young women and then break them down mentally and turn them into a bunch of obedient and helpless sex-slave zombies who will do anything he wants them to . Kate fakes being drugged and kicks and boxes her way out of the cell that Casanova locked her into and then running through the woods she jumps down a waterfall and escapes from the pursuing Romeo . In the hospital Dr . Cross concludes that Kate was under the influence of a powerful knock-out drug called Sistol which doesn't show up in a persons blood and urine . Checking out the sale of Sistol Cross finds out that a curtain Doc . William Randolph , Tony Goldwyn , an L . A plastic surgeon who comes from Durham ordered the largest supply of Sistol in the country and Sistol has nothing to do with plastic surgery . Dr . Cross and Kate fly to L . A with D . C Det . Sampson , Bill Nunn . Dr . Cross meets with local L . A police detective Henry Costillo , Jerry Piven , as they plan to catch Randolph in the act and arrest him . The plan backfires when outside his house they hear a girl scream and as they stormed the house Randolph killed Det . Costello and ran over Cross who tried to stop him from getting away . Going to Randolph's house in L . A Dr . Cross and the L . A police find a large supply of Sistol . They also find a 20 year-old newspaper clipping with a photo of Dr . Wick Sachs , William Converse-Roberts , who teaches at Durham Collage . Cross figures out by putting all the evidence together that Randolph is working together with both Dr . Sachs and Casanova back east in the kidnap murders in and around Durham . It turns out that Dr . Sachs was used by Casanova to get him beautiful girls with strong wills after he sampled them to find out if the girls fit Casanova's high standards of mind and body in the women that he's looking for . Dr . Sachs tells Dr . Cross that he sexually sampled as much as 100 women students in 75 different positions over the last four years including Cross ' young niece Naomi . Dr . Sachs was so sick in his description of how he sampled the girls , especially Dr . Cross ' niece , that the always cool and collective Cross lost it and almost put Dr . Sachs ' head through a two-way mirror . Meanwhile back in the basement in the woods Randolph who escaped from the police in California and it turned out that he did worked with Casanova in doing all the legwork for him has it out with Casanova . complaining about how he does all the work and that he , Casanova , has all the fun partying with the girls and that he , Randolph , also wants to get a piece of the action too . it's during the argument with Randolph that Casanova takes a shot at him . Unknown to both Casanova and Randolph Dr . Cross is in the woods looking for the Civil War plantation . When he heard the shot Dr . Coss found where the kidnapped girls were hidden and came to their , as well as his niece Naomi's , rescue as both Casanova and Randolph fled . Cross guns down Randolph as he tries to escape in the woods but Casanova gets away . The ending of " Kiss The Girls " was as contrived as it can get with Casanova , who was so careful during the entire movie , for no reason at all exposing himself and ending up getting his brains blown out by Cross . This is all done with the help of a milk carton , you have to see for yourself , as Casanova tried to murder both Kate and Dr . Cross with his lighter , you'll have to see that for yourself too . The movie ' Kiss the Gils " had a lot of potential at first but sadly fell completely apart with the story going in all different directions and all of them at the same time going absolutely nowhere .
So you wanna play eh !	Explotive movie about the white slave or prostitution business back in the 1930's that was very graphic and reveling for it's time . This mob boss and his assistant Jim Murray and Good-Looking Freddie , Wheeler Oakman & Matty Roubert , who were out looking for new girls to work for Murray's bordello the Barrywood Road-House try to kidnap Mary Lou , Louise Small . Which turns out to be the downfall for the two thugs and their entire sleazy operation . Getting away from the two Mary Lou's ordeal has the city and the local newspaper up in arms to put an end to Murray's squalid and unsavory racket that was a stain on all the good and law abiding people in town . Raiding the Barrywood Road House the local newspaper get police mug shots of all the gangsters that were arrested there . Including Good-Looking Freddie who Mary Lou identifies and one of her kidnappers . With Good-Looking Freddie jumping bail and then threatening both Murray and his madam at the Barrywood Road House Belle Harris , Florence Dudley , with exposer to the police Murray Punch him out cold and then has him shot and dumped out on the street . We have a side plot in the movie with Mary Lou's sister Dona Lee , Lona Andre , and her fianc out of work reporter Phil Miller , Donald Reed , needing money to get married so Dona Lee gets a job as a manicurist at a parlor run by Murray and Harris . Like with Mary Lou Murray gets very infatuated with her sister Dona Lee and in order to break up Dona Lee and her boyfriend Phil he has his boys plant marked money on him at a local bookie joint . Then tips off the police about Phil passing it , the hot money , off . The cops secretly knowing that Phil was set up have him arrested to put Murray off guard as well as make him feel that he can have his way with Phil's girlfriend Dona Lee . But it's that very act that put Murray's and Harris out of the prostitution business and behind bars for a long time . Standred flick about the dark side of the entertainment business and how young girls and women who are desperate for a job and money to survive are exploited and driven into the business of sex for profit . With almost all the profits going to sleaze-balls like Marray and Harris and not the young women who do all their dirty work .
A Surprise of Sorts	SPOILERS Much better then you would expect movie about the Yeti of the Himalayans despite the movies low-budget qualities . " Man Beast " even though it's a bargain-basement production has a very interesting story that you won't see in any of the movies made over the years about the elusive Yeti . Connie Hayward , Asa Maynor , and her friend Trevor Hudson , Llyod Nelson , get to the base of the Himalayan Mountain range just after an expedition by Dr . Eric Ericson left to find Connie's brother James . Connie's brother got lost up in the mountains cold snowy ridges and passes about ten days earlier . Finding local mountain climber Steve Cameron , Tom Maruzzi , to lead them to the Ericson group they link up with Ericson a few days later and together go on to find Connie's brother and the members of his expedition . Reaching James ' camp they find it deserted and fear the worst . Dr . Ericson has a native guide with him who knows the mountains better then anyone else alive Varga , George Skaff . Varga is the only person that the local natives would feel safe with in that desolate environment . That's why the persons in the expedition feel confident with Varga being with them . But what they don't know is that Varga has other ideas to why he's there and it isn't to help them it's to help himself and the Yeti's . Interesting film with a very unique take on the subject matter , the Yeti , with some surprising angles to it . Varga turns out to be a collage educated and civilized hybrid-type Yeti who can easily pass for a human being . Varga plans to have the members of the expedition killed by him and his fellow Yeti's to prevent them from infringing on their territory and was also responsible for the death of Connie's brother James and the members of his group . There's something disturbing about the movie that I noticed right away . Even though Varga was the villain and got a villains reward at the end of the film it was really the members of the expedition who should have been the heavies in the movie . They encroached and invaded the Yeti's home not visa versa and nothing would have happened to them if they just left the Yeti's alone . The Yeti's were only defending their homes not invading the homes of others . Even though " Man Beast " was a very low-budget film it did very well with what it had and the stock footage of the Mighty Himalayans was skillfully spliced into the movie . Even the Yeti's in the movie were scary though all that they did was pop up and wave their arms threateningly sometimes holding clubs but doing very little with them to the members of the expedition . George Skaff as the secretly disguised and deranged Yeti was by far the best actor in the movie . Once he came on the scene Skaff was just too much of a hard act to follow by anyone in the cast .
Day of Warth	SPOILERS Overlong and extremely violent vigilante movie that despite it's shoe-string budget holds your interests until it gets carried away with itself in trying to reform the major character in it Reverend James Lowery , played by Earl Owensby , from a Charles Bronson-like avenger to a Mahatma Gundhi-like pacifist at the cost of Reverend Lowery's life . Running , out of his church , a rehabilitation center for homeless and drug-addicted youths Reverend Lowery gets the local drug pushers mad at him by taking away their costumers . Lowery goes out on the mean streets and shows the drug addicts a way out of their addictions by turning to and believing in God and the good that's in themselves . Setting Lowery up for elimination the mob gets him and his wife and kids alone at a picnic by the river and blast them all away with only Lowery and his son Jody surviving . Recovering from four gun-shots with his voice gone , due to a bullet shattering his voice-box , Lowery is so despondent that he slips into a drunken stupor not even wanting to see his crippled son Jody at the hospital . Getting to know at the local watering hole that he spends , drinking away his troubles , almost all his free or non-sleeping time Lowery gets friendly with a hooker , with a heart of gold , who calls herself Julie . Lowery ends up staying at Julie's place for days on end without as much as even thinking of having sex with her even though Julie is very accommodating to him , she doesn't know that he was happily married with two children and a man of God to boot . For some strange reason Julie thinks that Lowey is either a cop or soldier who due to his gunshot wounds is unable to preform in bed . Lowery gets a new lease on life when he spots this local drug pusher the Candyman and follows him into the town bus terminal . Getting the Candyman alone in the mens room Lowery clobbers him with his cane and then stuffs his head , together with his drugs , down the toilet bowel drowning him . After dispatching the Candyman Lowery begins a one man war against the drug pushers who were responsible for the death of his wife and other son Eric , as well as destroying his life , until he just about cleaned up the entire city . With the new found friendship of the town religious blind man Lowery also found peace and quite at the blind mans place so that the hoods looking for him would find it twice as hard , with him spending half his time at Julie's pad , to locate and kill him . The movie " Dark Sunday " get a bit strange with Lowery who at first could barely walk , having four slugs in him , is later able to outrun the cops and hoods , who most of the cops in town are In the pay of , even when they were chasing him in cars ! Lowery finally gets to the top man of local mobs drug operations Hurbert Dexter , who ordered the hit on him and his family , as he was planning to leave town . With his entire organization taken out by the crippled Lowery Dexter together with a suitcase full of dirty money is caught flat footed and by surprise by Lowery in his office . Lowery after debating with himself how to finish Dexter off , with a drug overdose of just a bullet to the head , empties out his gun out on the hoodlum ; a gun looking more like a 155mm howitzer that would make even Dirty Harry envious . Instead of ending right there , with the blowing away of drug and mob kingpin Dexter , the movie goes on for some ten more minutes with Lowery having what seems to be a change of heart . Were forced to suffer through this ridicules transformation where Lowery not only turns himself in but serves himself up to be killed by crooked cop Let . Untz the only survivor of Dexters drug cartel . In front of his son Jody and Julie and the the towns police chief , one of the few cop not on the take , Lowery allows himself to be blown away by the corrupt Let . Untz as some kind of penance on Lowery's part . Trying to figure out the ending it then dawned on me that Lowery actually had nothing on Untz even though he had dozens of chances to kill him , like he did a score of other hoodlums , throughout the movie . Lowery used Untz's bottomless and utter stupidity by getting the jerk to shoot and kills him in front of more then a dozen witnesses including fellow cops ! in order to get enough evidence on Untz to put him away for life .
Pornography : A nasty word for a dirty business .	One of Ed Wood Jr . lesser known works about the smut racket where Wood himself has a cameo role in it . Not as the cop in drag with a tight womens wool sweater , which would have been more like it for Wood , but as a smut peddler having it out with his rival at a pizza joint that fronts for a porno distribution site . With a number of young women found dead in and around a local park their deaths are connected to a local smut ring headed by Gloria Henderson . Things get real bad for Gloria when the cops take into custody her top smut photographer Jaffe together with all the canisters of porno films , that he hid in his closet . Leaving her racket on the verge of being shut down not just by the cops but by the syndicate who are bankrolling her smut operation . The weak link in Gloria's smut business is one of her enforcers Dirk Williams who becomes so hopped up and morally corrupted by having a hand in her smut racket . Dirk he goes bananas when he sees porno films and pictures that he's peddling supplied by Gloria's right-hand man in her business the former legit Hollywood film maker Johnny Ryde . Dirk's uncountable urge for sex and violence is touched off just by the sight of smut photos and that drives him to commit rape and murder . The local cops know all about Gloria's operation but need solid proof and evidence to put her , together with Johnny Ryde , out of business . In the end it's Gloria herself who provides all the rope that they need to hang her without Gloria even knowing it . Director Ed Wood does the best he can to show the evils of pornography and how it effects naive and innocent young girls who come to Hollywood looking to make it big in the motion picture industry . Only ending up getting talked into making porno films by the likes of Gloria and Johnny Ryde to just pay off their bills . We see the tragic story of Mary Smith who ended up making smut films and photos for Gloria and finally fell victim to Dirks sinister urge . When he caught Mary alone in the park , by the duck pond , and ended up raping and murdering her . We also see in the movie " The Sinister Urge " how difficult it is to arrest the likes of Gloria Henderson and make the charges of the crimes she committed stick . Admittedly a laughable venture , which of his movies aren't , of Wood's because of the cheap budget and in some cases non-actors in it . The movie " The Sinister Urge " is still years ahead of it's time thanks to the foresight and vision of it's director Ed Wood Jr , in showing the evils and horrors of the then , in 1961 , underground and illegal smut business in and out of Hollywood . That destroyed the lives of thousands of young girls like Mary Smith in mind as well as body .
Lost In Space	SPOILERS After Telly Paretta's , Julianne Moore , nine year-old son Sam , Christopher Kovaleski , died in a plane crash , with five fellow grade-school students , over a year ago she just can't get him out of her mind . Having hundreds of photos and over a dozen video tapes of Sam and a whole room of Sam's clothes and toys is enough to keep Telly's mind occupied for the rest of her life with him . This obsession on Tellys part has her husband Jim , Anthony Edwards , have her see psychiatrist Dr . Jack Munce , Gary Sinise , for help . Telly later gets to know former hockey great Ash Correll , Dominic West , who according to Telly also lost his young daughter Lauren , Kathryn Faughan , in the plane crash that killed Sam . Ash even though he puts up with Telly's obsession about her son Sam he seems to be just playing along with her . Ash has no idea to what she's talking about since he never had a child , son or daughter , as Telly insists that he did ! Or did Telly and Ash really have children and somehow had their memories erased about them ! In the case with Telly it , the brainwashing , didn't work . It later turns out that all the photos tapes and memories that Telly has about Sam are just figments of her imagination and that Sam and Lauren as well as the other four children who " supposidly " were killed in the plane crash didn't exist at all , or did they ? Just as you think that you got a handle on whats happening the movie takes an abrupt turn . Telly not only realizes that Sam actually existed and may even be alive . Ash , in a rare moment of sobriety for him , soon also realized that Lauren existed after all ! With him yelling hysterically to Telly " I Remember ! " We then go from an interesting stolen memory-type movie to an off-the-wall and confusing episode of an X File-like TV series with both Telly and Ash on the run for the rest of the film . Telly and Ash are chased all through the movie by a bunch of government and local city goons who we see as cops and NSA agents but seem to be really be aliens from another planet . Putting together the story as best as I can I get the impression that those involved in Sam and Laurens disappearance are really aliens from outer space here on earth , working with those in power , by making some kind of experiments on them in genetics . Like breeding them into some kind of alien / human hybrids , and then taking them back to their home planet and having the victims parents , like Telly & Ash , have their memories expunged of ever knowing them . These goons are obvious not human since they can withstand being hit , at full speed , by a car and then walk away without as much as a nosebleed . These " Secret Agents " even take as much as a half dozen shots from a . 38 or 9mm handgun and walk away as if they were hit by nothing harder then a rubber band . The movie just seems to lumber on making little or no sense at all with both Telly and Ash always a step ahead of their pursuers . Ash gets so drunk that the only time he's not drinking or inebriated is when he out cold asleep and too incapacitated to pick up a bottle or shot glass and gulp it down . There's two endings where , in Telly being confronted by one of these " aliens " at an airport hanger , to the movie " The Forgotten " . One that was in the theater release print and the other , an alternative ending on the DVD . Both of them make no sense at all and have you wonder if the movie is just that bad or some kind of Hollywood in-joke played of the unsuspecting theater audience .
The Cat's Meow	SPOILERS Collection of cat tales that's backed with a load of police and scientific evidence to vouch for their authenticity by Wilber Gray , Peter Cushing , the person who's telling them that proves beyond a doubt that it's actually the members of the feline family or cats , not humans , that are the true masters of the world . Wanting to get his theory of cat domination published before he himself in done in by the vengeful and destructive felines Gray goes to book publisher Frank Richards , Ray Milland . Gray wants Richards to to put his evidence , in the form of a book , into the stores to warn the public of this very imminent danger before it's too late for mankind to resist the coming cat takeover . The sorties that Gray tells Richards , backed up with a bulging file of newspaper clippings and police and medical reports , are really not at all that convincing to Richards that has to do with people who crossed cats , or their owners , getting their comeuppances with the kiddies doing a number on them . The first cat tale has to do with a lousy and good-for-nothing nephew Michael , Simon Williams , who together with his girlfriend Janet , Susan Pehaligon , who works as a maid at his aunts mansion planing to get their hands on his ailing aunts Miss . Malkin , Joan Greenwood , will that she just had re-written , cutting Michael out of it . The underhanded plan goes terribly wrong with Miss . Malkin being murdered by Janet as she caught her trying to steal the will out of her wall safe but has Miss . Milkin's hoard of cats coming to her rescue , even though she was dead . The cats not only keep Janet and her lover Michael form getting their hands on Miss . Milkin's will but kill both of them for murdering as well a trying to rob Miss . Miklin of what was rightfully hers . The second story that Gray tells Richards is that of young Lucy , Katrina Holden , who lost both her parents in a plane crash . Being adopted by the Blake's , Donald Pilon & Alexandera Stewart , Lucy who brings her pet black cat Wellington along with her . Wellington is immediately set upon by the Blake's bulling daughter Angela , Chole Franks , who really has it in for Wellington since the cat is very suspicious and resentful of her . Angela getting to have her parents , who weren't that fond of the kitten in the first place , to take wellington to the local dog and cat pound to be put to sleep has Lucy uses the powers of Black Magic , that she learned from her dead mom who was a practicing witch , to bring Wellington back to life and in return shrink Angela to about the size of a mouse . The cat back for revenge ends up doing , to the now cut down to size big bully , what he does best , OUCH ! The third and final story that Gray tells Richards has to do with Hollywood horror star Valentine De'ath , Donald Pleasence , who has his actress wife , Renee Girard , accidentally , on purpose , killed during the filming of his latest horror movie . Getting his wife's understudy Adina Hamilton , Samantha Egger , and De'ath's mistress to replace her he get's the late Mrs . De'ath's cat really angry at him . Thats when Mr . De'ath fining that she's just gave birth to a litter of kiddies the murderous lowlife swine flushes them down the drain , or toilet bowl ! That inhuman action in the end meant curtains not only to his no-talent actress girlfriend but to himself with the out-of-control kiddie putting the hurt , or finishing touches , on both of them . Mr . Gray is not alone as he tells Richards his tales of terror about the sinister and clever cats secretive control of the world and their plans to terminate anyone who's in-tuned enough , like himself , to know about it , there's Mr . Richards pet fluffy white cat Sugar listening in on Gray's conversation . Later when he goes home , leaving all his research on the world's cat menace with Richards , Gray is attacked by a pack of alley cats who end up pushing the poor man down a park stairway killing him . Back home Richards is unknowingly hypnotized by Sugar who has him unconsciously destroy the damning evidence that Gray gave him by putting it in the fire place to keep the house warm . With that the secret that Gray took so long , in his exhausted research of feline supremacy over the world as well as the human race , to find out went up in smoke .
like a duck Quack ! Quack ! Quack ! just like that .	( There are Spoilers ) Stomach cunning slasher movie with one of the most shocking and graphic murder scenes ever put on film about a serial killer on the loose in the Big Apple taunting the police with duck calls and daring them to catch him . With his first victim found , in pieces , under the Manhattan Bridge by someone walking his dog the killer runs up a score of four victims with his only mistake being Fay Majors , Almanta Suska , who got away from him in a deserted Brooklyn subway station . Fay not knowing if she hallucinated the attack on her or if it was real wakes up in a hospital room almost unscratched . Fay thought that she was sliced up by the killer in an empty theater with her collage math teacher boyfriend Peter Bunck ( Andrea Occhipinti ) being the person who murdered her but it only tuned out to be a dream , or was it ? The movie is short on logic and very heavy on gore and sex in that we never know just who's responsible for the killings with so many false leads being thrown at the audience . That even when you think that we've finally discovered who the killer is it turns out that it's , one of the many in the movies , false alarms . We get all kinds of clues about who the killer is but as soon as the policeman in charge of the murder investigation Let . William , Jack Hedley , is about to arrest and cuff the crazed psycho he turns up dead and obviously innocent ! Even though he's guilty of other less serious crimes , of the killings . From the sleazy Times Square red light district in midtown Manhattan to the Cobble Hill / Boro Hall section of Brooklyn and even a visit , and murder , on the Staten Island Ferry the killer seems to be always a step ahead of the police . Like when he commits , with Let . Williams left holding the bag or the phone , his most outrageous and sickening murder in the movie . That of a women whom he had tied up in her lower Manattan apartment and performed a gruesome autopsy on her while she was still alive ! The ending didn't at all tie all the loose ends together to exactly why the New York Ripper went on a rampage against the young and pretty women in New York City . The explanation to his carnage is a bit too convoluted and has an air of urgency to it by trying to find a way to finally end the movie , without it getting more and more confusing . Still the films ending did offer enough suspense and terror as well as surprise to make you forget just how unrealistic it was .
The Bigfoot from Sasquatch Mountain	SPOILERS Overly talky and underly exciting Bigfoot movie with the elusive Bigfoot , played by the over seven foot tall ex-basketball player " Tiny " Ron , getting less time in the film the its both beginning and ending credits ; About five minutes ! In fact the film " Sasquatch Mountain " is more about a bank robbery gone wrong then a movie about the big footed 800 to 1 , 200 pound , and over seven foot tall , gorilla-like creature roaming the Great American North West . These crooks wearing gorilla or " Planet of the Apes " masks rob a local bank where in the crossfire with the police kill Officer Sirom Sauls , Bob Harter . As the crooks make their getaway they smash into , outside of town , Erin Price , Cerina Vincent , who just left her abusive boyfriend and is traveling to California to start a new life . With the cops lead by the ailing senior citizen Sheriff Zeff , Rance Howard , catching up with the bank robbers the only thing they have to bargain with is Eirn who was taken hostage during the confusion . At this point the movie doesn't seem to know where to go in that it's only some 15 to 20 minutes old and has some one hour of running time left to cover ! So we have this Bigfoot show up out of nowhere uniting both cops and robbers in a mutual cause ! Killing the Bigfoot before he ends up killing them ! In fact we got to see the Bigfoot at the beginning of the film where local town resident Chase Jackson , Lance Henriksen , is fixing his van Chase's wife Sara , Kate Connors , who for some reason is videotaping the great " event " is killed by a runaway car ! In Sara's videotape we see a shadowy Bigfoot running through the woods ! It's later in the movie that Chase who had since become a hermit on Sasqatch Mountain not only tracks down the Bigfoot but the robbers as well . Both the cops and robbers are a mixed bag of nuts who get picked off by the Bigoot one at a time during the film . It seems that Bigfoot is only in the movie to spice it up when things start to get really boring with the endless philosophical exchanges between the two sides . One of my favorite exchanges , or meetings of the minds , is between the kidnapped Erin with the co-leader of the crooks who kidnapped her Kayla , Karen Kim . Talking about how they were abused by their ex-boyfriends Kayla shows Erin her battered and scared behind as if to prove to the unmarked and beautiful Erin that she by far got the worst , beating by her boyfriend , of it . The Bigfoot , or Tiny Ron , himself does what best he can with his part in the movie but is given so little time to do it , despite being the star , that he's relegated to nothing but a cameo role in the few scenes he has in the movie . The few surprises in the film that had mostly to do with the old and grizzled " White Hunter " & " Indian Scout " Eli Van Cleef , Tim Thomerson , came across so flat and uninteresting that when they hit you , after Ol ' Eli was completely forgotten about , they had absolutely no effect at all !
Far Out	SPOILERS With the explosion of youth-oriented movies mixed with science fiction coming out of Hollywood in the 1950's with movies like teenage Werewolves Frankensteins and Zombies a movie about teenagers from outer space couldn't be that far behind . Landing in the outskirts of town a spacecraft with a number of the crew looking like they just came off the set of a beach party movie plan to release a horde of deadly Gorgans , a crustacean-like creature , that will grow to enormous sizes and devour the entire human race . Later the aliens plan to use the Gorans as lobster soup lobster salad and about a dozen lobster main course dishes to supplement their planets dwindling food supply . Derek a sensitive as well as rebellious youth , just like the teenagers in many movies made at that time , gets very upset when his fellow spaceman , Thor , shots Sparky , a cute little doggie , who was barking at him and turned the poor pup into a bag of bones . Derek is also secretly reading " The Book " , that has been banned by the Leader of his planet , and " The Book " is putting bad ideas into Derek's head of how his planet is being run . The movie tries to be a little more adult then most teenage movies released at that time with Derek more interested in saving the Earth from the deadly Gorgans then wanting to party around and drive fast sport cars and make out with the girls like you would expect him to do in most teenage movies like this one . The story is ridicules as Derek is being persuaded by his fellow teenager from outer space Thor in order to either kill him or bring him back home to the Leader . The leader we later find out is Derek's father . The scenes when Thor uses his disintegration gun to turn people and animals into skeletons and the sight of the deadly Gorgans are hilarious instead of scary as the makers of " Teenagers from Outer Space " would have wanted them to be . The ending of the movie with Derek tricking his father , the Leader , and fellow spacemen into destroying themselves with him included was all too predictable and didn't come off as good as it would have if Derek were to be left alive with his earthling girlfriend Betty and live happily ever after . You would have hoped that the heartless aliens would have seen the light by getting influenced by the loving and family oriented earthlings and thus be able to see the errors of their ways . Then they would have converted to become members of the human race , like Derek tried to do and become . But that as we all saw in the movie was sadly not to be .
A " Hand " with a mind of its own	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " The Hand " starts off with national syndicated cartoonist Jon Lansdale , Michael Caine , losing his right hand in a car accident that put an end of his career but also sent Jon into a tailspin with his mind snapping well before the film was over . It's hard to grasp just what was happening to Jon and his severed hand since were given a number of clues by the movies director Oliver Stone , who plays a bum and one of the Hands victims , that the Hand is nothing more then a figment of the neurotic Jon Lansdales imagination , or is it ! Jon trying to get used to a mechanical right hand finds that he's somehow under the control of his severed hand that has some connection to the rest of his body . Crawling down the highways and byways , and dodging traffic , all the way from Vermont Jon's Hand reaches the New York City limits were Jon together with his wife Ann , Andera Marcovicci , and his ten year old daughter Lizzie , Mara Hobel , are living . Jon upset over the way his cartoon character Mandro is being rewritten by this former underground hot shot cartoonist David Madden , Charles Fleischer , who's been hired by his boss the head of the newspapers art's and craft's department Karen Wagner , Rosemary Murphy , to take his place . Madden turns the macho and fearless Mandro into a self doubting and whimpering jerk that Jon , in disgust , finally decides to quite his job and goes to Saraville California getting a job as a professor teaching the art of cartoon drawing at the local university . At the university Jon becomes infatuated with one of his students Stella Roche , Anne McEnroe , who's also involved with another teacher at the collage ; God's gift , in his deluded mind , to the women of America Brian Ferguson , Bruce McGill . While Jon is trying to overcome the scars of his car accident his severed right hand is making its way wester-ward from New York to get in touch with the rest of its body . At the same time the hand goes on killing anyone who stands in its way in attempting to keep it from attaching itself to whom it so rightfully belongs to : Jon's body . The hand slowly starts losing control and later attacks even Jon's wife Ann who got the Hand , and Jon , very angry . Ann has been cheating on Jon with her young and handsome yogi exercise instructor the very flexible Bill Richman , Nicholas Hormann , who she's been living with . Jon at the same time has been cheating on Ann by having a sexual affair himself , with Stella , in the wilds and backwoods of rural California . The Hand creeping into Jon's life makes things a bit stressful for him by murdering Stella after it found that she was cheating on it , or Jon . Later the hand takes care of , by strangling , Brian when in a drunken and jealous fit over Stella leaving him for Jon threatened to tell the police that Jon was the last person seen with her , Stella was yet to be found murdered , before she disappeared . The Hand now completely out of control attacks Ann almost strangling her until it's chased away by the tearful screams of little Lizzie . Frustrated in not killing Ann it then goes after Jon himself who barley survives it's deadly grip . With the police on the scene it's found that Jon has gone totally nuts and not only murdered a number of people , Stella & Brian , but in a last act of desperation to keep from being put away for good tries to blame his bad , or severed from his body , right hand for all the murderers he committed . MAJOR SPOILER If the movie " The Hand " ended with the deranged Jon taken away by the police and kept from hurting , or murdering , both himself and those around him it would have been a fairly decent horror film . Instead it has inserted into it a mindless ending sequence with Jon being examined by Doctor Viveca Lindfords and then having the creeping and murderous Hand that we were lead to believe was a fraud , on Jon's part , reappear ! The hand goes on to do number on Dr . Lindford which , with the possible exception of it being ripped off , was the most grossed-out scene in the movie . The ending looked like it was forced on , or in , to the movie since without it the film " The Hand " would have been just another psycho clone with the Hand , replacing Norman Bates ' mother , as Jon's mad and dangerous obsession .
Well I'll be a Monkey's Uncle !	Advertising that the opening act of the " Zombie Hut " nightclub will be a real live honest to goodness Zombie the two press agents Mike & Jerry , Alan Carney & Wally Brown , come up empty by trying to pawn off a punch drunk boxer , with what looks like a face packed with talcum powder , as a walking dead man . This has them both put on the sht list of the gangster owner of the nightclub Ace Miller , Sheldon Leonard . Needing a Zombie in order to save their necks Mike & Jerry bust their way into a closed midtown museum , thinking that theirs Zombie's in it , and despite the half-hearted objections of the museum janitor Worthington ( Nick Stewart ) , who never thought of calling the police , the two buffoon's end up with the nutty curator Prof . Hopkins , Ian Wolf . Prof . Hopkis tells them that the only person who can get them a true live , or dead , Zombie is the mysterious Dr . Paul Renault ( Bela Lugosi ) , if he's still alive , who was last known to be residing on the small Carribriean island of San Sabastian . Put on a banana boat by Ace and the boys Jerry & Mike are told that if they don't come back with a Zombie they can forget to come back at all . The two stumble bums end up not only getting involved with Dr . Renault Zombie experiments but end up becoming part of them . Getting in touch with San Sabastian nightclub singer and dancer gorgeous Jean LaDance ( Ann Jeffareys ) , who's dying to get off the island , the trio end up in the middle of a full-moon Zombie ceremony by the local natives . Escaping from the mob of angry native warriors Mike Jerry & Jean end up getting captured by Dr . Renault and his seven foot tall Zombie assistant Kolaga , Darby Jones , with Mike getting Zombified as a victim of Dr . Renault's Zombie experiments . Finally getting away from both Dr . Renault and the angry Zombie-worshiping natives the three Mike Jerry & Jean together with a cute little monkey , who took a shine to Mike back at San Sabastian , get on a ship as they sail back to New York City . Getting to the Big Apple just in time for the " Zombie Hut's " opening night's feature Zombie performance With Mike , his eyes bugged out and in a state of suspended animation . As the long sought Zombie is about to make his grand entrance the serum that Dr . Renault injected him with starts to wear off . Unlike the people in the movie it's the monkey who ends up not only saving the show but the necks of Mike and Jerry from getting broken by Ace's thugs . So-so comedy / horror flick with Bela Lugosi in a very small , despite his top billing in the movie , role as Dr . Renault with the monkey getting all the laughs as well as best lines in the movie .
One push topples an empire that took me years to build !	SPOILERS Small-time country boy lawyer Lynn Hollister takes on the big city political machine and ends up hitched to the corrupt city boss ' daughter in this really weird combination of a screw-ball comedy and murder / suspense movie . Johnny Smith who had just help his Spring Valley college basketball team win the big game staggers out of the red-light district Club Inferno , in a driving rainstorm . Johnny almost gets hit by a car leans against a lamppost which then gets hit by a bolt of lighting and plops to the ground dead . At the hospital it's found out that Johnny was actually shot in the Inferno Club , which caused him to stagger around the streets like a drunk , and that was the real reason for his death , in short he was murdered . In no time at all Johnny's friend , who he was more like a brother to , Lynn Hollister's in town trying to get to the bottom of what happened to Johnny and who killed him . The coroner for some strange reason had declared Johnny's death to be suicide which was obviously done to cover up the real reason for his murder . He had a fight with the Club Inferno's manager Amato over him being cheated in cards and was gunned down , with the loud music causing nobody to hear the shot , by one of Amato's henchmen the bird-brained and not too bright Floyd . Lynn is directed to Big Boss Tom Cameron's mansion to get the low-down to what happened to Johnny but , after belting the butler , falls for Tom's pretty daughter Sabra . It's then the film that at first look like a murder / suspense / mystery turns into a light romantic screwball comedy . Lynn and Sabra hit it off right away and for almost half of the film you , as well as the cast , completely forgot that Lynn was here to find out what really happened to Johnny ? We get as far as learning that Johnny and Sabra were in love with each other but it wasn't until late in the movie that it's found out that it was Sabra's dad the Big Boss who was in some way , if not all the way , responsible for her boyfriends murder . Boss Cameron himself gets royally screwed by his under , as well as upper , links when after rigging the election for them to get into office they drop him like a hot potato and leave him out in the cold as they celebrate the stolen political victory that he engineered for them ; now that's what I call gratitude . In he meantime Lynn , between smooching sessions with Sabra , got the goods on both Boss Cameron and his crew by first attempting to beat the truth out of Flyod who was shot by one of Amato's gunmen before he could finish telling it . Then Lynn going and finding in a law library textbook that rigging elections is illegal , lawyer Lynn didn't know this on his own ? With this amazing revelation discovered by Lynn the election results are thrown out and those who rigged it , the Cameron / Amoto Mob , arrested and held without bail . Big Boss Tom Cameron disgusted at what he did , and what was done to him in return by his boys , comes clean after a tender heart-to-heart talk with Sabra and then spills the beans , to the D . A's office , with the entire crooked bunch of politicians and mobsters thrown behind bars together with him ; I hope for his sake he asked to be put into protective custody . Lynn with his job in town now over , in solving Johnny Smith's murder and putting those responsible behind bars , rides off in a limousine into the sunset together with Sabra to sleepy quiet and friendly Spring Valley with a squad of local police motorcycle men as escorts . The movie is just too silly to take seriously and John Wayne as Lynn Hollister is not at all believable as a lawyer or a lawman or even a Cary Grant impersonator . Frances Dee as Boss Cameron's pretty daughter Sabra is both naive and unfeeling . Sabra at first doesn't have a clue to what her father is , the city's big machine boss , and later doesn't as much as shed a tear as he's put behind bars for what may well be the rest of his life ! I don't even think that she even planned to visit him as she happily took off with Lynn together with a half dozen motorized policemen provided by her disgraced and imprisoned dad ! Even behind bars he could pull all this off ? Alexande Granach as the sleazy Club Inferno manager Amato played it a bit too much for laughs and Ward Bond as the nimble brained Floyd did his best to act punch-drunk even when he didn't take one , or two or three , to the head . In fact the only time Floyd acted as if he were in full control of his mental faculties was after he was punched out by Lynn only to get shot and killed for his new found intelligence .
A Betrayal of Trust	SPOILERS Suspected of murdering her husband Peter , Jimmy Smits , and the live-in , handyman Charlie , Gailard Sartain , Caroline Walker , Mary-Louise Parker , is being interrogated at the police station when she is appointed a court psychiatrist Dr . Ellis , Nigel Hawthorne . Dr . Ellis tries to help her remember what happened in the three hours at the Walker Estate up to the time of the double-murders that night . Going to Dr . Ellis ' office the next day he puts her under hypnosis to help Caroline by regressing her back in time to the point where she married Peter and then back to the night of his and Charlie's murder . We see that Caroline's marriage to Peter was anything but happy with Peter holding Caroline responsible for forcing him to marry her by tricking him into getting her pregnant . Peter was driven to marry Caroline to prevent any scandal that would hurt his high standing in the community that he built up over the years . Peter was anything but a perfect husband to Caroline always yelling at her and even smacking her around at times even though he strove for perfection in everything that he did in his social life as well as his many business ventures to impress his rich and high powered friends and acquaintances . Peter was also very rude and nasty to Charlie , the live-in handyman at his estate , by insulting and putting him down at every opportunity . Charlie being a good-natured and sweet as well as at times a very hapless person could do nothing but take Peter's abuse and at the same time try to learn how to live with it . As Dr . Ellis slowly brought Caroline forward to that night when her husband Peter and Charlie were found murdered . Surprisingly we find out that she indeed was innocent of those crimes . Dr . Ellis ' expert testimony at Caroline's murder trial is what convinced the jury to find her not guilty but the policeman who handled the case Det . Holloway , Jason Scott Lee , felt that she did murder Peter and Charlie . But now that Caroline was vindicated by a jury of her peers there was nothing that he could do . Soon after the jury verdict the truth comes out about the murders and it turns out that Caroline's mind was purposely blocked by the real murderer and he wasn't the person that we in the audience as well as those in the movie were lead to believe he was . Confusing movie with a number of ridicules flash-backs that had in most cases nothing to do with the story that we were seeing on the screen . The flash-backs popped up mostly at inopportune times in the movie and looked like most of them were left on the cutting-room floor because they didn't fit into the films plot . Also there was so many close-ups of Mary-Louise Parker's big brown eyes that it made me in watching the movie more hypnotized then she was by Dr . Ellis . The overly contrived conclusion of the movie spoiled whatever there was left of the plot and tension in the film . The really off-the-wall ending left you totally stupefied , just like Det . Holloway was with his jaw dropping and eyes wide open and looking flabbergasted at the end of the film .
You take the high road and I'll take the goat track	SPOILERS Over-plotted and ridicules movie about a relic green glove that's the object of the films jewelry hunt up and down the mountains hills railroads and goat tracks of central and southern France . In the film Michael Blake , Glen Ford , sees the light in the end , or you can also say beginning , of the movie and returns the valuable glove to the Abbey of St . Elzear where it was lost for seven years during the last days of the Second World War . With that unselfish deed Michael made the Abbey's bells ring again . Long , even though the film is under 90 minutes , and senseless movie that stretches it's story with a snoozing train ride and a unintentionally hilarious chase up and down the steep and dangerous goat track by the St . Elzear Abbey . At that time Michael is persuade by Count Paul Rona , George Macready , and his hoods to get their hands on the green glove that's in his possession . The movie ends , like it started , with the bells ringing at the Abbey's bell tower as the green glove was returned to it . In fact the ending was not what you thought it was from what you saw at the beginning of the film . Michael got involved with the green glove when he dropped in on St . Elzear , back in August 1944 , as a US paratrooper . After taking Rona , who he caught stealing it , prisoner as a German spy the ceiling suddenly crashed down on him , after being hit by an artillery shell , with Rona fleeing and Michael ending up with the green glove . Michael left it , the glove , with some towns-people who had no idea what was in the satchel that Michael gave them as he took off to the more important grind of fighting and winning the war . Coming back to Paris after the war was over Michael tries to get things right by having the green glove returned , after he finds those who he gave it to , gets involved in a number of murders which he and his girlfriend and tourist guide Chris , Geraldine Brooks , were framed for by the devious Rona . Rona and his thugs followed Michael to France in order to get the green glove for himself . Michael also gets beaten up and knocked around with him falling through a glass sky-window . Later he almost drinks himself blind drunk in his effort to return the green glove back to it's rightful owners , the people of St . Elzear . Michael is reunited with Chris at the end of the movie and even with all the physical endurance and battering around that he went through in the film his hair is still oiled and so neat that not one single strand is left out of place .
With Cardini we don't have a problem . With Lombardi ? He's a Mashugenah ! We don't know what he'll say !	SPOILERS In an effort to get the top honcho's of the notorious NYC's Murder Inc . Mob organization Albert Anastasia and Frank Costello convicted and put behind bars the NYPD had in protective custody the one man willing to testify against them ; Mob stool pigeon Louie Galvan . As it turned out Galvan was guarded in a room on the top floor of the Astor Hotel by two dirty cop , Pete Howard & Ben Dougherty . The two cops allowed gangsters Steve Lombardi and " Tough Tony " Cardini to enter the hotel-room and throw the half-asleep witness out of the window and to his death on the street below . It soon becomes apparent that the only way to get to Anastasia and Costello is to somehow get someone to turn against them , like the late Louie Galvan , who's motives and whereabouts are unknown to them . That's where the newly formed Special and Super Secret Police Squad , answering only to NYC D . A Frank Hogan and the Mayor , comes into play . The Special Squad headed by the brash and confident Det . Johnny Ryan doesn't start off too well in it's attempt to get the goods on New York City's top mobsters . Johnny making a complete jerk of himself goes off so half cocked in breaking the law that he was sworn to enforced that he almost ends up behind bars himself . Johnny doesn't only screw himself up but also screws up the investigation in bedding down Steve Lombardi's , Frank Costello's right-hand man , girl singer and dancer , at Lombardi's Havana Club , Eva Manion . Johnny's macho but moronic attempt to intimidate Lombardi , for no other reason but to throw his weight around , also has a top possible witness crooked cop Ben Dougherty end up getting gunned down by Frank Costello's goons in an effort to shut him up . Pete Howard the other crooked cop involved in Louie Galvan's murder gets so drunk from the pressure put on him by Johnny's Special Squad that he's driven not only to drink , the guys been on the wagon for at least a year , but to the brink of suicide ! Even Johnny romancing the emotionally frail Eva Manion to get her to rat out her boyfriend Steve Lombadi ends up in disaster . Eva gets the hell beat out of her by Lmobardi who found out about her bedroom antics with the handsome but not that on the ball Johnny Ryan . Johnny finding out about what Lombardi did to Eva ends up himself getting booked and almost sent to Rykers Island , the NYC criminal holding pen , when he almost beat , in front of over a hundred eye witnesses , Lombardi to death at his Havana Club ! SPOILER ALERTIn a way Johnny's rough stuff actions does bring results but only for the wrong reasons . Johnny ends up not only getting the by now battered Eva set up for a hit by the Frank Costello Mob but has the only two persons who can finger the Mob Boss , as well as his partner in crime Albert Anastasia , " Tough Tony " Cardini and the vengeful , for what Johnny did to him , Steve Lombardi iced . This all happens when the hit on both Eva and Johnny backfires with the key man , the big surprise in the movie , who set it all up suddenly gets religious , after for the first time in 30 years taking a drink on Sunday , and backs out on the deal ! You have to say one thing about Det . Johnny Ryan and that has to do with the luck , or Luck of the Irish , that he has all throughout the film . No matter what Johnny does he's always bailed out of the mess he created for both himself and those who have the misfortune to be around , Like Eva , or work with , like his late partner Larry Bryant , him !
That shyster Perry Mason is outside ! He wan't to see you !	( Some Spoilers ) More like a 1930's screwball comedy then the serious and overly complicated courtroom drama that your used to seeing " The Case of the Velvet Claws " has Perry Mason , Warren William , acting like a chicken without a head not knowing what crimes are exactly going on in the movie much less knowing how to solve them . Perry himself is implicated in the murder of business tycoon George Belter , Joe King , by his estranged wife Eva , Wini Shaw . The funny , if you can call it that , thing about all this is that Perry was in fact hired by Eva , using a phony name , to get George's sleazy exploitive rag " Spicy Bit's " to kill a story that it's about to publish . The story has her , or the other woman , having an illicit affair with happily married and straight as an arrow State Senator Peter Milnor , Kenneth Harlan . Perry who at the beginning of the movie tied the knot with his long suffering , in putting up with him , and faithful private secretary Della Street , Claire Dodd , never got a chance to spend his wedding night together , in blissful harmony , when he was kidnapped by Eva Stuart , really Eva Belter . Eva afraid of her lover , Peter Milnor , being exposed by her husbands , who runs the paper from behind the scenes , tabloid tries to get Perry to go see Spicy Bit's editor Frank Locke , Madison Richards , and talk him out of publishing the story . Perry finds out second-hand from Locke that Mr . Belter is the one bankrolling the paper and goes to see him at his mansion only to get himself kicked out by Digley , Stuart Holmes , the butler . It's a few minutes later after Perry was given the heave ho Eve shows up and after trying to get Belter to kill the story about her and Mr . Milnor ends up , we don't really know for sure since it all happens off camera , killing him with a single gunshot from her . 32 pistol . Perry caught completely by surprise in Belter's murder and being the last person seen leaving his mansion , before he was murdered , is now the # 1 suspect in his death ! What makes things even worse for Perry is that he's been fingered by the person who not only was at the scene of Belter's murder but is his client as well Mrs . Eve Belter ! Even though Perry looks and acts totally confused , as well as having walking pneumonia , he's given a break by the very favorable script at the end of the movie by solving Betler's murder by having it pinned on someone who had absolutely no reason for murdering him . SPOILER ALERTWith him , Belter's killer , knowing that he's , instead of his cheating wife Eva , to inherit all of his millions he suddenly pulls out a gun and plugs a shocked and surprised Betler not wanting to wait for the old man to die of natural causes ! He just couldn't help himself ! This brainless action on Belter's killers part opened him up to being blackmailed almost as soon as the gun-smoke even cleared by being spotted by Betler's maid Mrs . Veite , Ruth Robinson . Here the killer murdered someone , Geoge Betler , who was only going to help him by leaving his estate over to him and on the other hand doesn't murder the one person , Mrs . Veite , who can implicate him in Betler's murder ! With the guilty party taken away by the police Perry can now carry on with Della as man and wife but not after he gave everyone in the cast , including Della , a serious case influenza by sneezing his head off , and in their faces , all throughout the movie and not at all bothering to see a doctor to treat him !
Dead on Arrival	SPOILERS Over the top suspense mystery that takes place on an unnamed eastern Maryland collage . Having found out that if a roommate at collage commits suicide you get an automatic 4 . 0 average both Tim , Matthew Lillard , and Chris , Michael Vartan , who are sub-par students concoct a plan to get their other roommate Rand , Randall Batinkoff , to kill himself ! Rand a nasty and arrogant creep who's constituently humiliating his girlfriend Natalie , Tamara Craig Thomas , in public and making a complete a of himself is the perfect candidate to knock off with nobody , not even his family members , even missing him . Even though at first he thought it was a joke on Tim's part Chris reluctantly goes along with the plan to do Rand in . This happens late one evening at the light-tower just outside of the collage campus . Getting a very depressed Rand , who had just found out that Natalie is pregnant , to dink a full bottle of whiskey laced with rat poison he goes into convolutions and loses consciousness . With Tim leaving a suicide note in the empty bottle it's made to look like Rand did himself in over Nataie , after telling him that he knocked her up , dumping him . With Chris not having the guts to throw Rand down the Cliff , to make it look like he jumped , Tim finishes the job in having him fall to his death , if he wasn't dead already , to the dangerous rocks some 100 feet below . It's then that things start to get a bit , to put it mildly , out of hand with Chris not willing to get , feeling that he didn't earn it , his well deserved 4 . 0 average and his partner in crime Tim doing everything he can to implicate him in Rands murder ! Tim goes as far as staging a tryst with Chris ' girlfriend Emma , Keri Russell , for Chris to see in order to get him go to the cops and confess not only his but Tim's crime ! While all this is going on Rand's body is never recovered and thus making it impossible for both Tim and Chris to get their coveted 4 . 0 average and thus being eligible to enter Harvard or Yale ! The movie really gets ridicules in it's myriad of twists and turns that are so incomprehensible that their about as illogical as subatomic Quantom reality is towards modern Newtonian physics ! You finally get the picture in the end to what's the story behind Rand's demise and who was really the person or persons behind it . But by then your brain has been so brutally battered and beaten by the films confusing and convoluted storyline , with about a half dozen plot twist , that you don't really care what it is !
Fast paced and well acted	SPOILERS After a rival trucker tried to run Frank Webster , John Ireland , off the road and ends up losing control of his truck and plunging to his death Frank was arrested and put in the local jail . Later with a group of the truckers friends about to storm the prison and lynch him Frank breaks out and becomes a fugitive from the law . At the start of the movie Frank is in a diner where he's spotted by one of the truckers Bob Nielson , Bruno DeSota , who are out looking to capture or kill him . As Bob pulls out a gun on Frank he gets flattens by him to the point where he's out cold for the rest of the movie . Frank takes off with one of the customers in the diner Connie Adair , Dorothy Malone , as a hostage as he drives away with her fast sports car . Frank ends up being on the run for the rest of the movie . Fast moving and well paced film with Connie at first resisting and doing everything that she can to alert the police about Franks whereabouts . Later when she realizes that he's innocent and Connie feels that he'll be rightly vindicated in the courts just like he told her . The movie revolves around a major race , the International , that goes from California to Mexico the country where Frank is trying to get away from the perusing police . With Connie entered and at the last moment banned from the race , because the race course had been deemed too dangerous for women drivers to participate on , Frank gets behind the wheel so he can get across the border into Mexico and freedom ; without drawing any attention or suspicion from the police and then as they say the race is on . With the police hot on his tail and with the Mexican border in sight Frank stops his car to save a fellow race car driver , who skidded off the road trying to get ahead of Frank , Frank gives up his chance to get across the border . Connie who's driving behind Frank comes to his as well as the injured race car drivers Faber , Bruce Carslisle , aid and feel guilty for calling the police who are on their way to arrest Frank . At the same time Frank feels that his running away from the law is over and that the courts , whom he trusts , will give him his freedom back . John Ireland & Dorothy Malone are fine in the leading roles in the movie and the car chases and racing action keep the movie going at a quick pace with an above average story for this kind of action film . " The Fast and the Furious " is also the first movie made by the then , 1954 , fledging AIP : American International Pictures studios . The studios that made a name for themselves over the years for making top-flight and innovative films with up and coming actors and directors who were given their first chance to act in and direct a major motion picture
Wayward Son	SPOILERS Illogical story about a long lost son Jamie Fisher , Andrew Kraulis , who unannounced and mysteriously shows up at his mothers Katherine Norris , Linda Purl , home who gave him up for adoption back in Lancaster PA . 25 years ago and before you know it becomes a member of the family . As Jamie starts to charm his way into his moms heart he also begins to weed into his dads Greg Norris , Perry King , wallet by setting the recovering heart-attack patient up for the " Big One " and then collecting the one million dollar insurance policy on him . Why would Jamie who has everything going for him , a home a loving family and a future in his dads business , jeopardize all that and even end up on death row for what he's planing to do ? thats the most interesting part of the movie . You don't get to know the truth about Jamie Fisher until the spunky daughter of the Norris family Tara , Meredith Henderson , who felt right from the start that this " Jamie " was a bit of a flake and weirdo starts to investigates . Tara comes up with some very disturbing information about him and his exploits . Yes Jamie claimed to be a big time world traveler who spent his time mostly in South America working on oil rigs , as well as his previous residence back in PA ; which turned out to be nothing but a pile of horse sht . Together with his unstable , she looked and acted like she was on the stuff , girlfriend Liz , Magen Fahlenbock , Jamie planned to have the cash from Greg Norris ' insurance policy wired to a bank in Costa Rica then check out of the country . There was just one small thing that Jamie didn't expect : wacky and dangerous Liz to find out that he's got only one plane ticket and it's not in her name . Jamie who has Mr . Norris ' million dollar insurance check taken to the bank by Katherine with him tagging alone to make sure that nothing goes wrong . Back home Liz is ready to blow Tara's brains out if anything does before the sweet and smooth talking Jamie does in poor Mr . Norris . At the bank she's spotted by her friend Delia , Sophie Gendron , who feels that something just isn't right and later calls a friend and neighbor of the Norris ' for help . The whole crazy plan falls apart back at the country cottage where Jamie and Liz took the Norris'after the bank switch in one of the most insane shoot-out between the two murdering blackmailers I've ever seen . There's nothing really that good about " Stranger at the Door " but it does hold your interest even though a number of scenes in the film make absolutely no sense at all .
The Smoking Gun ?	SPOILERS Listless and boring movie about evidence uncovered that can finally put an end to the question that's been on the minds of millions of Americans since that fateful day in Dallas back on Novermber 22 , 1963 : Who Killed President Kennedy ? The movie has hot shot NYPD detective David Secca , Cral T . Evens , who's just been transferred to his boyhood home in Carlstadt NJ come across this strip of film form an antique jewelry box he brought for his wife Jenniffer , Arija Bareikns . The film shows the actual shooter making his getaway that day , November 22 , 1963 , in Dallas ! Checking out who the box , as well as film , actually belongs to Det . Secca finds 85 year old Thelma Marshall , Barbara Barrie , at a local nursing home who at first is anything but interested in talking about the whole matter . It ' only after Det . Secca tells her that he's a cop she changes her mind and opens up ! We get this whole story about how Thelma and her husband were at Deely Plaza in Dallas that fateful afternoon and shot the film of this person , later reviled as Chicago mobster " Lefty " Garbone , at the scene looking suspicious with a rifle sticking under his , even though it was sunny and clear that day , raincoat ! Instead of leaving things where they were Det . Secca goes all out putting his as well as his wife's lives in danger to uncover the crime of the century . This leads to the usual suspects who pop up in almost every Kennedy conspiracy movie book and and magazine article : The Mafia CIA with the NSA thrown in for good measures . The movie gets even more confusing-if that's possible-as it goes along with a number of the key witnesses , like Mrs . Marshall , dying under mysterious circumstances . Det . Secca himself is later kidnapped and almost beaten to death in , those who kidnapped him , trying to find out just what he knows about Kenndedy's alleged , on the strip of film , assassin . There's also Kenndey conspiracy writer Prof . Steve Lynde , Chris Noth , whom Det . Secca got in touch with who's anything but interested in helping him but , because of Det . Secca's constant persistence , grudgingly goes along with him . Later in the movie after being threatened , in an official collage letter he received , to be terminated from his job Lynde disappears from the movie altogether . SPOILERS The so-called surprise ending leaves you feeling down in that the man behind Kenndey's assassination-in the movie - is the guy you suspected from the very beginning ! Slow and at times unbearably confusing film " Frame of Mind " never goes anywhere in it's feebly trying to put the finger on the person who shot Kennedy . There are a number of puzzling scenes in the move where the screen goes completely black , for up to as much as ten seconds , giving you the impression that it's finally over with the closing credits about to start rolling . Were put through the ringer with some dozen theories on who just was behind the JFK murder with non of them making any real sense at all !
Jolly Roger	SPOILERS Going to investigate what exactly caused some 200 boats and 2 , 000 persons to be lost over the last three years in the waters in and around the fabled Bermuda Triangle reporter Blair Maynard , Michael Caine , thought that it would be a rewarding assignment . He never dreamed that he would go back in time some 300 years to come in contact with a group of buccaneers who's gene pool is quickly depleting . Because of three centuries of inbreeding , and may well disappear in a generation or two . After escaping with their lives when their plane crashed on this god forsaken Caribbean island called Navidad Maynard and his 12 year-old son Justin , Jeffery Frank , rent a motor boat from what seems like the islands man in charge Englishman Mr . Windsor , Frank Middlemass , to go fishing and see the sights . It later turns out that both Maynard and Justin are kidnapped by this gang of pirates and brought back to their hideout . There their both tortured and then , at least with Justin , brainwashed to become a member of the tribe . Maynard has the worst of it since he killed , in self defense , one of these mutants who tried to murder both him and Justin on the motor boat . Being that the person that Maynard shot and killed was being mated with the only child-bearing woman of this far-out clan Beth , Angela Punch McGeregor , and with him not being inbred he as made to take Beths " husbands " place . This good piece of news was given given to Maynard by John David Nau , David Warner , who's the head of the pirate clan . The bad news is after Beth was to become pregnant with his child Maynard's to be immediately killed chopped up and thrown into the sea as shark bait . While Maynard is trying to figure out just what to do or not to do in keeping himself alive Justin who started to like where he was , and the people he's with , become the leaders # 1 Son who becomes as crazy as any one of these deranged loony and murderous buccaneers . The film " The Island " gets better as it goes along with Maynard always trying to escape and always , until the very end , getting caught by the pirates . Maynard later finds out that it was non-other then Windsor who's responsible not only for what happened to both him and Jutin but also the hundreds , if not thousands , of people who disappeared over the years in and around Navidad ! Having discovered these Neanderthals some 30 years ago Windsor has been steering unsuspecting tourists , like Maynard & Justin , their way so the pirates could used them , the healthy and viral men that is , to improve their breeding stock . But from what we saw in John David Nau & Co . it didn't seem to work out that good . The movie has a number of some of the craziest action scenes ever put into a major motion picture with Nau's motley crew later attacking a boat loaded with cocaine . After killing almost the entire crew this karate guy pops up almost out of nowhere , as if he forgot what movie he's supposed to be in , and does his thing knocking out about a half dozen buccaneer's ! Then when he was really getting into it he's run through with a sword and killed ! Or was it that he was told by the movies director Michael Ritchie , who must have gone out to lunch while all this was happening , that he's on the wrong movie set ! We later see the pirates storm a coast guard patrol boat , after killing the boats men who landed , that's checking out the island for drugs . Having it out with the coast guard patrol the pirate's have one of their men set with his head , which seemed to be cover with a thick blob of tar , on fire ! The pirate then uses it , his head , as a battering ram in order to break into the boats both locked and secured cabin rooms . The 17 century pirates easily take over the 20th century state-of-the-art war ship only to have Maynard , who was trying to get away from this whole sorry mess , jump into action ! Pulling an Audie Murphy Maynard blasts away all the pirates single handed with a . 50 caliber machine gun . We still have to suffer through another mindless episode of will he or will he not with what by now looks like a tired and uninterested Justin . With only Nau and Justin surviving the coast guard boat slaughter Justin is ordered by his now surrogate dad Nau to shoot and kill his real father Maynard ! It's then that Nau's previous # 1 son Manuel , Rikki Rincon , pop up and gets into the act by offering to do the job himself ; this in order to show pop that he's still # 1 . The eager beaver Manuel ends up totally screwing up Nau's grand and master plan and finally puts an end to himself and , with the help of Maynard , Poppa Nau as well as " The Island " .
Early Hollywood attempt to portray mental illness	SPOILER At first sight " Maniac " seems to be some kind of educational film about the causes and effects of mental illness with a forward to the movie about the mind and how it works and effects us in our everyday way of life . But as soon as you see Dr . Meirschultz , Horace Carpenter , and his assistant Maxwell , Bill Woods , and how insane they act in Dr . Meirschultz's laboratory you start to realize that your in for a long and bumpy ride on the Loony Express . " Maniac " would have been effective just as an unintentional comedy if there was a sense of continuity to the story . Where you can at least follow and understand just whats happening no matter how nutty the story is ; but there are at least two giant gaps in it . The first plot-hole has to do with Maxwell , a failed actor , whom Dr . Meirschultz seems to have something on him in regard to his being on the lamb from the police . Yet the movie never bothers to explains why ? Is being a " ham actor " a crime ? In another confusing scene in the movie Buckley , Ted Edwards , kidnaps the zombie-like Maria El'tura whom Dr . Meirschultz had brought back to life and takes off in the woods with her were we last see both of them . Mrs . Buckley , Phillis Diller ? , not that one but another Phillis Diller , tells Dr . Meirschultz that she would help him with his plans if he , after he kills her husband Buckely , puts a new brain in Buclely's skull that will make him totally obedient to her . Yet we never see Buckely again in the movie even though Mrs . Buckley is in the movie helping Maxwell until almost the end . That's where she has a ferocious cat-fight with his wife Mrs . Maxwell , Thero Ramsey ! Did the budget for the film run out of money for Buckley's brain-transplant ? Dr . Meirschultz got very agitated earlier in the film when he couldn't get any human bodies for his experiment , which he felt were nearing completion , when Maxwell came back from the morgue empty-handed . Dr . Meirshultz then stupidly handed Maxwell a gun telling him to shoot himself ! Dr . Meirschultz then promises Maxwell that he would reward him by bringing him back to life with a new heart that he has ready for him ! In fact there was never any mention up to then or even later that Maxwell had any heart problems ? Maxwell after taking the gun instead shoots the insane Dr . Meirschultz and using makeup and wigs and a false beard took over Dr . Meirschultz's identity . Playing doctor his first patient is Buckley who's wife tell Maxwell that he's very tense and needs a sedative to settle him down . Trying to inject Buckley with a syringe of harmless water Maxwell mistakenly injects him with super-adrenaline . This has Buckley go into a crazed and insane fit where he grabs the just revived from the dead Maria and they both check out never to be seen again in the movie . Meanwhile Maxwell who at first tried to kill Dr . Meirschultz's black cat Satan who immediately check out of the laboratory . It turned out that Satan ate the heart that Maxwell wanted to use for his own experiments with dead bodies and continue what Meirschultz started . Later Maxwell sealed Dr . Meirschultz body into the wall of his basement with bricks , not knowing that Satan snuck inside the wall too , to keep up his charade of being the great Dr . Meirschultz . It's after they raided the place that the police found Meirschultz's body when they entered the basement and heard Satan meowing . At the end of the film we see Maxwell behind bars raving mad and obviously insane bragging about how he fooled the world with his brilliant impersonation of Dr . Meirschultz . P . S Due Hollywood's failed attempt to explain the reasons and causes of mental illness to the movie-going public " Maniac " lost out to " It Happened One Night " for best film of the year in 1934 .
Driving and Smoking just don't Mix	SPOILERS With a title like " Harley Davidson and the Marlboro Man " you would expect a ninety minute commercial . That's exactly what the makers of the film thought you would by having a disclaimer before the film even started saying that none of the products , and there are dozens of them , in the movie are endorsements by the film company . You can now breath a sigh of relief and sit back and enjoy the show knowing it's commercial free . For some reason the 1991 movie starts on July 4 , 1996 , five years into the future , as Harley , Mickey Rourke , leaves his home in Texas and drives on his Harley to L . A to meet his long-time friend The bronco busting Marlboro Man , Don Johnson , who's hustling for easy money at LA pool halls . Almost getting his brains beat in by this six foot six Indian who he just hustled out of $500 . 00 Harley come to his rescue with the friendly and neighborhood pool hall being turned into a combat zone . Harley himself ran into a little action earlier in the movie by breaking up a gas station robbery where the grateful attendant offered him a free fill up which , even though he was short on cash , Harley refused . The movie gets down to he nitty-gritty when the two walking billboards show up at their old stomping ground The Rock & Roll Bar & Grill run by old man Julius , Julius Harris , a life-long friend of the two who's is about to have his place shut down and demolished . Julius signed a 30 year lease in June 1966 for $350 . 00 a month that ends in five days with the rent going up , O ' the Hmanity , to an insane and unreachable $41 , 666 . 67 a month ! Harley & The Marlboro Man coming to the conclusion that the only way to get the cash , a cool 2 . 5 million to save the bar and grill , is to rob the bank who owns the property . THat leads to a deadly shootout with a group of bank security men headed by zonked-out and zombie-looking Alexander , Daniel Baldwin , wearing bullet-proof overcoats . The movie gets even better , or worse , when it turns out that the money that Harley and the Marlboro Man though that they took from the bank armored car was the deadly drug Crystal Dream ! Like the bank president Chance Wilden , Tom Sizemore , told Harley & Marlboro Man at the end of the movie : " I make $500 , 000 . 00 a year as a banker but 15 million as a drug dealer " . " Harley Davison and the Marlboro Man " limps along with the two anti-heroes being chased with a secret transmitter , planted in a silver dollar , exposing where they are , all over the south by Alexander and his band of black overcoat assassins . It's then the two end up in a shootout at an old airplane graveyard . Harley and the Marlboro man finally figured out to aim for the heads of the bank security men instead of their bodies , that were protected by their bullet-proof Japanese Kevlar overcoats , and put Alexander and his band away . This after the Marlboro Man ends up badly wounded . Big confrontation with bank president Wilder and his sexy secretary Kimiko , Tia Carrere , in his L . A office With an armed helicopter pilot friend of Harley and the Marlboro Man getting the drop on Wilder almost blasting him , and his back-clothed security goons , out of the building . This then lead to a cliff hanging slug fest between Wilder and the Marlboro Man . With Wilder hanging on for dear life he soon fell some 30 stories to his death when the Marlboro Man's torn and scotch-taped boot , that Wilder was holding on to , gave way . With their adventures , and the movie , just about over the Marlboro Man goes back to his first love , riding wild bulls at the local rodeo . Harley takes off back home for Texas with a beautiful hitch-hiker on the back seat of his Harley .
Something very Fishy is going on in Noyo	SPOILERS With the town of Noyo suffering from an economic downturn the only hope the residents have is for a fish cannery to be built there by the Canco Corp . There's two major problems facing the citizens of Noyo and that's that the fish haven't been biting for months and the local Native American Indians are against the Canco Cannery being built on their ancient and ancestral homeland . Their now planning to have a class-action suit filed charging Canco of violating their fishing rights that would hold up construction for at least two years . As the fight goes on between the Native Americans led by the determined and energetic Tommy Eagle , Anthony Penya , against the local townspeople let by the hot headed and boorish Hank Slattery , Vic Morrow , another factor in this dispute comes into the mix ; the mysterious Humanoids from the deep . The Humnoids make their unwanted appearance in the movie by upending fisherman Deke Jensen's , Hoke Howell , boat and killing him and everyone on board . Out of the water and on dry land Humanoids then go on a rampage in and along the Noyo docks killing every dog , belonging to the fishermen , in sight . With Johnny Eagel's dog being the only canine left alive Slattery accuses Johnny of committing these despicable and vicious killings . Later Johnny finds his dog dead obviously killed by Slattery and his goons . It looks like a major civil war is about to break out in Noyo with Slattery and a couple of his faithful followers about to set Johnny Eagle's home on fire and possibly kill him together with locals Jim Hill and his wife Carol , Doug McClure & Cindy Weintraub . It's then when the Humanoids makes themselves heard and seen by coming out in force from the sea to do their dirty , or fishy , work . We then have this free for all with the Humanoids and Jim's brother Tommy , Breck Costin , coming to Johnny Eagel's pad and ended up killed by the Fish-men . This is another one of those experiment gone wrong with man , or in this case lady doctor Susan Drake ( Ann Turkel ) , attempting to defy nature and create a better and more numerous Salmon population but instead creating a hoard of deadly sea Humanoids . The Fish-men are out to increase their numbers by attacking and raping young women and having them create , by being impregnated , a new race of sea-men that before you know it would conquer the world . Ridicules looking sea monsters who are on the make with the young ladies of Noyo but the young ladies want to make it as fast as they can away from these Humanoids . Looking like their wearing over-sized rubber suits and batches of seaweed wrapped around their bodies the Humanoids seem to go into some kind of funky dance number at the end of the movie . When they all submerge and attack hundreds of people at a local off-shore carnival . Hilarious final with the Humanoids slogging all over the place trying their best to be scary and with the people at this shindig purposely slowing down to make it look like the plodding Humanoids are able to catch up with and kill them . With the Humanoids defeated and driven from Noyo were given the biggest surprise in the movie . The knowledge that even though driven out of town the Humanoids still left their mark on humanity for future generations to suffer through .
Jambalaya Gumbo & Dirty Rice	SPOILERS Finding mob wise guy Freddie Angelo , Jim Chimeno , shot dead and dumped in a city fountain the New Orleans Police fear that a major gang war is about to erupt in the Big Easy . Hot-shot , and wise guy himself , NOPD Det . Remy McSwain , Dennis Quaid , is quickly on the scene and takes charge of the murder investigation . At the police station New Orleans Mafia chieftain Vinnie Dimotti , Marc Lawrence , is brought in for questioning which is no more then talking abut the good old day with Det . McSwain and is soon released . As all this is happening the New Orleans District Attorney's office is conducting an investigation of police corruption with Det . Mc Swain as the main target . Heading the investigation is Assiatant D . A Anne Osborne , Ellen Barkin . Anne is quickly charmed and captivated by the grinning and obnoxious Det . McSwain , the main subject of her corruption investigation , who's about as cute and cuddly as a harelip and just as annoying . Taking Anne out for the evening McSwain breaks about every law on the books , including running a red light , to impress her and ends up spending the night in bed with Anne in his apartment . Anne getting the goods on Det . McSwain has him set up in a local strip-joint to accept a bribe from the owner but the cunning cop smells a rat , or wire . For what seems like the first time in his police career Det . McSwain doesn't take the illegal cash throwing the bribe money , eight $50 . 00 bills , in the air where their quickly gobbled up by the bar customers . Having a hidden video tape of McSwain taking the bribe , before he threw it away , to arrest him Det . McSwain . The cagey and resourceful McSwain later has a powerful electric magnet snuck into the Police Property Clerk's Office which erases the tape having his case thrown out of court by the presiding judge Jim Garrison of the JFK assassination movie fame . Later a new number of the murders happen in New Orleans which starts to point to a criminal police element , not Mafia hoods street gang members or even a voodoo cult , as the culprit's . Things start to get real hot for Let . McSwain when his younger brother Bobby , Tom O'Brien , is shot and badly injured when the killer thinks that he's really Det . McSwain . Trying to get to he bottom of the string of murders Det . McSwain sees local New Orleans black community leader Big Daddy Mentio ( Solomon Burke ) , who has an idea to who's behind the killings . Before Big Daddy could open his mouth and tell the police about the killings he's shot and killed . Det . McSwain slowly uncovers the reasons for the murders and it has to do with members of the New Orleans police Department who are into drug trafficking from Mexico to Southern Louiseana . The corrupt cops are lead by his future father-in-law and head of the New Orleans homicide division Capt . Jack Kellom , Ned Beatty . Decent police drama if you overlook the weird performance by Dennis Quaid as Det . Remy McSwain who's ridicules Cajun accent seems to break up , in mid sentence , like a bad case of static interference on your radio receiver . Ellen Barkin as Assistant D . A Anne Osborne was professional and believable at first but later degenerated into a blond airhead who didn't even have the sense , or presence of mind , to have Det . McSwain arrested ; after one of his corrupt police friends kidnapped her . After " kidnapping " Anne Det . McSwain took her to a party and barbecue , celebrating his indictment being thrown out court . The happy and bubbly Det . McSwain is seen and head singing and playing the guitar , very badly , and then dancing with her as the movie finally ends .
The first of two Concord movies released in 1979	( There are some spoilers ) Cheaply made , especially in the special effects department , disaster film about a number of big and powerful businessmen trying to wreck the Concord Jet-plane industry . They plan to sabotage a number of the supersonic jets killing hundreds or passengers in the process . Released some five months before the far more expensive and much more popular " The Concord Airport " ' 79 " the movie . " Concord Affaire ' 79 " as well as " The Concord Airport ' 79 " also boasts , well not publicly , of having in it the same porno & skin-flick super-stud Richard Bolla , in the movies credits . Losing control and crashing in the Caribbean Sea off the Great Antilles Concord flight 820 goes under the waves with only one survivor being the stewardess Jean Beneyton , Mimsy Farmer . It turns out that the plane was sabotaged and the people behind it are a number of passenger plane manufactures headed by a Mr . Milland , Joesph Cotton . Theses plane manufactures feel that the supersonic jet would put them out of business . Getting a call from his estranged wife Nichol , Flamma Maglione , from her restaurant in the Antilles US reporter Moses Brody , James Franciscus , is told that there's a big story behind the crashed jet that has nothing to do with mechanical failure . Getting to the islands Moses finds out that Nicole had been murdered . Moses also finds out that two fishermen working for her , catching lobsters and shrimps , restaurant were also killed in a tragic accident . they were really run down by a speedboat belonging to local mobster Forsythe , Venantino Ventantini . Forsythe also ended up kidnapping stewardess Jean Beneyton who the fishermen tried to rescue . Moses finds that the surviving stewardess Jean Beneyton is being held hostage by the Forsythe Mob in their yacht and together with his and his wife's , the late Nicole Brody , friend on the island . George , Francisco Charles , goes scuba diving off the Antillie coast to rescue Jean and also find out what's left of the wreckage of the Concord only to have George lose his life in a shark attack . Rescuing the kidnapped stewardess Jean Moses tries to get the island police and US embassy staff to help him stop an impending explosion on another Concord jet , taking off from Caracas Venzuela headed for London . It seems that everyone in authority that he gets in contact with is so lazy or on vacation that Moses has to do all the work himself in order to prevent another Concord supersonic jet from crashing into the Atlantic Ocean . With Jeans help in knowing what was the cause of the explosion , on the plane she was on , it comes out how the sabotage of the aircraft is being planned . The saboteurs plant a crudely made acid bomb , in the food stored in kitchen area of the plane , and have it detonate when the Concord is at 50 , 000 feet . Lots of action on land with a very good car chase scene that's more of an advertisement for going on a trip to the Antilles , even though the movie was shot in a number of island's off the coast of Italy . Tension and suspense high in the air over 50 , 000 feet with Concord pilot Captain Scott , Van Johnson , piloting the damaged and burning aircraft to a safe landing as well as the striking island photography make the movie watchable . Even though the story is a bit ridicules with only Forsythe and his boys getting the wost of it . Nothing ever happening to Milland and his cohorts who were responsible for the deaths of over one hundred people . In the end it turned out that the Concord wasn't that great of a deal and all that it was cooked up to be , by it's supporters . By late 2003 it went out of business for good because most people unless they were millionaires , which wasn't enough to pay even for the planes upkeep , couldn't afford to pay the Concords exorbitant plane fare .
Why's a nice girl like you going to work in the Blue Moon Casino ?	SPOILERS Remake of the 1939 classic " Five Came Home " by the same director John Farrow with Rod Steiger stealing the acting honors as convicted criminal Vasquez being sent back to Boca Grande , in Pararico , to face the firing squad for the attempted murder of the country's dictator General Gomaz . Getting caught in a violent lightning storm over the unexplored jungles of South America the PLA passenger plane , minus it's stewardess who fell overboard , crash lands with it's engines in order but in the middle of headhunter country . Trying to get the plane fixed before the local headhunters get a beat on the planes passengers and crew tempers start to flair between bounty hunter Crimp , Fread Clark , and his prisoner Vasquez . Crimp a bit taken by the change of events with Vasquez now the man who's in charge , since Vasquez is an expert on the habits of the South American headhunters , not him starts to panic and ends up running off in the unfriendly jungle with the only gun among the people on the plane , and losing his head over it . As the days go by it becomes evident that there's no rescue party on the way to save them and both the pilot and co-pilot Bill Lonagan & Joe Brooks , Robert Ryan & Kieth Andes , work around the clock fixing the planes engines . Everything possibly is done to get the plane airborne before the drums start to beat meaning that the headhunters are on their way to finish off the planes survivors . Tense drama in the South American Amazon basin with a stellar cast knowing that the end is near but not exactly who among them will end up being killed by the headhunters . It's decided that only five will come back since the plans engines can't carry any more weight . The disabled airplane has to have as light as possible payload in order to take off and fly over the dense jungle mountain range to become fully airborne . Gut-wrenching final where it's decided who will live and who will die , by being left behind , at the hands of the headhunters and for the most part Vasquez and the elderly couple Henry & Martha Spangler , Cameron Prud'Homm & Beula Bondi voluntarily stay behind to meet their fate . The Spanglers , in their 70's , knowing that they don't have long to live anyway and Vasquez facing execution . The movie " Back from Eternity " also has a love triangle between Jud Ellis , Gene Barry , and his fianc Louise Melhorn , Phillis Kirk , and co-pilot Joe Brooks . The poor and terrified Jud ends up coming out on the losing end . Jud gets gunned down , trying to get on the plane , at the end of the movie by Vasquez with his bride-to-be Louise not bothering to come to his aid but not even giving Jud as much a second glance as he lay dying ! There's also the gorgeous and voluptuous Anita Ekberg , the former Miss Sweden , as singer and bar girl Rena who's trying to get her papers straighten out in order to become a legal American citizen . There's little six year old Jon Provost , of Lassie fame , as Tommy Malone the son of a Las Vegas mobster who just got knocked off . Tommy is being looked after and protected by his late dad's best friend and right hand man Jesse white , Pete Boswick . It turns out that Rena , not Jesse , ends up on the departing plane with little Tommy as the movie " Back From Eternity " comes to an end .
Sweet dreams , baby	( There are spoilers ) Hard to follow made for TV flick with you not really knowing if what your seeing is either real or a dream . The movie has to do with this 1 , 000 years-old Hag , or Evil Spirit , that's been haunting sweet and lovely Molly Duggan's , Haylie Duff , ancestors since it had been kicked out of heaven and made to stay in a state of purgatory ever since . It's not really made clear what exactly Molly's relatives had to do with all this but they , at least the female side of them , had been dying in their sleep ever since and now Molly is in danger of doing the same thing . The movie really starts to get weird when this Rasputin-like wacko Silas , Bruce Ramsey , unshaven and with piercing blue eyes shows up on the scene who happened to be in the same study group " Dream Central " at the collage that Molly is now a member of . Silas who during his travels in the Orient , trying to find himself , had been under the tutelage of a Turkish holy man for three years . Silas instinctively sees in Molly the powers of ancient wisdom that can defeat the the terror that's threatening her and her friends with death when ever they as much as go to sleep . Silas who spent the last three years in a mental hospital after having had a complete nervous breakdown in his attempt to understand what's been going on all around him is now out on the streets and free to make a nuisance of himself . Silas does that by stalking and hounding poor Molly with his off-the-wall theories and his admiration of her mystical and God-given powers to combat the forces of evil in the world . Eventually Molly get's the message when Silas invades her dreams and in a strange way keeps Molly from dying because of them . That in affect makes her a true believer in his powers of perception , of the worlds and dimensions beyond human reality , and drives Molly into having the same kind of breakdown that he suffered some three years ago . It turns out that Silas was right in contacting Molly and giving her the push that she needed in taking on this Evil Spirit and forcing it back into the Netherworld where it came from . Exorcist-like ending with everything going haywire as Molly , now free of fear , takes on the Hag or Evil Spirit single-handedly and at the same time , by kicking it's butt , saves the now comatose and near-death Silas . Somewhat confusing but still interesting film with the pretty Haylie Duff , as the courageous Molly Duggan , battling both insomnia as well as the Evil Spirit from generations past to save whatever is still left to save in the movie " Nightmare " .
What is it ! What happened ! What did you kill them for !	SPOILERS The only thing new about this aliens from space movie is that the aliens , or as their called in the film parasites , don't come from other space at all they come from deep down in the earths core . It take's a while for Dr . Paul Kettering , Ed Nelson , and the person put in charge of this pressing matter by the US Department of the Interior Senator Warren K . Powers , Cornelius Keefe , to realize what exactly their up against . These strange brain-eating creatures are in fact 200 million year old amoeba-like brain-suckers who emerged from their home deep down in the earth's crust . The creatures are planning to take over the human race by destroying their victim's brain cells after they took over their bodies . They , the Braineaters , plan to accomplish this feat by first taking over the brains of the unsuspecting humans in the little town of Riverdale . Turning the town's population into mindless zombies the parasites then plan go on to the next town city and then country until the entire human race is no longer a factor or obstacle to their eventual conquest of the earth ! With little money on hand the film " The Braineaters " lacks the very things that would make it worth watching decent , not spectacular , special effects . The " spaceship " that the parasites came from is nothing but a 50 feet tall aluminum tepee with a hole in it's nosecone . The Braineaters themselves are nothing but sponge-like creatures with pipes sticking out of them . These pipes are used to latch on to their victim's necks and then , after taking over their bodies , suck their brains out and cause their victims to die within 24 to 48 hours . It's after the town chief executive Mayor Cameron , Oville Sherman , flips out and goes bananas and is shot and killed by the police , whom he's in charge off , that Dr . Kettering realized that he was in fact taken over by some strange creature , the underground parasite , who had him do its bidding . Little by little the parasites take over a number of the townspeople including Dr . Kettering's girlfriend Alice Summers , Joanna Lee , making it almost impossible to know who's the good guy or parasite . It's only when it's discovered that there's a number of persons inside the " spacecraft " that the truth comes out to what exactly is going on . One of the men inside the craft turned out to be Prof . Helsingman , Saul Bronson , who mysteriously disappeared five years ago . Helsingman lived just long enough to tell Dr . Kettering what the real purpose of these strange creatures really is : To take over the earth's surface . Later going into the craft Dr . Kettering is confronted by the also long missing Dr . Cole , Leonard Nimoy , the late Prof . Helsingman's close friend and associate . Dr . Cole , looking like the old man of the mountain , tells the astonished Dr . Kettering that he and his fellow humans should just lay down their arms and give up , resistance is futile Dr . Cole tells him , to their superiors the parasites . Of course Dr . Kettering is not at all impressed with Dr . Cole and his army of brain eating parasites and comes up with a fool-proof plan to put them out of business : 60 to 80 thousand volts of electricity . It , Dr . Kettering's plan , was just about to be put into operation when an unexpected glitz developed at the very last moment ! The sudden appearance of of girlfriend the brain damaged , and parasite controlled , Alice Summers ! Predictable ending with Dr . Kettering unable to do what he at first planned to do in ridding the earth of the underground parasite invasion . It took the sharp-shooting ability of the late Mayor Cameron's son Glenn , Alan Frost , to in the end finish the job that the reluctant , in not being able to off his parasite-controlled girlfriend Alice , Dr . Kettering was unable to do .
Visions of Murder	SPOILERS Too overly plotted to really get a grip on " I Know What I Saw " has one sub-plot too many to really understand what it's trying to tell its audience . Were first told that law student Mackenzie Greer has some kind of psychic power where she can see deaths that either already happened or are about to happen . We get a sample of Mackenzie's psychic visions in three different deaths that she in some way was a part of . A young 17 year-old high school student that was killed in a hit and run accident . An office building janitor who was slashed to death and a woman who fell or was pushed to her death from a six story building . These events are obviously conjured up by Mackenzie herself but the policeman investigating her claims Det . Morgan feels that there's something more to them that just Mackenzie's wild imagination . Det . Morgan was involved in investigating a number of murders that were eerily similar to those that Mackenzie is now being haunted by . One of them , the 17 year-old student hit and run accident , he was not only on the scene of the accident but MacKenzie's father Charles Greer a photo journalist was the person who took pictures of the crime scene ! It was not long after that that Charles Greer committed suicide ! We go through almost the entire film not knowing what exactly Mackenzie Greer's obsessions really are . Were told earlier on that her father's suicide had really screwed up her mind in not only that he killed himself but didn't even bother to leave a suicide note explaining why he did it ! Were later given to understand through a medium , Nadira , that Mackenzie gets in contact with that she's being contacted by someone from beyond the grave , her father ? , who's trying to keep her out of danger . A danger that she unwittingly got herself into in making public , to the police and newspapers , her strange visions . There's also this off the wall sub-plot about Mackenzie's ex-boyfriend Evan who dropped her for her best friend Heather whom he's since become engaged to . Evan seems likable enough but also seems to be a bit too weird when it come to his ex-girlfriend Mackenzie whom he still , from what we see of his actions , carries a torch for . It's towards the end of the movie that the truth finally comes out about what's been puzzling Mackenzie all throughout the film . That has to do with her fathers , Charles Greer , crime scene photos that he took of the hit and run accident that in fact turned out to be a cold-blooded murder ! It's in Mr . Greer's photo , and negatives , that he kept hidden in the liner of his combination lock suitcase that will not only reveal who killed and ran down the young woman but also the other persons , the janitor and lady on the rooftop , who were part of Mackenzie's strange and horrifying visions !
Santa Clause meets Norman Bates	( Some Spoilers ) Off the wall slasher film involving this not so stable toy factory manager who got the shock of his life when , as a little boy , her saw Santa and his mom getting off on Christmas Eve . The fact that Santa was young Harry Stadling's father didn't seem to be noticed by Harry who became obsessed with Ol ' Saint Nicholas his entire life . Going on a one man crusade Harry was intent to prove the existence of Santa if it was the last thing that he did . Harry went so far as living a secret life as the man in the red and white suit using his disguise as Santa as his personal and secret identity . Harry keeping tabs on all the kids in his neighborhood , by spying on them , had a list of who was naughty and who was nice among them and as Christmas approached he was to make sure that they all got , good or bad , everything that they so rightfully deserved . It was really the adults who didn't believe in Santa and the giving spirit of the Chistmas holidays that Harry really had it in for . And it was them who in the end had to pay , in Harry's mind , for their unforgivable sins ! It was when Harry flipped out , on Christmas Eve , that he turned the joy of Christmas into a night of horrors . Touched by the horrible conditions at the local Willowy Springs-a take of on the notorious Willowbrook state school in Staten Island NY - State Hospital Harry tried to get his fellow workers at the Jolly Dream Toy Factory to chip in and give the unwanted and discarded , by their families , kids there some toys for Christmas . It's When he was laughed at and made to feel like a fool , in his wanting to give away loads of toys for free , by his bosses at the factory that something snapped in Harry's head having him go ballistic ! Besides Harry taking all the toys , from the factory , to give away as Christmas presents to the children in the city he also plans to give his Scrooge-like bosses a Christmas that they'll never forget ! Harry's rampage in the movie was motivated by those who looked at Christmas , and Santa , as nothing but a money making , not giving , time of the year . Even though he didn't like kids who didn't listen to their parents and elders and looked at dirty pictures , like Penthouse Centerfolds , Harry felt that they can be made to see he evil in their ways and be straightened in time . It was the adults who made a mockery of Christmas , and Santa Clause , that Harry really had it in for in that they should know better but don't . which in Harry's mind was unforgivable and needed to be , by him , taken care of with the utmost urgency ! Hard to take serious slasher / horror movie in that the villain , Harry Stadling , was so lovable that even when he did in his victims you just couldn't dislike him . Harry was so believable as the lovable Santa Clause that even the children of the people that he murdered looked up to him , with Harry giving them expensive presents , as if he were the real McCoy , Santa , himself ! During the entire film Harry was always on the outs with his younger brother Philip who , since they were little boys , never believed in Santa and let Harry know it in no uncertain terms . It took a while but in the end even Philip became a believer . Not that Harry proved to Philip that the legendary Santa does in fact exists but , in the final moments of the movie , that Santa is actually his own brother , Harry Stadling , in the flesh !
Sly in a I am the law type of movie	Being a member of the " Zombie Squad " Let . Marion " Cobra " Cobretti is the meanest as well as toughest cop in the city . In the movie " Cobra " Let . Cobretti has his hands full when he takes on a gang of ax wheeling psychos who call themselves " The Way of the New World " led by their leader the " Night Slasher " Brian Thompson . Like in most movies like " Cobra " Let . Cobretti always get in trouble with his bosses as well as the local liberal bleeding-heart lawyers and news reporters for doing things " His Way " . Let Cobretti wastes the bad guys without the benefit of a lawyer or trial as we get to see him in the opening scene of the movie shooting to pieces a " Way of the New World " psycho who crashed a supermarket and gunned down a number of shoppers . These " Way of the New World " psychos are going around the city axing people to death and one of the lucky one's who got away from being split in half by them is beautiful fashion model Ingrid , Brigitte Nielsen , who also got a real good look at the ' Night Slasher " and can identify him . It's around the safety of Ingrid and having her protected by Let . Cobretti , of course , and then be around to finger the " Way of the New World " leader that the plot in the movie " Cobra " is built around . The " Night Slasher " and his gang of cut-ups spend the rest of the film trying to get their hands on Ingrid and turn her into confetti , but they have only one small problem : They have to get past Let . Cobretti to get to her . What spoiled the movie " Cobra " for me is that the bad guys are so cartoon-like and one-dimensional as well as really having no reason for their murderous actions against society . The movie never really explains just what the heck the " Way of the New World " gang is all about ? We see them throughout the film driving around mostly on motorcycles with panty-hose over their heads and murdering people by hacking them to death and about the only reason we get from their leader the " Night Slasher " for doing that is that their victims don't measure up or fit into the " New World " that their creating . Sly Stallone gives a real good Mr . Cool type performance as the ultra-cool-cat and take-no-bull-from-anyone Let . Marion Cobretti . Still Stallone is weighed down in the movie trying to carry his then girlfriend and co-star Brigitte Nielsen who's nice to look at but she'll never be mistaken for Bette Davis in the acting department . Also by then , 1986 , the soft-on-crime angle and cops who don't go by the rules to get the job done movies were already wearing thin with the American public . Tough on crime politicians and law enforcement personnel were being indited and jailed for being in many cases worse then the criminals that they were supposed to be fighting against .
Doctor Wyman ! ! ! !	SPOILERS Crashing back down to earth the first man in space Maj . John Corcoran , Michael Emmet , goes into a deep state of suspended animation where he's at first mistakenly declared dead by his colleague back at the army base Dr . Alex Wyman , Tyler McVey . Back at the base John begins to show signs of life as his heart and blood-pressure come back and his body doesn't go into rigor mortise . It's later when this Blood Beast , played by Ross Sturlin in a rubber suit , appears out of nowhere and out of camera range that thing really start to get interesting with it not only attacking Dr . Wyman in his room but ripping off his head and taking off with it . It's now after Dr . Wyman's demise that John comes to life to the astonishment of his fellow military base associates his fianc Dr . Julie Benson , Angela Green , as well as Steve Dave & Donna , John Baer Ed Nelson & Georgianna Carter . It seems that when John was in outer space he was somehow impregnated , I kid you not , by the Blood Best and is about to give birth to a brood of , what looks like on the X-Ray machine , sea horses ! John under the control of the Blood Beast , who's using Dr . Wyman's brain to communicate , has nothing but praise for this weird creature who looks like a cross between an octopus and giant parakeet . Telling the crew at the base that the Blood Beast came in peace to help the human race , even though it killed Dr . Wyman and tried to kill Donna , John convinces them to just give it a chance to tell it's story . Taking Julie Donna Dave & Steve along with him to the Blood Beast's hideout , a cave , John get's the somewhat shy creature , with those looks could you really blame it , to come out in the open and enlighten them to it's mission on earth . We get this harangue from the creature about how it's here to save mankind from destroying itself with nuclear weapons and how , the human race and race of Blood Beasts can work together to prevent that from happening . Things get a little bit weird when all of a sudden John who was at first so much in favor of what the creature is doing goes wacky . John hysterically screams to his friends to both kill him and the creature because it's going to enslaved the human race ! With him being used a an incubator by it in producing an army of Blood Beasts ! We have the predictable ending with the creature getting whacked by a number of Molotov cocktails and John driving a knife into his gut killing himself and his soon to be born Blood Beast off-springs . The creature gives us a chilling warning as it's slowly burning up saying that as long as the human race sends rockets up into space other Blood Beasts will be ready to take over the bodies of the astronauts and come back to earth to finish the job that he started . Standard 1950's monster from outer space movie that has a very similar plot to the immortal Ed Wood bad movie classic " Plan Nine from Outer Space " that was in fact released a year later in 1959 . Like in " Plan 9 " the movie " Night of the Blood Beast " has to do with an alien race coming to earth to save mankind from it's own destructive ways and failing miserably . The Blood Beast speech to the people at the army base was almost a replica of Eros speech to the persons invited on his spaceship in " Plan 9 " with both the Blood Beast & Eros getting wasted within minutes of delivering it !
Hey Jude !	MAJOR SPOILERS The movie " Soul Survivor " comes across like a cross between " Caranvil of Souls " and " Jacob's Ladder " without the both surprising and shocking endings of the two ghostly thrillers . Cassie , Melissa Sagermiller , in trying to break off her relationship with her boyfriend Matt , Wes Bentley , gives him a good-by kiss which her now boyfriend and , what turned out to be , soul-mate Sean , Casey Affleck , notices . Mad at Cassie for two-timing him which Sean suspect her of doing he refuse to have anything to do with , or even talk to , her on the drive back to their dorms at Middletown Collage . With Matt and his new girlfriend Anna , Eliza Dushku , in the back seat Cassie loses control of the car and goes off the road killing her disgruntled boyfriend Sean . Recovering from both the accident and Sean's death Cassie soon starts to have hallucinations of Sean manifesting himself to her as a ghostly spirit somehow directing her to came back to him in the world of the dead ! While all this is going on Cassie is constantly being stalked and terrorized by this masked lunatic , Carl Paoli , that only she and one else sees ! Going to see the collage's Catholic Priest Father Jude , Luke Wilson , Cassie is told to keep the faith and let things just happen and the truth of what's happening to her will guide Cassie back to both God and sanity . It later turns out that Father Jude is anything but who he says he is in that he hasn't worked at Middletown Collage , much less lived there , since 1981 ! It's not that much of a secret to what Cassie find herself in since it's been done , in movies like " Carnival of Souls " and " Jacob's Ladder " , many times before . It's the syrupy feel-good ending that blows you away in its trying to make everything right in the film which in fact screws everything up instead ! Totally clueless to what's happening all around her Cassie starts to lose her mind feeling that she's somehow suffering from server brain damage resulting from the car accident that she's a survivor of . It's takes almost the entire movie for Cassie with the help of Matt & Anna , as well as Father Jude , to finally " get it " ! But by then all she , as well as us watching the film , got was a confusing triple-twist ending and slitting migraine headache . Not much of a horror suspense movie " Soul Survivor " telegraphers every surprise and twist , with the exception of its final ending , in it far in advance before it ever even starts . As for the dead and ghostly Sean he comes across with his rosy cheeks and surf-boy tan more alive then anyone that's actually alive in the movie !
The dirty swine ! those filthy skunks ! They beat me for refusing to Hail Hitler !	( There may be Spoilers ) Highly fictional account of the life and times of Nazi Minister of Propaganda and Public Enlightenment Dr . Paul Joseph Goebbels , Wolfgang Zilzer . In fact the movie " Enemy of Women " almost totally overlooks Goebbels involvement with the Nazi Party and his meteoric rise to become one the most powerful men in Nazi Germany and Nazi occupied Europe . As well being his Fhurer's most loyal and trusted henchman who was to stay with his beloved Fhurer in his bunker in Berlin to the very last in April / May 1945 . Then killing , together with his equally fanatical Nazi wife Magda , not only himself but their six young children as well . The film instead concentrates on Josephs very possessive and weird love life . We see the early life of Dr . Goebbels as a failed writer , of dime store novels and stage plays , being kicked around by a young woman who he tried to make out with . Goebbels in then kicked out of the house by the girls outraged father . Depressed and feeling like sht Goebbels wonders into a beer-hall and for the first time hears ultra-German Nationalist Adolf Hitler give one of his hypnotic and spellbinding speeches . He was hooked and joined Hitler's National Scoialist , or Nazi for short , party . Now years later In a position of power Goebbels can get even with all those wise-guys bluenoses and bullies who kicked him around when he was a nobody and a more or less 98 pound weakling in the world of power and influence . Getting even with old Colonel Ebarhart Brandt , H . B Warner , who threw him out of his house when Joseph tried to grab and kiss his actress daughter Maria , Claudia Drake , Goebbels puts out the word to SS chief Himmler that Eberhart is a disloyal traitor to Germany . That has Himmler send a few of his goons to the old mans apartment who end up putting him away with a load of slugs shot into him . Goebbel now seeing his chance to get in good with the bereaved Maria makes as if he's very depressed over her fathers tragic death which , unknown to Maria , he was responsible for . In fact it was Goebbles himself who was targeted for elimination by Himmler but played it cool , after being alerted by his friends . Goebbles gets as close as he could to Adolf Hitler knowing Himmler wouldn't dare have him shot while he was standing next to the Furher . Getting Maria openings in plays and movies , through his connections as Propaganda Minister , Goebbles now expects some payback from her , like being his mistress . Instead she falls in love with charming and handsome Vienna doctor Hans Traeger , Donald Woods , which has Goebbels throw a fit . Before he can do anything the two lovebirds , Mari & Hans , skip out of Germany to Hans ' native Vienna . Married and living in bliss the Traegers have it made in old Vienna until March 1938 when the German / Austrian " Anschluss " happens with the German army marching across the German / Austrian border and uniting the two countries under Nazi rule . Stuck with nowhere to go both Maria and Hans are now at the mercy of the Nazi regime and only with Goebbles ' help can they ever be able to get out of the country , and into Switzland ; but that help will come at a very heavy and heartbreaking price . " Enemy of Women " is more like a soap opera then a historical movie with that rascal and scoundrel Joseph Goebbles having one affair after another with beautiful and buxom Frauleins as Germany goes down the road to destruction in the Second World War . What was Goebbles greatest love in the movie Maria Brandt ends up getting killed in a daylight USAAF bombing raid on Berlin . Poor old and crazy Joseph now all by himself gives one of his lying speeches , to the German people , on how the allied bombing campaign over Germany is a total bust . Goebbles also boasts that if they , the Americans and Brits , ever try to invade " Fortress Europe " by crossing the English Channel they'll get the worst beating of their lives . As usual Goebbles was wrong dead wrong ; he , the real Joseph Goebbles was to die by his own hand less then a year after " Enemy of Women , was released .
The utterly ridicules and convoluted up-beat ending buries the movie	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " The Vanishing " starts out interesting enough with couple Jeff & Diane , Kifer Sutherland & Sandra Bullock , driving in the Pacific North West on vacation where Diane later ends up missing when they stop at a highway rest-stop to get gas . Diane going into the food-mart to get bottles of beer and soda is never seen again and Jeff hysterical at her disappearance makes it his life's work to find her . It's now three years later and still no word of where she is and what happened to Diane Jeff is down and out looking like a bum when he literally drops , from lack of sleep , in a local diner having a glass of milk . The waitress Rita , Nancy Travis , at first takes a liking towards him the later falls in love with the haggard but good-looking and sensitive Jeff who she finds a place to spend the night in the back of the diner . We then learn that Jeff has been looking all over the Seattle area for Diane the last three years postings thousands of missing person posters and appearing on local TV and radio talk-shows . Pleading to anyone in the vast media audience if they have any information of Diane whereabouts . It's not a total mystery to what happened to Diane since for the first ten or so minutes of he movie we see this grinning and smiling weirdo Barney Cousins , Jeff Bidiges , at his secret cottage by the lake talking to himself and trying to memorize corny pick-up lines in Berney sharpening his ability to induce women to go into his station wagon and then have them kidnapped . We then see Barney bumbling around the store and gas station , unsuccessfully trying to pick on a woman , just before Diane disappeared . Living together Rita gets a bit upset with her new boyfriend Jeff's obsession with the now long departed Diane and Jeff , to keep Rita from leaving him , tells her that his relationship with Diane is now history . But it's Barney who now gets into the act sending Jeff a letter with information that only he and Diane knew . Barney even has Diane's car-keys that get's Jeff more interested then ever in Diane's plight but it just about destroyers his attachment with Rita . Walking out on Jeff Rita just misses running into Barney as he sneaks into and hides in their apartment in order to make Jeff an offer that he can't refuse to find out what happened to Diane . Jeff later finds Rita gone and then is confronted by the strange and what seems like sleep deprived and drugged out , you just gotta hear how this guy talks , Berney and his evidence , Diane's car-keys , to what happened to Diane . Jeff has a fit and beats and kicks Barney down three flights of stairs almost kicking out his teeth with the poor man ending up almost unconscious on the pavement . With Jeff regaining his composure and Barney getting back on his feet , minus a few teeth , he offers Jeff the opportunity of a lifetime to find out just what happened to Diane . But to find that out he'll have to take a long ride with him back to some deserted gas station outside of Seattle . The movie now begins to go off the deep end together with , if he isn't already , the insane Barney where Rita who just threw Jeff out of her life forever gets involved in finding him to the point where she puts her life on the line . As for Berney's weird obsession with Jeff it's later revealed by him that he's into some kind of secret experiment , Berney is a professor of chemistry at the local collage , that he's been conducting since he was 15 about the forces of good and evil existing in all of us . Jeff going along with Barney's strange scenario of going through what Diane's went through before she disappeared drinks a cup of spiked coffee , that Berney cooked up , that knocks Jeff out cold . When he wakes up finds himself six feet under in a coffin that Barney prepared for him ; was that what happened to Diane three years ago ? Instead of ending the movie right there with Jeff finding out what happened to Diane , like in the original and far better Dutch version of the movie " The Vanishing " , we instead have Rita coming to his rescue and battling it out with the crazy Barney . By now Barney seems to not only be nuts but also a glutton for punishment getting the hell beat out of him , not to mention the battering that he earlier took from Jeff , by the much smaller and lighter Rita . He's also tricked into letting Rita go by her blackmailing Barney into thinking that she has Barney's 13 year-old daughter Maggy , Denise Cousins . Nothing made sense including how Jeff could have possibly survived being buried for what seemed like over an hour without suffocating to death and just how did Rita know were Jeff was buried ? The camera and Rita kept focusing on Barneys muddy boots and shovel as if that was supposed to be a clue to where Jeff was buried ? Barney gets exactly what's coming to him when Jeff is dug up and comes back to life attacking Barney with a shovel splitting his face in two with Rita giving him a hand as well with a floor board over Berney's head . The movie ends with both Jeff and Rita in a Seattle restaurant negotiating a book deal about their ordeal as their served coffee , a brew that was the cause of most of their troubles , which they respectfully turn down .
A Dash of Tabasco	( There are Spoilers ) Getting together at Ted's Cabin in th woods this group of friends who haven't seen each other in years start to talk about the problems that their having in their relationships and their very uncertain future in the business world . For whatever reasons the movie makers had in mind this mysterious " Ted " is never seen or heard from during the entire film even though he's mentioned more times then anyone else in it ! Could the name " Ted " have been some kind of inside joke , on the part of the actors and crew , or was he just edited out , on the cutting room floor , in order to save on production costs ? The movie seems to go absolutely nowhere for the first half hour until Eva , Marie-Josee Colburn , suggests that the by now bored to tears young people play a Ouija-Board like game called " Dead Mary " . The game has each of Eve's friends go into the darkened bathroom , with a lighted candle , and speak out the name " Dead Mary " in the mirror three times . It's then that things start to liven up in the movie with almost everyone ending up dead when this evil spirit takes over the bodies of the persons playing the game . The spirit causes those whom it gains control of to first go insane and then go out and kill each other ! What the movie " Dead Mary " does is have the evil spirit not only take over the bodies of the persons in it but give them an insight to their cheating on each others which seem to be , to those involved , far greater then them being brutally murdered . Matt , Jefferson Brown , the first victim of this horror ends up being dismembered in the woods yet is still alive , when he's found , to talk all kinds of gossip about his friends in them cheating on each others girlfriends and boyfriends . Those who find Matt are far more shocked and startled in the revelations he brings out about them then in Matt's obviously desperate condition in him being , besides a talking head , in pieces all over the forest floor ! it's then that each of persons at the cabin start to go off the deep end in not trusting each other and thus ending , in order not to be killed by the evil spirit , doing each other in ! What makes " Dead Mary " worth watching is the dark and eerie photography that has you feeling that , like those in the film , your in some kind of ghostly forest where it never stops raining . The acting is also a lot better then you would expect in a slasher movie like " Dead Mary " with those in it actually acting like grown ups with real problems not just jumping in bed with each other at every given opportunity . Besides the aforementioned actors and actresses there's also Kim , Dominique Swain , who's about the only person in the film who keeps from cracking up and letting herself being controlled by " Dead Mary's " evil spirit . The same can't be said for everyone else in the movie who end up losing it , their minds and lives , when they unconsciously let " Dead Mary " take them over .
Mixed bag of Nuts	SPOILERS Moving into his dad's old hunting cottage outside of Reedsville Robert and his wife Molly are trying to put their lives back together since the tragic death of their daughter . Robert feels that the peace and quite of the country would give him the inspiration to write the great American Novel and get both him and Molly out of debt from the expenses of keeping their daughter alive on life-support . Molly's depression starts to become suicidal and one afternoon she loads a shotgun and tries to blow her brains out . Robert , coming home after being out on the lake writing , sees that the gun was loaded and , knowing Molly's unstable state of mind , flips out and runs into the woods with the shotgun to get his thoughts together . Sitting alone in a clearing Robert sees a police car pull up and the sheriff pulls out this young woman and is about to smash her head in with rock when he interrupts the obvious attempted murder by blowing , after warning him to stop , the cop sheriff Dodd away . Taking the young woman home to get her patched up , she was badly beaten up by Dodd , both Robert & Molly find out that the woman , Rae Baines , worked in the office of the mayor of Reedsville Mayor Block . It's later when Robert goes to dispose of Dodd's body and patrol car that he finds a bag with $200 , 000 . 00 and a bunch of photos of Rea and the mayor in a number of compromising positions ; was she blackmailing him and Sheffif Dodd working for Mayor Block was to kill her on orders from up high to shut Rea up for good ? The movie " Waters Edge " goes on with Rea manipulating the somewhat foolish Robert in trying to split him up from his wife Molly and the blackmail money . Molly later finds out , at the Reedsville Public Libery , that Rea was actually working with her husband Bobbie , the town's official photographer , who was later found dead in the trunk of Sheriff Dodd's patrol car . The two were the ones involved in blackmailing Mayor Block not this local power and control freak T . Wallace , who runs the towns feed store , as Rea told Robert . Later Robert gets taken back to town by Officer Campball for questioning in Dodd's death . It's then when he quickly realizes that he's being set up , by the town's mayor and is henchmen like Campball & Wallace , to not only take the rap for Dodd's murder , who Robert shot in self-defense . But thats not real reason for his troubles with the corrupt Mayor Block & Co . It's the $200 , 000 . 00 in blackmail money and photos that Robert has hidden in his cottage that is . Meanwhile back at the cottage Rea , showing her true colors , has the helpful and kind-hearted Molly knocked out and tied up , after an eye-popping and ferocious cat-fight with her , and dropped into the lake with a heavy weight tied to her body and left to drown . Robert who made a run from it from both Campball and T . Wallace is captured and made to go back to his cottage and get the money and incriminating photos that the mayor wants so badly . It's then that Robert finds out that Rea , who was there looking for the same things , is not the innocent soul that she said she was . It's then that he has it out with both her and the Mayor and his corrupt crew of law enforcers in the movie's fiery conclusion . There's a lot of holes in the plot of " Waters Edge " that make the story a bit hard to swallow as well as the very unconvincing and ham acting of both Emmanuelle Vaugler & Daniel Baldwin as Rea and the Mayor . But actor Nathan Fillion as Robert keeps your mind off them by his taking the role he has , as an innocent man on the run , deadly serious and not trying to sleep walk his way through the film in order to just collect a check .
" V " as in " Vapid "	SPOILERS Listless and confusing made or TV movie about a masked , who also seems to be wearing a scuba-diving outfit , vigilante who's out on the streets of Austin Texas taking out child abusers , in many cases their fathers , and pedophiles . When Officer Ben Simms ' , Sean Partick Flaney , wife Lori , Alaina Kalanj , is gunned down trying to protect her daughter Cassie , Emma Nicolas , from being kidnapped by registered sex offender John Cutter , Steve Krieger , he completely loses it in him going out of his way in enforcing the law when it comes to sexual predators and offenders . Instead of being given , before he kills someone in his custody , a desk job Simms is put on the case of the vigilante child sex abusers killings which he's very much , the vigilante's actions , in favor of . It's very obvious from the start that both the citizens of Austin as well members of the Austin Police Department are the least interested in capturing the vigilante in that he's cleaning up the streets of the city of dangerous sex offenders . This becomes very clear when a very reluctant Simms is given Daphne Jocelyn , Joey Lauren Adams , as his partner in finding and arresting the vigilante . Having been working in traffic court , giving out parking tickets , a major criminal case like this is usually given to a much more experienced cop who handlers homicides and kidnappings then a green rookie as well as ticket writer like Daphne is ! Which shows how unconcerned the higher ups in the police department are in catching the vigilante . Later Cutter in his trying to kidnap little Brianna , Joanne McCray , in a local park is confronted by the masked vigilante who quickly , with his expertise of the martial arts , puts him away with a cracked skull and a few broken bones . It's at Cutter's arraignment that two unexpected things happen . Simms trying to take the law into is own hands-Jack Ruby-style - and gun Cutter down on the steps of Hall of Justice is beaten to the punch by the vigilante ! The vigilante hiding on a garage roof overlooking the Hall of Justice puts a high powered bullet through Cutter-bulletproof vest and all-before Simms could even get off a single shot ! The rest of the movie has you guessing just who this vigilante is who , after icing Cutter , escaped from being captured by Simms ' partner Officer Roland , Brian MaNamara , with what seems like something , a flying teaser , straight out of Batmans's famed utility belt ! Soon the vigilante angle of the movie starts to get a bit tiring in that he's able to pick up police radio calls , from what looks like his state-of-the-art control center , that puts him a step ahead of the police who , like Officer Simms , are not at all interested in capturing him . SPOILER It's only when Simm's daughter Cassie is later kidnapped that the film , after almost putting you to sleep , again becomes interesting ! You know that Cassie's kidnapper can't be the late John Cutter who earlier murder her mom , as he unsuccessfully tried to kidnap her , so who in blazes can he be ! It takes Officer Joceyn , and the vigilante who's listening in on her radio calls , to figure out who Cassie's kidnapper is . He turns out to be someone who has very close connections to not only Simms & Joceyn but to the late John Cutter himself ! And that sets up the movies unbelievable final sequence where the mysterious vigilante's identity is reviled but also , which is far more surprising , how totally impossible , in the condition he's in , he could have pulled off what he did all throughout the entire movie !
I use to Haaaaaate to skate . . . Now I can't wait !	Some Spoilers With the popularity of " Saturday Night Fever " back in 1977 the Hollywood crowd tried to cash in on the skating and disco craze that was sweeping Southern California around the same time and decided to make a movie to capitalize on it and thus the idea for " Roller Boogie " was born . But by the time that the movie was released around Christmas 1979 the disco and skating craze was just about over and the makers of " Roller Boogie " were stuck with a big turkey and it was long past Thanksgiving . Even if the disco / skating craze was in full bloom " Roller Boogie " would have still bombed out because of it's very disjointed music and skating sequences as well as it's silly story that would have been better if there was no story at all . The plot of the movie is so childish and simple that even the crowd that it was targeted for found it hard to take . Unlike " Saturday Night Fever " which besides the great musical score and exciting dance numbers was also a top notch drama about a young man coming of age and seeing that his future was more then just discoing the night , as well as his life , away . And after a number of trials and tribulations left his disco and partying environment to face the real world at the end of the movie . But in " Roller Boogie " there's nothing even close to that in the story . Terry , Linda Blair , is a musical prodigy when it comes to plying the flute and has received a full scholarship to the prestigious Julliard School for the Preforming Arts in New York City that coming fall . But Terries real love is to Roller Boogie the day and night away down by the beach and boardwalk in Venice Calif . To make a short story long Terry falls for Bobby , Jim Bray , who besides being very cute is also the best Roller Boogier on the boardwalk . After Bobby has a few tussles with Terry , who acted as if she wasn't interested but really was , both Terry and Bobby agree to skate in the big Roller Boogie contest at the end of the summer at the Jammer's Skating Rink as a duet but only after Booby teaches Terry the ins and outs of being a successful Roller Boogier like he is . Meanwhile the mob , yeah those guys , are trying to muscle in the Roller Boogie rink Jammer's and convert it into a big shopping mall and they finally get it's owner Jammer Delany , Sean McCory , to sell it to them after threatening to blow his brains out and burn down the rink , those mobsters always have to spoil everyone's fun . With everything that can go wrong going wrong against the Roller Boogiers , even Terries father who she ask for help turned out to be the lawyer for the mobsters front company who is to build the shopping mall , it looks like their dreams of Roller Boogieing is about to come to a sad end . But then , just like magic , before you can say Roll la ' Boogie the Roller Boogiers come up with an audio tape of the mobsters shaking down Jammer Delany to sell them his roller rink that one of the Roller Boogiers taped without knowing about it , that figures , and with that tape as evidence the gig is up for the mobsters , or so we thought . But not after the customary , that movies like this that have no real story to carry themselves through the ninety or so minutes on the screen , chase scene up and down the streets and boardwalk of Venice with the mobsters getting pelted by the Roller Boogiers with truckload after truckload of fruits and veggies . The mobsters have guns and do pull them out from time to time during the movie and even point them threateningly but for some strange and unexplained reason never used them ? The chase finally ends at the Jammer's Skating Rink with the cops , mobsters , Roller Boogiers and everyone else in the movie in attendance there . And then one of the Roller Boogiers sneaks into the Jammer's sound room and plays the very incriminating tape to a stunned and shocked audience where it's heard by everyone there over the PA sound system of the mobsters threatening Jammer Delany with violence if he didn't give in to their demands . With that the mobsters goose is cooked and not only do they lose their bid to get the Jammer's Skating Rink but are arrested by the police and led away to be indited and tried for criminal extortion . With all the evidence against them the mobsters would be better served if they threw themselves on the mercy of the court hoping that they would get just a long prison sentence instead of being forced to be in another Roller Boogie movie . Now happily with everything back to normal and the big Roller Boogie contest free to be held with the Roller Boogieing pair of Bobby and Terry competing you don't have to be a real genius to figure out who won the great event . An awful film that would have better served everyone involved with it if it was just left in the can and quietly forgotten about then it being released to the public and ending up embarrassing those who were in it as well as those who made it . The only reason one can have for watching " Roller Boogie " is to see Linda Blair in her tight and sexy outfits almost bursting from the seams against her very impressive and ample body . The movie " Roller Boogie " is almost impossible to find on VHS , I don't think that it's been re-issued for over twenty years , or seen on cable-TV and you can forget about ever seeing it on DVD . As far as I know the movie negative was deep sixth in the Pacific Ocean . It seems that everybody involved in the movie " Roller Boogie " would like to have it expunged from their memories like one would want to forget a very very bad dream .
A case of mistaken identity	( There are Spoilers ) Almost getting hanged at the start of the movie for being mistaken for his kill crazy brother Notah White / Comanche half-breed Johnny Moon , William Shatner playing a duel role , has just about had it and decides to ride into Comanche territory , Johnny wants to challenge Notah to a duel and finally get it over with by either killing Notah so he won't commit any more crimes that he's , Johnny , been unjustifiably accused off . And that doesn't work or get killed by Notah himself so he won't by around and alive to have that problem any more . Meanwhile Notah is up to his old tricks again by attacking a stagecoach with his band of Comanche braves killing everyone on it . Raping the only survivor Kelly , Rossanna Yanni , as Natah goes back home to get stoned out on peyote to enhance is visions . He plans to resurrect the great Comanche nation and thus drive the hated white man out of it's ancestral lands . Johnny showing up at Notah's place challenges him to a duel to the death . The two brothers decide that it should take place in neutral territory , the quiet little town of Rio Hondo , four days hence . On his way to Rio Hondo Johnny gets involved with a local dispute there between the General , Mariano Vilda , and the towns salon owner Grimes , Louis Prendes . Johnny coming to the rescue gunned down two of the General's men who were about to hang one of Grimes work-hands Ellis , Vincent Roca . Ellis was fooling around with territorial markers on the General's and Grimes property . Getting into Rio Hondo for some rest before his big showdown with Notah Johnny is first recognized by one of the General's men his younger brother Coor , Javier Maiza , as the man who gunned down his men . Kelly mistakes him for his brother Notah , which is a very common happening in the film , as the man who held up the stagecoach tries to apprehend him . Johnny has a knock down an drag out brawl with Coors whom he puts to sleep with a number of kicks and straight rights . Luckily he just misses being shot and killed by an outraged Kelly . Convincing Kelly and the town sheriff Logan , Joseph Cotton , that he's not his murderous half-breed brother Notah , the only difference between Johnny and Notah is the color their eyes , Kelly falls in love with her now mistaken rapist , the proper and gentlemanly Johnny Moon . This get's the banged up and jealous Coor a bit mad at him since he's secretly in love with her . We later in the movie again have a fight , this time with guns , between Johnny and Coor with Coor again getting the worst of it with a bullet between his eyes . The movie then degenerates into a free-for-all shoot em up between the Grimes gang and the General's staff . We get to see the entire town of Rio Hondo is depopulated of it's citizens in the process . Notah on his way to town to have it out with Johnny has his pregnant squaw White Fawn , Perla Crista , go to bat for him but ends up getting batted herself , by someone else . Later a member of the tribe Koh To , Louis Rivera , goes after Notah to stop and kill him . Koh To came to the conclusion that he's completely out of his head and will only bring death and destruction on the Comanche nation with his insane actions . White Fawn ambushes Koh To by sticking a knife in his back and then tries to finish him off by having her horse stomp him to death . It then that Koh comes back to life and unseats the shrieking and hysterical White Fawn stabbing and killing her as he himself slowly bleed to death from the stab wound . This whole scene is accommodated with some of the wildest and ear-splitting cries and yells that , if the sound on the TV isn't turned down . The screams can easily damage and burst your eardrums . Facing off in an almost deserted Rio Hondo Johnny and Notah have it out with johnny coming out the winner . Then as the movie ends Johnny plans to marry , a crazy about him and his light brown eyes , Kelly as he leads his people the Comanches back to their reservation to life of peace and harmony with the White Man . More then worthy to be featured on the Mystery Science 3000 bad movie program " White Comanche " is undoubtedly one of the best bad movies you'll ever see . Johnny Moon is hilarious by being targeted by everyone for crimes that he didn't commit . Even a little wimpy nerd turned bounty hunter like Carter , Victor Israel , trying to kill him who in return ends up almost shooting himself , before sheriff Logan gunned him down .
Sweet Nothing	SPOILERS The movie " The Sweet Ride " begins with a ride on a Malibu highway where pretty actress Vickie Cartwright , Jacqeline Bisset , is dumped on the road from a speeding car and left to die or be run over and killed by the highway traffic . The Malibu police round up three persons who knew and lived together with Vickie at a beach front house owned by tennis pro Collie Randsom , Anthony Franciosa . Collie was picked up by the police together with his two room-mates surfer Danny McGuire , Michael Sarazzin , and Choo-Choo , Bob Denver , an on and off professional musician whenever he can find work . It turns out that Vickie left the trio some two weeks ago at Las Vegas when she had a big fight with her lover Danny over her secret life that she kept from him . Vickie depressed and hurt was even more hurt when Collie , who was Danny's best friend , found her alone in her hotel room and tried to make a play for her . Which showed Vickie just what a heel he is instead of the friend that she thought he was up until then . Danny finds out from him being interrogated by the police that a local biker gang , The Freaks , were seen on the Malibu beach partying last night and may have been responsible for beating and raping Vickie . Danny going with Collie to the bar where The Freaks hang out to talk to Mr . Clean . Charles Dierkop , the gangs top honcho to finds out what he knows about what happened to Vickie . Mr . Clean agrees to meets the two at a deserted warehouse but as soon as he shows up he's beaten by having his head smashed through a window and having a number of beer bottles broken over his skull . Mr . Clean tells Danny & Collie that he and his gang did have sex with Vickie on the beach last night but it wasn't rape it was Vickie herself who voluntarily conceded to have sex . Mr . Clean tells them it seemed as if she wanted to die and be killed by him and his biker gang . Mr . Clean also told Steve & Collie that Vicki was in a big house on the beach that turned out to belong to her agent or producer a guy named Bradly Caswell , Warren Stevens . Caswell may well have been abusing Vickie to the point where death was an option for her . Danny thanked Mr . Clean for the info by breaking another beer bottle over his already cracked and bleeding skull with him , after he kicked Collie out of his station-wagon , driving to the Caswell Estate . Danny has it out with Caswell as a movie of Vickie's is playing on Caswell's movie screen , this was 1968 before there were VCR or DVD's , with Caswell getting the hell beat out of him . Later Vickie , recovered and out of the hospital , breaks off her relationship with Danny with Danny leaving Collie for a job at a hardware store in Malibu . Choo-Choo also leaves Collie by getting married to his long time girlfriend Thumper , Michele Carey , as well as being drafted into the US Army . Poor and dejected Collie is left alone all by himself at his beach-front house with an unlimited supply of young and curvy beach girls for him to play with . " The Sweet ride " is an uneven film that never explains just who dropped Vickie on the highway to die as well as beat her to the point where she had a concussion and six broken ribs . Mr . Clean if you believe him said that he and his gang only had sex with Vickie and left her on the beach covered up with a blanket ; could it have been Caswell who beat and dumped Vickie on the highway ? I also couldn't understand why Vickie left Danny since he did everything to help her and she was in love with him . Why leave him now when you would think that she would need Danny more then ever ? The scene with Mr . Clean and Danny & Collie in the empty warehouse was really insane . Why would Mr . Clean meet with the two alone and end up getting his head bashed in ? When he had about twenty tough bikers who could have come to his aid stay in the bar and not at least be within earshot if anything happened to him where they would come to his rescue ? Mr . Clean also came across very sympathetic and it was both Danny & Collie , who are the good guys in the movie , who came across as vicious thugs by attacking and beating Mr . Clean when he came in good faith to talk to them . Poor Mr . Clean didn't even have a chance to open his mouth as he was brutally attacked by the two as soon as he walked into the warehouse ! The only two reasons I can give for watching " The Sweet Ride " is to see beautiful Jacqueline Bisset topless and the movie title song " The Sweet Ride " sung by the late Dusty Springfield .
Your Crazy ! That's what my therapist told me . . . Just Before I Killed Him !	SPOILERS A romp in the graveyard at midnight didn't turn out to be such a good idea for young Eric as he ended up being chased by a masked psycho ending up impaled on a steel fence . We soon find out , what Eric didn't live long enough to , that the whole thing was just a joke , a deadly joke , played on him by his friends . The joke not only ended up killing him but the person who was chasing Eric , that lead to his untimely death , Bobby ended up doing time , five years , in prison for manslaughter . It's now five years later with Bobby released on parole and him and his friends , who were involved in Erics death , now back at the scene of the crime . Everyone involved with Eric's death want to reflect and meditate at what they did to the poor guy and finally have closer to what happened ; but closer is not what Eric or whoever the masked killer is wants he wants revenge ! Not bad slasher flick that keeps you guessing to who's doing all the slashing with this masked psycho doing in everyone at Camp Placid where all of Eric's friends are staying . There's a lot of very heavy action going on at the camp as well with the big stud Jack , or " Jock de Lovier " , of the group of young people trying to make it with all the cute and sexy chicks there . Intead of making it Jack ends up losing his head , literately , when things start to go over it as well as get out of control . Bobby the ex-con of the bunch who at first didn't seem to care less of what's was going on at Camp Placid later started to get very apprehensive over all the killing . Bobby feeling that he's , being a convicted felon , going to be held responsible for them by the local authorities . He then tries to get help only to end up arrested , by the county's cop or Man of the Year 1974 , and put behind bars for a murder that he not only didn't commit but didn't even now about : the killing and decapitation of some unidentified biker . The masked killer does in almost all the people who came to say grace and reflect on Eric's life and death but also adds a new victim to his list Zoe a dike . Zoe was after one of Eric's friends Sarah who broke up with her because she was getting too much into the hot and heavy leather scene . Not at all interested in the rough trade Sarah felt that it was time for her to split . With Bobby found innocent , through a fax from the state police , of the bikers murder he's released by Sheriff " Man of the Year 1974 " and shoots , with the dead bikers bike , straight to the graveyard knowing just who the killer , from the fax identifying the headless biker , is and trying to save , it turned out to be sweet Michelle , whoever is still left alive of the group that came there with him . You don't exactly expect to see " Hamlet " or " Citizen Kane " here but for a slasher film its not all that bad at all . The on the loose psycho really gets to do his thing in a number of bloody and gruesome cut-up jobs before he reveals himself . It then , knowing that this is going to be his big moment in the movie , he lets it all hang out especially his tongue and eyeballs as he goes completely wacko . Trying to finish off those still left alive including " Man of the Year 1974 " who does such a good job in apprehending the killer , in fact he screwed everything up , that he's promised by his boss , the county's top cop , that he's been put in for being honored as " Man of the Year 2006 " ; but not to hold his breath waiting to get the award .
Ear Splitting !	SPOILERS After killing his rich wife Mariam by staging an accident where she ended up drowning in a pond at the Whitlock Estate Eric Whitlock , John Hudson , realized that he jumped the gun by taking out Mariam before she she could leave a will . Thus tying up all her money and holdings and only leaving him the mansion with almost nothing in it . Eric didn't waste any time and quickly married sweet and pretty Jenni , Peggy Webber , who's even more loaded , in money not booze , then his late wife Mariam . Jenni is also very emotional and erratic since she was a little girl . Having seen her parents drown before her eyes Jenni always felt guilty by not being able to save them . Since her parents tragic deaths her mental capacity deteriorated so much that she was committed to a sanitarium from where she was released just before she married Eric . Knowing that Jenni is very suicidal Eric plans to drive her to kill herself by planting a plastic skull in various parts of the mansion . After Jenni is gone , by killing herself , Eric can grab all her money which he's having trouble grabbing from his first wife Mariam . This guy , Eric , is nuts , when you see how Jenni looks you would want to grab her not any of her money . With Eric , being her husband , grabbing Jenni isn't a crime but murdering her is . Eric's plan is working to perfection as Jenni is slowing losing her mind and being driven to kill herself but there's just one hitch , the gardener Micky , Alex Nicol . Being very friendly with Jenni , in a brotherly-like way , who reminds him of Mariam Mickey spoils everything that Eric had planned for her by finding the skull that Eric had hidden in the pond and then hiding it in a flower-pot in the greenhouse . Nothing that Eric can do in slapping Mickey around would have him reveal where the skull is , it seems that Mickey thinks that the skull is that of his dead friend Mariam . Eric thus changes his plan , was he that cheap that he had no money to buy an new plastic skull ? , to drive Jenni to kill herself but to do the job himself . Unknown to him he had awaken the ghost of Mariam and she has some unfinished business to take care of with him . Trying to copy the great William Castle the movie " The Screaming Skull " starts off with a warning to the audience that in case you drop dead from fight watching the movie the makers of " The Screaming Skull " will pay for your funeral expenses . Your told just leave the name and address of somebody that the theater can get in touch with to identify your body . What would have been far more helpful was for the theater to give everyone seeing the movie " The Screaming Skull " a bottle off No-Doz extra strength to keep them awake long enough to see the movies ear-splitting and mind-numbing ending .
Illegal use of identity	( There are Spoilers ) A bit confusing mystery / drama that's just too overextended to be taken seriously . Adrienne , Goldie Hawn , an antique dealer meets by chance Jack Saunders , John Heard , at a restaurant thinking that he's Adam Lucus the parson she was supposed to meet there . It at first turned out to be the happiest mistake she ever made in her life with the handsome and charming Jack bowling her over and within the first five minutes she's married and has a daughter with him Mary , Ashley Peldon , celebrating her sixth birthday . It's then when things start to turn sour for Adeienne with Jack's secret life coming to the surface with disturbing and deadly results . Jack , an antique dealer himself , leaving home one evening for a business trip to Boston to buy some jewelry Adrienne finds out that he was really in New York City and buying womens clothes at a shop on East 53th street but not for her , was he having an affair with someone else ? As more evidence starts to arise about Jack's life before and during his marriage to Adrienne it becomes obvious that he's somehow not the person that she's married to ! Before Adrienne can get to the bottom of her mysterious husbands background he's killed in a car accident ! After Jack's death Adrienne is called to the NYC Social Securtiy office to find out that her husband Jack Saunders ' Social Security number does indeed belongs to a man named Jack Saunders but not the man she was married to ! It belonged to a 25 year-old Jack Saunders who was killed in a plane crash in Summerville Nebraska on January 19 , 1975 some ten years before she married him ! So who was her husbands and what was his real identity ? The second half of the movie " Decived " goes a bit too off course with Jack ' life revealed to Adrienne by her finding out that he had a number of different identities as well as wives over the last fifteen years . Jack himself comes back to life to make life hell for his " greiving widow " as well as murdering his mother Mrs . Sullivan whom he deserted to live alone and broke in a Greenpoint Brooklyn tenement . It was only when his mom found out that he was alive , from a talk with Adrienne , that he decided to pay her one last and fatal visit . Jack splitting into a homicidal lunatic , from the lovable Teddy Bear that he at first was , now turns his insane anger on Adrienne by having her get him a piece of jewelry that his daughter Mary mistakenly gave to her friend some time ago and . that sets up the films heart-dropping final sequence . A surprisingly good Goldie Hawn makes the film " Decived " work with her far better then one would expect serious acting being that Goldie was almost always in comedy films up until she made that movie . John Heard as the insane but charming Jack Saunders / Sullivan / Sherman , Triple " S " for short , is also good in his role as a human salamander . Jack gives a rousing and exciting farewell speech to Adrienne the audience and , for all we know , the troops before he takes that final one step beyond and disappears into the darkness as well as from Adrienne's and Mary life forever .
I'm willing to spend a couple of centuries in purgatory to have a laughing fit at your expense !	( There are Spoilers ) Hard to follow movie about a control freak who want's to keep things the way they are with his iron-clad grip on his ex-wife and three daughters one from another marriage . Guardian newspaper owner and editor Buddy Keys , Dick Van Dyke , is on a personal vendetta against corrupt Florida businessman Elkay Hibbard , Burke Byrnes , and is using his paper to expose Hibbards seedy and underhanded business and political practices , one of them is buying off the city's district attorney for $250 , 000 . 00 . We never know for sure but it's obvious that Hibbard is behind a number of incidents that have Buddy's reputation almost destroyed . One includes Buddy getting caught with a hooker Desirae , Lisa London , at the sleazy Trade Winds motel and later having his famous Snake Ranch burned down in a mysterious fire , that revealed that Buddy was illegally shipping exotic birds into the country . Taking care of his two grown daughters Diana and Mary Hope , Kale Vernn & Daphne Ashbrook , is a full time job for the beleaguered Buddy but when the third daughter , from another marriage , Lisa ( Angela Alvarado ) shows up from Miami he feels that she's independent enough , with him not having had to look after her all these years , that he puts her in charge of his newspaper The Guardian . Having a multi-part story in the works about Hibbard and his criminal dealings makes Hibbard's wife Trina , Marj Dusay , who also happens to be Buddy's first wife , and mother of Diana & Mary Hope , come over to his place one evening and give Buddy a piece of her mind . As both Buddy and Trina have it out , and out of hearing rage , Lisa looking out of her window sees her step-mother drive off hysterically in her car . The next morning Trina is found dead in the swamp where he car ended up after going over a guard rail . The movie back-tracks in what exactly was happening between Buddy and Hibbard and we learn that Buddy was being set up from the inside by people , secretly working for Hibbard , that he trusted . We also find out how helpless the girls , excluding the very independent Lisa , and their mom Trina were without Buddy secretly looking after them . In fact it was that very reason , when Trina was told the truth by Buddy , that lead to Trina's death . Nothing new in this movie about how hard it is for the rich and pampered , as well as drug addicted , to be able to face the real world and come to grips with it . Buddy's control , outwardly as well as hidden , of everyone that he loved and cared for in some ways did work by his giving them the feeling that they can't survive , outside of his control , on their own . It was only when the girls Mary Hope & Diana , and especially Trina , found out the truth the results were so stunning as well heart-breaking to the point of , in the case of Trina , one of them mindlessly killing herself .
The only thing your capable of killing is a few brain cells	( There are Spoilers ) Ridicules but entertaining monster movie involving this now you see it now you don't giant octopus who's causing havoc in the East River . Almost all the action in the movie takes place not far from where the World Trade Center used to be in downtown Manhattan . The killer octopus who was swept down to New York Bay , from its breeding grounds in Nova Scotia , by a major storm has found that New Yorkers are a lot more tasty then what it's been feeding on up north and decided to make New York its home away from home . New York City Harbor Patrol cops Nick Hatfield & Walter McNair , Michael Reily Burke & Fredric Lehne , get involved with the octopus almost by accident by arresting a top New York City Judge , Harry Anichkin , for trafficking in illegal drugs on his sailboat . Da Judge almost gets the two cops busted for false arrest but , being the drug peddler that he is , later in the film ends up being dragged down , with his stash of drugs , to the bottom of the East River by the shadowy octopus . At first treated as nothing more then a practical joke the octopus makes himself known by eating a number of tourists and destroying a tug boat and it's entire crew in the East River . With the evidence mounting that there's a real danger looming over the city's millennium July 4th celebration the Mayor , Duncan Fraser , is determined to have it go on even if it means the possible deaths of hundreds of New Yorkers by attracting the killer octopus , uninvited of course , to it ! The inept special effects make the killer octopus about as scary as the rubber octopus used in the Ed Wood bad movie classic " Bride of the Monster " . In fact the Ed Wood vision was a lot more funnier by having a 72 year old , who's recovering from heroin addiction , Bela Lugosi have it out with it with Bela doing the work of both the octopus , who's mechanical motor conked out during the filming , and himself . The movie itself didn't end where the octopus was supposed to have its last stand in the waters of New York Harbor but of all place in the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel that just happens to be water free ! We were given this big build up about the octopus planning to crash the big July 4th celebration that's supposed to have some 20 , 000 boats of all sizes and shapes in New York Harbor ! But about the only boats we saw celebrating , if you can call it that , was a few tug and NYPD harbor patrol boats with their crews totally oblivious of what was going on , the big July 4th celebration , all around them . The movie seemed to get lost in its storyline when it started to forget that it was about a giant killer octopus not a sequel to the Sylvester Stallone auctioneer " Daylight " . Nick who has his hands full saving a bus load of school children stuck in the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel suddenly realizes , by probably being reminded off camera , that he's in the wrong movie and gets back to business by blasting the octopus , who seems to appeared out of nowhere , to pieces only after he already put it away , or seemed to have , some 15 minutes earlier ! One of the last movies to have in it on location shots of the now non-existent , due to the attacks , World Trade Center which has more screen time then anyone , including the killer octopus , in the film . There's also the oddity of having the WTC moved around in the movie where we get to see it both south , where it actually was situated , and north , where it never was , of New York's City Hall !
They Ate Him !	SPOILERS Having been dead and buried for some 90 years this group of pre-teenage miners have come back to life to exact revenge on the person , or his descendants , who was responsible for their deaths : The late 19th and early 20th Century coal mine tycoon Eban Carlton . Carlton had a habit of using children of dirt poor miners who worked at his dilapidated mine-shafts to get into the nooks and crannies that full grown miners wouldn't as much as touch . On top of all that Carlton paid the children slave wages , with no health benefits , for the very dangerous work that he expected from them . What really blew the Carlton coal mining empire to holy hell was a major mine accident that ended up killing dozens of minor , under 13 , miners back in 1913 that just about put an end to his career in the coal mining business . One of those unfortunate young miners , or minor , who was killed in the mine explosion was 10 year-old Mary Tunny who's body as never found . As it turned Mary's descendent's , on her fathers side , ended up inheriting the Tunny home where the deadly Carlton mine was once located at ! It's when the widowed Karen Tunny and her two daughters Sarah and young Emma moved into their late father's and Karen's husbands house that all hell started to beak lose . For some reason a bunch of teenage , or pre-teenage , zombie miners came to life going out at night attacking and eating the local residents . It's obvious from the films prologue that these zombies are the dead children who were killed in the 1913 mineshaft explosion . The movie gets very confusing , and hard on the eyes , due to its lack of providing its audience proper lighting where most of the action on the screen comes across as if it takes place in a mineshaft with the only light available being that on a miners flashlight helmet . We also get this zonked out religious fanatic Aaron Hanks who's constantly quoting the Bible , the Old and New Testament , and acting or thinking that he's the late Charlton Heston playing the part of Moses in the film " The Ten Commandants " ! Hanks even goes so far in him imitating " Chuck " Heston , as Moses , in him insisting that the Tunny's smear blood , any blood would do , on their doorpost in order to avoid the Zombies from entering their house and having them for dinner . This was like Moses having the Israelites doing the very same thing to prevent the evil spirit or " Angel of Death " from killing their first born as written in the book of Exodus . By far the most confusing , and ridicules , sequence in the film had to do with Sarah going out to get groceries and then getting involved with a bunch of local spaced out teenagers who pass the joint , as well as downing a couple six packs of beer , around for entertainment . Sarah's new found friends tell her all about these zombies , who seemed to have be around and active for decades , but at the same time are not that interested in avoiding them ! The beer guzzling pot smoking teens thus end up , with the exception of Sarah , being the zombies main course dinner . SPOILERS It became evident , from the moment he came on the scene , that it was William Carlton , the great grandson of the late coal mine tycoon Eban , who the zombies were really after . William a first class jerk who treated everyone in the area like dirt , or coal dust , wanted to buy up everything around the old Tunny House turning it into a multi-million dollar ski resort . It may well have been William's arrogant and brainless , in that he should have known better , actions that brought the dead , the zombies , back to life . Instead of letting the dead stay dead William by planning to dig up their graves , in the long sealed up mineshaft under the Tunny House , was what really got them pied them off . The outraged zombies in being awakened from their long deserved sleep soon let William know what they thought about him and his future plans-in no uncertain terms-at the conclusion of the movie !
She want's me to kill her ! That's the whole point ! The woman is completely deranged !	( There are Spoilers ) Revenge insanity and murder is the menu in the movie " The Ex " that has successful architect David Kenyon played by a John Cassavetes looking Nick Mancuso who's being stalked together with his wife Molly , Suzy Amis , and five year-old son Michael , Hamish Tildesley , by his deranged ex-wife Deldre , Yancy Butler . Deldre just released from a mental institution is now back in town to make her Ex-husband David's life as miserable as possible . Working out for hours at a time at the local gym Deldre had developed a hard as rock body and uses it not only to attract men but , after taking them up to her hotel room , to beat their heads into the bathtub wall and then drown them . David seeing that Deldre is making his life a living hell tries to talk her out of harassing him and his family David also wants Deldre to get help before she ends up killing herself together with those she feels are a threat to her , but to no avail . Deldre is hell-bent to destroy Daivd's marriage and career even if it kill her . The movie has Deldre impersonate her psychiatrist Dr . Lillian Jonas , Babs Chula , to get to Molly and her rambunctious son Michael without David knowing about it . Finding out the truth about Deldre's plan David kicks her out of his home . Later Deldre traps David in a number of very sticky situations with her attempting to jump out of her hotel window that David saves her from doing . Deldres action left her body black and blue which has her going to Molly , and the police , telling her that David attacked beat and raped her . Having a video tape of her and David involved in an S & M session while they were married Deldre uses it to prove that he's a pervert and sexual degenerate . All this has David's attorney Mr . Endicott drop the case defending him against the charges that Deldra has filed against David . Dr . Jonas realizing that her patient Deldre is completely out of control confronts her at her apartment threatening to heave Deldre sent back to the institution , that she was just released from , if she doesn't go back their voluntarily herself . This has the crazed Deldre do Dr . Jonas in by shoving her head into a water filled bathtub drowning her . Obvious and predictable ending with Deldre in her insane attempt to destroy everything that means anything to David , Molly & Michael . Later things begin to turn sour on her with Deldre and her grand master plan of destruction , that took seven year to dream up formulate and put into motion , going down in flames as the movie comes to an end . Not at all that convincing the movie " The Ex " is a bit to heavy-handed in it's theme about a woman out to get her ex-husband with him not at all that sympathetic . David was , until he met and married Molly , on the same path of self-destruction as Deldre was in his wild lifestyle of drugs sex and all night partying and drinking binges . It was that David's Ex-wife Deldre was so much worse then he was that he didn't come across so unlikable and sleazy .
X Rated	SPOILERS An airborne homicidal lunatic is on the loose over the skies of America and has gunned down some half dozen passengers planes and their crews . The imminent psychiatrist Dr . Norris , John Elliott , has come to the conclusion , by treating WWI vets with combat-related mental problems , that the crazed pilot is a deranged WWI ace who's still fighting the war and trying to run up his score of kills in the air . Dr . Norris also deducts that the airman , dubbed Pilot X due to the white X makings on his plane , is also suffering from split personality syndrome making him look and act normal when he's not in his WWI fighter ace mode . Getting together with Jerry Blackwood , John Carroll , the hero of the film and US Aironotic inspector Gallagher , Willard Kent , Dr . Norris concocts this plan to trap and catch Pilot X by playing on his arrogance and bravado . Inviting the WWI aces in the area , feeling one of them is Pilot X , Dr . Norris is curtain that the killer would show up to throw off suspicion , on himself , and at the same time give him a chance to match wits and bullets with the other air aces , running up his score of kills against the best in the business , ace combat fighter pilots . The movie has Pilot X leave messages that has the other aces go in the air and meet him in air-to air combat with almost all of them getting shot down by Pilot X . USAAF ace Let . Douglas Thompson , Wheeler Oakman , was mistakenly shot down by the hero of the movie Jerry Blackwood when Pilot X secretly painted a white X on the side of his plane and then having him shot down by Jerry thinking that he was Pilot X . In the final sequence Jerry and nutty Capt . Saunders ( Pat Summerset ) , who himself already lost his mind , took off to take on Pilot X with Jerry's girlfriend Helen , Lona Andre , stuck in Saunders plane's back seat . Jerry shoots down the insane Pilot X and , later on the ground after his plane crashed , reveal his identity . Great aerial photography with the exciting air to air dog-fights between Pilot X and the flying aces of WWI made the movie , despite it's unbelievable story , worth watching . There was also a weird and hilarious scene with the off-the-wall Capt . Saunders completely flipping out of his head , over his experiences in the First World War , that ranks right up there with the great classic film crack-up scenes in movies like " Maniac " in 1934 and the great " Reefer Madness " in 1938 .
Unidentifiable	SPOILERS Hard to follow Columbo TV movie that seems to get lost as soon as one of the main characters secret agent / operator code name Geronimo , Leslie Nielson , is sent to the Santa Monica piers in the middle of the night . This to contact his drop man Larry Melville , Otis Young , about some payoff in gold worth $350 , 000 . 00 . The man who sets this whole operation up secret agent / operator Nelson aka Brenner aka Colorado ( Patrick McGoohan ) suddenly poops up , after Melville checks out , and whacks the startled Geronimo over the head with a tire iron cracking his skull and killing him . The film " Identity Crisis " never seem to explain just why Nelson murdered his fellow agent Geronimo since it wasn't for money . The $350 , 000 . 00 in gold was just an excuse to get him to the pier . So you could only assume that it had something to do with a dislike of him by agent Nelson . Maybe Nelson , in his suspicious mind , felt that Geronimo was working against the agency that they were both employed by . Using the name A , J Henderson as cover Geronimo was impersonating an advertising executive and that's what the L . A police at first thought who the dead man was . Nelson engineers an elaborate alibi to cover-up his murder of Geronimo but as smart as he is he forgets about the time difference of a surprise news event that he mentioned happened , six hours before it did , that Nelson foolishly dictated into his office tape recorder for a speech he was to deliver the next day . This totally blew his alibi that he wasn't at the scene of the crime , Geronimo's murder . Let . Columbo is put on the case and in his usual nagging and irritating manor gets under Nelson's skin by constantly badgering him to the point where he almost confesses to his crime ! just to have Columbo stop pestering him ! As the story begins to drift out to sea with no one able to figure out just what's going on we have Melville brought back into the picture , as the last man to have seen Geronimo alive . Only to have him doubled-crossed by his contact Steinmax , also Nelson is disguise , who has his car " fixed " and blown up after a midnight meeting ! For some reason Nelson / Steinmax just put enough explosives in Melville's car to only shake him up not kill him ? We soon get to see both Nelson's and Geronimo's boss agent X-9 or Phil Corrigan , David White , who shows Let . Columbo an identification card that looked about as authentic as a phony business card you have made up for yourself in order to impress your friends , or enemies , or a girl you want to take out on a date . Agent X-9 also disappears from the scene after he's introduced to Let . Columbo , and the audience ; just to show that agent Nelson and the late Geronimo were actually legit . We suffer through an almost non-stop battle of wits , or BS session , between Let . Columbo and agent Nelson for the last twenty or so minutes of the movie . To keep the audience from passing out , from boredom , there's a totally useless scene where Lt . Columbo at a local gas station is fumbling around with his change in order to pay , $4 . 50 in gas , for filling up his jalopy . It's then that Nelson , from out of nowhere , drives up and gives Let . Columbo a ten dollar bill for his troubles , was this all supposed to be comedy relief ? You didn't even realize that the movie ended and that Let . Columbo got his man , Nelson , to confess to his crime . Nelson or actor McGoohan , seemed so uninterested and unmoved to what Columbo was telling him , about his alibi in the Geronimo murder being full of holes , that he looked as if he lost his concentration in trying to play a guilty man being exposed . McGoohan read his lines with almost no show of emotion , or any shock of being exposed and caught , at all !
It must be the the cold air up there that does it !	SPOILERS Extreme and outrageously overacted psycho on the loose film that that has to do with the junior executive Patrick Husman , Wolf Larson , of a multi-million if not billion dollar cooperation . Patrick feels that he's being jerked around by the cooperation's president as well as his mentor the highly successful pull yourself up from the bootstraps and easy going ahhh shucks and folksy David Hawkner , James Brolin . Mad that his promotion to be president has been delayed another five years when David is voted by the company board to continue his leadership Patrick plans , he's not just quit sure how , to fix his boss so that he'll never be able to work , or be president , again . The opportunity comes sooner then he thinks with a planned trip to David's winter cabin . It's there where Daid plans to put young Patrick through the ringer to see if he's got what it takes . Patrick out in the wild with both David's and his wife Clair Hawkner & Bella Hausman , played by Kelly LaBrock & Courteny Taylor , on his own secretly plans to do in David . Sabotaging David's snowmobile Patrick hopes that he'll break his neck when he rides it only to have both Clair and Bella jump on the vehicle and end up crashing in the snow . With Clair badly hurt but alive it turns out that Patrick's old lady Bella got the worst of it snapping her spine in the accident , purposely engineered by her creepy husband Patrick , and killing herself . With Clair in bad shape and David not being able to get in touch via short-wave radio with the nearest ranger station some 100 miles away he decides to take off on his snowmobile himself to get help . What David didn't know is that the now stir crazy and dangerous Patrick had sabotaged both his short-wave by ripping out the connectors and snowmobile by filling his spear gas tank with water . With David away Patrick begins to play with poor and injured Clair's mind and later body by torturing both of them . Clair gets wise to Patrick at what he's up to when she secretly hears him calling the ranger at the nearest ranger station a guy named MacReady , George Tosliatos , on the " broken " short-wave impersonating David and telling him that all's well . Knowing that she's in danger Clair gets a gun hidden in the cabin to protect herself but can't get her hands on any bullets . The remainder of the film turns out to be a bizarre cat and mouse game between Clair & Patrick with each one taking control of the situation and then playfully torturing each other , I guess just to pass the time away . It's then out of nowhere ranger MacReady who smelled a rat , when he talked to Patrick on the short-wave and didn't get the sign-off code from him , unexpectedly pops up out of the blue . Finding Patrick tied up , it was Clair's turn to play victimizer and him victim , the foolish ranger MacReady frees him not knowing that he , not Clair , is the one who lost his marbles . With Clair suddenly coming on the scene , to continue her torture of the tied up fruitcake , Patrick now free and as crazy as ever chase both her and MacReady out of the cabin with MacReady runs to get his snowmobile to check out , together with Clair , of the place . Patrick getting a hold of Clair's gun and a box full of bullets blows MacReady away together with his snowmobile and shoots and wounds the fleeing Clair . The movie get's ever more insane with what seemed like the dead and buried MacReady later coming back from the dead , and looking like he just fell head-first into an oil spill , and again getting shot , this time for keeps , by a now totally out of his bird Patrick . The ending has David , who despite being hopelessly lost in the woods , coming back to save Clair from the now murderous and hopelessly deranged Partick . With what looked like an armored personal carrier and a squad of heavily armed rangers David & Co . finally blew the crazed lunatic away . Run of the mill thriller with both James Brolin and Kelly LaBrock , Courtney Taylor was killed off almost as soon as we were introduced to her in the film , overshadowed by the wild obnoxious and in your face Wolf Larson as the cute and lovable psycho killer Patrick Hausman . I could just imagine him , Patrick , taking over David's company which David had planned all along ; he would have driven almost everyone in it to drink quit or kill themselves .
Gray Matter	SPOILERS Brian de Palma has made a career of imitating the works of directors like the late Alfred Hitchcock and the present Italian director Dario Argento . In his movies Brian sometimes hits and his films are quite good with his own unique type of stylish surrealism that enhances the Hitchcock and Argento-type like scenes . Sometimes Brian misses and his movies turn out to be both mind-bending and confusing messes . " The Fury " is one of Brian de Palma's misses . Brian de Palma's attempt to strike gold for the second time with a " Carrie " like film about telekinesis in his movie " The Fury " . Instead " The Fury " bit off far too much then it can chew and in the end it ended up chocking itself to death . " The Fury " has two , not one like in " Carrie " , young persons with telekinesis powers in two different places . When they finally got together at the end of the film all hell broke loose with people flying out of windows and spinning like tops on the ceiling until all their limbs flung off their body . This was very good visual effects for the time being but the very bad plot development in getting a hold of what the movie was trying to say . Peter Sandza , Kirk Douglas , spends the entire movie looking for his son Robin , Andrew Stevens , after he was kidnapped in Israel by Peter's friend Ben Childress , John Cassavetes , and co-worker in some secret US government agency where they both worked for twenty years . Ben staging a fake terrorist attack in order to kidnap Robin and at the same time kill Peter . Peter survived and wounded Ben with a blast from a assault rifle , that he took off a dead attacker on the beach , that cost Ben his left arm . The reason for kidnapping Robin is that he possesses a strange and powerful telekinesis talent that the agency that Ben still works for wanted to use against the enemies of the USA . After a number of wild goose chases in Chicago and with the help of Gillian Bellaver , Amy Irving , who has the same telekinesis powers that Robin has both Peter & Amy track down Robin to some safe-house outside the city . he place is run by the agency that Ben works for . Robin sensing that Gillian , his psychic twin , is nearby and goes wild and insane feeling that he'll be killed by Ben & Co . and then be replaced by her in their telekinesis experiments . Robin ends up killing his handler and lover Susan , Flona lewis , by spinning her to death . Ropin also has a number of the staff who tried to restrain him lifted up off the floor and thrown out the window to their deaths . With his poor and confused father , Peter , flung out the window together with him only to have Peter grab Robin's arm and hold on to a ledge . Robin then fights his father off and falls to his death . With a despondent Peter , after seeing this , throws himself to his death landing besides Robin . Later Ben alone with Gillian trying to smooth talk her into going along with him in his plan to use her Telekinesis powers for the US . This line of total BS on Bens part has Gillian go completely insane and use those powers on him and blast him to bits , like he was cooked inside a microwave oven . Gillian end up telling a startled Ben to go to the place where the sun don't shine yet where it hot all the time . The movie " The Fury " just never took off and seemed to go nowhere with Kirk Douglas as Peter running around Chicago like a lunatic from place to place at one point with nothing on but his underwear . Peter was such bad news to almost everyone who tried to helped him that they ended up being killed . John Cassavetes was darkly effected as the evil one armed man who was responsible for all the bad things that happened in the movie . In the end he got just what he so rightfully deserved . Both Amy Irving & Andrew Stevens were unstable as well as psychic in their roles as the twin whiz-kids of parapsychology causing involuntary movements in both people and objects . What really made " The Fury " so bad is that you could not build up any sympathy for no one in the film . From the evil Ben to the desperate Peter to the helplessly unstable and confused Gillian & Robin . . just no one !
The Devil's Encyclopedia	SPOILERS Checking out a story a year old involving David Fielding newspaper reporter Slone is shocked to find that David has completely lost his mind and is spending most of his time in a padded cell . Not saying a word David clutches on to this crucifix as if it meant dear life to him . It's when Slone shows David a photo of his missing collage professor Dr . Waterman that he goes berserk and in the struggle with Slone and a number of hospital orderlies he loses his crucifix . This has the normally passive David get so disruptive that he has to be strapped into a straight-jacket . At David's attending doctors , the renowned Swedish physician Dr . Johanson , office Slone hears a tape that Dr . Johanson made a year ago when David was admitted to the hospital . Overlooked at first as the ratings and ravings of a madman the tape soon reveals the truth about what exactly happened to David and his collage friends Jim Susan & Vicki and why David cracked up because of it . In an hour long flashback were given an insight to the strange happenings in and around Dr . Waterman's cabin in the woods and how it effected David and his friends . It turned out that Dr . Waterman found this " Book " on one of his travels in the Persian Gulf that , by him deciphering it , opened the door to a world of monsters devils and demons . These demons in the end not only drove Dr . Waterman mad but also took his life . The " Book " was later found by David and his friends hidden in a cave by this local crazy man who was more then happy for the befuddled collage students to take it off his hands . That happiness was later turned to grief when the crazy old guy paid with his life for wantonly losing it . Were also introduced in the movie to this Ranger Rick-like Forest Ranger who calls himself Mr . Asmoteus . Mr . Asmoteus who's really in control of everything that's going on in the movie want's that " Book " and will do anything , even opening up the very gates of hell , to get it . Mr . Asmoteus also has this weird habit of twisting his mouth and lips around , like a sexual pervert , that has drops of saliva dripping off them as he if he was suffering from the aftereffects of a fatal king cobra bite . SPOILER ALERT Constantly attacked by monsters that Mr . Asmoteus conjured up the collage students end up all dead with the exception of David who escapes and is then run over by a driver-less car as we saw at the start of the film . It's then back to the present that the curse put on David by the evil forces from Dr . Waterman's " Book " come into play . Those forces are about to be put into motion by no-other then David's demonic-possessed and zombie-like girlfriend Susan !
Whoever did it tore them both apart with his fingernails !	( There are Spoilers ) formula TV movie about a werewolf terrorizing a bayou community , Marsh Island , who turns out to be one of it's most respected citizens . David Jassen as the barley awake Sheriff Aaron Whitaker has his work cut out for him in tracking down this ruthless killer who seems to appear and disappear in and out of thin air . At first thinking that the brutal slashing and dismemberment of Ellie Barrifors was the work of a pack of wild dogs in and around the bayou Sheriff Whitaker has a posse rustled up to track down and shoot the canine killers . But later when the unseen killer breaks into the local jail-house and tears to pieces Whitaker's deputy Ted , Robert Phillips , and Ellie's hot-headed brother Larry , Geoffrey Lewis , that Whitaker , and the local townspeople realize that he has a psycho on the loose with the strength of an 800 pound gorilla . It takes a while for the people of Marsh Island to figure out what's happening with the " hairy one " covering up his tracks and causing the entire population to hide in their homes with the doors and windows locked shut . We later learn that the killer is " one of us " but with a sever Blackwater Fever condition that causes him to grow hair and fangs and go out in the woods and bayous hunting for human flesh . Even though we see a number of times in the film the sight of a full moon it doesn't doesn't really have any effect on the killer one way or another as he seems to become a wolf-man not because of it but because of his lack of medication . We finally get a chance to see this wolf-man when he reveals himself while in the hospital for his , among his many other medical problems , sinus condition that caused him to pass out at the smell of burning sulfur . The wolf-man wrecks the entire place and takes off into the woods for some fresh and clean air to relieve his sinuses . Coming back home , to his palatial estate , for the grand final the killer werewolf gets himself killed by what seems like the only person in town who isn't at all interesting in killing him ! But the only person who has the power , with him planting in her room the gun with the blessed silver bullets , to do it . The only thing that turned me off about " Moon of the Wolf " is the depiction of the werewolf himself who was about as scary as any of the characters on Sesame Street . Looking like someone who didn't shave for two weeks with a 1950's greaser-like hairstyle . It would have been much better to keep the werewolf , like in the first half of the movie , in the shadows for the entire movie and let the audiences imagination run wild to what he looks like . Instead of having him reveal himself and showing just how comical looking he really is .
Hot Rod Man	SPOILERS Drive-in type movie with bar fights car chases and crashes explosions country music pretty girls badder then bad bad guys and a good guy who's just too good to be true . Where in the end everyone gets whats coming to them good and bad thats what the movie " Roadhouse 66 " is all about . Beckman , Judge Reinhold , a spoiled rich kid driving home to California is almost killed by a gang of local toughs Hoot Dink & Moss , Alan Autry Kevyn Major & Peter Van Norden when his 1955 Thunderbird has it's engine almost shot out after he had an altercation with them on the open road in Arizona . Picking up hitch-hiker Johnny Harte , Willem Dafoe , after his car broke down Johnny fixes the Thunderbird so that it can get to the nearest town Bowman Arizona where Beckman can get a new radiator . While at Bowman Beckman and Johnny meet two pretty local girls who happen to be sisters Jesse & Meilssa Duran , Kaaren Lee & Kate Vernon , who really take a shine to them . The boys get a new radiator at Sam's car junkyard and Sam , Stephen Eillott , lets Beckman keep his car in his junkyard garage . Everything seems fine until the three toughs who tried to run Beckman off the road , Hoot Dink & Moss , show up and things really start to get messy . Decent little movie with Willem Dafoe being Mr . Super-Cool as well as a pretty good guitar player . Hoot later beats the hell out of a very drunk Beckman who bet him in a game of pool at the Roadhouse Bar . It's then that Johnny comes to his rescue and ends up smashing up the entire bar in a fight with Hoot . Johnny pays for the damage that he did by going on the stage where his former band just happened to be playing and belt out a song " Marie Marie " that had the bar crowd go wild . Later Beckman decides to enter the " Roadhouse 66 " car race , a race restricted to cars that are pre-1966 models , against Hoot and his gang . It's later that his Thunderbird is set on fire in Sam the junkyard man's garage by Hoot and Sam is killed in the fire trying to put it out . With Jesse giving Beckman her car for the race Johnny who left town to get away from all this excitement and danger later shows up to race in the " Roadhouse 66 " car race with Moss ' car . Moss just had it with both Hoot & Dink after they almost killed him for warning Beckman not to go to the garage where his Thunderbird was set on fire . This time the car race was a lot different then the one at the start of the film with Hoot trying to shoot out Johnny's car engine after he caused Beckman to crash his car in the race . That was after he , Hoot , secretly dropped a scorpion on the front seat that almost stung and killed Beckman . Hoot ends up being up-ended for his effort with his car smashed and him left for dead and losing the race with both Johnny and Beckman ending up with the two girls Jesse and Melissa at the end of the film . It was brought out in the movie that the reason that Hoot gets away , until the end of the movie , with all the trouble that he causes in the town of Bowman is because his dad is a top judge in the state of Arizona . It seemed that his dad didn't teach Hoot a very important lesson about the rule of law that would have saved him a lot of bumps and bruises which is simply : " Crime Doesn't Pay " .
If you can't trust the police who can you trust ?	SPOILERS Much like the Clint Eastwood 1973 movie " Magnum Force " the film " Officer Down " is about a group of corrupt policemen who take the law into their own hands and go on a killing spree offing all the major drug dealers in the city of L . A . The killer cops are lead a a religious psycho officer Philip Gammon , Casper Van Dien , who we learn later in the movie is the son of a top L . A police commander Donald Hallows , Ted Shackelford . Hallows who himself turns out to be so unstable in his actions that he has his gang of crime cops turn on even innocent bystanders who were willing to give evidence to the drug killings , in order to protect the identity of the cop killers . Hallows even has the killer cops go a step beyond even killing innocent citizens by having honest cops , and their families , who got wind of what's really going on murdered by his dirty cops ; which makes them even more dangerous then the most hardened and vicious criminals in L . A . The best reason for seeing " Officer Down " is the many aerial photography scenes of L . A in it but the story itself is hard to take . Not that there aren't any corrupt cop in LA in real life but the cops who are breaking the law in the movie are so stupid and ridicules that you wonder why they weren't caught before the film even began ? Sherilyn Fenn as Det . Kathryn Shaunessy is a bit too melodramatic as the good cop up against the system that's protecting the wrong doers in the department . Kathryns partner Det . Gary Hill , Jerry Knoll , is totally unbelievable as her partner who's , you guessed it , one of them but doesn't seem know it . Garry is totally unconscious in what trouble he's putting his innocent partner into by his actions . We get to see the good side about Gerry with the explanation of him taking $100 , 000 . 00 of dirty money from his crooked police captain Taggert ( Larry Drake ) who's another high ranking crook in the department , to pay for his sick fathers medical bills . Casper van Dien is also hard to take in his zombie-like and murderous actions that are so outlandish that even his dad , Commander Hallows , a high ranking member of the LAPD had trouble covering them up .
I get sentimental when you hold me tight so come on squeeze me , but please don't tease me	SPOILERS Monster from the deep , the Amazon River , type of movie involving what seems like two giant anaconda constrictor snakes , who measure up to 40 feet each , that are on the prowl . The snakes attack a river barge with a film crew making a documentary about the mythical " People of the Mist " a tribe of natives lost to civilization for some 5 , 000 years called the Shirishama . The movie " Anaconda " starts off with what's obvious , with it's title and after the long introduction that we get , a giant anaconda attacking this radio post in the middle of the Amazon basin . The Killer snake has the person at the controls , snake poacher Danny Trejo , so terrified that after trying to hold the unseen serpent off with his hand gun , unsuccessfully , puts it to his head and pulls the trigger . Back on the barge the passengers and their skipper captain Mateo , Vincent Castellanos , start the long trip into the dark and unexplored Amazon Jungle and soon run into this weird Paraguayan river rat who's lost at sea , or in the river , Paul Sarone , Jon Voight . Up until Sarone shows up the movie seems to be going nowhere fast but as he tells the head of the documentary team Anthropologist Dr . Kale , Eric Stoltz , that he knows where to find the " People of the Mist " he's given practically cart blanch to do and go where he want's . What Sarone really wants is to sail into dangerous snake country that's been rumored to have a number of giant anacondas mating and breeding there . Sarone is obsessed with the giant anaconda , after almost being eating by one , and wants to captured one of these monsters to sell , and have displayed in the zoo of a major US city , for a cool million if not more dollars . It takes a while for the crew to realize to what Sarone is really up to but as he becomes more and more unstable and shows his true hand by getting a number of the people on the barge , including Captain Mateo , attacked and eaten by this giant anaconda it becomes obvious what Sarone is trying to do : capture with a tranquilizer dart gun the killer anaconda alive ! With The persons on board just having enough of the crazy snake obsessed Sarone they band together overpowering and then tying the lunatic up . Lost in the wilderness of the Amazon Basin , thanks to the misinformation given to them by Sarone , the new skipper Englishman Warren Westridge , Jonathan Hyde , accidentally runs the barge aground by this waterfall . Having cameraman Danny Rich , Ice Cube , and the director of the project Terrie Flores , Jennifer Lopez , together with Westbridge go out in the water to dislodge it and then sail home to the waterfront town of Manaus makes things even worse . It's then when we really get to see the giant snake go into action finishing off almost the entire crew and giving Sarone just the chance he needed by strangling , like a giant anaconda , with his legs the film projects assistant Denise Kalberg , Kari Wuhrer , who's guarding him and then make a clean getaway . During all this confusion Danny ends up killing the rampaging giant snake , with a number of basts from a rifle to it's head . Just when you think that the movie is about over , with it's star the big snake dead , another giant anaconda this one bigger and even more aggressive and deadly comes on the scene ! You just know that the snake is out looking for a good meal by the way it AGGGGH regurgitates everything that it swallows , man and beast , being that it doesn't consider them to be grade A quality includingSPOILER ALERTthe wild and crazy as well as dangerous Paul Sarone . Almost unwatchable final sequence that has the big snake have it out with both Terrie and Danny who are being held as bait by the craze Sarone , in order to trap and capture the killer snake , only to have it turn the tables on him by catching Sarone with his guard down , and using up his last tranquilizer dart . Looping Sarone with a number of giant coils the snake then snap crackle and pop the guy to death . There's two more scenes with Sarone and the snake that are so gruesome and at the same time eye opening , and also fascinating , that I just can't find any words to describe them . You'll just have to see them for yourselves and then have your stomach pumped out in order to get you back to normal ! Fairly good special effects make the snake , or snakes , look really frightening . The fact that the snakes move , in and out of the water , at lighting-like speeds makes the anacondas even more dangerous in being able to catch their pray , before even throwing their steel-like giant loops around them , and then crushing or suffocating their victims to death . Jon Voight's acting is without a doubt the highlight of the movie , eclipsing even the killer snakes . With a psycho-like grin on his face , that were told was the result of an anaconda trying to swallow him head-first , and what seems like a cheesy German accent straight out of Hogan's Heroe's Voight made every scene that he was in count . Even after Voight was dispatched by the giant anaconda towards the end of the film he still had enough left , or was it that the snake had enough of him , to make a surprise unannounced and final , it's just too much to expect for anyone to even try to think about it , guest appearance !
Framed	( There are Spoilers ) Trying to get over his wife's Annie untimely death architect Cliff Muphy , James Brolin , is persuaded by his co-worker and very good friend Juliet Powell , Dorthee Berryman , at the land developing company that he works for to go out for the evening with friends for dinner . It turns out that Cliff gets involved with this young woman Jennifer , Isabelle Truchon , who's trying to get away from her abusive boyfriend that later leads him into having a very hot and heavy one-night stand with her at her very expensive suburban home . Just as Cliff , tired and exhausted from his sexual acrobatics with Jennifer , got out of bed to get dressed Jennifer for reasons known only to herself checked out of the place ! Looking in the master bedroom Cliff to his shock and surprise finds his boss at the land development company Mrs . Chambers , Terrence Labrosse , dead from a massive loss of blood with a knife stuck in his back ! Obviously innocent but having no way to prove it Cliff gets in touch with Juliet who , in trying to help her friend , gives him all the cash she has together with a new shirt , Cliff's was soaked with Mr . Chambers ' blood , to skip out of the country . Getting in touch with his lawyer Sara Rudnick , Meg Foster , Cliff is told to give himself up to the police and she'll defend him in court , if indited for Mr . Chambers ' murder , which is what a scared and confused Cliff does . What Cliff doesn't is that he's been set up right from the start to take the fall for his boss ' murder and the woman who he was with the night that Chambers was killed , Jennifer , wasn't what he at first thought that she was , Chambers ' wife ! It's a race against time and the time is quickly running out for architect Cliff Murphy as all the evidence points to him and only him as being Mr . Chambers killer . Cliff soon realizes what a sap he was for falling right into the trap set for him , with even his lawyer Sara Rudnick not believing his fantastic story , and what clinched it is at his trial . At his trial the real Mrs . Chambers , June Chadwick , is called to testify against Cliff who turns out not to be whom he thought Mrs . Chambers , the woman he has an affair with the evening Mr . Chambers was found murdered , was ! The very mysterious and elusive Jennifer ! Determined to prove his innocent with all the evidence , in his frame-up , fingering him as Mr . Chambers killer Cliff makes a daring escape from prison and then goes out on his own to find who set him up . It then when Cliff comes to the startling conclusion that it had to do with Mrs . Chambers , the grieving widow , herself ! Mrs Chambers and her secret lover used Jennifer to frame Cliff in the murder that they both manically planned and later murderously perpetrated ! Shocking final ending , if a bit unbelievable , where Cliff gets to the bottom of both who murdered Mr . Chambers as well as who set him up in the murder . The big stumbling block to Cliff proving himself innocent is if he'll be able to have anyone , with the police minutes away , believe him if those involved stick to their preconceived stories as well as air-tight alibis !
The lack of police do make the streets savage	SPOILERS The first thing that I noticed right at the beginning of the movie " Savage Streets " , and then waited and waited until the film was just about over , is that there were no police or law enforcement personal in the movie at all . This in a film with a murder a hit and run killing a rape drug dealing and brutal beatings and a gory final . With three persons getting stabbed chopped and burned to a crisp sprinkled throughout the movie until the very last scene when all the damage was already done and there was nothing left for the cops , who finally arrived , left to do to but to clean up the mess . There was a brutal rape and beating of the movies star Linda Blair , Brenda's , sweet and innocent but hearing impaired and mute sister Heather , Linnca Quigley , by a gang of drug dealers Jake Vince Fargo & Red , Robert Dryer Johnny Venocur Sal Landi & Scott Myer . This outrage happens at the school gym that lasted for what seemed like a hour . With nobody hearing what was happening to poor Heather and calling for help . Even after she was found later there were no police at the scene at all . There was also the scene where Jake throws another high school girl and good friend of Brenda Francine , Lisa Freemen , off a high bridge to her death in broad daylight with cars zooming back and forth with nobody bothering to call the cops . There was another scene at the MX disco where Jake and his friends savagely beat two persons almost to death with again no police being call to stop the bleeding . In fact the band playing didn't even miss a beat in their song as if the beating of the two was part of their act . Linda Blair is at her friskiest and sexy best as Brenda in the movie as she takes on all comers . Having it out with Cindy , Rebecca Perle , who accused her of stealing her boyfriend Wes , Brian Mann , in a really wild cat fight in the girls gym shower . Later in the classroom Brenda has Cindy running for her life and from embarrassment as she pulled off her blouse and left her topless . Brenda also takes on the brutal drug gang after she found out who beat and raped her sister and killed her best friend from Vince . Vince got sick when he was forced to participate in the gang-rape and beating of Heather and finally quit the group , which later cost him his life , when they murdered Francine . In full battle attire Brenda finishes off both Fargo & Red with a arrow from her cross-bow right in Fargo's throat . Then , after he slipped and fell , having a pair of bear-traps close around Red's leg and neck causing him to bleed to death . As well as her giving Jake such a work over that even Jason Voorhees of " Friday the Thirteenth " fame wouldn't have survived it . With Jake doing a good imitation of the movie " The Towering Inferno " at the end of the film .
I don't want to miss a single detail !	SPOILERS Actor John Beck's performance , as psycho killer and rapist Lee , is by far the best reason to see " Nightmare Honnymoon " . Without Beck being in the movie and doing his " thing " the film would come across as just your average run of the mill TV Movie crime thriller . The movie itself has newlywed couple David & Jill Webb , Dack Rambo & Rebecca Dianna Smith , witness a contract murder by Lee and his partner Sandy , Roy Jenson , of the manager of the motel that their staying at Mr . Carroll , David Huddleston . Being spotted by Lee & Sandy both David & Jill are held hostage by them with Jill , while David is knocked unconscious , being raped . It's later when David finds out what happened to Jill he goes out of his way to track down the two killers to exact revenge for what they did to his wife . It's when David finds out who contracted the two killer to murder Mr . Carroll his business partner Ruskin , Jay Robinson , he realizes that they aren't professional hit-men flown in from out out of town but local hoodlum who aren't all that professional at all . This explains the bizarre actions of Lee , and to a lesser extent Sandy , that leads David right to their doorstep at the New Orleans Royal Hotel ! In him trying to finish what he started Lee goes completely wacko in not only trying to again rape Jill but force her husband David to watch the outrage ! The eye popping and sneering Lee gets so caught up with his actions , in him trying to stretch them out , that he gives both David and Jill , whom he's holding hostage , all the time that they needed to finally finish him off . John Beck who usually plays a good guy in the films he's in was never better as the crazed and hyperventilating Lee the hit-man . Even Lee's partner Sandy seemed very uncomfortable being around in him nervously looking , for what seemed like , any excuse to exit the movie . In the end , after Sandy was dispatched by David , Lee was left on his own to face not only a vengeful David , a hand to hand combat Vietnam veteran , but his wife Jill who in the end turned the tables , or her choppers , on him !
Tales from the Ring	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " Ringside " is very similar to the 1940 boxing drama " City of Conquest " in it having two brothers with totally opposite vocations . Joe O'Hara , Tom Brown , is a professional prizefighter who takes his profession of beating his opponent into submission as part of the job even if it , in reverse , happens to him . Joe's brother Mike , Don " Red " Barry , who had since quit the ring and became an up and coming concert pianist takes again up boxing after Joe was blinded in a bout with Middleweight Champion Tiger Johnson , John I Cason . Both thirsting for revenge as well as make enough money for his brother to get an eye operation to restore his sight Mike enters the boxing ring with the pseudonym Kid Cobra . Running up a winning streak of 19 straight victories Mike makes sure that he doesn't knock out his opponents opting to win on points to give everyone , including Tiger Johnson , the impression that he has cream-puffs in his gloves not hands of stone . It's when Mike gets his title shot at the Middleweight Crown that he plans to use his fists to punish and pulverize the unsuspecting Tiger Johnson for what he did to his brother Joe . We also have Mike falling in love with his brother's girlfriend and fiance Janet , Sheila Ryan , while Joe is laid up blind in his left eye in the hospital . With the Middleweight Title now on the line Mike's secret identity is exposed by boxing gambler and tipster Swinger Markham , Tony Canzoneri . It was Markham who also tipped off Tiger Johnson's handlers that Joe had an injurer left eye which Johnson took full advantage of in his defense of his hard won title . This news of Kid Cobra's true identity brings Mike's brother Joe rushing from his hospital bed to the boxing arena to plead with him not to kill or seriously injure Tiger Jonhnson for his or anyone else's sake . Even though Mike was supposed to be the sensitive and non-violent , in him being a musician , type he developed a vicious hatred to the point of killing someone in his attempt to avenge his brother . Joe being in the boxing business , from the point of taking and giving punches , had a far more honest feeling about what Tiger Johnson did to him . Being in the ring to win you have to be able to take as well as give punches and it's up to the referee the ring doctor or the fighter's , who's being badly beaten , handlers or even the winning fighter himself to have the fight stopped . By grudgingly following his brother's Joe's advice Mike not only became the Middleweight Champion of the World but was thus able to pay for Joe's eye operation . Mike was also able to live with himself in not killing or seriously injuring an opponent in the ring which would haunted him , if not right away but later , for the rest of his life . P . S " Ringside " also featured the former 1930's Lightwieght Champion of the World Tony Canzoneri , looking like a miniature Two Ton Tony Galento , as the " heavy " in the film playing Swinger Markham .
Blood and Water Don't Mix	Charles Bronson plays investigative reporter Garret Smith for the Denver Tribune in this motion picture about a blood feud between two brothers , of different Mormon sects . With outside political as well as economic overtones . A decent story about religious jealousy and the behind the scenes politics of exploiting it . The feud between brothers Willis , Jeff Corey , and Zenas , John Ireland , Beecham is instigated when Willis ' son's Orville's , Charles Dierkop , family is massacred . Willis believes that it was the work of Zenas and starts an all out war against his brother which ends with both brothers getting killed . But there's something else that has nothing to do with the feud between the brother's that's central to the story : A lake of artesian water under brother's Zenas ' property that can be used to turn common and plentiful shale into valuable and scarce fuel oil . Charles Bronson is still believable , at age 67 , as the tough reporter that gets to the bottom of the story with his fists as well as his typewriter to uncover the truth about Orville's family being murdered . As well as who ordered it that instigated a war between his father and uncle and why . With the exception of the beginning the movie " Messenger of Death " cuts down on the violence and concentrated more on the story which made the movie more interesting to watch . And also gave the audience more time to think who's behind the murders that happened to the Orville Beecham family which built up to a better then average ending . The ending of " Messenger of Death " though a bit contrived and what seemed forced still tied the story together and made it believable . One of Charles Bronson's best later efforts when he was still effective as an action hero , or in this case an action reporter , on the screen .
That was the end of a beautiful friendship	( There are Spoilers ) " Scandal Sheet " really goes deep into how big money can corrupt even the best of friends . Especially where it's used by the likes of a clever and manipulating sleaze ball like the publisher and editor of the scandal sheet " Inside World " Harold Fallan , Burt Lancaster . Trying to get an inside story about actor Ben Rowan , Robert Urich , we see how those who work for Fallen do their jobs at the beginning of the movie . Catching the troubled actor at an unguarded moment , coming out an drug & alcohol rehabilitation center , Ben is so upset by Fallan's vultures , his reporters and photographers , setting him up to make him look like he's still drunk that he almost ends up back in the tank for attacking the pasty and obnoxious " Inside World " employees . Fallen learns that Helen Grant , Pamela Reed , is having trouble at the New York City news magazine " Lifestyle " and starts to go to work on her by pressuring a money strapped Helen to move to the west coast , all expensive paid in order to work for his rag at a starting salary of $80 , 000 . 00 . It soon becomes obvious why Fallen is so interested in Helen to work for him ; she's a very close friend of both actor Ben Rowen and his wife Meg , Lauren Hutton . Fallan feels that Helen who knew and roomed with Meg back in college can get him the big story about Ben's secret life , due to him confiding in her , and then splash it all over the front page of his tabloid . Not interested at first to work for Fallan's " Inside World " Helen falls for his pitch in letting her write only true stories for his magazine not the made up sleaze and garbage that's usually printed in it . Fallan also exploits Helen's , a single mom , concern in getting her son Bobby , Robert Jayne , into a safe and decent private school that her salary at " Inside World " can provide for him . Instead of the tough and dangerous public schools that he's forced to attend back in NYC . It's not long before Helen realizes what Fallan want's from her ; to betray her best friends Ben & Meg by getting the dirt on them after being accepted and taken into their confidence . It's hard to watch " Scandal Sheet " since it has nothing in it that you can cling on to and give you , like the people in the movie , any hope for the end of the movie uplifting itself . " Scandal Sheet " has one of the most depressing endings I've ever seen . Ben , who was a major film star , trying to get his life back together is given the leading role in a 25 million dollar motion picture after being off the screen for years due to his acute alcoholism . With those financing the film not being able to pay the high insurance premiums for the movie , because of Ben being in it , to start rolling Meg who's also staring in the movie gives up her entire salary , $800 , 000 . 00 , to pay it . It's when Helen is forced by Fallan and his sidekick Simon McKay , Peter Jurasik , to pick up the document of Meg's payment to keep her husband Ben in the film , which they paid off the studio secretary to give them a copy of , that she saw just how low Fallan & Co would go to get the big story and tore it up replacing it with a blank sheet of paper in protest . Helen who was earlier thrown out of Ben and Meg's home when she innocently told them that she worked for Fallan's paper , which more then anything else drove Ben to drink , didn't quite realize the damage it did to both their lives with that document . Helen trying to win back Ben & Meg friendship by refusing to have anything to do with a story that Fallan wanted her to do about Ben's inability to get work without the help of Meg has Fallan pull out his ace in the hole . With that Fallan reaches a low that even he didn't think he could achieve but it did the trick and brought Helen back under his control . Fallan's paper in the end not only destroyed Ben's chances for a comeback in the movies but drove the depressed and sick man to have a fatal heart-attack with Meg left all alone and at the point of having an emotional collapse . Helen herself has her self-respect and dignity ripped away from her and at the same time she's hated and despised by Meg who holds her , even more then the slimy Fallan , responsible for her husbands untimely death . With the front page story of Meg's payment of Ben's insurance policy which Fallan , falsely and maliciously , gave Helen credit for . Trapped in Fallan's employment with no outside jobs or money available for Helen to pay her expenses as well as being cleverly put in debt to Fallan she had no choice but to play the whore for the big money she's paid . Helen is now willing to do everything , no matter how low down and sleazy , he demanded of her even to sneak into the church and photograph the body of Ben Rowan , as he lies in state , for Fallan's scandal sheets next front page story .
Call me Ishmale	SPOILERS We see what looks like a video taped recording of Ellen McCarthy's , Marlo Thomas , last will and testament where she , in a number of segments throughout the film , spills her guts out in regards to her late husband Grove McCarthy , William Devane . Grove a pillar of strength and economic independence in the community has disappeared in his sail boat some two weeks ago and has been given up for dead by everyone but the towns top cop Det . Hal Kazin , Vondie Curtis-Hall . It's not that Det . Kazin doesn't believe that Grove is dead he feels that he was murdered , not lost at sea , by his wife Ellen . As we soon see Ellen has trouble telling the truth which has to do with where she was at the time of her husbands disappearance . There's also the fact that Grove's financial institution , the fastest growing in the USA , has been misappropriating hundreds of millions of dollars from its many depositors in an elaborate Ponzi Scheme that Grove was suspected of engineering . The plot starts to thicken when Grove's partner and best friend Ken Sprading , Andrew Robertt , starts to get cold feet and tries to have Ellen somehow do his dirty work for him in implicating her husband , who's body has yet to be found , in the Ponzi Scheme . It later turns out that Ken himself set Grove up and then took off with the cash leaving Grove to try to Ponzi his way out of the trap that Ken put him in . It's later when Grove's body , as well as sail boat , is recovered that it becomes evident that he didn't kill himself as at first believed but was murdered ! The question now is who murdered Grove with the whole town of Fairfield as suspects ! SPOILERS We finally get the lowdown , through Ellen's shocking video tape , to what were the circumstances that lead to Groves death and they aren't very pretty . It was a family affair in Grove getting himself smashed and losing control of his senses and libido . This had him hooked , in the neck , to death with a shocked Ellen being the one who ended cleaning up the mess . Despite being a real sicko and in your face alcoholic who even wanted to get his teenage step daughter Katie , Emily Barclay , smashed on champaign Grove was an innocent victim of a financial crime that he in fact had nothing at all to do with . It was Groves weakness as a human being that was exploited by those who bankrupted his business that brought the very worst out of him . And in the end it was Grove who took the rap , posthumously , for those who used him in obtaining their ill gotten gains !
The forest keeps it's secrets	SOME SPOILERS Eric , Chris Mulkey , a Hollywood screen writer is about to go to the ballet with his beautiful wife Alicia , Lysette Anthony . As soon as he leaves his garage Eric hits what looks like a jogger running on the street . As Eric leaves his car to see if the jogger is all right the jogger takes out a gun and shots him point blank in the chest . Four months later with Eic recovered form his wound he and Alicia take a trip to the country to help in his recovery by breathing the fresh and cold forest air . Renting a cabin from Bill , Michal Champion , a local hunter Eric & Alicia plan to have nothing but peace and quite staying there , how wrong they were . Both Eric and Alicia are warm and cozy until later in the night when Kale , Peter Dobson , arrives at their door telling them that his van broke down and if he can stay over for the night until morning when he can go down the road where it is to fix it . What Alicia and Eric don't know is that Kale is an escaped convict who just murdered Bill's daughter Sarah , Alina Thompson . With the unsuspecting couple not knowing how dangerous Kale is they overlook a number of red flags that should have been obvious to them . Kale's fascination with guns and axes and asking Eric , who was in the marines , how it felt to kill people . The next night as Kale is showing Eric his scar from an accident that he had he ask Eric if he can see where he was shot , after Eric got very sick drinking some booze and told him that he's been having trouble ever since he was shot four months ago . Kale suddenly attacked Eric knocking him out then puts him in his van which miraculously started working and dumped Eric into the cold and dark forest some miles down the road . Coming back to the cabin with Alicia alone and everybody watching the movie expecting the worst to happen what happens is much worse then what anyone in the movie audience ever expected . Pretty good movie with an Alfred Hitchcock like twist and a terrifying and exciting final that will keep you at the edge of your seat , and even after the surprise , that will shock you down to your boots late in the film . Well worth the effort to sit through , you won't be at all disappointed watching it .
The Wasps and the Bees	SPOILERS Decent Roger Corman film about the goings on in a top cosmetic company and the story of it's CEO and founder who hit upon hard times when her looks who were the companies best advertisement began to develop wrinkles as she began to approach middle-age as did the companies , in being cut in half , profits . Cosmetic Queen Janice Starlin , Susan Cabot , needs something to jump-start her falling business and just then pops in Eric Zinthrop , Michael Mark , an eccentric scientist . Zinthrop's experiments with wasp royal jelly has brought on his subjects , hamsters dogs and cats , miracles in retarding the aging process and bringing them back to their youth . Seeing first hand and being convinced by Zinthrop's experiments Janice eagerly volunteers to be injected with Zinthrop's serum and becomes more youthful looking as the injections continue . But like most women Janice feels that she not youthful enough and starts , against Zinthrop's advice , to take them by herself and in larger and larger dosages . As Janice becomes more youthful she also becomes more waspish and wasps especially a queen wasp are dangerous and deadly creatures . The acting is much better then you would expect from an early Roger Corman horror movie . Even though you don't see Janice transform into the deadly Wasp Woman until almost in the last third of the movie which makes the horror scenes very limited but their still both shocking as well as effective . The very good acting by all involved in the film keeps you interested in the story up until the horror and action scenes starts . Even though Janice is both a small and delicate woman , even made up as the Wasp Woman , she's very physical aggressive and frightening in all her action scenes in which all her victims are far bigger then she is . Zinthrop being more or less the mad scientist type in the movie was anything but mad but very concerned for Janice in his experiments on her and it was Janice who went too far not him in pursuing them . " The Wasp Woman " is one of Roger Corman's better earlier movies with a sound plot and top notch acting By Susan Cabot , Michael Mark , Arthur Cooper Anthony Eisley and the very likable Barboura Morris that rises the film above the B-Horror movie that you would have thought that it would be .
I only wanted to scare him ! I didn't want to hurt him !	SPOILERS Traveling down from L . A to the little town of Rocky Valley Texas to see her sister Linda , Gigi Rice , that she hasn't seen for some 15 years Martha , Lonie Anderson , get's caught up with the towns dirty little secret that involves her little sister's ex-convict husband Eddie , Greg Evigan . Stepping off the bus Martha sees Eddie and a gang of hooded and club swinging goons chase beat and , with Eddie taking off his ski-cap , shoot this man Larson , Bobby Sargent , to death . Reporting the Larson murder to the police Martha doesn't realize hat Larson's killer is her bother-in-law which causes a lot of friction between her and her sister whom she's staying with . Friendly at first Eddie notices that Martha is a bit weary , if not very fearful , of him every time he's in the same room with her ! Later , even before Martha told Eddie what she knew about him , Eddie puts all his suspicions about Martha into prospective , in that she knows that he's a murderer , and become outright hostile towards her . Having reported Larson's murder to the police Martha is stuck in Rocky Valley since she's to be called as a witness at D . A Akin's , William Converse , inquiry and grand jury in Larson's death . At the same time , by being the only eye witness to the murder , have the towns power-broker and man Doyle Potter , Barry Corbin , is behind the Larson's murder as well as that of the murder of farmer Archie Maddox , Joe Stevens , the week before . Both Larson & Maddox were in the way of Potter getting built a giant industrial park that will will make him millions . Potter a large and very violent man with an asthmatic condition , he's always using an inhaler even when he's got his head covered with a ski-mask , is determined to keep Martha from talking and wrecking his planes to make Rocky Valley the envy of the Lone Star State , even if he has to get her killed by doing it . Martha for her part in bringing out what she knows about Larson's murder and the person who murdered him her sister's husband Eddie , who not only works for Potter as a grease monkey but is also one of his top henchmen , has put Linda and both her and Eddie's children Timmy and Emily lives in very serious danger . Potter and his hoods put the squeeze on Martha by at first trying to get her to shut up by scaring her off and later going so far as planting a bomb in her motel room , that almost kills her and Linda , and even try to run her down in front a number of witnesses in front of the Broken Spoke Bar where Linda works as a waitress . Martha really gets under Potter's skin when she tracks down , at a school for troubled and mentally impaired children , little Tina with the help of Potter's guilt-ridden old lady Hilda , Anganette Comer , who it turns out is the late Archie Maddox's daughter . Potter put Tina in that school under the falsified name of Katie Bass , and is the person legally entitled to her father's property , the property that Potter bought after his death at a state auction ! With his far flung real-estate empire about to got to pot , and him ending up behind bars , Potter pulls out all stops getting his gang of murdering cutthroats to go so far as to kidnap Eddie's children Timmy and Emily and then shoot down the now wiser but a still a bit naive Eddie . Martha behind the wheel of her car seeing the now crazed and out of his bird Potter about to finish off the down on the ground and badly wounded Eddie floors the accelerate and barrels her car into Potter's massive , from too many six-packs , frame . Thus putting an end to both him and his ambitions to be the top dog in the world of Texas real-estate .
What scares you the most is what makes you stronger	( Some Spoilers ) Updated version of the Jack London classic " White Fang " the movie " Silver Wolf " is one of the most beautifully photographed outdoors movie that you'll ever see . Sarting off with the star of the film , the gray wolf Silver , getting shot by rancher John Rockwell , Roy Scheider , and his teenage son Clay , Jade Pawluk . The wounded and bleeding animal is later found in the woods barley alive by Roy McLanan and his 16 year-old nephew Jesse , Micheal Biehn & Shane Meier . Wanting to shoot the wounded animal to put it out of it's misery young Jesse talks Roy , a park ranger , from doing it by wanting to adopt the wolf as his pet . Hasitent at first Roy agrees to take the wolf , who because of it's white fur coat is named Silver , back to the cabin . After some hair raising experiences , where Silver almost bit off a couple of Jesse's fingers , the wolf bonds with Jesse and becomes like a domesticated dog the boys best friend . Jesse had being going through a very depressing time as of late when his dad Frank McLean , Shaun Johnston , fell off a snowy cliff , saving his life with Jesse holding himself responsible for his fathers death ever since . It was Silver who was to fill the void that the loss of his father left in his life and bring him out of that depression . But at the same time it was the fact that Silver is a wolf that was to cause Jesse , and his uncle Roy , big trouble for the rest of the movie . With John Rockwell , who was the one who first shot Silver , the president of the local cattlemen association every thing was done by him and his fellow gauchos to put the wolf down . Even after he was domesticated by Jesse & Roy and was also allowed to enter the annual cross-country skijoaring contest , with Jesse . Which Silver won despite being tormented by John's son Clay who the wolf , incited by Clay sticking a wooden whip in it's face , later attacked . Jesse had become very friendly with John Rockwell's pretty teenage daughter Lucy , Kimberley Warnat , and to her father's shock and despair she also became very friendly and accepted by Silver . In the end Roy realized that the only way that Sliver could be kept from being shot by the outraged John , who's son he almost scared to death by tearing into , but not injuring , is to send the wolf away to a local zoo . Jesse feeling that a life in captivity would be as good as a death sentence for his beloved Silver get together one early morning with Lucy and takes Silver in Roy's van into the deep woods around the majestic Cypress Mountain . It's there that lets him loose , with both John and his son Clay trying to gun down Silver , to reunite with the wolf pack that he was separated from when John shot him in the beginning of the movie . Moving and exciting little film about a world that most of us well never see outside the movie house TV and books and magazines and the people and animals who are part of it . Both Shane Meier and Kimberley Warnat are wonderful as the two young people from two totally different backgrounds who are brought together by a common bond , and friend ; Silver .
Girls in Trouble	SPOILERS Standered slasher movie that has the new deputy in town , or in in this case on the island , Jack Gales , David Keith , confronted with not just the suspected suicide of a local Catholic school girl Gwen , April Telek , but the disappearance of some dozen other Catholic school girl students over the last ten years from the same school ! Jack trying to get a handle on what's happening is stymied by the Mother Superior , Pamela Perry , who want's to keep what's going on in her school under wraps and from the public . It's as if she's's hiding the real reason for all these mysterious incidents involving runaway as well as dead students in her school . It's later that Jack together with the Mother Superior's assistant soon to be nun Cristina Herrera , Alyssa Milano , uncover the truth about what's really behind all these disappearances as well as Gwen's suicide . This happens only after a number of other persons including student Suzy , Jennifer Copping , and the island's handsome and horny delivery boy Eric , Steve Bacic , end up becoming the unknown and unseen killers next victims . Spoiler from this point onwards Were given a number of suspects to who's behind all these ritual-like murders which turned out to be false leads resulting in the tragic suicide of the Catholic School's somewhat creepy Headmaster Mr . Gray , Peter Harlon . Jack together with Cristnia soon realize that with the sole exception of Gwen all the murdered and missing students had gone to confession and it was their confessions to sins that they committed that lead , as it later turned out , to their brutal murders ! The killer for once , in a made for TV suspense movie , came as a real surprise coming out of almost nowhere and then having it out with both Jack and Cristina who , like the audience , never saw him coming . The real reasons behind all this murder and carnage in the movie turned out to be a false sense of rightness on the part of the demented and crusade , in stomping out all the evil in he school , minded religious psycho . Mentally deranged and totally obsessed with his , or her , own sense of doing GOD's work the killer in fact was doing the work of the Devil instead . This was later reviled in what the killer , besides murdering , did to the victims of his ten year long rampage .
Sir the Piranhas are eating the guests !	( Some Spoilers ) Tongue and cheek " Jaws " like horror movie that has thousands of genetically altered piranhas stream into the Lost River , and it's tributaries , cannonballing their way into the newly opened Aquarena Springs Resort eating everything , man woman and child , that's in their way . Paul Grogan , Bradford Dillman , who was helping insurance investigator Maggie McKeown , Heather Menzies , try to locate a couple who were earlier eaten by the killer fish finds out that the restricted area that the piranha's were being kept was a top-secret military base by the Army . It was used to create cold and salt water piranha's for use in the Vietnam War against the Communist North Vietnamese . Getting the low down about the super piranha's from the man who was responsible for creating them Dr . Robert Hoak , Kevin McCarthy , Paul and Maggie have to work against the clock as well as the local police who are working in concert with the military . Col . Waxman , Bruce Gordon , tries to keep the truth from coming out in order not to embarrass the top brass in both the Pentagon and CIA . Col . Waxman also has a secret financial arrangement with sleazy and big-mouth promoter Buck Gardner , Dick Miller , in his mega amusement park and resort which is situated on the Lost River where the piranhas are now on the rampage . Trying to get the people around the Lost River to stay out of the water has both Paul and Maggie arrested by the police , who are under the control of Col . Maxwell , but eventually escape . Not after the piranhas attack the Lost River Camp where Paul's daughter Suzie , Shannon Collins , is spending the summer . The killer piranhas also eat half the campers as well as savaging the camp's drill sergeant-like counselor Mr . Dumont , Paul Bartel . With what seems like there's nothing left too stop the fish from reaching the sea and multiplying by the millions and then swimming back into and infecting every river lake and stream in the USA Paul with the help of Maggie has only one , slim as it is , chance to stop them . To open up the valves at the local water-treatment plant and let out all the pollutions that would kill the killer fish before they make it to the ocean . Scenes of piranhas looking like a cross between humming birds , when their attacking people , and kindergarten cardboard cutout , when their in formation in the water , don't exactly lift the movie to special effects Acadamy Award winning heights . The acting by a number of high profiled horror actors and actresses like Kevin McCarthy Barbara Steel , is as the cold as a frozen fish . Dr . Mengers and the always reliable Bradford Dillman Dick Miller and Buce Gordon does lift " Pirahna " well above the average run-of-the-mill 1970's and 1980's horror flick , or " Jaws " imitation , that you were used to seeing back in those days .
Mommy's Mummy	SPOILERS Being in-turned for over 3 , 000 years the wicked Queen Tara's tomb is discovered by a British archaeological expedition and at the same moment that Tara's tomb is discovered the head of the expedition Dr . Julian Fuchs , Andrew Keir , wife dies giving birth to a daughter in a hospital in London . Everone who entered the mummy's tomb and took artifacts from it are doomed to die when Fuch's daughter's Margarte , Valerie Leon , reaches , what I would assume to be , her 21th birthday . Dr . Fuch's gives Margaret a large red ruby ring that he took off the severed hand of Queen Tera , that after 3 , 000 years still dripped blood , to keep her form falling victim to the curse of the mummy , so he thinks . It turns out that Margaret is the reincarnation of the evil Queen Tara and at the time she reaches her 21th birthday her body and soul is to be be taken over by the wicked Egyptian Queen . All the people involved in the expedition and who took objects from Queen Tara's tomb , the ruby ring the statues of a cobra and black cat and the skull of a jackal , end up being brutally killed with their throat slashed . Even the doctor who delivered Margaret , as her mother died in childbirth , at the London hospital ends up with his throat slashed . The final scene , in the basement of Dr . Fuch's house , has to do with this " Scroll of life " also found in Queen Tara's tomb that was taken by one of the members of the expedition team Corbeck , James Villers , that's supposed to bring Tara back from the dead . This all leads to a collapse of the house where Tara's body , in mint condition , is being kept by Dr . Fuch's that pulverizes everyone , including Queen Tara , to dust . Margaret who survived the carnage is last seen in the hospital covered from head to toe with bandages and looking like a mummy herself with only her eyes exposed . It's just too bad , being in the condition that she's in , that Margaret's unable to tell those in attendance what happened to her and those in the basement with her . Decent Hammer Studio production that has it's scary moments and most off all it's star the voluptuous Valerie Leon both as the mummy Queen Tara as well as Dr . Fuch's daughter Margaret . The story is a bit strained in some parts but it still holds your attention and never gets boring . We also get to see Miss . Leon in most of the scenes revealing a lot of her God-given psychical attributes that she displays in tight and low-cut , up to a foot under her neck , blouses .
Sorcerer	SPOILERS Surreal melodrama that goes in a number of different directions . Until you realize what really happened to defeated senatorial candidate John Waylan's , Peter Strauss , wife Kathy , Kathleen Quinlan . Who's been missing it what seemed to have been a boating accident . Newspaper reporter Nat Leming , Horthgar Mathews , is out to break the big story about John wife's mysterious disappearance at the house that they were living in by the lake in the woods . Nat tries to get whatever information about the Waylands that he can from those who knew them . Like John's campaign manager Tony Carbo , Peter Boyle , and Kathy's sister Pat Hood , Nancy Soral . But Nat gets nowhere and it also seems that he's in some way holding himself responsible , for what happened to Kathy . By a story that he broke about her husband John just days before the election . Finding out that John was involved in the infamous Son My massacre when he was a US infantry man during the Vietnam War Nat broke the story that broke the the back of Waylan steamroller that was well on it's way to put him in the US senate . With a 22 point lead evaporating over night John is left out of work without a job and a bleak future with the words " Baby Killer " stamped on his forehead . Were left a bit confused to what happened to Kathy and what John had to do with her disappearance , if at all . Most of all were shown what John has been going through not only since Vietnam but far earlier in his life when he was a young boy fascinated with doing magic tricks . At the time we meet john he looks like he's a shoo-in to get elected senator of the state of Minnisota . As his campaign falls apart , due to the revelation about his Vietnam experience , he turns inward and just gives up by living in a fantasy world that he created for himself . Were never really told what happened to Kathy , the viewer is shown a number of different scenarios . So in the end it's left up to the viewers imagination . One thing that isn't is that John is a very sick man who lost touch with reality . Due to the madness that consumed him , by the time the movie is over . One thing in the film " In the lake of the Woods " that was a bit too much to take was the conduct of Sheriff Lux's , Ken Pogue , part-time deputy Person , Stephen E . Mille . Person was so obnoxious as well as unprofessional that I wondered how the sheriff could put up with his actions , that were anything but helpful in finding the missing Mrs . Waylan . Since they crossed the line of investigating a missing person to the point of having him , and his boss sheriff Lux , brought up on charges for making false and unfounded statements about , of all persons , the distraught husband of the missing woman ! We , as well as John , even had to put up with the uncouth deputy Person belting him twice , not once , in the mouth in full view of a number of witnesses , including Sheriff Lux . With John doing nothing at all to provoke him ? Guilty or not John has the right of being considered innocent until proved guilty in a court of law . Persons actions would have made any trial of John be thrown out of court by the presiding judge . In fact John was never even arrested much less charged with Kathy's murder . All I could think of in explaining Deputy Person's uncivil behavior is that he must have had friends in high places in government for him to feel safe in acting that way .
The Burning Question ?	SPOILERS Originally titled " Tell Your Children : The Burning Question " the movie " Reefer Madness " was released as an educational film for Americas youth back in 1938 ironically a year after Marihuana , as it's spelled and pronounced in the movie , was made illegal in the United States . It didn't take that long for us to find out just how dangerous it was after it being legal since the days of the Revolutionary War . George Washington himself , the father of our country , is said to have grown it . The movie over the years turned out to be one of the biggest reason for Americas youth getting hooked on drugs via Marijuana then were hooked on drugs by all the Columbian Drug Cartels put together . The fact that the movie was so inaccurate as well as ridicules about " pot " it actually made it seem " cool " for the rebellious youth of the 1960's and 1970's that it became a " Cult Classic " . Where people watching it in the movies back then would be encouraged to be stoned out of their heads instead of being repulsed and revolted from smoking it like the movie intended them to be . In fact the movie " Reefer Madness " did it's part in creating the " Drug Generation " thats still with us today . If the movie was more accurate about Marijuana and how it's use can lead to more dangerous drugs it would have been more effective in warning Americas youths as well as adults about the risks of smoking it . But the movie " Reefer Madness " message was just the opposite by telling those who watched it that Marijuana was more dangerous then Opium , Morphine and Heroin combined . The movie starts out with a forward on the dangers of " Marihuana " a violent narcotic and unspeakable scourge . Were then introduced to Dr . Carroll , Joe Forte , who's speaking to us on how the forces of law and order are risking life and limb to put an end to this scourge . Were also told that we the American people must do our part in eradicating that scourge by educating our children about the terrible dangers of " Marihuana " . Dr . Carroll tells the theater audience as well as the PTA group that he's addressing in the film about an event involving " Marihuana " that happened not too long ago in the town which they all live in . But this time , from Dr . Carroll , their going to get the real story of what happened . Dr . Carroll tells us about a local group of young people who got caught up with smoking reefers which led to death insanity and suicide . In some of the most outrageous and funniest scenes ever put on film were shown drug parties with a stoned out piano player looking like an escapee from the movie " One Flew Over of the Cuckoo's Nest " and simulated sex among people with their clothes on that went as far as the censors back in those days would allow them to go . One of the young people in the story Bill , Kenneth Craig , accidentally kills his girlfriend Mary , Dorothy Short , when he gets into a fight with one of his friends Ralph , Dave O'Brien , who he catches fondling her as all three of them are stoned on pot . Another young man Jimmy , Warren McCllum , Mary's brother runs down someone in the street with his car while he's smoking a joint . We also see Ralph go insane and attack and kill Jack , Carleton Young , the local drug pusher who tries to kill Ralph because he's afraid that he'll crack and spill the beans on him and his drug suppliers to the police . Finally we get to witness the last tragedy in the movie with Mea , Thelma White , the woman who with Jack threw the drug parties for the youths in her apartment . Mea after confessing everything to the police which gets Bill off from being charged with murdering his girlfriend Mary , who Jack accidentally killed , she jumps to her death out of the window of the courthouse as she's being led away to jail . Bill who was found innocent of killing his girlfriend is made to stay over in the court to see just how dangerous " Marihuana " is and how lucky he was to get off the stuff . Bill is cured of his addiction to pot just by seeing his hopelessly drug addicted friend Ralph , in handcuffs with his eyes bulging out of his skull . Ralph is then sentenced to life in a mental hospital for the criminally insane due to his addiction to " Marihuana " . The movie ends with Dr . Carroll warning us that only through the knowledge about the scourge of " Marihuana " can we safely protect our children from the ravages that we just saw in this movie . Then in the final and most emotionally packed scene of the film Dr . Carroll tells us that the very next victim of " Marihuana " may very well be your son or your daughter or yours or yours and then he points his finger straight at the audience and says threateningly OR YOURS ! The movie " Reefer Madness " by trying to be serious about the uses of Marijuana back in 1938 turned out to be one of the most funniest and unintentional comedies ever made .
Thank God that this time he's on our side	( Some Spoilers ) Updated and modernized version of Mary Shelley's classic " Frankenstein " where the monster is a NASA constructed astronaut named Frank Saunders , Robert Reilly . Frank is slated to be the first " Man " to both travel and land on Mars but things get a bit haywire for him when his rocket is shot down by an alien craft outside the earth's atmosphere . The alien craft contains the last remnants of the Martian civilization that was destroyed in an atomic war . The captain of the craft is Princess Marcuzan , Marilyn Hanold , who's the only surviving woman of the Martain race . With her is the cue-ball headed and giggling Doctor Nadir , Lou Cutell , who's the mastermind in the Princess ' plan to kidnap scores of sexy shapely and child-bearing earth women and use them , with the help of the surviving Martians males , to replenish the dying Martian race . Crash landing in Puerto Rico Frank is attacked by a number of Martian spacemen trying to take him captive . Escaping from the Martians with the left side of his head blown away Frank mindlessly roams the Puerto Rican beaches and countryside trying to get help only to scare to death anyone he runs into . Meanwhile the Martians are quickly grabbing , on the beaches and from tourist hotel swimming pools , dozens of sexy and bikini clad young women to take back home for breeding purposes . It when Frank's creator NASA engineer Dr . Adam Steele , and Frank's human girlfriend also a Nasa employee Karen Grant , Nancy Marshall , track down the confused and frightened brain damaged astronaut that they set him straight . It's then when Dr . Steele reconnects Franks damaged electoral circuit's , that he finally get his act and head together . The highlight of the movie is when Frank in his attempt to save the kidnapped young women is confronted , as a last resort by the Martians , by the space monster a hairy looking creature with what looks like crab or lobster claws . The fight between Frank and the space monster goes on unabated as the women , that includes Karen , make their escape from the spaceship . Grabbing a ray gun from one of the Martian crew members Frank breaks into the captains quarters and finishes off both Princess Marcuzan and Doctor Nadir who are desperately trying to get back to the safety of their home planet Mars . In the end Frank like selfless and brave hero that he is gives up his life by blowing the Martian spacecraft to pieces and thus prevent another Martian invasion of earth in the not so distance future . This is the first and only movie that I can remember where the Frankenstein Monster , Captain Frank Saunders , was actually shown in a positive light where he ends up saving lives instead of taking them . Frank , before he got his head almost blown off , was unlike in the previous Frankenstein movies a fairly good looking guy not the tall nut bolted Golem that were used to seeing since he made his inaugural appearance back in 1931 . It's just too bad that in " Frankenstein meets the Spacemonster " like in all the other " Frankenstein " movies the big guy had to be killed off at the conclusion of the film . It would have been a far better ending if he , after getting his damaged head fixed , would have ended up marrying Karen , thus she becoming the Bride of Frank or Frankenstein , and live happily ever after .
Counterfeit Film Noir	SPOILERS Semi-documentary movie about a convicted counterfeiter Tris Stewart , Lloyd Bridges , allowed to escape from custody as he was being transferred from Atlanta to Kansas City in order to have him unwittingly help the FBI and police find the counterfeit ring using the plates that he had hidden to flood the West cost with fake $20 . 00 bills . Tris get in touch with his girlfriend Laurie , Barbara Payton , in L . A not knowing that her apartment is being bugged by the FBI . With the police knowing every move that Tris is making they set up a trap from him only after he finds who printing the phony money and where the fake $20 . 00 bill plates are . Tris finds out from his former partner Sam Hooker , Douglas Spencer , that he sold the valuable plates to an investment consultant in L . A named Jack Sylvester , James Todd . Going to Sylvester's office in downtown L . A Tris strikes a deal with him on getting 250 grand in fake money for 25 thousand in real money from him , saying that he can have in by the next day . Laurie who works as a cigarette girl at the Chanteclair night club knows a big spender named Johny Hackett , John Hoyt , who's ready to lay out the cash for Tris so he can share the 250 thousand in fake money . What Laurie and Trish and Sylvester don't know is that Johnny Hackett is really John Downey Federal Agent . Everything is going well until one night Laurie overhears at the club one of the costumers who recognizes Johnny as working for the Fed's . Telling Tris about Johnnys real intentions with setting up the deal in order to trap him and Sylvester . Tris instead telling Sylvester about it kidnaps Johnny and has him drive out to a deserted beach and when he tries to shoot him Johnny turns and knocks Tris out . With Tris behind bars Johnny now has to think fast to get Sylvester and the plates and his gang apprehended . Johnny then goes to Sylvester's office and tells him that Tris was caught by the police and is talking and not to answer any phone calls ; knowing that Laurie will call him and expose him to Sylvester as a Federal Agent . Johnny talks Sylvester into leaving his office and take him to his hideout where he has his counterfeit operation in order to seal the deal with the 250 thousand fake to 25 thousand real switch . Sylvester in return plans to take the real money and counterfeit plates and check out of the country to Mexico . Johnny also got in touch with the police to follow him and come to his aid when he's in danger of being found out , since he doesn't have the 25 thousand in real money to make the exchange . Laurie not being able to contact Tris , not knowing that he's in police custody , gets it touch with one of Sylvester's hoods and they both head for his hideout . Johnny taking his time counting the money he's getting in the switch gives the police and FBI time to get there and rescue him . When Laurie arrives and tells Sylvester what Johnny is really all about all hell breaks loose and just in the nick of time the police arrive . For what I still can't understand Sylvester shoots and kills Laurie and then makes a run for it along the railroad tracks outside his hideout . Getting on top of a train car Sylvester sees that he's trapped and put his hands up to give himself up but there's a live wire over his head that he doesn't see and when his hands touch it Sylvester gets electrocuted . Pretty good Film Noir movie but with one major flaw ; Why did Sylvester shoot Laurie who did nothing to set him up to be caught by the police at the end of the film and not shoot Johnny who did ? Lloyd Bridges and Barbara Payton really had sparks flying and electricity surging in all their scenes together and I guess the motto of the movie " Trapped " is " Crime does not pay ; Even in counterfeit money "
Night of the Creeps	SPOILERS Really grossed-out movie by Italian director Dario Argento about this young American girl Jennifer Corvino , Jennifer Connelly , who has the power to communicate with incests . Jennifer uses that power to unearth the murdered victims of a lunatic Who's slicing up people in and around the private girls school in Switzerland that she's attending . We get a handle on the killer with the help of Scottish entomologist John McGregor , Donald Pleasence , who realizes that Jennifer can get in touch , telepathically , with flies . It's the flies who can lead her to the murder victims and thus identify who the killer is . It's suspected that the killer has this tendency to keep his victims at his , or her , home as some kind of trophies of his sick and bloody work . Jennifer ends up running away from school by her being mistreated and made fun of by her fellow classmates and teachers , because of her strange talents , and stays with Prof . McGregor at his home . Trying to get in touch with her father's lawyer Morris Shapiro , Mario Donatone , in New York to come over and take her home Jennifer is approached at the airport by Frau Buckner , Davia Nicolod . It's Frau Buckner who's responsible for bringing Jennifer to the exclusive Swiss girl school . Frau Buckner tells Jennifer that she has a ticket for her to get a flight back home to the USA . The only problem is that the ticket is good for next day and that Mr . Shapiro won't be coming over . With the entire night and next morning to wait for her flight Frau Buckner invites Jennifer to stay over at her place . This sets up the movies blood and guts spilling as well as maggot and fly swarming climax . The films plot doesn't hold together with a number of unexplained and unrelated sleep-walking scenes by Jennifer and the fact that we have no idea if all the killings were done by the same person ; Like the first one by someone obviously not the same killer . Argento more then made up for that inadequacy in the sheer terror and unnerving scenes he put into the movie . It also could be that the US version of the movie " Phenomena " is some thirty minutes shorter making it come across very disjointed . As the killer came out of the shadows it became evident what the killers reasons were sick and deranged right from the start before he even murdered his first victim . A dark past and even darker secret that turned a normal person into a homicidal maniac who blamed everyone for the sufferings and trauma that he , or she , went through . Now everyone regardless of guilt or innocent , in the killers deranged mind , will have to pay for it .
Edith's Secret Diary	SPOILERS Edith Harrison , Mary Currie , has been told by her doctors , getting a second third and even forth opinion , that she doesn't have long to live . Suffering from a weak heart Edith is preparing for the enviable by buying herself an expensive marble monument as her gravestone . Edith has everything engraved on the headstone but her date of death . While Edith is on the way to the graveyard her partying and carousing husband Ralph , Rchard Dix , the artist is getting very friendly with his latest model blond bombshell Kay Morrell , Leslie Brooks , whom he met at one of his many parties that he's always throwing . Kay herself is anything but interested in the middle-aged , he's 53 and she's 24 , Romeo but the fact that he's loaded , with cash as well as booze , makes her overlook that fact . Told by Ralph that the old lady , Edith , hasn't long to go Key sees the end of the rainbow , with the pot of gold , within her reach and agrees to marry Ralph as soon , after a proper period of mourning , as his wife checks out for good . It's turns out that Edith , in a way , double-crossed Ralph by miraculously getting better where she gets as healthy as she was when she married Ralph some ten years ago . Out of bed and up on her feet Edith decides to pay Ralph a surprise visit at his studio not realizing that he just about gave her up for dead and is having an affair with his model Kay . Hiding in a room at the studio Edith's expects to surprise Ralph when he shows up but is shocked to see him , as she's hiding behind a screen , show up with Kay telling her that she's , not Edith , his one and only love . Mad as hell Edith decides to cut the cheating Ralph out of her will and puts that in writing in her diary . Later after Edith confronted Ralph , who was shocked to see her back in the pink of health , with the evidence of his infidelity he decides to do the job that her heart failed to do ; kill her by spiking her heart medication with poison . Edith in fact dies , more from a broken heart then anything else , a few days later but Ralph feels that it was the tampered with , on Ralph's part , heart medication that did her in . SPOILERS Unknowing to Ralph Edith pretended to be fast asleep and saw that heel of a husband of hers Ralph sneak into her bedroom planting the poison and was to later use that evidence , the heart medication , in having him indited in attempting to murder her . With Edith now gone Ralph and Kay soon tie the knot but things don't go as smoothly as Ralph expected them to go . Ralph is guilt-ridden over Edith's death and feels , reading about a similar murder case in the newspaper , that soon the truth will come out about it in that he poisoned or murdered her . It's when Kay has a long talk with Ralph and the late Edith's maid Laura , Clair De Brey , that she realizes that Edith's death was anything but natural which in fact it was ! Finding hidden in the attic both Edith's diary and medication , that Ralph spiked with poison , Kay now feels that he's a wife murderer and if he murdered once he'll surly murder again and she's the wife that he'll murder ! Even though Ralph wasn't a murder he sure as hell acted like one and later his screwed up mind would in fact lead him to commit a murder in order to cover a murder that he didn't commit ! The movie shows that even thinking about trying to murder someone and going through the motions will only lead that person to eventually commit murder . Ralph found out only too late that he was in fact home free , to marry Kay and collect his deceased wife's millions , but his guilty conscience took over and in the end drove him mad . Mad to the point of having him do the unthinkable that would in the end lead him straight to the electric chair .
Don't shoot ! It's Riley from the Department of Justice !	SPOILERS A bit , to put it mildly , over the top as well as heads of the audience watching the film " Pacific Rendezvous " is so overloaded with complicated sub-plots that it just lose it , in trying to simply explain itself , well before the movie is even over . Were shown right at the beginning of the movie that the Japaneses Navy , in the spring of 1942 , has not only gone beyond the Hawaiian islands but within twenty miles outside off San Francisco in sinking US munition and transport ships . This has the Secretary of the Navy Edward Fielding have his intelligence department work overtime in the fact that someone is feeding the " Japs " the navy's secret code . This code tells what the rendezvous points are of every war and transport ship departing the states for the Pacific war-zone . It's then that out of nowhere pops up the smiling and comical William " Wild Bill " Gordon , Lee Bowman , who somehow gets himself in the US Navy as an officer no less . " Wild Bill " in order to prove his patriotism for his country is now itching for a chance to take on the " Japs " on the high seas in deadly naval combat engagements . It turns out that the bragging and not that all secretive " Wild Bill " in trying to impress the beautiful but scatterbrain Eline Carter , Jean Rogers , blew his cover as a code breaking expert . " Wild Bill " tells Eline , who wanted nothing to do with him at first , that he in fact is the person who , using a pseudonym , wrote what's considered to be the definitive work on code breaking . That book is now the bible in every nations intelligence department including the USA . This has Eline tell her Uncle John Carter ( Russell Hicks ) , who assistant to the Navy Secretary , who " Wild Bill " really is ! The guy who wrote the master code breaking book of all times . A shocked " Wild Bill " is soon sent to the safety of a cushy desk job at US Naval Intelligence in D . C not the Pacific war-zone that he's just dying to participate in . The movie has " Wild Bill " figurer out the Japaneses code , which was a piece of cake for him , in no time at all . Even after he almost overdosed , in Eline trying to get him to get some rest , on a bottle of sleeping pills that was slipped into his coffee . It turned out that the US Navy's biggest problem was to trick the " Japs " into thinking that their code wasn't broken . This would have the Japanese Navy attack , and expose itself to the US navy's 16 inch guns , a phantom US troop convoy being shipped to the Pacific while the real convoy was some 300 miles in the other direction out of harms way ! Of course with all these complications and mind games in the movie you have to have some comic relief and that's where Eline and " Wild Bill " come in with their screwball comedy routine . It's amazing that Eline , despite being the niece of the assistant to the Secretary of the Navy , wasn't put under lock and key for the duration of the war . The girl was nothing but trouble in her almost mindless way of doing more damage to her country then the entire Nazi , not " Jap " , spy ring operating in D . C . The Nazi spy ring , helping their ally in WWII Japan , actually infiltrated the home of the head of Naval intelligence Cmdr . Brenman , Paul Cavanagh , with Nazi woman spy Olivia Kerlov , Mona Maris , becoming his secret lover . The commander not realizing until it was too late that Olivia is spying for the enemy gets himself blown away when he tried to catch Olivia in the act . SPOILER FROM THIS POINT ONNow with heat , as well as FBI , on her back Olivia is forced by her superiors to " out " fellow Nazi spy and foreign journalist Adre Leemouth , Carl Esmond , in order to throw them off the track . By now knowing that their , or the Japanese , code has been broken the Nazis kidnap both " Wild Bill " together with Eline , to make " Wild Bill " talk , in order to get the new US Navy rendezvous point to radio back to their Japanese allies . This leads the FBI and police straight to the Nazis hideout in that the rendezvous point that " Wild Bill " gave them was in fact the address to their secret hideout in Washington D . C !
A descent into total madness	( Thre are Spoilers ) A movie that's incomprehensible no matter how you try to describe or explain it . " The Shout " is a film with an irrational story about a lunatic spinning a tale about his experiences from the wild Australian outback to a sleepy little town on the coast of England as he's being examined by a doctor at the mental institution that he's been incarcerated in . This happens during a game of cricket on the hospital grounds between the staff and inmates . Charles Crossley , Alan Bates , is telling his doctor Robert Graves , Tim Curry , how he developed strange and mystic powers while he was living with the aborigines for 18 years in the wild reaches of the Australian desert and perfected among other things the " Terror Shout " that can kill in an instant anyone who's near enough to hear it . Imposing himself on a naive and unsuspecting couple Anthony , John Hurt , and Rachel , Susannah York , Fielding when returning to England Crossley became the guest that just doesn't want to leave . Using what he learned from the aborigines Crossley steals one of Rachel's shoes and casts a spell on it where she becomes madly in love with him giving into his every whim and command . Even sitting at the foot of the kitchen table , like the family dog , and eating scraps that Crossley throws at her as her astounded husband Anthony watches . Crossley talking about the human soul and how it can be hidden in a tree or stone or anywhere else besides the human body and about his power to be able to affect the dreaded " Terror Shout " . Crossley then takes Anthony out into the sheep meadow , where there's no one around , and demonstrates the " Terror Shout " by telling Anthony to stuff his ears with whatever is available to him and then let's it roar . Anthony gets his brains scrambled and almost all the sheep that were in the meadow were killed by Crossleys animal-like howl . Anthony later finding the stone where Crossley's soul resides in and then breaking it that in affect breaks the hold that Crossley had on him and his wife and lands Crossley into the asylum that he is in now . Reliving his story in what looks like a hot dog or refreshment stand on the institutions park grounds it suddenly begins to rain very heavily . As the cricket game is called off some of the staff an inmates start to push the stand where Crossley and Dr . Graves are in away from the downpour . With his talk being suddenly interrupted by all this Crossley becomes very violent and agitated and starts to scream out hysterically . It's then Where Dr . Graves tells him to shout , maybe believing that it would settle him down . That turned out to be a bad mistake on the part of Dr . Graves where Crossley gives out a tremendous and ear-splitting " Terror Shout " where the stand that he and Dr . Graves are in seems to be hit by a sudden bolt of lighting with both Crossley and Dr . Graves as well as a number of staff and inmates of the institution ending up dead . The more that I watch this movie the more I get confused , just what were the writer and director trying to tell the audience ? Or was the film supposed to be a lesson of how a man can become so immersed in his detachment from reality that in the end he descends in to total madness .
Alone in the Bridel Suite ! You must really be in love with yourself !	SPOILERS Perry Mason , Warren William , really has his work cut out for him in " The Case of the Lucky Legs " . Not only does Perry have to find who murderer corrupt promoter Frank Patton , Craig Reynolds , but also find a square meal to keep himself from starving to death . Perry had been put on this crash / starvation diet by his quack doctor Dr . Croker , Olin Howland , who thinks that Perry , looking like he's already suffering from malnutrition , is vastly overweight . Hired by her boss Mr . Bradbury , Portor Hall , to get promoter Patton to give his client the leggy Margie Clune , Patricia Ellis , the $1 , 000 . 00 first place prize that he owe her Perry ends up defending Margie in Patton's murder . Perry discovers that Margie's outraged boyfriend Dr . Bob Doray , Lyle Tabot , who's upset that Margie , in a skimpy bathing suite , would show her legs as well as body off in public was seen hanging around Patton's hotel room just minutes before his body was found . To make things even worse for Dr . Bob the knife , thats used in surgery , that killed Patton came from his personal doctors ' bag ! With Dr . Bob later exonerated in Patton's death Margie , who was seen running from Patton's hotel-room , is now the # 1 suspect in his murder . Perry Mason hiding Margie away at the far-off Oceanview Hotel soon finds out from another " Lucky Legs " winner , whom Patton stiffed , Eva Lamont ( Anita Kerry ) that he's being impersonated by the person who representing her ! It's that individual who it later turns out murdered Frank Patton ! Juggling between getting a bite to eat and proving his client , Margie Clune , innocent of Pttton's murder makes things a lot harder for Perry in the movie . Perry in trying to keep from passing out , from starvation , goes around raiding Margie and her roommate another " Lucky Legs " contestant Thelma Bell's , Peggy Shannon , icebox as well as helping himself to Mr . Bradbury's five course dinner at a swanky restaurant . These weird actions , why didn't he just buy himself something to eat instead of stealing it , gives those of us watching the movie the feeling that Perry is nothing but a moocher not the well heeled , in table manors , and socially refined gentleman that were used to seeing on the both big and small screen . Perry eventually proves Margie innocent of Frank Patton's murder in getting the murderer to be identified by , in his impersonation of Perry himself , his client whom the killer deal with as her lawyer ! If it wasn't for Perry getting himself a well deserved meal , of chocolate cake and sardines , at Margie's place earlier in the film he may not have survived , dying of starvation , long enough to get her off from being charged with first degree murder .
The Cold Hard Truth	SPOILERS Boris Karloff playing a somewhat sympathetic mad doctor , Dr . Leon Kravaal , in this movie still has to pay the ultimate price for his transgressions . Even though in the end his experiments will save the lives of countless terminally ill patients from such horrible and incurable diseases like cancer and muscular scoliosis just to name a few . Having discovered a cure for almost , if not all , every terminal diseases by freezing the person afflicted and then having the cold destroy the infected cells was something that medical science , as well as his colleagues , refused to recognize . They all made Dr . Karvaal into nothing but a fool and charlatan who was just out for the money and publicity . Having disappeared from sight some ten years ago with only his writings , in a little black book , being found at his home on a place called Crater Island . This has Dr . Tim Mason , Roger Pryor , so impressed by what he sees in Dr . Kravaal's book that he continues his experiments with astounding success . But still Dr . Mason needs to have the missing doctor to help him in getting his frozen patients to be successfully defrosted . That in order to make his , and Dr . Kravaal's experiments , a complete success that would be recognized and accepted by the entire medical community . Traveling out to Crater Island with his nurse and fiance Judy Blair , Jo Ann Sayers , Dr . Mason finds inside the old Kravaal home in a freezer Dr . Kravaal himself frozen stiff after being locked in the freezer for some ten years . Amazingly as Dr . Kravell defrosts he comes back to life ! After getting his bearing to being dead , or frozen , for ten years Dr . Kravaal recounts what exactly happened to him . Even more fantastic what happened to the four persons Dr . Bassett , Byron Fougler , Bob Adams , Stanly Brown , D . A John Hawthorne , John Dilson , & Sheriff Stanton , Wally Wales , who were frozen stiff along with him ! The four are in the next room , an adjacent , freezer , still alive like himself and waiting to be thawed out . As usual geniuses like Dr . Kravaal are always misunderstood and treated like insane madmen in movies like this . That causes the good doctor to go wacko and end up killing those , Dr . Bassett Roger Adams D . A Hawthorne & Sheriff Stanton , whom his experiments actually not only saved but proved his point . In freezing the death out of people who are on the brink of death which they all were some ten years ago . Young Roger Adams was the most greedy and ridicules of all those whom Dr . Kravaal offed or did in . Roger grabs his formula , that he wrote on a piece of paper , that would keep people alive while frozen and threw it into the fireplace ! It then where an enraged Dr . Kravall shot and killed him . Why did Roger do such an insane thing ? Because he was now officially dead after being missing for over seven years and not entitle to his uncle Joseph , who's corpse in in the film was played by Lee Willard , millions that he left for him . The ironic part about all this is that Joseph was a patient of Dr . Kravaal who died because of people like Roger who wouldn't let him treat Joseph because they said that he , Dr . Kravall was nuts . It's sad to see that Dr . Kravaal getting shot to death by either the state troopers or Canadian Mounties , it's hard to tell which , at the end of the movie . But he never the less did save Judy , whom Dr . Kravall put into suspended animation , from certain death by freezing her and then bringing her back to life just before him himself expired by having re-discovered the secret formula just before the movie ended when he was killed . In the end Dr . Kravaal in discovering a cure for tens of thousands of person who without it would face certain and agonizing death had been more vindicate for whatever bad that he did in the movie .
Prisoners of Confusion	SPOILERS Highly overdone thriller that could have cut about a half hour and have three or four sub-plots taken out of it to make it really interesting and effective instead of putting you to sleep and leaving you numb by the time that it ended . It's complicated Film-Noir plot has a recovering former alcoholic New Orleans policeman Dave Rebocheaux , Alec Baldwin , and his wife Annie , Kelly Lynch , adopting a little girl Alafair , Samantha Laqpacan . Alafair survived a plane crash that was the result of a bomb hidden on it by the Bubba Rocque , Eric Roberts , mob who got wind that a DEA informant was on the plane smuggling illegal aliens into the US . The ex-cop Dave gets involved with the Bubba Rocque mobs operations as well as with Bubba's hot and sexy wife Claudette , Teri Hatcher , even though Dave had no reason to since he was no longer in the New Orleans Police department . By him foolishly doing that Dave put his wife adopted daughter and himself in a whole lot of danger which in the end cost his wife's , Annie's , life . It also turns out that both Dave & Bubba are good friends going back to when they were both in high school . Dave to leave his quiet and peaceful little business selling fish-bait in the Southern Louisiana Bayou country for the pressures and dangers of the big city wasn't that bright of an idea in the first place . The pressures of the city can easily drive him to drink which Dave has done his best to avoid . The local mob tries to knock off Dave but ends up killing his wife , Annie , which makes Dave even madder and more determined to get revenge . Dave tracks down and kills two of his wife's killers Toot & Romero , Carl A . McGee & Milligan Hawthorne . The third killer is found electrocuted in his bathtub when someone from the Rocque mob , I guess , threw in a turned on radio to keep him from talking . Dave and the audience finds out in the end of the movie who's really behind , together with the Mafia , all this carnage . The ending leaves you cold and jaded because the movie was so long and confusing with so many blind alleys that you just lost interest in it by the time the big surprise was thrown on you . In fact the movie reviled the culprit long before it ended making the whole ending anticlimactic . Alec Baldwin as Dave Rebocheaux does his best to put some believability in his role as well as in the movie but he falls flat on his face since he had no reason at all to be so involved in what was happening on the screen . Dave was no longer a part of the police department and it was theirs and the DEA's job to solve the crimes in the film not his . Dave's actions put people that he loved and were close to him in jeopardy for no reason at all . The movie " Heavens Prisoners " would have been more effective if it stuck to one story like keeping the Mafia and Rocque mob from getting their hands on little Alafair who was the only survivor of the plane crash . Alafair may have known something about who was behind blasting the plane out of the sky as well as it smuggling drugs and illegal aliens into the US . That danger would have Dave and Annie protecting her and keeping the gangsters from killing or kidnapping her to keep her quite . Instead the film went off in some half dozen different directions and by doing that getting everybody in the audience lost following it . The one good thing that Alec Baldwin did in the film besides taking care of the bad guys and doing , or having done , in the person who was responsible for all the chaos , including his wife's brutal murder , was that he did his best not to take a drink in the movie ; even though there were one or two exceptions .
Let's get away from it all	( There are Spoilers ) Escaping from San Quentin prison by hiding on a garbage truck , inside a garbage can , convicted wife-murderer Vincent Perry , Humphery Bogart , jumps out when the coast is clear and hitches a ride back to San Francisco . Baker , Clifton Young , the driver who picked Perry up gets suspicious when he hears a news report on his car-radio saying that a convict has escaped from San Quentin just fifteen minutes ago and then get's the hell beat out of him and left for dead by his new found passenger . Almost at once this young woman Irene Janson , Lauren Bacall , pops up and offers the dangerous escapee a ride back to her pad in Frisco without as much as a thought of the implications of her actions : aiding and abetting an escaped murderer . Watching the movie " Dark Passage " you wonder what exactly does Irene have to do with this convict-on-the-loose Perry ? Why is she risking her freedom by getting caught by the cops with Perry in her station wagon or even possibly her life , by Perry a desperate and convicted escaped murderer killing her , in her actions ? Back at her place with the befuddled Perry , he must have thought that he died in the San Quenin gas chamber and went straight to heaven , soon realizes that Irene is , what we would call today , a Vincent Perry groupie . It turns out that Irene attended his trial every day and not only collected every item in the papers about him but also wrote dozens of letters to the editors proclaiming Perry's innocence ! It's also found out that Irene's own father was convicted , unjustly , of murdering his wife and Irene's step-mother and died in prison , which she didn't want to happen to Perry . Doing everything to make her guest comfortable , Irene buys him new and very expensive clothes and even gives him over $1 , 000 . 00 in cash . Perry now being free is determined to find the person who murdered his wife Greta and clear his name . It's during this time that Perry , with his photo plastered all over the newspapers , runs into this kind and understanding cabbie Sam , Tom D'Andrea . Sam knows that Perry is innocent just by looking at him , what a judge of character , and get's him to see a friend of his disbarred quack-doctor and plastic surgeon Walter Coley , Housely Stevenson . Coley is to give Perry a face-lift , or new face , so he wouldn't be recognized by the police who are on an all-state search for him . It turns out that even a new face can't help Perry with his every move and action giving him away . Perry is also involve in three more deaths while on the lamb which includes his trumpet-player friend George Fellsinger , Rory Mallinson , who he planned to skip out of the country with and end up in , of all places , Peru . Perry also kills Bake , in self-defense of course , who after recovering from the beating Perry gave him tracked Perry down to the home of the rich , and somewhat nutty , Irean . Blake tried to blackmail her , through Perry , for a payoff of $60 , 000 . 00 . By far Perry's biggest disappointment was the demise , by accidentally falling to her death , of his ex-lover who framed him in his wife's as well as Georges murder the jealous and maniacal Madge Rlaph , Agnes Moorhead . with Madge's now gone the only person who could clear Perry of his wife's and George's murders is no longer around to confess to her , not Perry's , crimes . No longer able to prove his innocence Perry has only one option left to at least live out his life in relative freedom ; a one-way ticket to a place called Piata Peru via Benton Arizona and having the star-struck Irene following him there when the heat's off . Like in the movie " Casablanca " with the song " As Time goes By " Bogie , Perry , and his girl in this movie Betty , Irene , have their favorite song that's played over and over again and ends the film with them together . The movie ends with Perry & Irene dancing cheek-to-cheek in a petite ocean-side caf in quaint and quite little Piata to the music of " Your just too Marvellous , too Marvellous for words " .
Black-Out	( Some Spoilers ) The last of the MGM Dr . Kildare series without Dr . Kildare has to do with Kildare's replacement at Blair General Hospital Dr . Tommy Coalt , James Craig . Dr . Coalt a bit unorthodox in his methods in treating patients , one where he has a paralyzed bride recover from her deep depression by having her attend her own wedding in an iron lung with Dr . Coalt acting as the best man . Having numerous complaints and threats of law suits against his hospital because of the bullheaded Dr . Coalt the big boss Dr . Gillespie , Lionel Barrymore , has him farmed out to the out of the way place in the country called Bayhurst feeling that he can't do any damage there , or so her thought . With one of the towns doctor Dr . Burson , Art Baker , going on a two month vacation to war ravaged Europe Dr . Coalt is immediately put in charge of his practice and his star patience Bayhurst socialite Cyntaia . Cynthia had been declared insane by the Grace family doctor Dr . Biddle , Henry Stephson , and what was needed was Dr . Coalt to do the same thing , in writing , to put her way in a sanitarium until she recovers which probably would be never . Dr . Coalt refuses to sign the papers declaring Cynthia mentally unstable until he gives her a complete examination . This her father Mr . Wyndham Grace , Lester Matthews , throw a fit feeling that there's more going on between his daughter and Dr . Coalt then a doctor patient relationship and threaten to have him disbarred . As you would expect from the previous actions of Dr . Coalt he's not at all intimidated by Mr . Grace and his political connections in and out of Bayhurst and as usual does " his thing " instead regardless of the consequences . Still having Cynthia under his care , Mr . Grace had since cooled down a bit , Dr . Coalt starts to backtrack and finds out the truth about the reason for her mental condition . It leads to when she fell on her head from a fall off a horse she was riding . This was all accomplished with the help of Dr . Gillsepie , who showed up unexpectedly , and a dose of truth serum as well as putting a confused Cynthia under hypnosis . Realizing the delicate and dangerous condition that Cynthia was suffering from , a blood clot on the brain , Dr . Coalt had her virtually kidnapped taking Cynthia to to an obscure hospital in Brooklyn where he operated on her removing the blood clot and bringing Cynthia back to normal . Both the operation and flight out of town wasn't as easy as it looked taking some two months . This made Dr . Coalt a fugitive from the law facing at least 20 years for kidnapping as well as losing his license to practice medicine . Showing up back in Bayhurst Dr . Coalt has a big surprise for the very distraught , and about to belt him in his mouth , Mr . Grace and he shows him his daughter in perfect health as a normal person instead of having to be committed for life in a sanitarium as Mr . Grace was about to have done to Cynthia . In the end everyone is happy with Dr . Coalt taking over Dr . Burson's , who retired to Florida to go fishing , practice at Bayhurst with Cynthia completely overcoming both her illness and psychosis . The best thing , , besides Cynthias miraculously recovery , to happen in the film is old Dr . Gillespie finally hitting it big with a one million dollar contribution for his hospital . The donor being one of his most famous and eccentric admirers a little guy , Ben Lessy , who thinks that he's Napoleon Bonaparte ! Like they say anything is possible in the movies .
If the shoe fits !	SPOILERS Very disjointed movie about this " Jack the Ripper " imitator who's out to duplicated his horrific crimes this time in L . A , not London , that he committed exactly , back in 1888 , 100 years ago . After murdering and dissecting , like the " Ripper " did , four of his victims it's expected by the LAPD that the " L . A Ripper " is due for one more , victim more # 5 , to complete his grizzly task . The film " Jack's Back " centers around the L . A Free Clinic " Echo Park " located in the poor and slummy side of town . Working at Echo Park is young and socially conscious minded med student John Westford , James Spader , who's at odds with his pain in the a boss Dr . Sidney Tannerson , Rod Loomis . Dr . Tennerson is always threatening to fire John for shooting off his mouth to the media about how bad those without money or health insurance are treated in the country's hospitals . Working with John is this big sweaty and deranged looking med-student , like John , Jack Pendler , Rex Ryan , who's obviously , just by his actions , the # 1 suspect , to those of us watching the movie , in the " Rippers " killings . Jack doesn't disappoint us by showing up at Denises Johnson's , Daitza Kimngsley , apartment to preform an abortion on her for a cool $200 . 00 ! This in 1988 when abortions were legal in the US and for free in the free clinic-Echo Park - where Denise was a patient at ! We never really get to see what happened to Denise but she ends up dead with Jack now in deep sht in being the last person to see her alive ! With John showing up at Denise's place and finding her dead , with Jack barging down the stairs , it's obvious to him that Jack is the " L . A Ripper " and takes off after him . Trying to take on the much bigger and powerful Jack John ends up getting killed , in his being strung up , by him . It's then that were introduced to John's twin brother Rick , also played by James Spender , who at the moment of John's murder he had a dream of it happening ! By the time Rick shows up the " Jack the Ripper " angle of the movie becomes completely kaput in that the killer fulfilled his quota of murders , five , that the real " Jack the Ripper " committed back in 1888 . Were then bombarded with claims and counter-claims , by the police and Rick , to who the real " L . A Ripper is " . Jack after murdering John had left a suicide note on him where he confessed that he in fact was the " L . A Ripper " which obviously he wasn't ! Rick with the help of his late brother John's fellow clinic worker Christine Moscari , Cynthia Gibbs , then try to track down the real killer of not only John but the five " Ripper " victims . The movie get more complicated by the minute with both Rick & Christine not getting anywhere in finding the killer who seems to be everywhere and everyplace at the same time ! The ridicules ending of the movie has " The Ripper " , now with his identity reviled , again come out of the shadows and attempt to murder Christina while she's sleeping in bed . Why " The Ripper " would want to murder Christina or anybody else for that matter is the biggest surprises in the movie ! He already met his goal , five murders , so why try to improve it by adding victim # 6 to his scorecard ! P . S There's a scene in the movie where " The Ripper " is caught , by Rick , spying on Christina as she's undressing in her apartment . Making a hasty retreat all that " The Ripper " left was his wet shoe prints . Later at his job as a shoe salesman Rick fits the very same shoes on one of his customers , Brian Fats Bender , that was at least a size 14 or 15 ! This made you as well as Rick suspect that " Fats " was the elusive serial killer in that the shoes in both the size and style that he wears fits that of " The Ripper " . It's later when we finally got to see who " The Ripper " really was he was at least half , in hight weight as well as shoe size , the size that " The Ripper " was according to the shoe prints he left outside of Christina's apartment !
Eye in the Sky	( There are Spoilers ) Somewhat silly but still entertaining horror flick involving these aliens who've settled on and around the Trollenberg peak in the scenic Swiss Alps . Ater a number of mountain climbers end up dead or missing it becomes apparent to UN employed Professor Crevett played by a 30 year old Warren Mitchell , who looks at least 60 in the movie , that whatever is creating all this havoc is somehow hidden in the mist , or cloud , hanging around the mountain . Prof . Mitchell has his good friend Amerian investigator of the supernatural Alan Brooks , Forrest Tucker , come over to Switzerland to help him out . Prof . Mitchell together with Brooks determined that some kind of alien creature is using the cloud , that defies science , as cover to kill mountain climbers and then decapitate them ! It's never really explained in the film why these aliens are so hung with the human skull or brain ? The film " Trollenberg Horror " or " The Crawling Eye " goes on with both Prof . Mitchell and Alan Brooks getting the lowdown to what this , or these , creatures are really up to . This has to do with young Anne Pligrim , Janet Munro , who together with her older sister Sarah , Jnnifer Jayne , have a popular mind reading act . Anne in fact was guided to go , with Sarah , to Trollenberg by picking up wavelengths emitted from the creatures without them or her knowing about it . It's when mountain climber Brett , Andrew Faulds , came back from his climb that Anne realized that he was in not alive but fact a walking dead man . Bratt is being controlled by the aliens who had earlier killed and decapitated his fellow climber Dewhurst , Stuart Saunders with Bratt ending up with Dewhurt's severed head in his nap-sack ! Uncoordinated in his movements , due to being dead , a wild eyed and crazed looking Bratt attacks Anne only to get belted and knocked out cold by Brooks . Later while in custody after he murdered Trollenberg Mayor Klein , Fredrick Schiller , Bratt disintegrates into a blob of rotting and stinking flesh ! That's when the aliens , who are controlling him , felt that Bratt's no longer any use to them . " The Crawling Eye's " final fifteen or so minutes has the aliens finally revile themselves as they come out of the cloud and attack the few people still remaining in Trollenberg . Figurings out just what makes , and doesn't make , them tick Brooks together with Professor Mitchell in a last desperate move have the RAF , with the cooperation of the Swiss Government , come to their , and the few persons remaining alive in town , rescue . The RAF ends up giving these crawling and pulsating eyeballs a taste of their own medicine , in killing and dismembering human beings , by making things really hot for them in the confines of their new and adopted home ; The minus sub 30 to 40 degree temperatures of the frozen Swiss Alps .
Two heads are better then one	SPOILERSHaving been planted in the German Army by British intelligence back in 1914 , some 20 years before the Nazis took control of Germany , Alex Schottland , Jack Hawkins , was in the unique position , even though being a former British citizen , to work his way up the ladder . Scottland worked his way up to the point where he became in charge of supplies for the German Army without the slightest suspicion of German Furuer Adolph Hitler , Kennith Griffih , and his dreaded secret police the Gestapo . After the German conquest of Poland in 1939 Scottland is promoted to general for his excellent efforts in suppling the German Military in its 34 day blitzkrieg . The Nazi blitzkrieg on Poland stunned the world who thought that the war would last some six months well into the winter of 1939 . Working behind the scenes Schottland with the help of his contact British Secret Agent Cornaz , Felix Aylmer , who poses as a inconspicuous old watchmaker gets the information back to MI5 , the British version of the CIA , that the long expected invasion of Britian , Operation Sea Lion , was called off ! Hitler and his General Staff decided instead to launch a massive 3 million man invasion of Soviet Russin the following summer . This gave the battered British Army and Navy breathing room to recover from the beating they took in the Nazis conquest of Western Europe in the spring and early summer of 1940 . Britain who was being supplied with huge amounts of much needed war material by the US , who at the time considered itself to be neutral in the war , hoped that the Soviet Red Army would do what the allies , Britian & France , were unable to since the war began ; Stop the then unstoppable Nazi Juggernaut ! As the war progresses and the Nazis start losing it becomes apparent to their high command that someone high up is giving the Allies secret information on their military planning ! That's when things start to go sour for Gen . Schottland and those whom he's secretly working with . The first shoe to drop is on Gen . Schottland secret British contact in Berlin watchmaker Cornaz . Caught red-handed , in sneaking out information to Britain , by the Gestapo Cornaz is tortured to death but keeps his mouth shut not revealing his fellow spy Gen . Schottland . Having Cornaz replaced by the British with Italian singing sensation Lili Geya , Gia Scala , doesn't help Gen , Scottland much either . Gen . Scottland , who knew Lili before the war , was too busy keeping his eyes on the beautiful Lili more then his work leading to a number of major screw-ups on his part . All that eventually leads to Lili's unfortunate death in the dying days of WWII . Lili was shot by Gen , Schottland Aid-de-camp Lt . Reinisch , Erik Schumann , who recognized her when she tried to cross over to the British lines with a secret map , provided to her by Schottland , about future German troop movements . SPOILER ALERT The both sly and slippery Gen . Schottland is so good at his work that he manages to outfox the Nazis at their own game , trickery and deception , by getting Nazi Generals loyal to the Fuhrer arrested and executed by the Gestapo for treason and disloyalty . Gen Schottland even goes so far as getting German Generals , one of them Gen Hartz played by Donald Pleasence , who are secretly in league with the allies like himself , to do in the Fuhrer , exposed and summarily executed just to keep the Gestapo from suspecting him ! I don't know if the story about Gen Schottland is real but if it is the guy made legendary British Secret Agent James Bond look like a rank armature . Always a step ahead of the Nazis Gen . Schottland seems to be the luckiest man on the face of the earth in all the escapes he makes from being caught , at the expense of his fellow British spies , that he comes across not only as being unbelievably lucky but both omnipresent and prophetic , in him knowing what the Nazis are to do ahead of time even before the Nazis do , as well ! P . S Look for an uncredited and young 25 year old Michael Cain in the movie playing a Gestapo Agent .
I wore the dress and I had the drinks , but I also said No !	SPOILERS Documentary-like crime thriller about a masked rapist on the loose at an , what at first seemed like , safe and crime-free condominium , The Woodside Housing Complex . A place where you can keep the doors of one's apartment and car unlocked with no fear at all of them being broken into and stolen . Moving in with his wife Michelle , Chelsea Field , from Michigan policemen Ray Dolan , Hart Bochner , gets his transfered to the Fulton County PD . There Ray's put on patrol outside of the apartment complex that he's living in . Within a week after the Dolan's moved in there's a rape at the complex that gets the tenants there very scared and immediately start to demand extra police protection . The rapes continue with Ray assigned by his boss Det . Frank Ferral , Joe Don Baker , to the apartment complex as one of the cops on the task force to catch the rapist . On the grounds outside the complex Ray spots the rapist and after a long chase he eludes him inside the condominium . This convinces Ray , and Det . Ferral , that he's living among the people that he's been terrorizing all these weeks . The chase and not capturing , or shooting , the rapist also has the tenants in the complex angry with Ray for letting him get away . There's another revelation that comes out later that has Ray feeling a lot like the husbands that had their wives raped . It has to do with Michelle , who's been keeping this secret from him ever since they were married . Michelle reviled it to him in order to gain sympathy and understanding for her almost destroys their marriage . Pretty good thriller with Officer Dolan fighting his own demons as well as trying to catch the serial rapist at the same time . The rapist who can be anyone in the complex engages in a number of vicious and brutal assaults . The last on a helpless woman as her young six-year-old son that is locked in the bathroom . The little boy crying for the rapist not to hurt his mom is about as shocking and disturbing as anything you'll ever seen in a R-Rated motion picture . What's even more disturbing about that scene is that " Complex of Fear " is a made-for-TV movie . Good detective work on the part of both Officer Dolan and Det . Ferral finally has the rapist tracked down just as he's about to strike his next victim Dolan's wife Michelle . A key piece of the evidence that eventually exposes the rapist is what football team he likes . It turns out that rapist comes from Chicago . H's a big Chicago Bears fan . Joe Don Baker as Det . Ferral is at his usual folksy best as the seasoned lawman who's a lot more clever and effective then you would have first thought and methodically piece's all the clues together to finally come up with who he rapist is . Hart Bochner , with a mustache , looks like a young Robert Taylor and is also very effective in his role as not only a dedicated police officer but a man who's troubled about himself in his work as a cop . Beautiful Chelsea Field as Michelle Dolan is excellent as the wife of a cop who at first thought that she could confide in him . It turns out that her husband Ray completely fall apart and doubted his own competence as a man and a husband . Ray was used to seeing this , rape , happening to people that he comes in contact with in his work in law enforcement every day . The act that it happened to his wife in a strange way make him a better , and caring , person . Not only to the rapist victims in the housing complex but to her , Michelle , as well .
I just frisked your monkey out there and picked myself up a souvenir	( There are Spoilers ) Quiting his high powered law firm by rejecting a case where he felt his client was guilty out of job attorney Steve Bennett , Dennis O'Keefe , catches the eye of the city's District Attorney Craig Warren , Adolphe Menjou , who hires him as his assistant D . A . On Steve's first assignment involving power-broker James Randolph's , George Coulouris , real-estate & construction firm-Randolph & Longfield-he meets Randolph's private secretary Marcia Manning , Margerite Chapman , and it's love at first sight . Steve doesn't realize it but Marcia is a tough dame who knows what she want's and how to get it . What Marcia want's from Steve is what evidence the D . A's office has on her boss and secret lover James Randolph . D . A Warren knows full well Marcia's background back in Kansas City where she was involved in a suspicious car accident , that she was acquitted of , were an important state witness was run down and killed . Not wanting to openly interfere in his assistants , Steve Bennet , love life Warren gets him out of the country to extradite a local hood , in Italy , so in time the big romance will cool off . With Steve back in town , after some three weeks in sunny Italy , he finds out to his shock and surprise that his honey and the girl that he left behind Marcia had married her boss James Randolph while he was away ! Holding his boss D . A Warren responsible from his break up with Marica Steve quits his job and eventually end up working as Randolph's attorney ! Steve soon finds out that Randolph is dirty and working with the mob as a front-man for mobster and nightclub owner Berotti , Steven Geray . The two hoods , Randolph & Berotti , are trying to get the city counsel to pass a bill to build a superhighway straight through the heart of the city's Westgate District . Things start to get ugly with the so-called suicide of Randolph's legal expert Ed Jamison , Ralph Morgan , who was , in an effort to save his neck , ready to talk to the D . A's office to strike up a deal with D . A Warren . Meanwhile back in the Westgate District Berotti and Randolph's hoods shake down the merchants by forcing them to sell out to Randolph's firm . By buying up all the real-estate in Westgate Randolph and his silent partner Berotti will make millions when the superhighway is finally built ! It takes a while for the confused and love-sick Steve Bennet to get his head screwed back on in realizing that Marcia has absolutely no use for him other then have Steve used as a accessory to crime . It turns out that Steve's only reason in working for Randolph is to throw off the D . A's investigation of Randolph and Berotti criminal connections . By the time Steve realizes what a sucker he was it's almost too late from him to get out of the mess that he put himself into . SPOILER ALERTIn a desperate attempt to make up for what he did in helping the mob and their , or is it the other way around , stooge James Randolph Steve confronts Randolph at his office and ends up , in self-defense , shooting him dead . With a murder rap now hanging over his head Steve has only one choice left and that's to come clean ! But with Marcia manipulating , from behind the scenes , him whatever evidence that can exonerate Steve in Randolph's murder has been destroyed ! Or has it !
Dedicated to Warden Clinton T Duffy and The Men of San Quentin .	Not as bad as you might think " Men of San Quentin " is based on a story by Martin Mooney who's best known for the screenplay in the Film-Noir classic " Detour " , released some three years later in 1945 , even though Mooney's name wasn't in the movies credits . Mooney besides all his other talents was also an ex-convict who after he was released from prison went into writing mostly stories about persons like himself who served , or is serving , time in prison and who later made something of themselves when released and allowed to enter back into society . At first " Men of San Quentin " seems like your average run-of-the-mill prison movie but as it moves along you can see it's a lot more interesting . With it's focus more on the corruption and indifference of the prison authorities then on the criminal behavior and violence of the prison inmates . The film also tries to show how prison is , or should be , not to punish or torture those inmates in it but to reform rehabilitate and straighten them out . Thus making them productive and law abiding citizens when their eventually released . With the warden of San Quentin not quite up to the job of keeping conditions in his prison on the up and up riots and a number of killing erupt among the inmates . The warden delegating his control to prison guard Sgt . Jack Holden , J . Anthony Hughes . That makes the second in command of the prison Deputy Saunderson , Charles Middleton , resentful . Deputy Ssaunderson plans with the help of some scared and blackmailed prisoners to frame Holden in a multiple murder and have him put behind bars , as well as in the San Quentin gas chamber . Sauderson taking advantage of a triple killing of two prisoners and a prison guard in an escape attempt where Holden was on the scene to arrest the convict / killer Butch Mason , Dick Curtis . Saunderson get's Mason to withdraw his confession and put the blame on Holden with a promise by him to see to it that he doesn't get the death penalty . Which was unbelievably stupid on his part in that Holden would somehow have murdered the three persons but at the same time left Mason alive to implicate him in the killings ! Saunderson now putting his plan into motion has Holden's wife Anne , Eleanor Stewart , take in her home on the San Quentin Prison grounds convict Jimmy , Jeffery Sayre , as a houseboy and gardener . Jimmy is to plant a gun in or around the Holden house . It turned out to be planted in the Holden's Vctory Garden in order to frame Sgt . Holden in the Butch Mason murders . Things don't go as good as Sanderson would have hoped when Holden is made warden of San Quentin over him ! Holden , now running the place , finds out about the torture chamber that Saunderson had installed in the prison with the previous warden both ignorant of it and kept out of the loop by his second in command Deputy Saunderson . Jimmy guilt-ridden in trying to frame the fair and kind-hearted Warden Holden comes clean and tells Anne about what he was made to do by the corrupt Deputy Sanderson . Showing up at the Holden household Sanderson is confronted by Jimmy and the Holdens with Jimmy pulling out a gun , that he was to frame Holden with , and shooting Saunderson dead and then turning it on himself . The remainder of the film " Men of San Quentin " has Warden Holden give the inmates a chance to regain their lives and dignity in and out of prison . The movie also has Holden break up a prison escape by talking the convicts out of it not having them gunned down and killed by the prison guards . The film ends on a patriotic note we have the San Quentin Men's Choir , exclusively made up of inmates , singing the song " The Red White and Blue " .
Ruth : We all thought that you were Dead ? Craig : Well I'm Not ! Sorry !	( There are Spoilers ) WWII movie involving a love triangle that takes placed on a Japanese occupied island in the Philippines . Since the fall of the Philippines in the spring of 1942 to the Japanese Army US contractor and foodstuff and ammunition supplier Craig Benson , Audie Murphy , has been trying to find out if his wife Ruth , Dolores Michaels , is either alive or dead . Sneaking onto the island to make contact with his US Army contemporary Sgt . Sackler , Gary Crosby , Craig is told that there are a number of guerrilla units in the area . Craig and his Philippine guide , provided to him by Sgt . Sackler , Blanco ( Dale Ishimoto ) hook up with this group of guerrilla's lead by an American named M'Keever , Williams Mims . It turns out that this M'Keever is nothing but a black market hustler who's playing both sides , the Japanese Army and Filipino guerrillas , down the middle and only want's the guns and supplies that Craig would supply to him and his men in order to sell them to the highest bidder . Attacked by M'Keever and his men when he got wise to him Craig and Blanco are then rescued by a real group of Philippine guerrillas lead by their handsome and charismatic leader Julio Fontana , Alejandro Rey . It's later found out to Craig's shock and surprise that his wife Ruth is part of Fontana's guerrilla unit and not only that she's also in loved with him . One of the few WWII movie's that authentic , not made in Hollywood , WWII war hero Audie Murphy ever made has him in hot water almost as soon as he lands on the island . With the Japanese attacking both Craig and the people , mostly American civilians , that he's assigned to bring back with him on a US submarine to Australia . Audie , or Craig Benson , is very troubled over his wife leaving him for another man , Julio , but the fact that he was thought to have been killed in the fighting against the Japanese in Battan / Carrigador two years earlier didn't mean that Ruth , whom at the time he was married to for about a week , betrayed or deserted him . With the US submarine delayed in it being spotted by a Japanese cruiser off shore Carig and Sgt . Sackler and about a dozen American and Filipino's hide out on an old battered and run aground ship waiting for either to be rescued by the US Navy or die fighting the Japanese Army . The Japanese , after they were first repulsed in very heavy fighting , in the person of Let . Lloyd Kino give the Americans an hour to surrender with Craig , who's a civilian combatant and not in uniform , to be shot if he surrenders or not ; or else face a barrage of murderous Japanese artillery and mortar fire that would tear them and the ship that their hiding in apart . Earlier during the heavy fighting with the Japanese Sgt . Sackler dived into the ocean and in him trying to get to a nearby island for help and is attacked and killed by a shark . Picking up the ball , in so many words , and running with Craig goes on foot into the jungle to seek help from guerrilla units that are said to be in the area . Later when the Japanses are just about to overrun the ship and kill everyone on it , including Craig's estranged wife Ruth , Craig comes riding to their rescue with a full Philippine guerrilla company who put the Japanese attacker out on their heels and running for their lives . Heart-lifting ending with Ruth deciding to go back with Craig to the US submarine and the safety of friendly Australia instead of staying with Julio in his battle to liberate his people from the Japanese . For a while you would have thought that being with Jullio for some two years in the Philippine jungles would make Ruth forget about Craig , whom she thought was dead anyway . It's when Ruth was reunited with Craig and seeing just what a kind as well as the both modest , which Audie Murphy was in real life , and heroic person that he really was how in all sincerity could she let someone like him , who's just too good to be true , ever get away from her !
Horror of Horrors : South of the border down Mexico way	SPOILERS Horror movie released in 1962 from Mexico about a Baron Vitellus who was burned at the stake in 1661 for every crime on the book with the possible exception of speeding and running a red light since automobiles weren't around back then . At the site of his execution the Baron seeing a comet in the evening sky curses those who condemned him to death . The Baron last words is that when the comet comes back some 300 years hence he'll be back to take out his revenge on his executioners descendants . Now in Mexico City 300 years later in 1961 Baron Vitellus is back and he's back with a vengeance . Hilarious horror movie with the crazed Baron Vitellus on the loose in Mexico City and the surrounding countryside . The Baron goes out offing the offspring of those who offed him 300 years ago . The cheap and ridicules horror special effects in the film had the Baron when he was in action looking like he was waring a bad Halloween mask that was a cross between Groucho Marks and one of the dogs in the movie " The Killer Shrews " . The Baron does in his victims by sucking out the brains of his victims with what looks like a two foot fork tongue and keeping the brains in a golden punch bowel that he has locked up in his study where we occasionally see him eating them ! It seems odd that the descendants of those who had Baron Vitellus executed were all living in a area that was something like ten square miles , this three hundred later ? Did they ever think of moving all those years ? The Baron knowing everyone of his victims names and addresses had no trouble at all tracking them all down and , not knowing how else to better describe it , tongue them to dead . There are some scenes in " The Brainiac " that are really weird even for a low-budget and badly written horror flick like it is . Whenever Baron Vitellus gets ready to turn into the Brainiac and do his victims in his face lights up , like in the comic books when someone gets a bright idea and you see a light bulb blink and light up over his head . There's also two scenes in the movie when the Baron , changing into the Brainiac , goes after his victims they suddenly freeze in their tracks and their eyes seem to pop out of their heads looking like they were a pair of ping-pong balls . Baron Vitellus also has a way with the ladies in the movie , he seems to be the strong and silent type . In a scene at a bar a very attractive woman goes up to him and starts a conversation buys him a drink and is almost about to invite him to her home and undress and go to bed with him . All the Baron does is just sit there without saying a word to her and then for what seems to be no reason at all , she wasn't one of the descendants of those who did the Baron in as I could see , turns into the Brainiac and does what he did to all his victims in the movie , sucks her brains out . The Baron Vitellus / Brainiac is finally done in by the two detectives that were on the case with a pair of flame-throwers that left him looking like a mound of bones and ashes . The detectives were also the comic relief in the movie with one looking like a diminutive former Governor Jesse Ventura of Minnesota and the other looking and acting like Phil Silvers with a full head of hair .
Bad Trip Dude .	( Minor Spoilers ) Trveling to the Haight-Ashbury section of San Francisco to find her hippie brother Steve , Bruce Dern , pretty but hard of hearing Jenny Davis , Susan Strasberg , get's hooked up with a number of local hippie musicians and an high hippie Guru . The Hippies soon get her addicted to their free love and drug lifestyle that in the end almost cost Jenny her life . Not that hip with what's happening Jenny falls for smooth talking Stoney ( Jack Nicholson ) , by reading his lips , and ends up being bedded down by him at his pad together with a number of his other girlfriends . Turned on to dangerous hallucinogenic drugs not only by Stoney but hippie Guru Dave ( Dean Stockwell ) who thinks he's the real deal , when it come to the free-love hippie lifestyle , that his fellow hippie Stoney's isn't . Jenny's brother Steve it turns out is on the run from a gang of thugs who dislike his free-love philosophy . When Jenny and her hippie friends Ben & Elwood , Adam Roarke & Max Julien , together with Stoney go to the junkyard , where Steve had made his home away from home , their attacked by these goons who try to rape Jenny . In the end they gets their butts kicked in by the suddenly non-peaceful but hard hitting hippies . The fact that Steve , and artist , has his masterpiece on display at the Warren Gellery , where Stony & Co . are staying at , has him sneaks in at night in order to retrieve it . Confronted by Stoney Steve is told that his sister Jenny's looking for him . Complety blowing his cover Steve's trapped in a burning building by the thugs who've been looking for him and ends up possibly killed . Were never really shown what happened to Steve much less told just why these thugs were so hateful to him . Since he was just one of thousands of hippies in the city who shared the same ideas that he did ; so why did they single him out for special treatment ? Jenny is later turned on by Dave , who should have know better , on acid that blows her mind and causes Jenny to drift out on the dangerous Golden Gate Bridge . With Jenny staggering onto the bridge's roadway and about to be run down and killed by the oncoming traffic Dave , in a moment of redemption for what he did to her , heroically saved Jenny's life but at the cost of his own . Pretty good film about the 1960's counter culture with guest appearances by the popular late 1960's musical groups " The Seeds " & " The Strawberry Alarm clock " . With Jack Nicholson looking more like an extra from the Mel Gibson American Revolutionery epic " The Patriot " then a 1960's type hippie .
If your looking for your letter of resignation I'm typing in back of it	A bit corny in its attempt to show how capitalism works when it isn't corrupted by heartless unsavory and greedy corporate criminals . " Hometown Story " has to do with defeated local state senator Blake Washburn , Jeffrey Lynn , who's so embittered over his being turned out of office that after going back to his old job as editor of the Fairfax Herald decides to become a crusader against corporate corruption . Which in reality is attacking his opponents the new state senator McFarland , who defeated him , fathers business . A angry young man with a chip on his shoulder Blake gets so involved in his anti-capitalistic crusade against old man John McFarland , Donald Crisp , over his sons defeat of him in the state elections that he completely overlooks the fact that the plant that he owns is the cleanest most environment-friendly and best run in the state . This make a now frustrated Blake turns his guns , or editorial , against every big business in the country who makes a profit regardless if it's done honestly or not ! Trying on Blake's part to create a peoples revolution against big business / capitalism . This mindless action by Blake in 1951 , at the hight of the Cold War , could well have had him both arrested and tried by the FBI and US Justice Department for treason ! Blake even though a likable guy is so obsessed with getting re-elected that he turns everyone who knows him like his fiance Janice and best fiend reporter Slim Haskins , Marjorie Reynolds & Alan Hale Jr , against him . This leads Slim to almost end up almost punching him out in a confrontation he has with Balke in his office . It takes a conversation that Blake has with John McFarland to fills the hot-headed editor in with what capitalism did in making America the great country that it is today . Later the near tragic accident that almost killed Blake's sister Kathy , Melinda Portman , and McFarland rescue of her that turned him in his negative ideas of capitalism around . Kathy trapped in a coal mine collapse , together with her new puppy Rags , painfully showed Blake the light as the forces of capitalism and the free market quickly and efficiently swung into action . Old man , and business tycoon , McFarland using all the earth moving equipment that he had at his disposal ended up saving little Kathy's and her dogs life . In the end Blake now finally saw what capitalism had to offer the common working man and woman , and it was good . This all caused Blake to changed his mind as he became the biggest supporter of the capitalist system in the state . Rewriting and reediting all the bad things and press that ever said or wrote about big business making big bucks Blake now sees how important the benefits of capitalism is for the average working man and woman as well . Now with Blakes support all those big bucks will in the end help those , like his sister Kathy , who at first didn't seem to get , or benefit from , them . A bit condescending for my tastes in how great it is for corporations to make obscene profits which , we could only hope , in return helps all of us . P . S Look for a young and scintillating Marilyn Monroe in the film in a bit part as sexy and unavailable , to at least the overly friendly Slim Haskins , Iris Martin . Iris ' tight fitting sweaters are enough to make me want to get a job at the Fairfax Herald regardless of what I'll be paid in wages just so I can even get lucky enough to buy Marilyn a cup of coffee and have a chance to talk to her .
I lost everything the day that you walked in on me with that party card !	SPOILERS An attempted takeover of the San Francisco docks by the local commies has former Communisty Party card carrying member Brad Collins , Robert Ryan , in the cross-hairs of both his former commie comrades and the police . Collins who was formerly known as Frank Johnson is being blackmailed in him being exposed not only as a former commie but a murderer in the killing of a union shop steward back on the east coast some time ago . After disowning the Communist Party Brad has made it big on the SF docks working his way up from a longshoreman to the vice president of a major west coast shipping company . loved and respected by both labor and management Brad is picked to negotiate a new contract for the dock workers only to have his sordid and sleazy past catch up with him . Contacted by his former commie boss Vanning , Thomas Gomez , Brad is blackmailed to stall negotiations and thus instigate a dock strike that is to last at least two months . That sleazy commie rat Vanning , and his fellow hoodlums , are planning to take over the union and are using Brad as their battering ram , or Trojan Horse , to do it . Brad at first has no choice but to go along with Vannings plans but when his former girlfriend fanatical Communist , under orders of Vanning , Christine Norman ( Janis Carter ) gets romantically involved with Brad's weak-minded brother-in-law Dan Lowery , John Agar , is when he finally comes to his senses . Turning Dan into a Crypto-Communist and labor provocateur Christine has the young man , who Brad gave a job as a longshoreman , spew the Communist " Power to the Workers " line to his fellow union members without knowing that he's actually doing it . Dan thinks that he's fighting for his fellow workers rights but in fact is leading them , like lemmings , down the path of financial disaster in having them lose both their jobs and benefits when his behind the scenes controllers , Vanning & Co , take over the union . As Brad's wife of one month Nan , Laraine Day , starts to get suspicious of just what he's doing in wrecking the labor negotiations it also becomes clear that her younger brother Dan , after he told her , is madly in love with Christine . Somehow Christine's snide and obnoxious , throwing out hints about her love affair with Brad , actions in both Nan and Brads presence has convinced Nan that she's up to no good and want's Dan to have nothing at all to do with her . It's later when Nan finds out that her husband is being blackmailed by Christian and her boss Vanning that she finally realizes that Dan's life as well as future as a married man is in danger , deadly danger . The film has Brad knowing that his life is ruined , with a murder rap hanging over his head , makes a clean brake with his past as a commie labor leader . Having nothing to lose and everything to gain Brad goes after Vanning and his boys after they kidnapped Nan and murdered his by then enlightened , to what Christine and Vanning were using him for , brother-in-law Dan . Christine herself had by then also realized the wrongs of her ways , in being a die-in-the-wool commie , and not wanting her victim Dan Lowry , whom she fell in love with , pay for them . Christine is soon put on ice , in the city morgue , by a angry and vindictive Vanning who has her thrown out of her high-rise apartment window and then made her murder to look like a suicide . It's now up to Brad to make everything right to correct the many wrongs that he did in creating the mess that he now finds himself in which sets everything up for the final showdown at the local Cummnist headquarters an empty warehouse on the San Francisco docks . Despite the usual anti-Communist hysterics that you would expect to find in a movie like " Woman on Pier 13 " or " I Married a Communist " the film didn't put former card carrying Communist Brad Collin / Frank Johnson in a bad light at all . We were shown that Brad was suckered into joining the Communist Party , like thousands of other young men and women like himself during the Great Depression , with the promise of both a job and security for him and his family . It was also brought out in the movie that Brad was not forced to rat out his fellow Communist members who like himself were nothing but mindless stooges , like Dan Lowry , who had no idea what the Communist Party was planning for the USA and when they realized it dropped their membership cards and left the party . At least the film realized that people can make mistakes , by unknowingly joining subversive organizations , and at the same time not be forced to suffer for them , even after renouncing what they did , for the rest of their lives . This is something that most if not all anti-Communist movies coming out of Hollywood in the 1940's and 1950's sadly overlooked .
Stripped Bare !	( There are Spoilers ) Having lost his wife two years ago widower Dr . Ben Pierce , Powers Boothe , needs the companionship of a woman in the house to not only fill the void that his deceased and dear wife left in his life but also be a mother to his two young daughters Alyssa & Natalie played by Tracy and Jessie Gold who incidentally are sisters in real life . Feeling that he needs a little entertainment in his life the straight as a arrow Ben goes with his fellow doctor plastic surgeon Jimmy , Jeff Olsen , to the downtown strip club " The Brink " and meets and later falls in love with one of the entertainers that works there stripper Marcie Ellis , Kelly Brown . It so happened as Ben left the strip joint he was mugged by one of Marcie's boyfriends Rodney Roland who took , at gunpoint , both his wallet and watch . Embarrassed to report the incident to the police as a concerned Marcie , who quickly came on the scene , told him not to Ben didn't since he didn't want anyone to know that he frequented a place like " The Brink " . Later Ben started to get a real strong feeling , of mutual companionship more then physical love , for Marice . Meeting Marcie the next day with his stolen wallet , that she took back from her crummy ex-boyfriend , Ben really went head over heels for her by how kind and understanding she was and felt . Ben there and then decided that Marcie was the person who he'd want to spend the rest of his life with . Getting married in less then two weeks everything seem to be going great with Marcie and even Ben's younger daughter Natilie liked her as if she were her own mother . Still the older daughter Alyassa seems to be a bit taken not only by Marcie's past as a stripper but her father's , what seems to her , unnatural and almost teenage like attraction towards her . It turned that the union between Ben and Marcie was a marriage made in hell with Marcie not able to get away from her past as a stripper and , as it's later found out by her shocked husband , prostitute . Ben trying to have a normal married life is slowly reminded by Marcie's actions that something isn't quite right with her . Not only is Marcie a bit off the wall but also extremely jealous of him innocently being around and talking to any other woman ! like Natalie's guidance counselor Blair , Kerrie Keane . Marcie resorts back to type by going back to " The Brink " and getting picked up by one of it's costumers non-other then Ben's golf instructor the hunky and beach-boy looking Eddie Meredith , David Chokachi . Ben finding out about Marcie's carousing secret life just about had it with her and decides that the marriage is no longer working and files divorce papers . This leads to a number of underhanded actions on Marcie's part to not only keep from getting thrown of of the Pierce home but from being forced to go back to the life , as a stripper , that she thought was now far behind her . Desprerate situations call for desperate actions . With her life as a successful doctors wife about to come to an end Marcie acts desperately . Not only in keeping Ben from divorcing her but from cutting her out of his will and life insurance policy thats a cool one million dollars . Powers Boothe's touching performance as the bereaved and betrayed Doc . Ben Pierce more then makes up for all the short-comings in the movie " A Crime of Passion " . A kind and loving man who had only the best intentions towards his new wife Marcie is driven almost to drink and out of his practice as a successful physician . Concocting a plan , with one of her many boyfriends , to do in the good and kind Doctor Ben Marcie has all the bases covered as she makes sure that she's nowhere near the house when Ben gets it . It was Marcie's greed and all of a sudden touch of decency when it came to burn down the house , by her crazy boyfriend , with both Ben's daughters Alyssa & Natalie in it that caused her plan to backfire . Leaving her boyfriend dead , with a broken back head and neck , and herself landing behind bars for the rest of her life . Crime doesn't pay and the scheming and maniacal Marcie Ellis learned that hard cold lesson in life the hard way . By paying for the crime , or crimes , that she committed against everyone , especially Dr . Ben Pierce together with his two daughters , in the movie .
Seven Secrets	( Some Spoilers ) A gorgeously young , and at the same time sweet and innocent looking , Lilli Pamler is June Lasdowne the damsel in distress in this overly complicated mystery . The movie is about seven keys that open the secret to what's been happening over the last ten years regarding the heir to he Selford fortune and who's really been getting it . Before Lord Charles Selford died in 1928 he left his estate to his young and lame eleven year-old son John , Ross Landon , and had his guardian Silva , J . H Roberts , take care of all the arrangements . Now some ten years later Silva is in a state of mental degeneration and stuck in a nursing home . Desprate to get the secret out about John Silva writes a letter and , together with a mysterious key wrapped in it , throws it out the window addressed to June Lansdowne . Increably the letter and key find their way to June when two boys find it and hand deliver it to her . June going to see Silva at the nursing home , about the letter he sent her , never gets the entire story from him as he's shot and killed , from behind a painting on the wall . June immediately goes to see the home attendant Ann Cody , Cathleen Nesbitt , about her patient's death only to find out that the place is closed down ! Later when she and Mrs . Cody go to Silva's room find it empty . Running to the police June gets police inspector Dick Martin , Romilly Lunge , to check on Silva's murder only to get the same answers when he goes to see Mrs . Cody ; the placed has been closed for some time and there's no , or ever was any , Mr . Silva there as a patient . Martin slowly pieces together this strange and complicated plot concocted by Lord Selford's doctor Manetta , Leslie Banks , Silva Mrs . Cody and a number of other trusted Selford aids in order to steal his fortune . Doc . Manetta tried to make it look like Lord Selford's son John was receiving it in a monthly allowance over the last ten years . The question is just were is John Selford and is he still alive to collect his inheritance in the first place ? June turns out to be the second in line to Lord Selford's money and fortune and by her being alive she's a threat to those who have been embezzling it over the years . Now knowing that she was informed by Silva , to what's been going on , June has to be eliminated to keep the scam ongoing . Like in all these type of films about a bunch of criminals getting together to pull off a crime they eventually turn on each other when the going starts to get too hot for them . In the end they all fall by the wayside . The most interesting of theses conspirators is the creepy and sophisticated Dr . Manetta who's , what you would call , the leader of the pack . Manetta who's also a distant relative of the infamous 15th century Grand Inquisitor Fray Thomas De Torqemada of the Spanish Inqusition and like they used to say about him back then , behind his back of course , " You can't talk him out ha anything " when ever he made up his mind . Menatta took up his descendant's strange attraction to torture and torture devices and built and exact replica of a chamber of horror in his home . Having it out with police inspector Martin at the conclusion of the movie one of Manetta devices that he prized so highly was what ended up doing him in .
He's back ! Bigger & Badder then ever !	( There are Spoilers ) Floundering around like a beached whale in the state appellate court for the last ten or so years and getting thick and heavy around the mid section , as well as everywhere else , former defense attorney Perry Mason , Raymond Burr , was just about pooped in handing out long winded and boring opinions about the law . When Mason heard that his former private secretary Della Street , Barbara Hale , had been charged with the murder of her boss millionaire businessman Arthur Gordon , Patrick O'Neal , the guy just jumped at the opportunity . Perry had to resign in order to defend Stella in open court where the real action is and that's just where Perry Mason want's to be . Finding Arthur Gordon dead of a stab wound in his study all the evidence lead to his private secretary Della Street as being his killer . We already saw that it was the creepy ex-convict Bobby Lynch , James Kidnie , dressed in drag who was the real murderer and the one who left clues to incriminate Della in Arthur's untimely death . Arthur had earlier threatened to cut out his wife Paula , Holland Taylor , and all his ungrateful and greedy children , Kathryn David Laura & Chris , from his will . Arthur was going to have Paula replaced from his charitable foundation , where the majority of his fortune is in , by Della so why would she want to murder Arthur since Della was to end up as the hostess with the most-est ! This fact is what Lynch seemed to have completely overlooked and in the end it would lead a very determined and no holds barred Perry Mason straight to Arthur's killers : the guy who did it and the guy who paid him to do it . Working overtime without pay Perry gets his very competent former , but now deceased , private investigator Paul Drake's overly eager son Paul Drake Jr , William Katt , to do the legwork for him in finding out who framed Stella . Junior comes up with a dead Bobby Lynch who tried to run him down in his car in a garage but was shot between the eyes by an unknown assailant ; not to save young Paul's life but to keep Lynch from talking in just who hired him if he ever was caught and put on trial . The road to Arthur Gordon's killer leads to not only one of Arthur's spoiled and rotten kids the very sexy Kathryn , Kerrie Keane , but also her secret lover Arthur's personal attorney and the person who's to make out his will Ken Braddock , Richard Anderson . Perry together with Paul Jr . get to the bottom of what was the reason for Arthur's murder and it had to do not with just the money he was to withdraw from giving his wife . Paula had been using the foundation as her own personal piggy bank and on top of all that someone else the person who , with or without Paula's help , had Arthur killed . A piece of cake for Perry who had no trouble at all exposing Arthur's killer and exonerating his good and close friend his former private secretary Della Street but most of all making a monkey out of the snotty and arrogant young prosecuting D . A Julie Scott , Cassie Yeats . Scott wanted to make it big as a state prosecutor thinking that the fat and rusty old man , Perry Mason , was ripe for the picking and ready to be plucked but learned soon enough that Perry is still not only the best at what he does but even better then ever in doing it .
Sure their real Russians , their from Brighten Beach !	( Some Spoilers ) A somewhat confused movie with a load of flashbacks that make you at times unaware if your in the past or present . It's Claire Forlani's performance as the undercover policewoman Monica that makes the film " Gone Dark " or " The Limit " more then worth watching . Inflitrating " the Crew " , a big city drug gang , Monica wins over the confidence of her boss Gale Carmody , Pete Poslethwilte , to the point where he lets her use his van for hours at a time to get " The Crew " lunch and dinner . Carmdy doesn't realize that Moni , as she's called by him , uses it to get in contact with the FBI that she's working with to get the goods on him . Moni also got addicted to heroin due to the stress of working undercover . One of " the Crew " members Eight-Ball , Billy Koury , is suspected by Gale to have ripped off 40 kilo's of " The Crew's " heroin and Moni is given the task to collect it from him . Almost getting killed " The Crew's " second in command Danny , Henry Czrney , come to Moni's rescues that make her totally trust him . Later when she finds out , from Danny , that he's also working for the Feds to set up Gale and his gang she moves in with him . What Moni later finds out is that Danny set up Eight-Ball to take the blame for the missing heroin . The movie starts out with May , Lauren Bacall , a resident at Moni and Danny's apartment house being told by the police that her next door neighbor , Danny , was found shot and killed and if she knew anything about the shooting . It turned out that May mistakenly got a number of letters and packages that were sent to Danny . Those letters and packages turned out to have valuable information about " The Crew " and Gale's involvement with the local Russian Mafia as well as Moni's undercover activities in Gale's organization . Moni trying to get her hands on the letters and packages at May's apartment gets very friendly with her in order to gain access to her place and get the important documents but as it turned out it would be a lot harder then she first thought . " Gone Dark " tells it's story with a number of flashbacks as Moni slowly starts to disintegrates due to her heroin addiction and desperately needing a quick fix . Moni who had all the cards , and gun , at the start of the film begins to lose her grip on May and goes into a gut wrenching withdrawal from her desperate need for a heroin load that by the time the movie is about over she's completely out of it . There's also " the Crew " waiting for her downstairs , they already found that she's FBI , and the only thing left for her is to violently die from severe heroin withdrawal syndrome or the end of the barrel of her 9mm automatic . A lot of twists and turns in " Gone Dark " that keep the movies storyline going but they do come together and show the audience how the whole story set itself up in flashback in May's apartment with Moni waiting for the end to finally come . A number of double-crosses on both sides , the crew's members Danny and the police and FBI , put Moni in a position where she was left out to dry all by herself . May who at first seemed unaware of what what's happening with the mail for Danny that she mistakenly got turned out to be very well informed of both Danny activities as well as her health coach Brian ( Joris Jarsky ) , who was always coming over to look after her , from the mail that she got from Danny . The movie slowly shows Moni fall apart from her addiction to and need for heroin as well as her betrayal by the FBI and Danny . In one of the most shocking demonstrations of a suffering drug addict ever , far more convincing then the famous one with Frank Sinatra in " The Man with the Golden Arm " , Forlina's acting is so unnerving and believable that you almost want to run to the nearest phone to call 911 to get her help . Forlina more then holds her own against , in fact she easily eclipses , the legendary Lauren Bacall in every scene she's in with her in the movie .
Home in Connecticut	( SOME SPOILERS ) Becoming a resident physician at Blair General Hospital Dr . Jimmy Kildare , Lew Ayres , happily calls home in Dartfort Conn . to tell his parents the good news . It turns out things aren't going so well back home with Jimmy's father Dr . Stephen Kildare , Samuel H . Hinds , not at home to answer the phone . Taking the first train to Dartford Jimmy finds out at his father is working himself into the ground with a caseload of patients in both Dartfort as well as neighboring Parkersville . Knowing that his old man is not up to the job Jimmy decides to help him with his work jeopardizing his job as Dr . Lenoard Gillespie's , Lionel Barrymore , assistant back in Blair General . It's then that Dr . Jimmy Kildare come up with this fool-proof solution of establishing a single payer health insurance program with everyone in both Dartford and Parkersville paying . 10 a week to finance it . Jimmy goes so far as recruiting a number of interns who couldn't pay their tuition to work at the free clinic that both he and his father founded . As we could expect the people of Dartford and Parkersville were anything but thrilled feeling that both the weekly donation of . 10 was too small to cover their doctor's bills and at the same time raising it was totally out of the question . A classic symptom of schizophrenia if there ever was one . It turns out that the biggest stumbling block to both Dr . Kildare's plan is Parkersville's top citizen George Winslow , Gene Lockhart . Winslow's only claim to fame , as far a I could see , is that he reached the age of 60 and still has all of his teeth . Talking to Winslow Dr . Jimmy Kildare notices that he's a bit under the weather and may be suffering from a dangerous case of meningitis . It took almost heaven and earth to move the stubborn and grouchy Winslow to donate a sample of his blood for Dr . Jimmy Kildare to be able to finally find what was ailing him . It turned out that Winslow bet Jimmy to the punch collapsing and going into a coma where the meningitis , with him having a temperature of 107 , being confirmed . With Winslow now completely cured he become the biggest supporter of the Kildare's , both Jimmy & Stephen , clinic and it's that support that turns the residents of both Dartford and Parkersvill around voting unanimously for it at the conclusion of the film . With his job done and his old man getting the help he needed , the free clinic , Jimmy Kildare goes back to New York City and Blair General Hospital for more adventures in medical history as well as his plans to marry his sweetheart Nurse Mary Lamont , Laraine Day , the following June . Tragically Mary , in a future Doctor Kildare movie , would never live to see her wedding day .
Underwater	SPOILERS Action packed police movie set in Florida about a group of mobsters consisting of ex-KGB agents led by former KBG agent Kazak , Steven Berkoff . The mobsters use an off-shore freighter , The Tortugo , to tap into underwater bank cables and steal millions of dollars in bank transactions . That plan falls apart when the feisty and pretty civil lawyer Kate McQueen , Cindy Crawford , got in their way and had to be eliminated in order for them to keep up their illegal activities . Attempting to assassinate Kate at the beginning of the movie as she was jogging down swanky Ocean Drive she has Homicide Detective Max Kirpatrick , William Baldwin , assigned to be with her around the clock to watch protect and defend her , it's a real hard job but somebody's got to do it , against other attempts on her life . This gang of ex-KGB thugs really mean business as they blow up half of South Florida to get the pair , Max & Kate . As usual , in the movies , Max & Kate are always one step ahead of them and the mobsters no matter how much men and firepower as well as electronic equipment that they have are no match against the two who have almost nothing but the clothes on their back , and some times not even that , to fight them with . Far more violent then most action police movies with almost the entire cast wiped out , with the exception of Max & Kate of course , by the ending credits . The action scenes of " Fair Game " are a lot like the old Saturday afternoon cliff-hangers with Max & Kate looking like they've had it and then just getting away from the bad guys every fifteen or so minutes in the movie . The bad guys are as bad as they can get in what they do and try to do , you can just imagine anyone trying to hurt or kill Cindy Crawford has to be the biggest enemy against hu-MAN-ity in history . The last half-hour of the movie is non-stop action on the roads and highways as well as railroad trains and ships in the South Florida area with the most graphic boat sinking since , even though movie was made in 1995 but I haven't seen it until 2004 , the movie " Titanic " in 1997 . Outlandish but at the same time ironic ending with the head gangster Kazak instead of trying to escape the sinking and exploding ship tries to punch into the ships computer the information that he needs to complete his illegal bank transaction of almost one billion dollars ! All this with him knowing very well that he won't make it out alive by taking so much time doing it ! It's as if Kazak just wanted to die rich .
The Marijuana Menace	SPOILERS Lame predecessor to the much more entertaining and unintentionally funny " Reefer Madness " or " Tell Your Children " the film " Assassin of Youth " was released a year earlier in 1937 about the perils of that dangerous narcotic and scourge of all mankind that evil plant Marijuana and how it effects Americas youth that are getting addicted to it by the hundreds if not thousands as we speak . After Elizabeth Barrie is killed by a runaway car driven a a pot-smoking teenager young reporter Artie Brighton , Arthur Gardner , is sent to the town where Mrs . Barrie was killed as an undercover reporter . Posing as a soda jerk at the local teenage hangout , to get the big scoop on whats going on in town , Artie gets close to many of the teenagers in town who have pot parties at night on the beach and at their homes and in many cases joining in but secretly not smoking the stink-weed . Mrs . Barrie left her fortune to her granddaughter Joan , Luana Walters , under the condition that she lives a moral and just life It's the moral clause that she , Mrs . Barrie , put in her will that got both Linda Clyton , Fay McKenzie , and her boyfriend or her secretly married husband Jack Howard , Michael Owens , who are both next in line to get Mrs . Barrie's money , to try to get Joan to get a little crazy in public on pot and alcohol and thus lose the inheritance . Tired plot with Linda and Jack trying to corrupt sweet and innocent Joan by getting her both drunk and stoned only to have her , with the help of Artie , stay clean and sober . It's in fact Joan's little sister Margie , Dorothy Short , who gets hooked on the weed and ends up almost murdering a friend of hers when she caught her together smooching with her boyfriend at a pot party Later in the movie Margie fell into a coma that left her on the brink of death due to the evil scourge of Marijuana that she was effected by . Trying to finally get Joan stoned in order to lose her inheritance the two , Linda & Jack , plant some pot in her spongecake at a party that gets her not only smashed but hot and horny as well . Jack takes off with Joan to a hotel to get involved with her in some very heavy extra-curricular activities . This tryst with Joan has Jack's jealous and outraged Linda tip the cops off on where they are and that Jack was having sex , or was in the same hotel room , with an underage female , Joan . On trial for her honor and morals Joan is saved by Artie coming to her rescue in the courtroom just in the nick . Artie lets the truth out in exposing Linda and Jack attempt to discredit Joan as well as their drug-pushing cohort Jack Ingram as the real villains in this tawdry story . Somewhat more accurate then " Reefer Madness " about Marijuana but nowhere as entertaining even though it did have some bits of comedy in it . There's the local town tattletale Miss . Frisbie , Fern Emmett , and old Pop Brady , Earl Dwire , a local buffoon who knew where all the bodies in the town were buried dating back to 1900 who were more or less in the film for comic relief .
Your son and wife are better in bed then your are !	SPOILERS Getting what he thinks is the deal of a lifetime real-estate agent Truman Langley , Daniel McVicar , gets heavily indebted . In him expecting his new client Mason Wainwright , Stephan Young , to bring him in a bundle of cash as he gets his many plots of L . A real estate developed in the very near future . Getting his wife Pattie , Shannon Tweed , to entertain and impress Wainwright at home while Truman sets up a couple lines of coke to party . Wanwright , drunk and obnoxious , starts to grab at Patti's legs that completely turns her off and almost creates a scene . Told by Truman to play along with the lecherous Wainwright in order to get his business Patti reluctantly does give in to Wainwright drunken advances but feels hurt and humiliated by doing it . All this on the part of the Langley's to get Wainwright as a client goes down the drain when his partnership is given to the new hot shot kid on the block in the firm Kramer & Green Associates Alex Weston , Andrew Stevens . Truman hearing the news that he lost the lucrative Wainwright partnership completely falls apart with his future now in shambles and in debt over his head , for overextending himself financially . One Sunday morning Truman goes into his office at Kramer & Green locks the door and blows his brains out . Pattie is left alone and almost destitute since Truman's insurance doesn't cover suicide leaving her nothing to live on or pay off Truman's bills . Going to Kramer & Green to takes Turman's personal belongings Patti sees Max , her husbands replacement , at the firm and something light up in her pretty head . She'll make his life as unbearable , if not even more so , as her's is by destroying everything he hold near and dear to himself . Going so far as to impersonate a school tutor Pattie , now calling herself Amanda Chessfield , goes on a personal vendetta against the Westons . This vendetta leads to murder madness and a slew of illicit sexual affairs with not only Alex but his teenage son Robey , Michael D . Arenz , and even Alex's wife Marina , Kim Morgan Green . After gunning down Mason Wainwright at his front door , in broad daylight , for his humiliating her / Pattie Amanda gets to young and inexperienced Robey to help him in his school studies so he ' be admitted in a prestigious prep pre-collage school . Amanda who's supposed to be teaching Robey French , among other subjects , not only deflowers the poor befuddled and at the same time happy young teenager but also puts him through a weird and violent S & M routine with her doing all the S & M's . Later in the movie getting Alex alone in the house pool room one evening Amanda gets him involved in a hot game of pool with her but without a pool table billiard balls or a pool stick . Robey who thought that he was the only one that Amanda was having a tryst with is shocked to see the steamy couple , Amanda & Alex , in action at the pool table through the living room window . Amanda goes as far as drugging Alex's wife Marina and keeping here doped up as she also get involved sexually with her driving her out of her mind and almost out of the Weston home . Taking advantage of Marina's delicate mental condition Amanda cause the maid Belle , Penia Waters , to fall down a flight of stairs in the basement and crack her skull killing herself . Marina who has become paranoid , from the drugs that Amadna has been secretly slipping into her tea , forced the overworked Belle to keep washing the bed sheets and feels responsible for her death . It's not until much later in the movie that Alex spots a photo , of Turman and his wife Patti , in his office left by the dead Truman that he puts all the missing pieces together realizing that she's Amanda but by then it may too late to save Marina . Amanda is just about to give Marina that last pill that would put her to sleep forever . Not bad at all B-movie with lots of Shannon Tweed , in the nude and out , in it as well as a number of sizzling and erotic scenes between Tweed and Andrew Stevens as well as both Michael D . Arenz and Kim Morgan Green . The ending is a bit strained and hard to take making it possible for a sequel , which the movie " Scorned " had in 1997 , but besides that is well worth the 100 or so minutes of your time watching the film .
Bat-er Up	SPOILERS The movie " The Devil Bat " , there are really two Devil Bats in the movie , is about a disgruntled employee of the Heath Cosmetics ltd . who feels that his great talent has been exploited for huge profits at his expense . Dr . Paul Carruthers , Bela Lugosi , a scientist and co-founder of the giant cosmetics firm who's discovery in perfumes and after shave lotions made it into a multi-million dollar business . Dr . Carruthers foolishly sold his control of the business when it was in it's infancy for $10 , 000 . 00 to the Heath family who he nows works for and feels that he was cheated out of it by them . This animosity is all in Dr . Carruthers ' head since he sold out by himself and made a bad decision in his action and now like everyone else he has to live with it , but not Dr . Carruthers he holds the Heath's to blame for his miscalculation . In fact the Heath company treats Dr . Carruthers very respectfully as we see at the beginning of the movie where they give him a $5 , 000 . 00 bonus for his work , but he feels that he should get much much more . Secretly working in his laboratory the Doctor uses a bat by putting it through the " Glandular Stimulation by the Electrical Process " to make it grow to the size of a large Thanksgiving turkey , not to eat for dinner but to do his dirty work . The doctor plans to use the bat to kill those who he feels took advantage of his great talent in the world of cosmetics , the Heath family members . Dr . Carruthers also comes up with an ingenious way to have the Killer Bat zero in on and attack the targets of Dr . Carruthers ' wrath , an after shave lotion with a secret ingredient that he discovered in the wilderness of Tibet , from the Lama's in their religious ceremonies . The Killer Bat hating the scent of the lotion attacks with a furious and deadly passion anyone who wears it . Dr . Carruthers gives the deadly lotion to those members of the Heath family telling them to especially put it on the most tender part of their throat . " The Devil Bat " is another film that Bela Lugosi made in the 1940's that was far below his talents as an actor but hey it put food on the table and paid the rent so what the heck . Some very effective scenes in the movie with the Devil Bat causing havoc in the town of Heathville with no one having a clue what it is . Paul Carruthers puts on an act as the kindly doctor , thats what they think , who no one suspects of the evil doing thats he's conducting . I really liked the scenes of the Devil Bat flying out of Dr . Carruthers ' attic and it's flight over the town and woods . Unlike most movies about bats at that time that looked fake and phony the Devil Bat looks real and scary . The hero of the film reporter Johnny Layton is played by Dave O'Brian who also played a pot smoking crazed zombie-like homicidal maniac in the cult classic " Reefer Madness " back in 1938 . The movies really groovy sound track brought the film well above it's bargain basement production values .
Faith is believing in something that's invisible	SPOILERS Not to be confused with the 1962 Hugo Haas autobiographical masterpiece of the same name " Paradise Alley " is in fact , like the Haas film , a labor of love by it's writer director star as well as the person who sings , or mumbles , the films tidal song " Too close to Paradise " actor Sylvester " Sly " Stallone . In fact Stallone , playing Casmo Carboni , downplays his role in order to give his two brothers in the movie Lenny , Armard Assante , and Victor aka wrestler Kid Salami , Lee Canalito , not only more exposure but more likable parts then himself . Cosmo at first is nothing but a neighbor , in post WWII crime ridden Hells Kitchen , con-artist to whom doing an honest days work is against his religion . Later when Cosmo gets involved with local hoodlum Stich Mohan , Kevin Conway , that he uses his kind hearted and sweet , if not a bit slow , brother Victor as his meal ticket out of Hells Kitchen that things start to go sour . Not just for Cosmo and Victor but his , what looks like , older brother WWII disabled veteran Lenny . Using Victor as a battering ram to make a mint in the local wrestling circles Cosmo has " Vic " precipitate in no less then 41 matches in as many days winning all of them and making a bundle for Cosmo & Lenny . As the movie goes to it's inevitable conclusion Victor battles Stich's # 1 leg-breaker Frankie the Thumper , played by wrestling legend Terry Funk , in a no holds barred no time limit match at the Paradise Alley sports arena . The biggest surprise in the match between Victor and Frankie isn't who ends up winning but what Stich has been keeping secret from everyone , but his haberdasher , in just what kind of undies he's comfortable with ! And it's isn't " Fruit of the Loom " . The interesting parts of the movie " Paradise Alley " have more to do with Lenny and Cosmo then with their heroic and good natured brother Victor . It seems that Cosmo had picked up Lenny's girlfriend Annie , Ann Archer , on the rebound after Lenny broke up with her . Being crippled Lenny didn't want Annie to feel sorry for him and just let her go . It's later after Cosmo got very friendly with Annie that Lenny soon realized his mistake , that in fact Annie loved him despite his affliction , that he wanted her back ! All this got Lenny's brother Cosmo , who all this time thought that Annie was in love with him , a bit hot under the collar . This rivalry for Annies affections also spilled over into what both Cosmo and Lenny thought what was best for their big , six foot six and 250 pound , brother Victor . Cosmo who got Victor into the wrestling business in the first place now want's Victor to quit before he gets his brains scrambled . Lenny who at first was against Victor being a professional wrestler , he had a job as an ice delivery man , is now so gong-ho in Victor career that as long as the money , and Victor's string of victories , keep coming in he doesn't care if his big brother ends up being a vegetable ! SPOILER ALERT There's a very sad , and in a way funny , sequence between Cosmo and washed up wrestler Big Glory , Frank McRea , towards the end of the film . Getting themselves juiced up , on wine , Cosmo and Big Gory end up spending Christmas Eve wrecking half of Hell's Kitcher , with Victor's ice truck , ending up smashing into and through Stich's bar's front window . Talking things over about life and death at the near deserted city piers Big Glory , as if he's joking , tells Cosmo that he's leaving this world happy and them , before Cosmo could do anything to stop him , jumps into the river ! It turns out that even in this effort the luckless Big Glory had things go against him . But sadly enough that didn't stop the more then determined ex-wrestler and professional football player from eventually doing himself in . It was this sad and shocking event that finally convinced Cosmo that the path that he and Lenny choose for Victor would lead him to the same place , the bottom of the Hudson River , that it lead Big Glory to . And it was that what had the two brothers , Cosmo & Lenny , have Victor go for it , for the last time , in battling it out with Frankie for his last and biggest payday . Luckily for them and with the fact that he was born on the 22nd of the month , a vital part in the strategy in how he fought Frankie , Victor didn't disappoint his brothers as well as those who bet on him .
I do you a favor . . You do me a favor	SPOILERS Investigation newspaper tycoon Arthur Kennicut , Ray Milland , wife's Lenore , Pat Crowley , extramarital activities private investigator Brimmer , Robert Culp , gives her a clean bill of health in not fooling around behind her husbands back . The fact is that Lenore had indeed been having an affair with her hunky and handsome golf instructor Ken Archer , Brett Halsey , but Brimmer had that lifted and expunged from the report . Trying to get an inside line to Arthur's wheelings and dealings , mostly in the appointment of federal judges , Brimmer shrewdly saves his wife Lenore from being exposed as an adulteress . That would have her divorced by Arthur and put an end to her life of luxury and around the clock fun games and partying . It's later that Lenore has a change of heart and confronts Brimmer at his beach-front home telling him she's going to expose him to her husband , as a sleazy blackmailing creep . The sparks really start to fly with Lenore getting smacked across the face by Brimmer and cracking her skull as she fell backwards on the coffee table killing herself . Brimmer trying to make the best of a bad situation put's Lenore's body in the trunk of his car and after driving to a deserted construction site dumps it there making it look like she was brutally murdered in a random assault and robbery . Lt . Columbo . Peter Falk , is put on the case and the first thing that he notices when he goes to see Authur at his mansion is a photo of his late wife , Lenore , wearing glasses ! Lenore being very vain about her looks never let anybody on to that fact ! Brimmer tying to cover his tracks get's involved in the Lenore Kennicut murder investigation since he handled Authur's investigation of her cheating on him just days before . The obvious reason for Brimmer taking such a personal interest in Lenore's murder is that he killed her . With him being right of top of the investigation Brimmer can lead it , and Lt . Columbo , away from himself as a suspect . Lt . Columbo slowly starts to see the inconsistencies in the case with the way Lenore was killed by a violent slap across the face , that left a deep ring impression on her chin . It's also very obvious to Lt . Columbo that she was moved by her killer to another place to throw off the police . Lt . Columbo also finds out that Lenore in fact was having an affair with Archer which made Lt . Columbo very suspicious of why Brimmer hid that fact from her husband Arthur . Brimmer sees that Lt . Columbo is making headway on who murdered Lenore and slyly offers the L . A detective a job at his agency , that pays triple what he makes as an LAPD detective , as an underhanded bribe to get Lt . Columbo off the case with him not falling for or taking the bate . Knowing that Brimmer , and his investigators , are watching every move that he makes Lt . Columbo later takes a chance to let out the fact about Lenore's contact-lenses . It turns out that Lonore may have lost one or both of them when she was actually murdered at her beach house , that Columbo didn't know at the time , not where she was found at a construction site . Getting an exhumation order from the courts Lenore's body is unearthed and , with Brimmer listening in , Lt . Columbo tells the person in charge of the exhumation that one of the contacts is missing being that it's still at the murder site . It also turned out that the car that Brimmer used to drive Lenore's body away and dump her had been sent to a local garage . This after Lt . Columbo secretly disabled it , for servicing . Concerned and scared Brimmer rushed to his beach-house and not finding the contact there broke into the garage and after a while he does find the missing contact lens . Brimmer is completely unaware that it was all a trap set for him to incriminate himself by Lt . Columbo ! There was no contact lens ! But Brimmer incriminated himself by falling into Lt . Columbo's trap by thinking that there was one , or maybe even two ! It looked like Brimmer was really and truly sorry for what he did in killing Lenore . After all it was really an accident and not premeditated murder , and may have wanted to be caught to clear his conscience . Brimmer also seemed to have lost his sense of self-protection by having his investigators constantly following and reporting back to him Lt . Columbo's whereabouts which they , these guys were pretty sharp , would realize that he was covering up and trying to impede the murder investigation making them accessories to his crime !
Evry time I see a dead body I think it's murder	( There are Spoilers ) Having his career as a world renowned maestro in jeopardy with his affair with the star attraction of his prestigious South California Symphony Orchestra pianist Jennifer Wells , Anjanette Comar , musical conductor Alex Benedict , John Cassavetes , plans to murder her and make it look like Jenifer committed suicide . Being married to the boss ' Lizzy Field , Myrna Loy , daughter Janice , Blythe Danner , and fooling around with another woman can easily get Alex canned from his job and his position as one of Americas most beloved and leading classical music conductors . During rehearsals Alex sneaks out of the studio and in disguised goes to Jennifer's place to talk over business about leaving his wife Janice for her . With her back turned as she's playing the piano Alex takes a steel ashtray and smashed the unsuspecting Jenifer in the head knocking her out cold . Alex then locks her in her kitchen and turns on the gas stove to make sure that Jennifer doesn't recover and on top of all that leaves a suicide note on her typewriter . Back at the studio Alex put on a show for those present in how outraged he is in that his star performer , whom he just murdered , had screw him by not showing up for his live TV concert . With a " the show must go on " attitude Alex goes on without her to the wild cheers of the music loving TV , in the Hollywood Colosseum as well as those watching on the tube , audience . It's later when the police are called to check on Jenifer's whereabouts that it's found out that she's dead from a combination fractured skull and toxic , gas , poisoning . Even though it's reported to be a suicide homicide L . A detective Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , is assigned to the case and right away he feels that Jenifer was in fact murdered . Alex rushing over to show his concern for Jenifer immediately notice a pink carnation on the floor of her living room . The carnation that he accidentally dropped when he smashed Jenifer's head in . Alex nonchalantly picking up the carnation and putting it in his lapel , Alex's trademark , is noticed doing it by an eagle-eyed Lt . Columbo . In one of the most brutal and relentless Columbo episodes ever the pasty and annoying Lt . Columbo moves right in on his quarry , Alex Benedict . Like a determined and mindless bulldog Columbo chumps down on the killer and never give him a moments rest or even time to breath . Alex not exactly knowing what this Columbo is up to tries to humor the guy by joking about how much it cost him to maintain his high-living lifestyle . Columbo none the less never lets up for a moment and even finally admits to Alex that he feels certain that he murder Jennifer . This has the discombobulated and punch drunk guy more interested , and spending more time , in concocting an alibi then trying to conduct his symphony orchestra . Lt . Columbo Finally gets the break that he needed by obtaining a video tape of Alex doing his thing on that faithful evening , when he murdered Jenifer , with his lapel empty while he was on stage . Then a TV news video of him leaving the dead Jenifer's home with the carnation stuck in it was all he needed to have Alex break down and finally confess to his crime . Alex gladly gave up a life of opulence , just check out his mansion and fleet of expensive cars , and popularity as America's greatest musical conductor in order to get the obnoxious and overbearing Lt . Columbo off his back and out of his hair . The extreme tactics that Lt . Columbo used to drive Alex almost insane and into confessing his crime would have easily driven almost anyone into confessing any crime , even murder . Even someone totally innocent just to get Columbo to stop pestering him . A life behind bars or even a trip to the California gas chamber was far more humane then having to put up with all that !
Charlie Chan in the Haunted House	SPOILERS Years before he created the role of the brainy and famous Oriental sleuth Charlie Chan Warner Oland played in mostly bad-guy roles like in the film " Before Dawn " . Oland plays the sinister and homicidal Dr . Paul Cornelius a man obsessed with getting a stolen one million dollars hidden in this mansion owned by Mrs . Marble , Jane Darwell . Mrs . Marble was secretly married to last surviving member of the Valerie Gang Joe Valerie , Frank Reicher , who were involved in the infamous million dollar bank robbery . Working as a doctor at a Vienna hospital Cornelius came across a dying patient Joe Valerie who didn't have long to go and begged the doc to put him out of his misery . Valerie telling Cornelius that he's the only survivor of the notorious Valerie Gang that knocked off a bank , killing a number of bank guards in the process , of one million dollars . With both his brothers caught and later executed Joe escaped and hid the money back in the USA in a mansion outside a town called Chesterford . In the mansion both his wife Mrs . Marble and her tenant Mattie , Gertrude Hoffman , are looking after the cash until he comes back to claim it . Pleading to be euthanised by the doc Frank tells him where he hid the money as Cornelius gives him the needle . Back in the USA Dr . Cornelius plans to get his hands on the hidden cash but runs into a number of obstacles which includes both Mrs . Marble and Mattie who are anything but cooperative in helping him find the money and who he ends up murdering . There's also the psychic medium Patricia " Pat " Merrick , Dorothy Wilson , and her dad Horace , Dudles Driggs , on he case both working with the police in order to solve the case of the deceased Mrs . Marble . Pat and Horace having been busted in a police sting for fraud because her greedy father , without her knowledge , wouldn't return the three dollars that an undercover cop gave him when Pat couldn't contact his , the undercover cop's , Aunt Minnie . Pat later prove to the police that she indeed was psychic and can contact the dead and was immediately enlisted by police inspector O'Hara , Oscar Apfel , to solve the strange and baffling death of Mrs Marble . At the Marble house Pat picks up the vibrations of Mrs . Marble's killer who later shows , after he snuck out of the house , up as the well-heeled and sophisticated Dr . Cornelius . Cornelius claiming to have been in contact back in Vienna with the late Joe Valerie who told him that he hid the stolen bank robbery money , in a secret room inside the Marble Mansion , goes right into action looking for it . Acting as if he wants to help Cornelius get's old Mattie alone and in tying to find out where the money is hidden Cornelius is overheard by Horace getting the info from the scared to death Mattie to where the room is . Cornelius is later tricked by Mattie who in showing him where the money is hidden instead tries to do him in only to be herself thrown , by the doc , down a bottomless pit hidden inside the house . Horace finding the secret passage and Dr . Cornelius is then murdered by the crazed doctor who shoots him with a gun that he took from his daughter Pat feeling that she's won't be able to handle it . Pat picking up her father's ghost and now knowing that he's dead and that Corlelius murdered him tries to get out of the house as fast as she can and contact the police but is grabbed instead by the doc . Corlelius feels that Pat somehow psychically uncovered where the money is hidden , and in a life and death struggle with the desperate psycho Pat has Dr . Cornelius loses his footing and falls to his death in the deep dark and watery pit below . The movie ends happily for Pat as her boyfriend Det . Dwight Wilson , Stuart Erwin , who at first busted her end up signing a marriage license as they then both go downtown to City Hall to tie the knot .
" Do unto others as you would want others to do unto you "	SPOILERS Having spent the last six years on death row at the Colorado State Penitentiary time was just about running out for convicted murderer / kidnapper John Burke , Scott Bakula . As he awaits his fate , death by lethal injection , in the prisons death chamber . With protest outside the prison for and against Burke being executed by the state the parents Jack & Connie Murphy , Richard Thomas & Amy Mdigan , of Burke's 16 year-old victim Jennifier " Jenny " Murphy , Kimberley Warnot , have become deeply divided in their daughters murderer fate . Jack seeing home videos of Jenny laughing and playing with her friends and family suddenly feels that he has to have a last talk with Burke . Just to put his mind at ease in why he murdered his , and Connies , only child . That starts him thinking that maybe there's more to Burke's mental state then was revealed at his trial . Connie the founder and president of the Denver chapter of " Parents for Justice " who's members for the most part are parents like her and Jack who's children were victims of crimes is disturbed over her husbands sudden change of mind in his feelings for his daughters murder . That almost causes the two grieving parents to split up just when closure , the execution of John Burke , to Jenny's murder was about to happen . Going against his , and Connies , better judgment Jack is allowed to have a last talk with John Burke in the prisons death row and is startled to find out that Burke despite his unforgivable and vicious life is in fact not asking for himself to be speared the death penalty not caring at all if he lives or dies , which in a way is an improvement for him . Burke instead cares for his daughter 12 year-old Lisa , Robin Phipps . Who with her guardian Burke's mom Lnyette , Mary Black , suffering from acute heart disease and not long for this world would be left all alone in this cruel cold world after he's gone . It's hard to sit through " In the Name of the People " not that it's in any way a bad film but in the subject matter that it exposes its audience to . Jack & Connie who's daughter Jenny was taken away from them by a brutal and ruthless killer are now faced with the heart wrenching decision to adopt his soon to be orphaned daughter Lisa . That in order to keep her from being left alone in the world with no one to look after or care for her . That in a way replacing , with the Murphy's not able to have any more children , Jenny as their own ! You like the Murphys with Connie later changing her mind about her husbands decision , to have a last talk with their daughter murderer , start to see John Burke in a much more sympathetic light . Not that what he did was in any way explained away in some bleeding heart liberal-like psycho-babble by him having a brutal and loveless childhood . But that he came to realize what a lowlife he was and how he in the end not only hurt his many victims , like Jenny Murphy , in the crimes that he committed but the few people who he cared for and loved like his Mom Lyeytte and 12 year-old daughter Lisa . It takes a lot of soul searching and even more courage for the Murphys , especially Connie , to finally come to the almost impossible decision to forgive Burke for what he did . Who we're shown in a chilling flashback of how he cold-blooded and ruthlessly murdered a terrified and pleading for her life Jenny Murphy . Very few people would do , and who can blame them , what the Murphys did at the end of the movie . But it showed that they in the end came to realize that their daughters killers execution would not bring the closure that they always sought . That by showing the Christ-like kindness loving and understanding , " Do unto others as you would want others to do unto you " , that the Murphy's's showed for his daughter Lisa would in the end more then anything else help heal the wounds that they suffered at the hands of her very repetitive father .
Ryan : You killed a cop ! Do you know what that means ! Jake : I won't be invited to the departments next Christmas party ?	SPOILERS Rapid fire and non-stop action with Brandon Lee-the late Buce Lee's # 1 son - as art student and martial arts expert Jake Lo . Jake takes on the Chicago crime Syndicate and it's drug suppliers who , as Jake is battling both of them , are at war with each other over how to split the drug profits and who's to get the lion's share of them . Jake's a survivor of the Tienanmen Square massacre back in 1989-when he was a US exchange student in China - where his dad , who worked for the US State Department , ended up getting crushed by a Red Chinese tank . Since then Jake has been suffering from deep guilt feelings in that he wasn't able to save his dad when he really needed saving . Back in L . A while attending a fund raiser for Tienanmen Square victims , like his dad , Jake ends up witnessing out of out town Chicago's mob boss Tony Serrano , Nick Mancuso , murder one of L . A's top drug dealers Carl Chang , Michael Paul Chan . This happened when a defiant Chang refused to cut Serrano in on his very profitable illegal drug business . Serrano determined to keep Jake from talking sends his hit-men to track down and shut up , by putting a bullet in his head , Jake permanently . Put under around the clock federal protection Jake ends up in a Chicago safe-house only to get his cover blown by the very people , the FBI Agent , who were assigned to protect him . As things turned out , when they looked like they were about to turn on him , Jake was rescued by , in fighting the city's police corruption , Chicago Dirty Harry-like cop Det . Mace Ryan , Powers Boothe . It's Ryan who's been trying to get the goods on Serrano for the last ten years and now with Jake's as an eye-witness to him murdering Chang he feels he finally got them or him . SPOILER ALERT The movie " Rapid Fire " takes a sudden U-turn in what later was to be an even more formative hood then Sarrano for Jake & Ryan to tangle with who turned out to be Tommy Tau , Kinman Ta . Tau by having him knocked off ended up taking over Sarrano's city drug operations that he was , back in the Far East , the main supplier of . Both Jake & Ryan together with Chicago lady cop Karla Winters , Kate Hodge , find out just how , with Jake working on the inside , Tau is smuggling his drugs into the city right under the Chicago Police Department and FBI's noses ! Tau has them hidden inside the clean and sparkling white sheets that are washed and dry cleaned at his downtown Chicago laundry factory ! It's when the bullets , as well as fists and feet , start flying Jake by going solo , with both Ryan and Karla neutralized by Tau's henchmen , ends up putting and end to Tau's drug operations . Jake does that by putting and end , together with his army of hoodlums , to Tau himself in the movies electrifying final sequence ! Jake also puts an end to the guilt he's been having over his father's tragic death by preventing-in fate giving him a second chance - the same thing from happening to his friend and what seems like adopted father figure Det . Mace Ryan .
Fatal Ambition	SPOILERS Love works in strange ways on people who become hopelessly overwhelmed by it . In the case of former San Francisco Post lonely hearts columnist Kathy Ferguson , Barbara Stanwyck , it lead to disastrous and fatal results . On top of her game as one of America's top advisory , in personal problems , columnists Kathy got stung by the love bug when she laid her pretty eyes on tall handsome and not too talkative-the strong and silent type - L . A policeman Lt . Bill Doyle , Sterling Hayden . Bill together with his partner Capt . Charlie Alidos , Royal Dano , came to see Kathy at her job to get information of one of her fans who just happens to be wanted for murder back in Los Angeles . It didn't take long for Kathy to not only give Bill the information of the murder fugitives whereabouts , after his boss Capt . Alidos left on a wild goose chase , but fall heads over heels for him . Turning down a high paying job offer to work in New York City Kathy instead married Bill and moved to L . A . Living the boring life of a 1950's suburban housewife Kathy soon realized what a mistake she made in throwing away her career in the newspaper business for the laid back and not all that ambitious , in going up the ladder as a cop , Bill Doyle . Determind to get Bill promoted at all cost to captain Kathy went as far as getting romantically involved with his boss Inspector Tony Pope , Rymond Burr . Pope took Kathy's interest in him as one of the perks , he had a scrapbook filled with his many affairs , of his job as a top man in the LAPD . Kathy feeling both humiliated and insulted in Pope dropping her like a hot potato after she put out for him , to get her husband promoted to be his assistant , really went a bit nuts when he gave the job she put out for to Bill's partner Capt . Alidos ! It's then that Kathy secretly started to embroil Bill with his partner Capt . Alidos over herself . Kathy did this by planting letters supposedly written by Capt . Alidos accusing her as being a home wrecker and even hinting that she's having an affair , which was true , with a member of the LAPD . Outraged at what Alidos did Bill confronted him at the police station and laid him out-with a straight right - giving him a king size shiner ! Pope knowing that he-not Capt . Alidos-in fact was the reason for Bill's anger tried to smooth things over . Pope did this by getting Bill off the hook and possibly having him canned from his job . Kathy still trying to get Pope to promote Bill , she should have been happy that he was still on the police force , later hysterically confronted Pope at his home . It was there and then , when Pope told her to get lost , that Kathy's emotions took over her common sense . This later put her husband Bill in the unenviable position to bust her in one of the most sensational murder cases in the LAPD's history ! If Kathy was as in love with Bill as she at first thought she was his being a cop , and a lieutenant on top of that , shouldn't have been an obstacle in her love for him . He provided Kathy with the home and security which almost any middle class woman would be more then happy with . Bill also provide Kathy with the unconditional love , despite her always putting him down , that she always longed for . It was Kathy-not Bill - who made the big mistake by marrying him and sacrificing her career in doing that . And it was her that Kathy should have blamed for the boring life , as a suburban housewife , that she choose to have even though at the time she did't realize just how boring , to her , it would be !
Space Children	SPOILERS Outer space Rosemary's Baby-like shocker that holds together pretty well until the final few minutes when you would expect the movie to deliver the goods and only end up getting a second-rate and very confusing , or a complete let-down , surprise ending . Being sent into orbit on the space shuttle astronauts Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck , Jhonny Depp & Nick Cassavetes , are almost killed as their repairing the shuttle while in space . Being cut off for over two minutes , from the main NASA monitoring station in Huston , it was at first assumed that the two were killed in an explosion outside the shuttle . Later it was confirmed that both Spencer and Alex were all right and the shuttle mission was aborted with the two astronauts brought back to earth . Something happened up there to the two spacemen that was to come very very close to home , their wives , when they returned . Both of the astronauts wives Jillian & Natalie , Charlize Theron & Donna Murphy , at first don't notice any change in their husbands , Spencer & Alex , appearances or conduct only that their horny as hell . At the first possible chance the returning astronauts had had they , at least in the scene between Spencer and Jillian , pounced upon their wives like wild animals in heat and brutally make love to them as if they haven't seen or touched their wives , or any other woman , in years ! It's later at an out-door party that Alex , after having a fight with Natalie , goes berserk and collapses and dies from a massive heart-attack . Later Natalie despondent over her husbands sudden death commits suicide by electrocuting herself in the bathtub while both Spencer and Jillian are there at her home visiting and trying to comfort her over her tragic loss . Moving to New York City Spencer gets a job working for Jackson McLaren's , Tom Noonan , aerospace company and things just couldn't be better for the happy young couple . It's when Jillian gets pregnant and is later told that she's to give birth to twins by her physician Dr . Patraba , Samantha Eggar , that strange things start to happen to her . This all leads Jillian to believe that the person that she's married to , Spencer Armacost , isn't the man that she thinks he is in fact he isn't a man at all ! The movie quickly moves to from where Jillian has absolutely no suspicion of her husbands sinister plans for her and her future children to where she's terrified at just the very sight of him . Being contacted by former NASA insider Sherman Reese , Tom Morton , Jillian is told that her husband is not human and that his body and mind were taken over by some unknown and unseen alien force while he and Alex were in outer space ! A force that's anything but friendly towards her or any one else on earth . Jillian thinking at first that Reese is some kind of nut still can't dismiss the shocking and personal information that Reese knows about her being pregnant with twins . Reese also knew that Natalie was also pregnant at the time of her suicide , that was kept from the public , and she also was to give birth to twins ; how on earth could Reese have known all this unless he was telling the truth ? Reese trying to get all the secret and shocking information about Specer to Jillian , before he feels that he'd be silenced forever , information that proves that Spencer's not who she thinks he is from top-secret NASA documents , that Reese smuggled out before he was fired from his job . All of Reese's efforts come to a crashing end when he's intercepted by Spencer at a local New York City subway station where the drop , or pick up , by Jillian was supposed to take place and is never seen and heard from again with Spencer , instead of the out of sight and hidden Jillian , taking off with his briefcase . Getting a key from Reese in the mail it leads Jillian to a storage building where he kept as a back up , something he learned from working at NASA , information about the truth of Spencer's origins . Jillian now more then ever is convinced that her husband is not only not of this earth but later when Jillian finds out that her sister Nan , Clea Duvall , who was last seen at her and Spencer's apartment was missing she suspected that her once " sweet kind and loving " husband is a murderer as well . The movie looked like it was going to be a better then average thriller but fizzled at the end with a very convoluted final that destroyed all the tension that was building up in the film . Your left wondering what exactly the ending was all about with a complete turn around , as well as new hairdo , in what Jillian was actually trying to achieve in stopping her husband and his offspring's the evil space twins from gaining a foothold , so that they can later take control , of the US NASA space program .
The Party from Hell	( There are Spoilers ) It at first looked like it was going to be a groovy and wonderful evening when jazz lover Rodney Hamilton , Richard Attenborough , invited the who's who of the London jazz community to his spacious East London loft to celebrate legendary black jazz pianist Aurellius Rex , Paul Harris , and his white wife singing sensation Delia Lane , Marti Stevens , first wedding anniversary . At the party jazz drummer boy Johnnie Cousin , Patrick McGoohan , tries to talk Delia into joining his new jazz band , as its lead singer , in order to get the some 25 , 000 pound sterling he needs to finance it . Delia who has since retired from show business to spend all her time with her husband Aurelius rejects Jonnie's offer that has top London music agent Lou Berger , Bernard Braden , drop Johnnie as a client . Trying to get Delia to join his band , and thus save his floundering career , Johnnie tries to start up trouble between the two love birds , Aurelius & Delia , by adding jazz saxophonist - and good friends of both Aurelius and Delia - Cass Michaels , Keith Mitchell , into the mix . As we've seen already Cass's relationship with Delia is both professional and purely platonic with him having a study girlfriend Benny , Maria Velasco , of his own who's , like Aurelius , also black . This goes to show how liberal and uninhibited for the early 1960's both Cass and Delia are ! Johnnie seeing an opening in breaking up the interracial couple uses Cass , whom he gets both drunk and high on pot , as a battering-ram to break them apart . To his credit Aurelius at first doesn't fall for Johnnie's sneaky and underhanded tactics but being the determined and manipulating creep that he is Johnnie goes a step farther with his state-of-the-are , for 1962 , tape recording equipment that leaves no doubt , in Aurelius ' mind , to his wife's infidelity . SPOILERSThis also leads Aurelius to completely crack up and not only attack a shocked and surprised Delia , almost strangling her , but knock Cass down a fifteen foot balcony , in Rodney's loft , almost breaking both his neck and back ! It's only when Johnnie's wife Emily , Besty Blair , who had no idea what her crazy husband was planning came clean with what a lying and conniving rat he is , and alway was , that Aurelius came to his senses but not after all the damage was already done . Even though he was the villain in the movie Johnnie Cousin got away almost Scott / free in his instigating Aurelius to commit a number of violent acts that would , in real life , have but him behind bars for at least five years . It's true Johnnie lost his dream of becoming a big time band leader with his wife Emily , whom he more or less kicked out of his life , leaving him . The ending seemed a bit far fetched , or feel good , in Delia coming back to her uncontrollably violent husband Aurelius without as much as having him get help-or anger management - for his manic depression that was very obvious in the movie . He could very well lose it in the future , if he ever again becomes suspicious of Delia , and end up finishing what he started in ringing her neck ! As for Cass he's left lying on the floor unable to move with his career as a saxophone player in doubt and even the apology from a tearful Aurelius doesn't seem to be enough to get him back on his feet again .
Mrs . Brown you've got a lovely daughter	SPOILERS With his top kick or head man at Blair General Hospital Dr . Kildare , or better yet actor Lew Ayres , off to war as a conscientious objector , driving ambulances on the front lines , Dr . Gillespie , Lionel Barrymore , is desperate to find his replacement . After searching high and low among his hundreds of interns Dr . Gillespie boils his search down to two candidates for Dr . Kildare's job doctors Randall " Red " Ames , Van Johnson , and Lee Won How , Keye Luke . Giving the two young doctors the task of finding a cure to a assigned patient's illness within a specific amount of time , like he's conducting some kind of game show or scavenger hunt , Dr . Gillespie will choose as his assistant the one who finds the cure first . A cocky Dr . Lee gets the job of finding out why little Mary Jones , Patrica Barker , is allergic to sugar like candy and sweet potato's . Red on his own takes up the task of finding out why this young woman-who refuses to reveal her name-Jean Brown played by Ava Gardner is walking and driving around dead drunk yet doesn't have a single drop of alcohol in her system ? Wise old and manipulative Lenny Gillespie is really in favor of Red taking Dr . Kildare's place as his # 1 assistant but Lee is determined to beat him to it by finding out what's the reason for Little Mary's acute anti-sugar problem . Meanwhle Red has his hands full with finding out the cause of beautiful brunette Jean's non-existent alcoholism which in fact turned out to be an anti-depression pill Jean had given to her by a friend of her's at a party she attended ! Where at the same time Red's having this gorgeous blond Ruth Edley , Marilyn Maxwell , hounding him day and night to go out on a hot date with her ! That on his measly $20 . 00 a month salary as an intern ! As things tuned out Lee beats Red out in finding the cure , with Dr . Gillespie subconsciously tipping him off , for his patients , Litte Mary , illness and thus is to be rewarder in being Dr . Gillespie head man at Blair General . Lee also clues in Red , by showing him a nine year-old boy playing hop-scotch on the sidewalk , to what's the reason for Jean's drowsiness as a result of her pill popping which has to do with her depression over her mothers Mrs . Brown , Barbara Brown , arthritic condition . As it turned out the arthritis caused Mrs . Brown's right leg to be shorter then her left leaving her confined in a wheelchair for years . All Red now had to do is fit Mrs Brown with a special set of custom made shoes , at his bear bones salary where did he get the cash to buy them ? , and everything including Jean's depressive state of mind , as a result in caring for her mother , would turn out fine . Red now feeling that he lost out to his colleague Lee in being top assistant to Dr . Gillispie , not knowing it was in fact Dr . Gillespie not Dr . Lee who came up with the cure for Litte Mary's illness , is ready to pack it in and join the US Marine Corps to fight the Japs in the far off South Pacific . It's then that Dr . Gllespie comes to his rescue pulling strings in getting Lee drafted into the Chinese Army as a field doctor on the front lines ! Something that Lee wanted even more then being Dr . Gillespie's assistant ! There's still the messy matter of Ruth messing up Red's mind by wanting him to hook up with her , for life , endangering his career in medicine ! It's here that Dr . Gillespie , with a little help from his friends , saves Red's neck , as well a everything below it , in getting him out of that " terrible terrible jam " in a way that only he knows how .
Uneven and a bit phony but still interesting	SPOILERS Spending 12 years behind bars for a crime so heinous that even murderers and armed robbers would consider him scum and he'd have to be placed in protective custody for his own protection Walter , Kevin Bacon , is now free under the conditions that if he ever is arrested for the crime that he was convicted of again it would be life without parole , Walter was or possibly still is a child molester . Getting a job at a lumber mill Walter keeps mostly to himself but somehow attracts a pretty young woman , one of the few , working there Vicki ( Kyra Sedgwick ) who in no time at all has Walter bedding her down at his place . Walters pad is much bigger and more spacious , with a view to boot , then what most people working at low paying jobs like himself could possibly afford . Walter's apartment is also right across the street from a grade school playground filled with young boys and girls that would undoubtedly attract or entice him to commit the crimes that he was convicted of ! You really try to work up some sympathy for Walter seeing that he's at first trying or making a serious effort to overcome his addiction , pedophilia , but it's hard to when he starts going back , or giving in , to his old habits that put him behind bars . Going back on the prowl and lookout out for young girls to obviously molest and , from his conversations with his psychiatrist Rosen ( Michael Shannon ) , Walter feels that there's nothing really wrong with his attraction to young under-age girls as young as 9 or 10 years old . Walter's brother-in-law Carlos , Benjamin Bratt , has the same feelings for him as you would about Walter trying to fit back into society . Later Carlos just about loses it when Walter tells him if he has the same feelings about his young daughter Carla , Walter niece , that he does about young girls ! This has an outraged Carlos almost smash Walter's head through a bar window . Walter in a way redeems himself later in the movie by committing a brutal assault , that put the guy in the hospital with a broken jaw , on a local pervert Candy , Kevin Rice , that he noticed hanging around the school yard . But even that wasn't exactly anything to write home about since all he had to do was report Candy to the police who would have easily made a fix on him by checking his fingerprints and seeing Candy was a fugitive from the law for a violent act of sodomy against an under-aged boy . The cop who's always bothering Walter Sgt . Lugas , Mos Def , comes to Walters place after the attack on Candy and almost congratulates , instead of arresting , the paroled ex-convict for what he did . This came across a bit phony since Sgt . Lugas never showed any sympathy towards Walter at all , he considered him a piece of garbage , in the movie . Walter beating someone almost half to death , no matter who he is , wasn't anything that would make Sgt . Lugas like him anymore now then he did before . Later the news , through an article circulated around the lumber mill on the internet , about Walter's background as a child molester has almost everyone , except Vicki , turn on him and you would think that for his own protection he would be let go and given a new job by his parole office , where no one would know him . Yet we still see Walter working at the mill with nothing more then a few angry stares directed at him by the workers many who have young children , like the ones that Walter molested , and nothing else . We do see Walter in the movie still have these urges for young girls where he's following them in shopping malls and in parks that unnerved me and probably many other viewer who were trying to feel sympathy for the troubled young man . What I feel was the best , and at the same time most unbearable to watch , scene in the movie is when Walter , giving into his urges , tried to get a little too close to a young girl he followed into the park Robin , Hannah Pilices , and started to make small talk with her . Trying to get Robin to sit on his lap Walter for the first time in the movie realized how sick he still is when Robin , who refused , indicated to him that she was very possibly molested by her own father who asked her to do the same thing where he then obviously fondled and molested her . It was that story by Robin that made Walter see just what a sick mind he had . Then what does Water do to cure himself of this very dangerous mental illness ? go out that night and attack and almost kill Candy someone who's just as sick as he is , or was . Which only showed that Walter was still not cured of the urges , violent or passive , that lead to his incarnation and that he will eventually give into again in the future at the expense of an unsuspecting and innocent victim .
Not as good as the original but still worth watching	SPOILERS Paul Schrader's remake of the 1942 horror classic " Cat People " this time set in New Orleans La . not in New York City . Irena Gallier , Nastassja Kinski , comes to live with her older brother Paul , Malcolm McDowell , in the hot and sweltering southern city . Feeling for the first time in her life wanted Irena was orphaned at the age of four when her parents killed themselves . She spent her formidable years in and out of orphanages and it wasn't until her brother tracked her down that she fond a home of her own in Louisiana . It turns out later in the movie that what Paul wants from her is more then what Irena is willing to give him . Nastassja Kinski in one of her most sexiest roles is both seductive and innocent as Irena and gives the film the electricity that keeps the movie going even though the cast has trouble keeping up with her performance at times . Malcolm McDowell is both creepy and unnerving as Irena's older brother Paul who's like a Tom-Cat in heat during the entire movie having no trouble getting women for his sexual pleasures . Paul also ends up murdering them because of his submerged animal instincts that those affairs bring to the surface . John Heard , Oliver Yates , is very good as the zoo curator and Irena's frustrated lover who Irena , who loves him , avoids having an affair with Oliver in order not to be forced to kill him . Annette O'Toole , Alice Perrin , is also very good in a small but important role as Oliver's co-worker in the New Orleans Zoo . Alice later becomes the focus of Irena's jealousy and resentment for being the woman who's standing between Oliver and her . The movie recreates a number of scenes from the 1942 version with the cat-like woman coming up to Irena at a bar , in the first film it was at Irena's wedding party , and greets her in a foreign language calling her " My sister " or , what it obviously meant , fellow cat person . There's also the classic indoor swimming pool scene with Alice . This time around with Alice being topless which of course she couldn't have been in the 1942 version due to the censorship of nude scenes by the Hollywood Watchdog Hayes Commision . Alice taking a swim in the indoor swimming pool has the lights suddenly shut off and what seemed to be some kind of big cat in the shadows hounding her in the dark . Unlike the original movie the new version of " Cat People " has a number of extremely gory scenes that are really shocking . With the black leopard in the movie who both Irena and Paul turn into being so horrific and terrifying that he makes the villains in horror / slashers movies today look as scary as Pee Wee Herman in comparison . With his eerie green eyes and ferocious and deadly fangs and claws you just cringe with fear every time the big cat comes on the screen . There's a blood splattered sequence where the enraged leopard grabs the zoo-keeper's Joe Creigh's , Ed Bagley Jr , arm between the bars of his cage . The sight of the big cat , who was really Paul , going wild when as saw Joe together with Irena , his sister , was one of the most terrifying scenes I've even seen in a motion picture . Joe foolishly tried to settle the leopard down with an electric prong as the dangerous feline suddenly and cat-like grabbed and ripped Joe's arm off with the ease as if it was attached to his body with just a rubber band . The frighting thing about the leopard's actions is that , unlike the killers in most horror films , it was so realistic knowing that a big dangerous jungle cat like that can do that in real life just like in the movies . Even though Paul Schrader's " Cat People " doesn't in any way measure up to the original the ending was more interesting and innovative with Irena not being killed and Oliver ending up together with her instead of leaving Irena for Alice like Oliver did in the 1942 movie . In the end of the movie we see that Oliver finally accepts Irena for what she is with the knowledge that the only way he can be with her is between the bars that separate them .
Vigilante justice with a slight twist	SPOILERS Unusual film about a young girl getting raped and her father taking the law into his own hands , after the justice system failed to put his daughters rapist behind bars and allowed him to go Scot-free . Going to meet her boyfriend Dean Joiner , Christian Campbell , who's the DJ at the Rhino Night-club Amy Metcalf , Nicki Aycox , spots him with a young girl on the platform and feels that he's cheating on her . Heat-broken Niki accepts one of the young patrons at the club Grant Chadways , Vance Corazza , offer to drive her home after he tricked Niki into thinking that the cab he called for her wasn't coming . It turned out to be a night of horrors for not only Niki but later both her parents as well . Brutally raped by Grant and told that if she goes to the police he'll pay her another visit Niki keeps the news to herself until he next day when she just couldn't bring herself to hold it in anymore . Niki also showered and cleaned her clothes so there was no DNA evidence to be found on Niki to who it was who raped her . It's when Niki identifies the car that Grant was driving that the law finally catches up with him . Grants arrested and positive identification by Niki but it's when he's brought before a judge and jury that the wheels of justice grained to a halt . As you would have expected Niki was made out to be more of a loose and promiscuous young girl then a victim of a vicious rape . In the end her attacker was found innocent of all charges . It's after the trial when Niki's dad Mr . Metcaft , A . Martiniz , tries to take matters into his own hands that things go straight downhill for the Metcalf family . Not that Grant was that much better after his acquittal in fact he was far worse . Feeling immune from the law Grant constantly , together with his bully-boy friends , harassed Niki and her friends like Dean & Melissa , Stephane Mills , even threatening to " do in " both her and her mom Elaine , Mimi Kuzyk . The movie reaches a climax when Mr . Metcalf totally obsessed with preventing Grant from attacking both his wife and daughter , which he threatened to do , finally takes matters into his own hands . Basting him away , in front of dozens of witnesses , Mr . Metclaf ends up himself on trial for murder . You can't really blame Mr . Metcalf for what he did even though it was completely unjustified . Grant didn't threaten him even though he had a couple of his friend at hand . Even Grant's disgusting and lying description of Niki , as Mr . Metcalf turned his back walking away from him , was no reason for Mr . Metcalf shooting him . The surprise ending was totally unexpected but at the same time didn't at all cop out , like you would have expected the movie to , and at the same time correct the outrageous and uncalled for not-guilty verdict that Grant got at his trial . It wasn't enough that Grant raped Niki and later after , and even before , his acquittal for that crime . Grant constantly threatened and harassed Niki and her friends as well as her mom . Making Niki almost a recluse terrified to go out of the house even to buy the morning newspaper . The arrogance of being found innocent of a terrible crime that he committed would have eventually lead Grant to commit another more vicious and even deadlier one . At the same time Mr . Metcalfs actions may well have prevented it but that in the end was left up to a jury to decide . WhichSPOILER ALERT Mr . Metcalf with the advice of his daughter Niki wisely decided for them .
It's like separating sewage from sea water	( Some Spoilers ) With an iron clad grip on the " Windy City " the criminal organization known as " The Syndicate " run by Arnie Valent seemed untouchable until one of it's accountants Nelson Kern got a bit religious and went to the local newspaper the Chicago Telegraph to expose it's criminal operations . Getting the editor of the newspaper David Healey to agree to publish his story , under an assumed name , Kerns is shot on the street as soon as he leaves the building . With the police as well as the editors of all the city's newspapers agreeing that " The Syndicate " is to be put out of business before it becomes any more entrenched that it already is it's agreed to get Internal Revenue auditor , and WWII combat hero , Barry Amsterdam to do the job for them . Barry at first is anything but interested in taking on " The Snydicate " but when he's offered $60 , 000 . 00 , by the city fathers , he's more then willing to stick his neck out . With that $60 , 000 . 00 Barry can open up his own accountant agency something he's been dreaming about since he got out of the service . With the knowledge , that he got from the Chicago PD , of who it was that gunned down Kern , a hit-man named Burke , Barry get's in touch with Valent in an attempt to blackmail him in the fact that Berke works for him . Barry putting on an act that he's disenchanted with his job as an IRS auditor instead ends up getting the very job that the late Nelson Kern had looking after and accounting for all of Valent's , and his syndicate's , holdings and transactions . The movie moves at a snails pace with Barry Amsterdam trying to get the goods on Valent and his criminal activities but the old timer , the last of Chicago's Al Capone Gang , is just too slick and slippery to get nailed in a Federal tax evasion , like his former boss " Big Al " Capone , rap . Just at one point when Barry thought he had Valent caught red handed at his mothers tenement apartment with the goods , his secret ledgers , Valent burned them moments before the cops , tipped off by Barry , came crashing into the place . Barry uses the two women in the cast singer Connie Peters and the late Nlson Kern's daughter Joyce to uncover what Kerns had on Valent's by a number of secret rolls of microfilm , containing the contents of the destroyed ledgers , that Kern had made just before he was gunned down . When Valent realizes that his moll Connie had the microfilm hidden as a life insurance policy for herself instead of destroying them like he told her he completely loses it . Having his henchmen work Connie over to find out where the microfilm is it's Connie's friend , as well as lover , band leader Benny Chico who tells Valent where the rolls of film is ; Hidden in a violin case that's being held for him , for safe keeping , at a local pawn shop . Benny had no idea what was in the case until he found out that Connie , who gave it to him , had made as well as kept the very incriminating , for Valent and his syndicate , microfilm . Despite being both cool calm as well as collective all throughout the movie Arnie Valent loses himself when he realizes that for once he's about to be busted , with none of his flunkies taking the rap for him ! Valent overreacts when Barry , who was at the pawn shop with him and his hoods , pulled the rolls of film right out of his hands before , like he did with the ledgers earlier , he could burn them . Instead of letting his hood chase down Barry and both murder him and get the film back Valent decides to do the job himself . This leaves him open to being both arrested by the police , who were tailing Barry , or ending up getting shot and killed by them . Barry badly wounded , from being shot in the leg by Valent , ends up making it to the Chicago slums where Valent's mother resides and it's there , outside his mom's tenement , that Valent life of crime , as well as " The Syndicate " , came to a sudden and violent end .
Tonight ! The Night ! Belongs to us !	SPOILERS 1940's child star Dean Stockwell in his first adult role as the crazy mixed up and madly in love 18 year-old Santa Monica high school student Jerry Vernon does a commendable job without the usual schmaltz you would expect in a 1950's growing up to adulthood Hollywood movie . Crashing a party with his friend Bob , Alan Dinehart III , just to be rebellious Jerry meets 17 year-old Emily Meredith , Natalie Trundy , and by the time the evening is over the two somehow connect without at first realizing it . It's later when , with her parents out for the evening , Emily invites Jerry over to the house that what at first was just a chance encounter , at the crashed party , not only becomes a beautiful friendship but blooms into a full fledged love affair . As Jerry gets serious about Emily his studies in school start to suffer and that gets his old man Mr . Sam Vernon , John Larch , as well as his mom Mathilda , Virginia Christine , very concerned about their son's future . Papa Sam has been breaking his back working all kinds of overtime , as well as days off , at the machine plant where he saved up $400 , 00 to pay for Jerry collage education . Now Jerry wan't to squander not only his education but the $400 . 00 to buy Emily and himself a pair of wedding rings and go on a honeymoon where they'll be hitched up , or married , in Mexico . Emily's parents Charles & Helen Meredith , John Stephenson & Barbara Billingsley , are just as determined as Jerry's are in not letting their daughter ruin her life by marrying so early before she can make something of herself by going to and finishing college . The final straw is when Jerry with his kid brothers Biff's , Bobby Hyatt , knowledge plans to elope with Emily . This is to be accomplished by Jerry forging his old mans name on a bank withdrawal slip in order to grab the $400 . 00 , that's exclusively for Jerry's education , and take off with Emily across the border into Mexico . Biff not being able to keep his mouth shut blurts out , at the breakfast table , what Jerry & Emily are about to do ! That leads Papa Sam to storm into the two's lovers hotel-room and have it out with his love-sick and at the same time ungrateful , for everything he did for him , son Jerry . Things get even more stressful for the confused and immature Jerry when his girl Emily , even though younger is far more grown up then he is , decides to call the whole thing , dash across the border and marriage , off . Left all alone and feeling like a real first class jerk with the hotel owner Mrs . Belosi , Elizabert Shifer , giving him 72 hours to clear out Jerry meekly comes back home to live with his parents and ask for their forgiveness for all the trouble he caused them . SPOILER ALERT In the end things turn out for the better for both Jerry and Emily in that they not only learned the hard facts of life but also that being in love is one thing but being married is quite another . Especially if you've never experienced life beyond that of attending party's and making out on then back seat of your , which our parents paid for , Chevy Convertible . P . S By the way Emily , like his parents , in the end forgives Jerry for his compulsive actions and not only agrees to give him her new address , at her parents summer retreat in Connecticut , but promises to write him every day that she's away .
A crazy man just shot at me !	SPOILERS American US Navy ballistic engineer Howard Graham , Joseph Cotton , is in Istanbul Turkey trying to get the Turkish Navy the latest state of the art coastal defenses . This is in the event of a possible German invasion , in order to outflank the Soviet Red Army , of that natural country . It isn't that long that Graham is targeted by this bumbling and enormously overweight assassin Peter Banat , played by Jack Moss in his only acting role , who's being paid by the Nazis to murder him . Banat , the best hit-man the Nazis can get , is so clumsy and incompetent that he couldn't hit the broad side of a barn from as close as a distance of less then ten feet ! This makes Banet not only one of the most bizarre hit-man in movie history but at the same time one of the most comical . Put on a boat traveling to the Black Sea port of Batumi by Turkist police Col . Haki , Orson Wells , it's thought that this would keep Graham safe and out of arms way until he can safely return to the USA . As you would expect the over-sized Banat ends up a passenger on the boat together with his intended target Howard Graham . Also on the boat is Banat's boss a Germen Agent called Muller who's disguised as an old man , that's about as far as I can go without revealing his identify , intent on living out his last days at sea . After a number of near misses by the butterfingered hit-man Banat it's decided by his boss , who now reviles himself to Graham , Muller to get the job done himself ! This " Master Plan " by Muller is to be done in such a mind boggling and incomprehensible way that it makes even the totally incompetent hit-man Banat look like a genius in comparison ! By then Graham , who's anything but a hero , makes his escape from both Muller Banat and a group of Nazi agents in a hotel in Batumi where his wife Stephanie , Ruth Warrwick , has been staying , courtesy of Col . Haki , since the start of the movie . The big final has Graham chased along the ledges of the hotel , some eight stories up , during a driving rainstorm by the almost blind , with his glasses all wet and fogged up , Banat . Col . Haki who joins the chase in order to keep Banat from killing Graham ends up falling through a hotel window as he tries to come to Graham's aid . Like we've seen all throughout the movie Banat proved to be a total dud in not only using up all his ammunition but foolishly trying to murder Graham bare handedly which proves to be , with his massive weight unable to support him , his own undoing . The whole story is told to us in a long and boring flashback by Howard Graham himself as he writes his wife , who seemed to have walked out on him , Steph explaining his unexplainable actions in the film . In Graham's letter to Steph , which he later tears up , he's trying to prove to her that his relationship with dancer and singer Josette Mantel ( Delores Del Rio ) , another passenger on the boat he was on , was of purely innocent nature and nothing ever came of it . P . S It seemed that both the movie's star and director Orson Wells as well as its screenwriter Ben Hecht had their names removed from the credits . This must show how much they liked , or disliked , the film that they were so much involved in making .
The Exorcist : 1949 Vintage	SPOILERS Gory prequel to the original " Exorcist " that takes place some 24 years earlier in 1949 . The former Father Merrin , Stellan Skarsgard , now going back to being an archaeologist is contacted my this mysterious Mr . Smelier , Ben Cross , in a Cairo caf . Mr . Smelier want's him to go to British East Africe to find and ancient artifact of a pagan demon . Travling to Nirobi Kenya Merrin is told by the British Major Granville , Julian Wadham , who in charge of a dig , that a 1 , 500 year-old Christian church has been excavated in the area . The mysterious church had been built some 1 , 000 years before Christian missionaries ever converted that region in East Africa . We later learn from Father Francis , James D'Arcy , that a Christian church was indeed built there and for some reason then forgotten about . By orders of the Vatican all the records were kept secret until 1893 until someone , a hight official , in the Church of Rome found out about them and the church . An excavation was then organized the next year with a number of Catholic Preists to dig up the church with the help of the local natives , they all disappeared never to be seen or heard of again . The Vatican in order to cover up this strange event came up with the story that a plague hit that area and everyone ended up dying from it in order to keep other adventures and archaeologists away . Years later after the site was rediscovered by British troops there was no way to keep that awful secret from the public . What we find out from Father Francis is that the church was built to seal the place where it's believed that the Arcangle Lucifer fell to earth and where now the Devil dwells . Breaking into the church breaks open the seal that kept the Devil in check . Now he's out in the light to do the dirty work that he's been prevented to do for some 1 , 500 years , which would make events like WWI & WWII look like child-play in comparison . Decent but not great prequel with a lot of things not fully explained in the archeology dig in Kenya as well as a number suicides among the major players in the movie . The exorcism itself , which had us confused for a while to just who's possessed and who's to be exorcised , is far more graphic and almost as terrifying as the original in the 1973 Exorcist film . You have to " dig " real deep to connect the bloodbath that takes place aboveground between the British troops and the Turkana villagers where everyone ends up getting massacred ; to the beginning of the movie when we see tens of thousands of dead soldiers in the same place some 1 , 500 years earlier . Lancaster Merrin who lost his faith in God and himself , because of the horrors that he lived through in WWII , regained it in the horrors of what he encountered in British East Africa and overcame them with the faith that he so long ago lost .
You have shamed Yourself ! You have shamed your Home ! And you have shamed Me !	SPOILERS " Sin and Redemption " is a bit predictable in it's subject matter in that it telegraphs its very unsurprising " suprise ending " almost as soon as you get an idea of where the movie is going . Teenager Billie Simms , Cynthia Gibb , is looking forward to attend collage but her life gets all messed up when going home from work , form her job as a waitress at a local hamburger joint , Billie is attacked and raped from behind by a shadowy drunk assailant . Finding out that she's pregnant Billie is told by her very religious minded father Mr . Carl Simms , Ralph Waite , to put the child up for adoption soon after its born . Being a religious and God fearing man an abortion would be unthinkable in Carl's mind . As Billie is going through the trauma of having her child not only born but given away to a stranger young handsome and very rich Jim McDaniels , Richard Grieco , pops up pleading with Billie to keep the child and even more strange asks her , almost begging Billie , for her hand in marriage ! Jim we've already seen , in a violent incident at the hamburger joint , is infatuated with Billie in that he acts as if he's her knight in shining amour beating the crp out of anyone who as much as says an unkind word to her . Against his father's and mother's , Walter Marsh & Conetta Tomei , advice Jim marries Billie and immediately throws away his future in the family business and collage education . On top of all that Jim opts to live with his wife and newborn daughter Katie , Brittany Tiplady at one and Coleen Rannison at five years old , in the poor side of town ! Miles away from the expensive and spacious mansion that he lived in with his parents ! Having trouble in paying the bills , he wouldn't think of asking his parents for help , Jim turns into an abusive wife-beating drunk having trouble in both staying away from the bottle and holding down a job . It's when little Katie is diagnosed with a life threatening kidney aliment that Jim is forced to sober up in thatSPOILER ALERT he may be the only person who can save her life ! Touching at times when his not drunk and violent it's aggravating to watch in how poor Billie has to put up with him that makes Jim anything but a sympathetic character . Billie for her part does evoke sympathy but at the same time in her guilt , which was totally unfounded , in being raped comes across as a punching bag who doesn't have the will or ability to just walk out on that abusive jerk of a husband of her's . The ending a way does get both Billie as well as her father Carl to realize that the illogical guilt on their part , in Billie's being raped and getting pregnant because of it , was what was the cause of all the tragedies that followed it . As for Jim he soon realized , after he found about his daughter Katie's condition , what a mess he not only made of his life but all those he touched , like Billie , in the many hang-ups he had and was not willing , medically as well as psychologically , to have treated .
Everyone's just wild about Harry	SPOILERS Long and tiring movie that chronicles the life and times of world renowned writer and big game hunter Harry Street , Gregory Peck . We get the story straight from the horses , Harry himself , mouth as he lay dying on a sickbed in the African bush country from a gangrenous infection . This happened when Harry jumped into a river trying to save one of the natives who fell in that was a member of his safari . Harry if anything was more responsible then the herd of hippos that attacked and killed the native by having the boat go too close to the hippos in order for him to get some pictures . Helen , Susan Haywerd , Harry's wife who's on the safari with him could only hope and pray for help in the way of medical supply to arrive in order to save his life . As Harry goes in and out of consciousness we get to see his life story through his thoughts and feelings and how his cold and selfish personality just about destroyed every relationship that he ever had including the love of his life Cynthia , Ava Gardner . Harry met Cynthia Green in Paris when he was a poor and struggling young writer as they lived together in a one room flat that he had in the poor side of town . As Harry got famous through the books that he wrote he became more and more detached from Cynthia that left her hurt and dejected . Finding out from her doctor that she's with child Cynthia tried to give the good news to Harry hoping that it would bring them both back together . Harry was so cold and unfeeling and at the same time so in to himself when Cynthia was about to announce the coming blessed event to him that not only did she drop the whole subject but fell or jumped down a flight of stairs causing her to have a miscarriage ! Harry , after recovering from the shock of Cynyhina's accident and loss of her and his unborn child , still treated Cynthia more or less like dirt being too stuck up on his own importance to the literary world in the books and article he wrote . Cynthia became so disgusted of him and the way he acted toward her that one evening she just got up and walked out on Harry . Cynthia did that by leaving Harry for a dancer who was preforming at a restaurant that they were dining at . Harry went on his way to become more famous in the world of books and big game hunting and continued to have more and more affairs with beautiful women like Cynthia . But the spark was gone from his life with her no longer being with him . Like joining the French Foreign Leagion Harry joined the fight against Fascism in Spain to forget what he did to Cynthia and it was there that Harry was to unexpectedly find her ! Cynthia also joined the anti-Facists fighters there where Harry found her dying after she was crushed by the ambulance that ran over a land mine that she was driving as a volunteer ! It in a way did bring out the best as well as human side of Harry when she forgave him for everything that he did to her and he showed real emotions for the first time as she practically died in his arms . Harry then forgot himself and ran the opposite way on the battlefield after the stretcher bearers who were carrying away his beloved Cynthia . It's then that he was shot and wounded by an officer in his unit thinking that he was a coward and deserting his post ! By now nothing seems to be going right for him . Even though Harry later married he never forgot the beautiful as well as tragic Cynthia and never forgave himself , even though she did , for what he did to her . Back to the present in Africa in the shadows of the majestic 19 , 710 foot high Mt . Kilimanjaro Harry waits for the enviable and as all hope is just about gone for him surviving . With darkness falling and Harry in all probability never to see the sunrise again there's still one more surprise that fate , or the script writers , have left for him in the movie that's coming Harry's way and this time for once it won't be all that bad . Very dull and boring movie that seemed to go on forever ever with Harry going through all the stages that one would go through from life to death as he's slowly dying right before our eyes . I myself felt as if I I was attending his funeral without him yet being dead . The script writers just should have let Harry die peacefully instead of having the unbelievably ridicules ending that concluded the film . I don't know for sure , since I didn't read the book , that if the ending in the movie to " Snows of Kilimanjaro " was the same as the one in the Earnest Hemingway short story . But I do know that it was one of the worst endings I've ever seen in a film .
The only thing new will be a curfew . Anyone caught breaking it will be shot on the spot !	( Some Spoilers ) The war between Britain and France with Nazi Germany finally spilled over into neutral Denmark an Norway in the early spring of 1940 . It was then when Hitler's troops conquered both those free and neutral country's he and his thugs also awakened the fighting and free spirit of the ancient Vikings represented in the freedom loving Norwegian people . Widower Erik Toresen , Paul Muni , was anything but a fighting man when the war first began . A nature lover and follower of the fishery , salmon and herring , movements in the North Sea Eric expected to sit out the war and let the others , British USSR and Americans , do the fighting for him . Like most of the people in now Nazi-occupied Norway . It was when the Nazis started to round up and shoot his fellow citizens for such terrible crimes as wanting to be free and staying out after hours , thus breaking the Nazi imposed curfew , that Eric turned over another leaf . It was also when Eric's fellow Norwegian and good friend Gunner Korstad , Richared Darr , was shot by the Nazis for talking and asking , for his freedom , too much that had Eric not only join the resistance movement but killed the German officer who ordered Gunner shot ! Better then your average run-of-the-mill WWII propaganda movie due to the fact that Academy Award winning actor Paul Muni as well as top British actor Cedric Hardwicke , as Admiral Bowen , being in it . The fact that Muni , or Eric Trsesen , was given a British girlfriend Judith Bowen , Lillian Lee , who also happened to be Admiral Bowen's daughter was just a bit too much to take . Eric after some five years of being available after his wife died in giving birth to their daughter Solveig , Ann Carter , couldn't find himself a nice sweet and beautiful Nordic-looking Norwegian girl to get hitched up with ! On the run from the Nazi , for killing a German officer , Eric accidentally comes across a secret German airfield being built on the Norwegian coast . This airfield will provide the Nazis a base , out of the reach of the RAF , to bomb not only Northern Britain but attack and sink British and American convoys loaded with arms and supplies for hard hit and battered , by being invaded by Hitlers armies , Soviet Union . If successful the airfield will end up winning the war for the Nazis and thus enslave , including Norway , the entire free world ! Making his way back to England by boat via the treacherous waters of the choppy and dangerous North Sea , the Norwegians are excellent seamen , Eric and and a number of fellow freedom fighters persuade the British , through his good friend Admiral Bowen , to launch a sneak attack on the German airfield with him , knowing the area as well as the back of his hand , leading the way . Despite the heavy and heroic action and explosive fireworks on shore with Eric and the British Commandos striking at dawn against the Germans the movie just didn't live up to it's title " Commandos Strike at Dawn " . The British Commandos were in fact members of the standing British , and Canadian , army and not wearing the camouflage uniforms and berets of the elite British Commandos . The assault on the Germans , who were caught with their pants down , was staged as a full scale military & navel operation with 150 to 200 capacity landing crafts hitting the beaches . Not with your usual commando rubber dinghies , with a capacity of 8 to 10 men , sneaking up on the what should have been the very alert German troops ! As for the striking in the pre-dawn darkness to catch the heavily armed Germans by surprise the " commando " attack actually took place in what looked like at high noon ! The absolute worse time for a sneak and surprise operation like that giving the defending German troops , who for some strange reason were for the most part asleep in their barracks , all the advantage that they needed ! SPOILER ALERTAdded to the excellent battle scenes we were also given the fact that the attack on the Germans was very personal for Eric . The dirty Nazi swines had his daughter , Solveig , held hostage in the village and it was only up to Eric , and not his fellow commandos , to save her before all the dust cleared . Eric as well as his fellow commandos risking their life , which they didn't really have to with their mission already accomplished , went out in a blaze of glory saving Solveig suffering the most casualties during the entire operation . In Eric's case he ended up giving his people hope for the future in finally ridding their country of the occupying and ruthless Nazis . That is in following the course of action , as a fearless and courageous Norwegian freedom fighter , that Eric despite of his peace-loving nature eventually took .
I'll bet this snot-catcher of yours took a long time to grow !	SPOILERS Beautifully photographed in the Redwood country of Northern California " Quite Cool " has to do with this ruthless gang of pot or marijuana grower who are anything but the peaceful hippie type that were so used to seeing in movies about the subject . Lead by this , what's obviously , Elvis impersonator the unemotional Valance , Nick Cassavetes , this group of pot growers run the entire town of Babylon , pop . 163 , including the towns police chief Mike Prior , Jared Martin , with an iron hand . Things got a little wild when the young and rosy cheeked Joshua Greer , Adam Coleman Howard , happened to spy on Vanance and his boys gun down an FBI informer who was set up by a member the town's corrupt police . Wanting no witnesses to their crime the Valance gang end up murdering both of Joshua's parents Mr . & Mrs . Greer , Gregory Wagrowski & Pulette Walsh , who were picnicking in the woods . Joshua , the person that Valance & Co . were really after , got away by falling down a 100 foot cliff and almost drowning in the rushing stream below . Getting a collect call from California NYPD undercover cop Joe Dylanne , James Remar , is told by Joshua's sister Kathy , Daphna Ashbrook , who ' also Joe's ex-girlfriend to come quick and find her lost brother whom she hasn't seen or heard from in over a week . Joe taking an emergency vacation drives out to Bablyon to get to the bottom of what's going on there . It turns out that Joe ended up getting involved , up to his neck , with the both Valance gang and the real Mr . Big of Valance's operation some dude only known as " The Man " . Joe a man of the law is anything but law abiding when it comes to dealing with the bad guys in the movie . Finding Joshua hiding in the woods around Babylon conducting a guerrilla war against the Valance Gang Joe chides him on not letting the law do its work in putting Valance and his boys behind bars . Nice talk on Joe's part but it turns out that he doesn't practice what he preaches . No one in the movie that Joe ends up putting away , for breaking the law , are as much as read their rights . Thay all , with the exception of the either mindless or lobotomized roller skater at the beginning of the film , end up being blown away by Joe & Joshua without as much as a thought of the law being allowed to do its job ! The Valance Gang seem to be either stoned out of their heads or just plain brain-dead in how they go about in doing things in the movie . There are times when Valance & Co don't as much as say a word to each other but just move around zombie-like and communicate with each other not by talking but by some kind of telepathy ! Joe soon gets the drop on the Valance gang who are so deeply involved in a card game at their pot compound that they don't even notice , after failing a number of times to blow them up , Joe planting a stick on nitroglycerin right under their feet ! By the time the movie is almost over we get the big surprise , or better yet non-surprise , in just who both Valance and police chief Prior's boss , the mysterious " The Man " , really is . The surprise of " The Man's " true identify is that you forgot that he even existed , he was only mentioned up to that time only once in the entire film , and had no idea just who he was and what he had to do with anything going on in the film !
" White Night " of Terror .	# Slight Spoilers # Based on the true story of the late Reverand Jim Jones who's paranoid obsession of an impending nuclear holocaust as well as him and his followers , of the People's Temple in San Francisco , being rounded up and put in concentration camps lead to the biggest mass-suicide in recorded history in the hot steaming and snake-infested jungles of Guyana back on November 18-19 1978 . The entire event is told to us , off-camera , by a 24 year-old survivor of the Johnsontown massacre in the movie " Guyana Cult of the Damned " . The movie goes back to a lawsuit against the People's Temple's founder Reverand James Johnson , Stuart Whitman , by the father of one of his followers who was " accidently " killed when he quit being a member of the Temple . California Congressman Lee O'Brian , Gene Barry , organizes a special task force that travels down to Guyana where Johnson has built a town for his some 3 , 000 followers to see if the accusations of torture humiliation and even murder of some of his followers against Reverand James Johnson are true . James Johnson over the years has gone from preaching the words and teaching of Jesus Christ to becoming both a dye in the wool Marxist / Socialist even secretly joined the American Communist Party . Johnson has also become dependent on proscription drugs and the drugs were slowly killing him . That may well have been the reason for his state of mind in the two years that lead up to his grand exit , together with over 900 loyal and not so loyal followers , on that infamous " White Night " in November . Life was hell in Johnsontwon with James Johnson ruling it with an iron fist and having anyone who disobeyed his orders or will tortured and humiliated in view of all the other Johnsontown members . In one case when a young couple were caught making love in the woods they were made to be forced to have sex , or other men of Johnsontown have sex with them , with male members of Johnsontown in full views of the entire Johnsontown community including the very young children ! When Congressman O'Brian came to Johnsontown to investigate the charges against Johnson all hell broke loose with scores of Johnsontown residents wanting to leave with him . Johnson himself already suffering from advanced brain and stomach cancer went berserk and ordered his men to ambush Congressman O'Brian before he , and the defectors of Jonsontown , the newsman and cameramen left Guyana brutally massacred most of them including Congressman O'Brian . With the news of O'Brian and his fellow American citizens murdered Johnson got his followers ready for the big night that he's been planning and rehearsing for years the terrifying " White Night " . With his faithful physician Doctor Gary Shaw , Bradford Dillman , mixing the deadly cyanide into a giant vat of fruit-punch Johnson had , and forced , his followers to drink it . Some 1 , 000 people in Johnsontown died before the US , and Guyanan , military could get there to save them from this murderous madman . When they finally got there , Johnsontown , the rescue squads found to their , and the worlds , shock and horror the biggest organized mass murder , by suicide , in human history had already happened . Even though Johnson's wife of 27 years Marilyn , Ericka Carlsson , and one of his young children took a drink of the death fruit-punch potion right in front of him thus going immediately into painful death-rattlings convolutions and dying the good Reverand Johnson , coward that he was , refrained from taking a drink and was shot , in the neck , instead by one of his loyal henchmen . Shocking but true story about madness and murder with James Johnson using the most naive of people who thought that he was a kind noble and God-like man . Instead the crazed and drug addicted James Johnson sent them and their families , even their infant children , to a hell not heaven on earth like he had promised them . In the end Johnson destroyed everything good , if there was any , that he did in his life making him one of the most evil , and God-less , men that ever walked the face of the earth . For some strange and ironic reason James Jonhson had a placard over his throne , or seat of power , at Johnsontown quoting the Spanish philosopher George Santanya stating " Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to relive it " . Let's hope that we and the world learned from the evil deeds and actions of James Johnson aka Jim Jones and will always remember what he did and stood for and see to it , like Santayana's famous quote , that we never forget and never live to see or let it , or him , ever happen again .
Night of the Haunted	SPOILERS Far too complicated with a completely out of the blue and off the wall ending in effect spoiled , what was up until then , the movies heart thumping final and thus makes Nightmare - or Gawi as its called in Korean-a far less effective horror / thriller then it should have been . The film has to do with this Korean collage student Seon-Ae who was , its obvious from her conduct in the movie , under psychiatric treatment in the USA as an exchange student for the last two years . Coming back home to Seoul South Korea Seon-Ae stays at her friend's pad fellow student Hye-Jin . That's until she can get her very mixed up head back together again . For some strange reason Seon-Ae feels that she's being haunted by the ghost of Kyung-Ah who was killed , or committed suicide , two years ago . It was not long after that tragic event that she herself suffered a paralyzing nervous breakdown . The down to earth and straight as an arrow Hye-Jin at first dismisses Seon-Ae ridicules story about being haunted by Kyung-Ah's ghost as just one of her psychiatric prescribed drug induced hallucinations . It's not until later when members of this student study group " A Few Good Men " , as well as women , that Hye-Jin is a member of start getting murdered by someone who's got a vendetta against them that she changes her mind . It's the members of this student group who in fact were with Kyung-Ah the very last day of her life ! That's when she either fell jumped or was pushed off the " A Few Good Men " studio's building headquarter's roof falling some ten stories to her death below ! There's a number of really gut wrenching scenes of members of " A Few Good Men " getting it from the unknown and unseen killer who were made to believe is the late Kyung-Ah's Ghost . SPOILER ALERTThe killer in fact is far more alive then were made to believe and is using Kyung-Ah's perceived evil and vindictive spirit to terrorize those who may have an inkling to his , or her , identity . All this murder and mayhem goes back two years to the night of Kyung-Ah untimely death that in fact was in no way as cut and dry we were lead to believe . It's the killers intention to murder all of the witnesses to Kyung-Ah's death that he himself , when he freaked out on camera over a harmless kitty cat , was mostly responsible for . What turned out to be the killers ultimate demise was one of his victims video nut Se-Hun filming the entire gruesome and blood curdling event . And there's also another one of his murder victims the washed out , after suffering a broken leg , baseball player Hyng-Jun getting a hold of the incriminating video tape and blackmailing him with it ! By the time the , who was normal up until then , crazed homicidal maniac got his hands on the video tape the cat , who in the video was as black as " Midnight " , was already out of the bag . Having murdered some half dozen people already the Killer was now determined to murder two more in order for him to finalize what he thinks is going to be his " Perfect Crime " ! The killers two targeted victims are what turns out to be the only persons left alive who can expose him as well as the reason for his murderous rampage : Hye-Jin & Seon-Ae !
Oh my God ! Their coming Back !	( Some Spoilers ) Not as bad as it looks now some 25 years after it's release . " Hanger 18 " is the first major motion picture to bring on the screen the Eric Van Daniken hypothesis from his best selling book " Chariots of the Gods " and the recent , back in 1980 , revelations of the mysterious 1947 Roswell crash brought out in the William Moore's UFO classic " The Roswell Incident " and fuses the two subjects together into a movie . Out in space astronauts Bancroft Price & Gates , Garry Collins James Hampton & J . R Clark , are about to launch a satellite from their space craft when this UFO suddenly appears and hovers over their spaceship . Unable to prevent the launch it goes off and slams into the UFO . The explosion of the satellite cause Gates to be ripped from out of the craft and end up dead . The NASA crew monitoring the launch , back on earth in Huston , catches the entire scene on tape but it's soon deleted , or erased , by orders from higher ups and both Bancroft & Price are implicated in Gates death due to their negligence . With two weeks before the presidential election President Duncon Tyler's staff headed by Gordon Cain & Frank Lafferty , Robert Vaughn & Joseph Campanella , want the incident to be kept from the public in order not to hurt Tyler's chances for re-election . The UFO that caused all this nervousness in both the White House and the Pentagon wasn't destroyed by the space-crafts satellite it landed safe on earth in Bannon County Arizona with it's two alien pilots , or spacemen , dead of asphyxiation . The news of that amazing fact can well destroy Tyler's chances . President Tyler made a big issue of his opponent believing in UFO's now just 14 days before the election there's solid evidence that they do exist ! With both Bancroft and Price trying to find NASA deputy director and friend Harry Forbes , Darren McGavin , to exonerate them in Gates ' death Forbes , and his staff at NASA , are then sent to Wolf AFB in Midland Texas at the facilities Hanger 18 where the UFO is being held . Not knowing what's happening in the outside world Forbes & Co . were kept in the dark about what was going on with both Bancroft & Price . Forbes and his assistants Paul Bannister , Steven Keats , and Neal Kelso , Andrew Bloch , decipher the alien hieroglyphs and come to the startling conclusion that their not only studying the Human Race but in fact created it tens of thousands of years ago ! The aliens may well be the " missing link " between man and ape ! Forbes shocked at what he found out astoundingly says of the aliens to his stunned and shocked staff : " Were Their Children ! " Back outside Bancroft & Price who are trying to get to Wolf AFB and Hanger 18 are cased by government agents which results in Price , as well as four agents , getting killed . Finally Bancroft reaching the Wolf military base and getting in touch with Forbes , who found out about what was going on by listening to a radio , and his staff to go pubic with what's been happening at Hanger 18 and how the US government is trying to cover it up . Feeling that their control of the information about the captured UFO is slipping away from them and that it's only a matter of time before the US , and world , public will know the truth Cain & Co . have a jet , loaded with high explosives , flown into Hanger 18 by remote control in order to destroy the evidence as well as Bancroft Forbes and everyone else in there ; planes crash every day a diabolical Cain tells his fellow criminals and future cell-mates . Cain's scheme is only partly successful because what he didn't count on is that the UFO is not of this earth and thus not subject to the damage that the explosives on the runaway jet plane can do to it . Even more disturbing , to Cain & Co . , Forbes Bancroft and Forbes entire NASA staff were in the UFO at the time that the plane crashed into Hanger 18 .
Fear is the Key	( There are Spoilers ) On vacation with his old lady in Mexico Let . Columbo , Peter Falk , gets into a minor fender-bender . Columbo is then forced to leave his car , which has only a slight dent on it , for the weekend to be examined by the local authorities to clear up any local insurance charges . Not willing to leave his car behind and go back to L . a Columbo gets very friendly with local police Commandante Sanchez , Perdro Armendariz , who's a big fan of his by reading about Let . Columbo's exploits as a L . A homicide detective in the local Mexican press . It just turns out that Commandante Sanchez is involved in investigating a messy accident at the famous Montoya Ranch . One of the workers Hector Rangel , Robert Carrlcart , was gored to death by the ranch's most dangerous bull " Marinero " . " Marinero " had earlier put Hector's son the local up and coming star bull fighter Curro , A . Martinez , in the hospital when he also gored him but in the foot not like he did Hector in the chest and upper body that ended up killing him . The ranch owner the legendary Mexican bull fighter Luis Montoya , Rocardo Montalban , begged Hector not to fight " Marinero " but the bull-headed Hector wouldn't listen . Knowing that his hot-blooded son Curro would go back into the bull ring to have another round with the dangerous bull as soon as he recovered . Hector in an effort to keep his son from getting killed in him wanting to face " Marieno again in the bull ring went to take on bull himself . Something strange happens when Hector readied himself to take on " Marinero " . Luis shoots him with a dart gun , loaded with a dose of Choloral Hydrate , from behind getting Hector a bit dozy . This gave " Marinero " all the time he needs , by making Hector an easy and stationary target , to run Hector through and finish him off with his deadly horns . At first thinking it's was just a terrible accident with a father trying to finish the job that his son started , kill " Marinero " in a bull-fight , Commandante Sanchez is about to file it away as just that an accidental death . Let . Columbo , who's just tagging along for the ride , thinks outer wise and unofficially takes control of the case , to Luis Montoya's great annoyance . Let . Columbo starts to zero in on the circumstances of Hector's death and they all spell premeditated murder . Being afraid of challenging the legendary Montoya's description of Hector's death , an unfortunate accident , Commandante Sanchez has Let . Columbo , unofficially mind you , take over the case . It's then that Let . Columbo comes up with a number of major inconsistencies that lead straight to Montoya as the murderer of Hector Rangel . With Montoya using the killer bull Marinero " as the murder weapon . Dogging Luis like a bloodhound Let . Columbo never gives him a moments rest as he constantly pesters him about his whereabouts the day Hector was killed . Coming up with a number of clues that contradicts all of Luis ' alibis Let . Columbo drives Louis almost to the point of using his skills as a champion bull-fighter to do in the very aggressive and no BS , Det . Columbo . Commandente Sanchez who at first wouldn't dear to stand up to national hero Luis Montoya sees like Let . Columbo that he's holding something back in his description of the last hours of the life of his good and life-long friend Hector Rangel . Risking his job as a well paid comm-andante in the Mexican Police Commandente Sanchez himself , like Let . Columbo , starts getting under Luis ' skin together with the pesky and annoying L . A detective . It turned out that the brave and heroic champion bull-fighter Luis Montoya turned yellow and chickened out when Curro was attacked and gored by the rampaging bull " Marinero " . It turned that Hector , not Luis , coming to his son's rescue . This fact that only Hector knew of Luis ' cowardice and would have gladly kept it secret in order the save his friend Luis ' reputation , as a fearless man in the bull ring , was what got the hurt and humiliated him . Luis Montoya had to have Hector killed to save his reputation even if he was the only one who know about his freezing up at the sight of danger . It was only later when Columbo , together with a recovered Curro , tricked Luis Montoya to get into the bull ring with the wild mad , and foaming from the mouth , " Marinero " that he proved just what a gutless coward he is , or became , and at the same time also proved that he was responsible for Hector's murder .
Stalin rules with Terror I ruled with Passion !	SPOILERS German Fuhrer Adolf Hitler , Norman Rodway , in a purgatory-like in between or astral world bunker is seen reviewing his life and commenting on what he did as if he's arguing his case before a judge and jury in some higher court in the sky . Having with him a number of Hitler youths , blond and blue eyed golden nuggets as Hitler calls them , and two of his top henchmen Josef Gobbels and Hermann Goering , Joel Gray & Glenn Shadix , to make him feel at home ; together with an SS typist , Doug McKeon , who takes down every word that Hitler says . We the audience are given a deep and rare insight into Hitler's mind and what he thought of himself his place in history and the crimes that he committed during his lifetime . Hitler talking about his great accomplishments , good and bad , that made him undoubtedly one of the most feared recognized and written about persons in world history makes up most of the dialog in the film . In this in-between world of life and death is also Hitler's bride of one day , April 1945 , and long time mistress Eva Braun , Camilla Soeberg . There's also Sigmund Freud , Peter Michael Goetz , thrown into the movie who spends most of his time on screen psycho-analyzing Hitler to Hitler great annoyance and disgust . With films of his life as the German dictator played over and over on a number of screens all around the , what looks like , an underground bunker that he's in Hitler for the first time in his life , if he's indeed alive in the movie , admits to his many mistakes that brought about the disaster that fell upon himself and the country that he claims to love so much Nazi Germany . A lot of what Hitler says in the movie " The Empty Mirror " has mostly to do with his generals and how they double-crossed and betrayed him in the war by selling out to save their own necks at his and Germanys expense . We also see and hear Hitler crying about how he'll , sob sob , never be able to make the German capital of Berlin the great modern metropolis that he envisioned it to be ; with him seen sadly playing , like a little boy , with a toy scale model of the city . Hitler also admits that his two greatest mistakes in the war was his invasion of the USSR in the summer of 1941 and later that year declaring war against the United States as an obligation that he had to his Japanese allies , after that country's attack on Pearl Horbor . This just days after his panzer divisions were defeated and thrown back from the gates of Moscow by the Red Army and the brutal Russian Winter . The movie gets overly esoteric as Hitler starts to suddenly turn snow white and age becoming almost unrecognizable , looking like an unkempt and disheveled Captain Kangaroo , as he sees the results of his actions , that throughout the movie he tried to overlook and ignore . Hitler sees films of liberated concentration camps and the thousands of dead found in them and literally goes mad as if that's his ultimate punishment . Interesting but just a bit too talky of a movie with Hitler , as if he's in a Broadway Musical , having a number of unnecessary costume changes as if to show us in the audience what and extensive wardrobe he had and how good he look wearing it . We even see Hitler cracking jokes , which no one with him in the bunker would dare , about himself as if he were doing some stand-up comic routine . The films of Hitler and Nazi Germany get a bit too much since they never for once let up and give you a chance to digest what's happening in the movie . By the time " The Empty Mirror " is over your almost as worn out watching the movie as Hitler or actor Norman Rodway is in being in it .
The Corpse Vanishes	SPOILERS A bit uneven but still interesting family drama with an overly strict father Walter Eastwood , Michael Gough , who's constant mistreatment of the women of his household his wife and daughter Edith and Jane , Yavnnoe Mitchell and Sharon Gurney , leads them to a plan and later make an attempt on his life . We see earlier in the film how Walter's daughter drives him batty both with her screwing around and her kleptomania . Jane stealing of money from the local Golf Club has the club's manager Gregson , David Butler , show up at the Eastwood residence asking Walter for the money that she took . Gregson also seemed to have something going with the 16 year-old Jane that had nothing to do with putting a golf ball . We later see that Jane also has something going on with local grease monkey Benjy , Nicholas Jones , who also has the hots for her but only from a distance . Later Walter , after Jane swore that she didn't steal the club's money , finds the stolen money in Jane's wig he gives her the beating of her life . Even though we never see Walter abuse his wife Edith physically he does treat her as if she's a bit mad . Which we later find out that she is . Later Edith and Jane concoct a plan to murder Walter when he goes out to his country cottage hunting that weekend . The " plan " doesn't go off well but in the end the two do in the overly drunk , which they made sure that he was , Walter . Leaving his body to be found later in bed dead from an apparent heart-attack . But later as the two murderesses don't get any call from the people that Walter was to meet hunting it's obvious that something went wrong in their hair-brained scheme . The ending is a bit hard to take but overall the movie " The Corpes " is much better then you would have expected it to be because of the top notch acting by all involved in it , even the dog Sam did a good job of " acting " . There were a number of really good dream-like sequences in the movie involving Edith that showed just who mentally unstable she was . There's also a flashback where we see Walter , again , brutally beat Jane in a lake with her almost nude . Walter himself seemed to have this " Mister Clean " faddish where he would vigorously wash his hands every time he touched something or someone he felt had germs or dirt on it , or them . Walter's son Rupert , Simon Gough , was the only one in the family that he didn't abuse since he felt that he lived up to the very high standards that he set for his family members . Rupert was a combination insurance salesman and stock broker .
Fatal Move	SPOILERS Obnoxious and narcissist world champion Grand Chess Master Emmett Clyton , Laurence Harvey , is sweating bullets over his upcoming match with former undefeated Russian Chess Master Tomlin Dudek , Jack Kruschen . Clyton knows deep down inside that old man Dudek could easily whip his a in any chess game that he has with him . With the big champion game scheduled for the next day Clyton is seen hanging around the hotel trying to get a glimpse of the grand old master . Clyton wants to get an idea of what makes the Russian Chess Master tic and how he can defeat him at the game that he has no equals in having never lost a game of chess since he started playing it when he was six years old . Dudek noticing Clyton snooping around the hotel lobby get's the young man to follow him outside . Confronting him Dudek offers to treat Clyton to a free meal which is about the best medicine that the thin and scrawny-looking Clyton could have to settle him down . Dudek plays a game of chess with Clyton on the restaurant tablecloth and then takes it back to the hotel , after the restaurant closed , to finish it . To his ultimate shock and horror the self-doubting Clyton is then soundly defeated by the clever and confident Dudek . Going to pieces over his loss Clyton concocts a plan to get rid of Dudek before he can play him in the upcoming world chess match . The plan is to shove Dudek down the hotel garbage shoot , where he'd be compacted to death , and make it look like an accident ! or even better , if the body isn't found , look like the Great Tomlin Dudek chickened out and checked out of town to avoid the disgrace of being beaten by the " king of Chess " himself Emmett Clyton . Watching the movie I at first thought that Clyton was really the super genius that he climes to be . I changed my mind about Clyton's ability when he couldn't figure out that by treating the snail loving Dudek with a couple of orders of snails , smothered in globs of high cholesterol butter and smelly garlic , would be enough to do the trick ; in killing the overweight and diabetic Dudek . Then just pushing him down a garbage shoot which he unfortunately , to Clyton shock and surprise , survived ! Let . Columbo , Peter Falk , of the L . A homicide division is called on the case even though Dudek is still alive . Columbo notices a number of things about Dudek's accident that just doesn't check out . He also sees what a strange bird the pompous and arrogant Clyton is when he interviews him about his whereabouts at the time of Dudek's " accident " . Lt . Columbo also notices that Clyton is deft and without his hearing aid he couldn't hear an hydrogen bomb go off even it it detonated right on top of his head ! Clyton finding out what medication that the unconscious Dudek was taking , by memorizing it , from a note that Miss . Robinson ( Heidi Bruhl ) , a good friend of both him and Dudek , showed him sneaks into Dudek's empty hotel room . Clyton switches the medication so it would kill instead of cure Dudek when it's injected into his system . Suddenly going into shock and flat-lining as soon as the spiked medication is given to him Dudek is now no longer a threat to Clyton in either beating him in a game of chess or fingering him as the one who tried to murder him . Clyton for all his smarts made one fatal mistake in his plan to do Dudek in . It all had to do with his hearing aid being broken , and thus not being able to hear anything , at that time he attempted to murder him . It's that fatal error on Clyton's part that Lt . Columbo quickly noticed and in an elaborate reenactment of the event had the cockily smug and condescending , to Lt . Columbo , Clyton lose his cool . That together with him being soundly beaten by an outright armature , in a 30 man chess game , completely destroy Clyton's alibi in not having anything to do with Dudek's accident and later murder .
I've never seen such total cellular disintegration !	( There are Spoilers ) Delivering a package to the very overworked Dr . Campball's , Wood Romoff , lab Tommy the delivery boy , Brad Morrow , finds the doctor unconscious and on the brink of death . Running to get help Tommy gets the towns kindly and understanding doctor Beecher , John Beal , and he sadly declarers Dr . Campbell dead from a sudden heart-attack . While in the late Dr . Campbell's laboratory Dr . Beecher fools around with his latest experiment with regressing his subjects , bats and mice's , and unknowingly picks up a bottle of the doctor's regression pills . Back home suffering for brain-twisting migraines Dr . Beecher is given his headache pills by his 12 years old daughter Besty , Lydia Reed , as he suffers his latest attack and she gives her dad the wrong bottle ; the regression instead of the headache pills that in fact was the cause of Dr . Campball's sudden death . It soon becomes apparent , to everyone but Dr . Beecher , that he's becoming a changed man . Changing from a man who was kind loving and caring to a violent savage who craves for human blood attacking his victims and infecting them with capillary disintegration after he bites them , but doesn't suck out their blood , in the neck . More like a Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde type of movie then anything that has to with with a vampire like it's title indicates " The Vampire " has poor and confused Dr . Beecher run around town killing people wherever his regression pills start to lose their effect on him . Needing his regression pills to keep him from going insane and becoming homicidal , as well as dead like Dr . Campbell , the doctor is torn between a rock and a hard place in walking the thin red line of sanity and insanity that the regression pills put him on . Soon the local cop Sheriff Buck Donnelly , Kenneth Tobey , starts to get suspicious of just what Dr . Beecher is all about , this after a number of his patients and associates end up dead . Dr . Beecher himself finally realizes that theirs something very wrong upstairs , in his troubled head , and in is own crazy way tries to correct it ; by killing himself . Dr . Beecher is caught in the act at his doctors office by his nurse Carol Butler ( Coleen Gray ) , who's very much in love with her widower and handsome boss , as he's trying to stick himself with a syringe loaded with a fatal solution of deadly chemicals . Both embarrassed and outraged at being exposed for the nut-case that he is , the doctor wanted to die with his secret life kept secret , he goes totally bananas , like the crazed doctor in the similar movie " the Neanderthal Man " , chasing Carol outside into the woods in his attempt to murder her . Sheriff Donnally who by now had Dr . Beecher's number , in that he's the one who's been murdering people in town , rushes to the scene in order to both save Carol from Dr . Beecher and the doctor from himself by having him put away , in a mental institution , to be studied and , if possible , cured . Not wanting to be taken alive , being what he is what does he have to live for anyway , Dr . Beecher puts up a furious fight and just when it seems that he got the better of the brave but totally helpless lawman Sheriff Donnelly's assistant Sgt . Ryan , Herb Vigran , shows up and puts an end to Dr . Beechers reign of terror by emptying his gun into him .
Double Exposer	SPOILERS Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , gets a bit embarrassed in this episode when his bumbling antics get's the lady of the house the very proper and applicable Mrs . Peck , Jeanette Nolan , a bit hot under the collar . Thats when he absent-mindlessly spills his cigar ash on her well waxed floor and even later flicks his ashes into an expansive silver dish that Lt . Columbo mistakes for just your average run of the mill ashtray . But it's in his wrecking of Mrs . Peck's TV set , almost giving her a nervous breakdown , that she watches her favorite programs with a religious fervor that in the end breaks open the murder case of her boss the late Clifford Paris , Paul Stewart . Getting his Uncle Cliff all alone in his bathtub Dexter , Martin Landau , gives him a wedding present that happened to be a new egg beater . The trouble is that the egg beater was plugged in the wall electric socket and turned on causing old Uncle Cliff to collapses and die from the shock . It's until Uncle Cliff's fiance the very well developed and some 35 years younger Lisa Chambers , Julie Newmar , came over to accompany him to their wedding that his dead body was discovered . Not in the bathtub but on an electric bicycle she gave Uncle Cliff as a wedding present . Getting on the case Lt . Columbo feels that there's something very fishy in Uncle Cliff's sudden heart-attack , that's what he was thought to have died from at first . Columbo feels , surprise surprise , it was murder ! It's later when we , and Lt . Columbo , see that the yet discovered killer Dexter has an identical twin brother Norman Paris , also played by the very multi-talented Martin Landau , that you start to wonder just which of the two was the one who did old Uncle Cliff in ? We later learn that Uncle Cliff had a will made out that left his estate , three million dollars , to none of the two twins , Dexter & Norman . Instead Uncle Cliff left it to his fiance Lisa who has absolutely no interest in his money . She just loves Uncle Cliff for his bubbly and charming personality as well as his amazing , the guy is 75 years old , sexual prowess ! One of the strangest of all Columbo episodes since your not really sure who the killer , which we see at the very beginning of the movie , is Dexter or Norman or can it be that the killer was actually both of them ? Things get even more complicated when Lisa is tricked into giving her copy of Uncle Cliff's will to Cliff's sleazy lawyer Michael Hatheway , Tim O'Connor , so it wouldn't stand in the way of brothers Dexter & Norman's attempt in getting his money , and Hatheway getting his cut as well , legally . Later when Hatheway goes to her penthouse apartment he finds that Lisa was thrown , or jumped , some ten floors to her death . As all this is going on Lt . Columbo is bumbling and fumbling his way around the Paris Mansion and uncovers a number of clues that proves that it was physically impossible for one person to have murdered Uncle Cliff . The circumstances of his death was just to much for one man , or woman , to handle that sets us , and the killer , up for the big surprise in the end .
Eyes see You !	SPOILERS Incredibly grossed-out sequel to the 1977 original " The Hills Have Eyes " follows the 1977 version almost scene for scene until some half hour into the movie . It's then , with the advancement of special effects over the last thirty years , the movie becomes an almost unwatchable horror show . Traveling to California Big Bob , Ted Levin , and his family stop off at this out of the way gas station , in the middle of the New Mexican desert . After filling up their given directions to a short cut through the hill by the somewhat creepy gas station attendant Tom Bower . It turns out that old Tom is working with a number of psychos who have it in for the human race because of the condition that they find themselves in ; due the the years of nuclear testing in that part of the country . Disabling Big Bob's van , and the trailer attached to it , the unseen killers wait for darkness to fall and then make their move on the helpless , and unsuspecting , stranded travelers . With Big Bob going back to the gas station for help he's shocked to see old Tom laying drunk in the outhouse talking to himself . Before Big Bob can figure out what's wrong with Tom he takes out a shotgun and blows his brains out . Running to Old Toms car Big Bob is then attacked , by one of the many weirdos in the movie who ties him to a tree and sets it on fire . The next ten or so minutes in the movie with the out of hiding mutants attacking Big Bob's family are so disturbing and shocking , even to grown ups , that I'm surprised that the movie " The Hills Have Eyes " didn't get an X-rating just for it's graphic violence alone . Breaking into the trailer the psychos fall upon Big Bob's younger daughter Brenda , Emilie De Ravin , and manhandle , and possibly rape , her so badly that it's almost a miracle that she didn't end up losing her mind much less her life . Both Big Bob's wife Ethel and his older daughter Lynn , Kathleen Quinlan & Vinessa Shaw , are then viciously murdered . Lynn and her husbands Doug , Aaron Stanford , infant daughter Catherine is then kidnapped by the killers who take off into the hills . Big Bob's teenage son Bobby , Dan Byrd , had earlier gone out in the hills to find one of his pet German Shepherds Beauty and , after finding Beauty torn to pieces , fell off a cliff almost breaking his head . Helped by one of the psychos children Ruby ( Laura Ortiz ) , who was about the most normal of the bunch , Bobby had some idea of what was in the hills but was just too traumatized and afraid to tell any of his family members . Now , with both his patents and sister-in-law murdered , Bobby becomes almost insane with anger only wanting to get even with those who did him family in . Lynn's husband Doug a life long pacifist and anti-gun activist also changes his opinion of guns and knives and every other weapon of death . Now becoming almost as ferocious and kill crazy as those who did Lynn in , and took his infant daughter Catherine away with them . This sets up the audience , who still have the nerve and stomach to stay around to watch the movie , for what has to be some of the most unwatchable and horrific scenes in motion picture history . Defintly not for the meek and weak at heart " The Hills Have Eyes " is not the kind of movie that you'd take a girl , whom you want to impress , out to see . The violence in the film almost turns cartoon-like with both the killers and Doug and to a lesser extent Bobby and Brenda having it out in a battle of life and death in the empty desert as well as in a deserted town that was the test site and target of atomic explosions . Doug together with his pet dog Beast take on almost the entire band of mutant / psychos in his attempt to rescue his daughter . Dough ends up so badly beaten and mauled by these crazies that it's hard to believe that he's still alive by the time the movies over . Bobby and his sister Brenda have a somewhat easier time of it only having to deal with what seems like the head man or psycho of the bunch with him ending up blown straight to kingdom come , together with the family trailer , at the end of the movie .
The best of men make mistakes , all we can do is correct them	SPOILERS With the terrible news of his father Mafia Don Poleiro Regalbuto sudden death young Frankie , Robert Foster , feels that the weight of the world was put on his shoulders and doesn't know if he could handle it . At a big Mafia conference in Las Vages the three mob families decide that all of the late Don Poleiro's operations should be put in the hands of his friend and fellow Mafia Kingpin Don Angelo Dimorra , Anthony Quinn , with Frankie being thought the ropes by him until he can do the job as a Mafia Don himself . There's foul play and treachery afoot with the greedy and back-stabbing mob Cosiglieri , Luigi Orlando , Charles Cioff , planing to use his recruited out-of-state hit men to start a bloody mob war between the three Vages Mafia families . Then , after the dust settles , Luigi plans to take over the entire Mafia operations in the city that's worth well over a billion dollars . Luigi get's his chance to get the war between the Mafia families started when he manipulated young Frankie into a feud with his new adopted father Don Angelo . Lugie starts a rumor that the fatherly Don was having an affair with Frankies girlfriend nightclub singer Ruby Dunne , Anglel Tompkins , this results in Ruby getting almost beaten to death by an outraged Frankie . Lugie's trickery also leads to Don Angelo sending out a hit team to knock off the love-crazed and unstable hood . The Don's brother and family Consiglieri Mitch , Louis Zorich , tries to talk his hot-headed brother out of it but not after the hit men gunned down Frankie's dad , the late Don Poleiro , Consigieri Vito Netherbourne , George Skaff . With a full-scale mob war now about to explode Frankie get's help from the Fargo brothers hit men for hire Tony & Vince , Frederic Forrest & Al Letteri . This causes so much damage to Don Angelo's mob empire , including the murder of his brother Mitch , that it lands him in a wheel chair after suffering a heart-attack and near-fatal stroke . The mob war really escalates when Don Angelo's boys trick Frankie and Vince into going to a meeting of the minds in a downtown Vages diner this results in a violent gun battle with Vince being gunned down . Tony then pulls out all stops and sends his men , the former Don Poleiro mob , out for blood that results in dozens of Don Angelo's men getting shot knifed slashed and , together with Don Angelo's legitimate business establishment , blown up . Frankie escaping to Italy is later set up in a trap where he's blown away but his fellow mobsters for his insane actions . This resulted in almost the entire mobs lucrative operations in Las Vages being blown to hell . It's not until Don Bernardo , John Duke Russo , is prematurely released from prison that the truth about Liugi's perfidy came to light from non-other then his abused wife , and Bernardo's secret lover , Marie , Jo Anne Meredith . Luigi now exposed by both Tony Fargo and Don Bernardo as the rat-fink that he is finally , together with Marie , get's everything that coming to him . Tony Fargo who at first wanted out of the world of crime ends up together with Don Bernardo as the top two Mafia hoods who have complete control of the city of Las Vages with it's billions in it's annual take of legitimate gambling dollars . Not that bad of a " Godfather " clone that was unfairly put down for trying to imitate " The Godfather " but is a pretty good film all by itself . Where some thirty years later it's almost forgotten and unknown to the movie-going public .
Don't be stupid ! I own you !	SPOILERS It's when Chicago Alderman Adam Sutton , Brad Robertson , was found dead with a . 22 slug in is skull at a swanky Chicago hotel that the future plans of defense attorney Laney Hennessy , Victoria Pratt , were suddenly put on hold . As things turned out the # 1 suspect in Alderman Sutton's murder turned out to be non other then Laney's fiance successful businessman and pillar of the community Robert Genaro , Vincant Spano . In deciding to defend Robert Laney has put her career plans for running for the post of Chicago D . A in jeopardy if she lose the case . The person who prosecuting Robert is Laney's former boss D . A Richard O'Brian , William B . Davis , whom she's planing to run against in the city's spring elections ! The movie has Laney slowly realize that her future husband Robert Genero is hiding things about his shady business dealings that in fact can end up convicting him . There's also the fact that Robert has been implicated by D . A O'Brian in a major drug trafficking operation out of the Chicago docks . As the noose tightens around Robert's neck Laney starts to put the bits and pieces together and finds out that he's being framed to take the heat off those who were responsible for Alderman Sutton's murder . It was Alderman Sutton who was secretly investigating the drug operation and that in fact lead to his being whacked ! Laney just about gives up on Robert when the evidence starts top pile up on him . Also Robert isn't that helpful in his not coming clean with Laney in just what his relationship , if any , with big time Chicago gangster Jack Rourke , Fulvid Cecere , whom he accuses of framing him really is . Laney soon realizes that Sutton was being blackmailed in order to force him to suspend his investigation from Mrs Sutton , Camille Mitchall , herself . It's when Sutton let his wife know about his secret life , thus stymieing his blackmailers , that he ended up sealing his own fate with a bullet in his brain while having kinky sex with a high priced call girl ! SPOILERS It's when Laney was just about to make a deal with D . A O'Brian , changing Robert's plea from 1st to 2nd degree murder , that the truth finally hit her . The plan to frame Robert was absolutely foolproof but for one thing . The arrogance and self assuredness of those who planned it ! And it was that-and a $500 . 00 Cuban cigar-that had Laney finally see the light , and smell the tobacco , in who Alderman Sutton's killers really were !
I said we needed a new deal . I guess we'd better take it kid .	SPOILERS Even though he gets top billing in the film Clark Gable as card dealer gambler and horse-race fixer Rid Riddle doesn't show up until almost the halfway point of the movie . And to make things even more confusing it takes a while to recognize Mr . Gable in that he's missing his famous mustache that was to immortalized him during his long and successful film career . In spite of a number of great racing scenes , some of them from the film archives of the Kentucky Derby , the films plot is basically run of the mill quality . There's Tommy Boy the horse who's considered to be a top Derby prospect , in winning the great race , being used by a bunch of gangsters to win races while he's shot up with dope and pep pills . It's when the overworked and drug addicted Tommy Boy is out of the money in a race at Belmont Park that his sleazy owner Tip Scanlon , Lew Cody , tries to pawn him off to his girlfriend Miss . Ruby , Madge Evens . This is in order for Tip to save his neck from the mobsters who were told by him to bet on his horse in that he's a sure shot winner . This desperate act on Tip's part only had him get gunned down as he left his hotel room as he was planning to lay low in far off , from Louisville Kentucky , Philadelphia until the heat was off . Miss . Ruby trying to get Tommy Boy off drugs and back in tip top shape has him trained by his original owner and breeder Jim Rellane , Ernest Tonnence , at his Lexington farm . In no time at all Tommy Boy is winning top stakes races and has become the odds on favorite in winning the Derby itself . That's if those gangsters who are betting heavily against Tommy Boy decide to let him win it ! The race itself is a forgone conclusion with Tommy Boy winning it with a little bit of racing luck , a broken bridle strap , despite all the obstacles that were put up , by the gangsters , against him ! But the biggest surprise of all is what Rid Riddell had in fact to do with the outcome of the great race . Just when Miss . Ruby was about to walk out on Rid , in him being involved with trying to stymie her horse , she learns from Uncle Ben , John Larkin , Tommy Boys groom that Rid in fact isn't as bad as she's was made to believe he was . What exactly Rid did to get Miss . Ruby to like him is a bit puzzling ! In that the way Uncle Ben explained what he did , by having him have Uncle Ben promise not to tell a living soul , sounded by the confusing way Uncle Ben explained it like the famous Abbott and Costello " Who's on First " comedy routine . P . S . Besides having a clean cut-minus is whiskers - Clark Gable in the film he's also given credit in coining the phrase that President Franklin Deleno Roosevelt was to use to get him elected in the following-1932-years presidential elections : " The New Deal " !
Ginger , sweet beets , lychee nuts ?	SPOILERS A chunky looking pre-Ramar of he Jungle Jon Hall as the on the lamb and hard drinking sailor McMillan gets himself snookered out of his last dollar in the Green Dragon gambling den when croupier Tamara , Lisa Ferrad , mistakenly knocks his chips on to another number . Angry as hell and demanding his $500 . 00 in winning McMillan has it out with the Green Dragon's proprietor Hu Chang , Earnest Borgnine , who has a couple of his henchmen as well as himself , Hu has a devastating right karate chop , work him over and throw him out of the place without out a penny to his name . Looking for work at a local bar McMillan empresses ship Captain Frenchy , Douglas Kenndey , so much by belting one of his shipmates out cold that he gives him a job on his boat the Sally Ann on the spot . It's later that the Sally Ann will be contracted by Tamara's fianc Paul Lowell , Ron Randell , to ship a number of valuable Jade pieces to Hong Kong . Lowell lifted the Jade pieces , dating back to the Ming Dynasty , from Tamara's uncle Wong San , Philip Ahn , who he murdered after Wong refused to accept his IOU instead of cash which Lowell earlier agreed to give him . It's when Tarama , now revealing herself to be lady pirate Liu Ming , finds out that her lover and future husband Lowell not only murdered her uncle Wong but two timed her by checking out on her she gets together with Hu Chang to stop the Sally Ann from making back to the safety of Hong Kong . Hu Chang gets his gang of cut throats to head the Sally Ann off at the pass and ends up not only bordering the ship but giving the double-crossing Lowell everything that he has coming to him ; a shiv in the back by Liu's sister Lotus , Marya Marco . Planning to take the now recovered Jade pieces to Indocina and sell them with the money going back to her Uncle Wong's village in China Liu is again doubled-crossed by her fellow pirate Hu Chang who , together with his crew of scalawags , plans to take off , after murdering Liu and Lotus , with the precious Jades himself . McMillan being he knows how to sail a ship is given the opportunity the sail Hu Chang's raider pirate ship back to Indochina but later together with Liu and Lotus smells a rat with Hu Chang planning to murder them and steal the Jades . After fighting off Hu Chang and his men with Lotus getting shot and killed and Liu badly wounded McMillan realizes that he'll have to abandoned ship and leave the Jades to the murderous Hu Chang gang . Booby-trapping the pirate raider McMillan secretly slips , together with the dying Liu Ming , out to shore as he watches the ship blown to pieces , together with the Jades , as Hu Chang and his boys enter it .
Tiger by the Tail	( Minor Spoilers ) Having had just about all he could take in risking his life saving mentally disturbed New Yorkers from killing themselves , like jumping off roofs and fire escapes , NYPD cop Tony Spampatta finally got the job of his dreams . Tony was reassigned to the NYPD Mounted Police Unite stationed in New York's Central Park . Things got off the wrong foot for Tony the very first day on his new job . Having former rodeo cowboy Lonnie " Lucky " Wellington as his partner got Tony a bit hot under the collar in that he , unlike Lonnie , didn't know a thing about horses much less how to ride them ! This became evident as soon as Tony got on his assigned police horse " Steve " . The high strung equine after taking Tony for an unwanted ride in and around Central Park threw him , head first , into the duck pound where almost ended up drowning ! Determined to succeed as a New York mounted policeman Tony grudging took his partner Lonnie's , a genuine Montana cowboy , advice to keep from being sent back to his old job as a police negotiator with mentally disturbed people . The advice that Tony got from Lonnie which among other things was eating a Nathans Frankfurter smeared with , God help us all , mayonnaise not the traditional mustard ketchup chili or relish ! Tony's efforts in trying to get his out of state partner Lonnie to become more of a New Yorker not only got him hooked on Nathan's Franks he also got his horse " Steve " hooked on them as well ! For the rest of the movie " Steve " would eat nothing else making him a problem every time that he and his mount Tony passes a frankfurter stand ! It's when these two wise guy wannabe's Mickey and Nickey got involve in trying to sell a dangerous 700 pound Bengal Tiger to a private , also wannabe , big game hunter that the two odd ball couple mounted policemen really proved their worth . To both the New York police Department as well as the terrified public at large . Slap stick comedy with Tony & Lonnie chasing the big cat from the wilds of Central Park , where the tiger made its home , down to the sandy beaches of Conley Island where the big cat is taken , after being tricked into getting into their van , by his kid or cat-nappers Mickey & Nickey . It's in the end that Tony finally realizes what a good friend not only Lonnie but his horse " Steve " is by not only capturing the two cat-napping bozos , with the help of " Tony the Tiger " himself , but having " Steve " save him , who couldn't swim a lick , from drowning off the Conley Island pier . Having gotten their man , or men , and the ferocious big cat back into custody , a jail cell and zoo , the two mounted policemen ride into the sunset or , being on the east coast , better yet sunrise on the Conley Island boardwalk as the movie finally comes to and end . The very touching ending to the movie has Tony keep his mount , or horse , " Steve " from being made into dog food by the NYPD by taking the responsibility for paying all his food , Nathan Franks don't come cheap , and medical bills . That's the least Tony could do in that " Steve " not only saved his life but save Tony from risking it by trying to save those , mentally disturbed New Yorkers , who don't care that much about their own .
German potato salad with ranch dressing	SPOILERS Fritz Lang western circa 1874 about murder and revenge with Vern Haskell , Authur Kennedy , out by himself looking for the killer of his fianc Beth Forbes ( Gloria Henry ) , who was shot to death in a robbery . That in the end leads him to the notorious Chuck-O-luck Ranch owned by former saloon singer and dancer Altar Keane , Marlene Dietrich . At the ranch after a number of adventures , where he's almost killed by both the local lawmen and criminals , Vern knows that one of the badman there who's being protected from the law is his fianc's killer . For Vern to find out who is takes up almost the entire movie . The clue that gives killer away is a diamond broach that Altar has that was given to her by Beth's killer . The killer gets the jump on Vern first by realizing who he is , by the way he mounts his horse , and that he's at the Chuck-O-Luck Ranch only looking for him and is not a wanted man like the rest of the desperadoes there . The killer then plans to knock him off in a coming bank robbery that the bunch of badmen at the Chuck-O-Luck planned the next day . Off-the-wall cowboy film that has a lot of hidden meanings in it , like all of Fritz Langs movies . Marlene Dietrich more or less re-creates her role in " Destry Rides Again " that she made some 13 years earlier back in 1939 but this time she's a lot more subdued and no where as frisky in her role but the movie , to it's producers credit , is in glorious color not black and white . So-so story that just doesn't take off at all but with a much better cast then you would have expected in it due to the fact that the legendary Fritz Lang directed it and it was bankrolled by Howard Hughs ' RKO studios . Altar's ranch was a favorite among the local badmen since she provided safety food and shelter for them but at the cost of 10 % of their illegal take and was making a fairly good living out of it . It seemed that the local sheriff was either totally unaware of what Altar was doing or was being paid off by her to look the other way . It was Altar falling in love with Vern to the dislike of her former lover the fugitive gunfighter Frenchy , Mel Ferrer , that caused sparks and bullets to fly and destroyed the sanctuary that she ran for so long . In the end after the usual and customary western-style shoot-out with almost everyone in the cast ending up dead it was the two lovers of Altar , Vern & Frenchy , who rode off in the sunset together forgetting their differences about the rivalry that they had over her . The movie had a very irritating and annoying theme song all through it that made it come across more funny then serious . There's also George " Superman " Reeves playing Wilson who besides being one of the bad guys was also a big ladies man in the movie .
Get Carter	SPOILERS Released from prison after serving three years of a ten year sentence for the arson fire that burned down his boss ' music studios Steve Carter , Stephen Dunne , is determined to find out who the real arsonist was who also ended up framing him for the crime . Carter's girlfriend at the music studio Jane Darrin , Louis Maxwell , whom he two-timed before he was sent up the river is still crazy about him . Jane wants Dr . Robert Ordway , Warner Baxter , who testified to Carters sanity at his trial to talk some sense into his hot head before he does something foolish . Like killing the person whom he thinks famed him co-worker Carl Anson , George Meeker , and end up in the Sign Sing electric chair . Given his job back by a grateful Phillip Bellem , Dan Deddoe , who's business he was convicted in burning down but who always felt that he was innocent Carter make it a point to confront Anson and Bellems rival in the music business jukebox king George " Goldie " Harrigan , Robert Armstrong . Carter feels their the two persons most responsible for burning down the Bellem Stuidos . Carter going to see Harrigan for a job , even though he already has one , so he can find out if he , an ex-gangster , was the one who had Bellem's place torched . Later when Carter plans to meet with Anson a his place of business at the Bellem Studios things go a bit screwy for him : Anson is found found shot death with Harrigan , who Carter asked for a job , mad as hell at him for sealing his lover and private secretary Inez Gray , Adele Jergens , from under his nose and out of his office . On the run for almost half of the movie Carter now wanted for Anson's murder knows that he's been framed for a second time by whoever framed him in the Bellem Studio arson . Carter now more then ever needs Dr . Ordway , who always felt that he's innocent , to come to his aid . Shot by the cops in an escape attempt from Jane's apartment Carter is left in limbo and on the run with all the evidence pointing to him as being Anson's murderer . It turns out that Anson's killer overlooked a record being recorded by Bellems brother Pete , Whit Bissell , a engineer at his business establishment . Pete was thrown out of the studio by Anson , for playing his personal insipid and annoying record , just before he was murdered . The record not only exposed who murdered Anson but also exonerated Carter of the earlier Bellem Studio arson . The last of the " Crime Doctor " series that had a very tired Warner Baxter looking as if he wanted to retire , which he was in the movie . Baxter died two years later in 1951 at the age of 62 , in peace and quite and away from all the stress and demands as both a crime fighter and crime solver .
The movie could have been much better if it wasn't so preachy	Seeing it now , fifty years after it's theatrical release back in 1952 " Red Planet Mars " comes across as one of the most extreme pieces of propaganda that Hollywood ever made . The way the movie depicts the USSR and those in league with it is so outrageous that whatever it wanted to accomplish by showing Communist Russia as the " Evil Empire " , that it was called by president Reagan years later , falls flat on it's face . Not that the USSR was a country not to be feared and defended against back then , the movie was made at the hight of the Cold as well as the Korean War , but to use a highly religious theme that God is on our side was something that the Soviets or even the Nazis never used in their propaganda against capitalism or the United States . Watching it now , it looks like it was made by Pat Robertson's 700 Club with the contrast it makes between the actors representing the " Good " USA and the " Evil " USSR . American Peter Graves blond tall good looking All-American with a loving wife and two beautiful children and Communist Herbert Berghof dark scuzzy vindictive former Nazi . Living in a shack on the Andes mountains Berghof guzzles down booze so often that it's a wonder that he can be conscious and still stay on his feet , much less then to be able to manipulate signals and make them look like they come from a highly advanced civilization on Mars . All this of course sets the viewers up for the movies religiously inspired ending , so extreme as to be ridiculous .
Sand-Scripts on the Seashore	SPOILERS The Briggs family coming together for the first time in over 20 years to attend the funeral and have the will of the mother Marina , Kayle Martin , read is a very uneasy experience for Tyler , Michael Vartan . Having been abandoned by his father Gus , Marshall Bell , when he was an infant Tyler grew up only with his mother Marina and felt no real ties to Gus or his two step-brothers Barker & Hardy , Rodney Eastman & John Hawkes . Who were not only beer guzzling coke heads but also very ill-mannered and an embarrassment to him every time he was with them . Tyler also wasn't too fond of Gus's good friend and travel companion " Boston " Teddy , Denis Leary . Who's obsession with the Kennedy clan of Hyannis-Port MA . as well as John F . Kennedy's sexual exploits , in and out of the White House that even at times got to Gus . Marina left her son Tyler everything that she had but Tyler in a show of good faith only took the White 1972 Ford LTD and a photo album and left everything else , the house and $6 , 000 . 00 , to his father Gus . Tyler then took off for the coast to where Marina was born and raised to get away from the " Family " and have some very needed peace and quite . Striking up a friendship with Jack , Norman Reedus , and his friends Max Andy & Trip , Bodhi Elfman Powers Simmons & Emilio Estevez , a bunch of local beach boys Tyler got to stay at the Higgins home on the beach as a handyman . It there that he met and fell in love with Jack's sister Sandy , Kari Wuhrer , who just came home for the summer from school . Life was good for Tyler with a sweet and loving girlfriend and new set of friends a job and a place to live until one morning " They " came to town , Gus Teddy Baker & Hardy , and everything went downhill after that . Drinking beer and hard booze as well as smoking pot and snorting coke the quartet , mostly Baker & Hardy , made life miserable not only for Tyler but everyone else in town . The brothers finding Sandy alone in the Higgins house , where Tyler was living in , tried to rape her only to be stopped by Gus & Teddy . When Sandy's brother Jack found out that those who tried to rape his sister were Tyler's step-brothers Baker & Hardy he and some of his friends went to the motel where they stayed with Gus & Teddy . Finding them drunk and stoned on coke Jack worked them over leaving them black and blue and out cold . This led to Baker and Hardy the next day attacking Jack who was alone on the beach and just when they were about to kill him they got the stuffings knocked out them by Jack's friend Trip with his homemade baseball bat . Planing to get even with Jack for what happened to them on the beach , for some reason they weren't interested or couldn't find Trip , Baker & Hardy kidnapped and tortured Jack's friend Max . Jack and his friend Andy tried to come to his rescue only to be kidnapped themselves by the brothers and forced to walk the plank on the pier by the Pacific Ocean . Jack & Andy turned the tables on the duo by fighting them off and having all four of them fall down into the water . Baker & Hardy being drunk and on drugs and also not knowing how to swim drowned . The brothers father angered at what happened to them goes out , against Teddy's advice , looking for Jack only to have Jack show up outside his motel room , with Sandy trying to stop him , and rubbed it in about what happened to Gus ' sons ! Which was really stupid as well as dangerous on Jack's part . Gus chasing both Jack and Sandy down to the beach and hitting Jack with a bullet from his gun in the leg is then finally tackled by Tyler who puts some sense into his head . Telling Gus that killing Jack won't bring Baker & Hardy back but only destroy his life as well . Interesting little movie that tries to make a point and does about life love hate revenge and finally acceptance . The film will never make the IMDb top 250 but at the same time " Sand " will never make the IMDb bottom 100 either .
Sleep it off	SPOILER ALERT This group of cultists have been kidnapping young girls in and around London and , after giving them a blood transfusion , tattooing them . It turns out that little Heather , Sophie Stuckey , somehow escaped her captors but has since become unable to speak . Heather ended up spending all her time in a London Police safe-house staring aimlessly at the TV . It's when London lady cop Janet Losley , Shirley Henderson , was being treated to stop her from smoking that she , in her subconscious , revealed to her hypnotist Michael Strother , Gran Visnjic , about the comatose Heather which he , in explaining her smoking habits , innocently revealed to her . Knowing that Michael is on to something , in that there was no way he could have known about Heather , Janet literally blackmails him into helping her . Janet tries to get Michael to help her in not only getting into Heather's mind but in finding out who's behind her kidnapping and the murder of three girls who weren't as lucky as she was . As we soon find out Michael is in self imposed exile in London from the US after he " cured " one of his patients back in Seattle Washington . The man that Michael " cured " was so deathly afraid of water that he wasn't even willing to take a bath or shower in it ! After being " cured " by Michael he then jumped into a lake that was , in the early spring thaw , too cold to take a dip in . This had the poor guy lose consciousness , from a severe case of hypothermia , and drown ! With him now being forced to solve the so-called " Tattoo Murders " Michael now feels he can redeem himself not knowing that he's about to become the killer's latest victim . Extremely muddled story about this cult leader Francis Paladine , John Rogan , who's over 500 years old and uses the lifeblood of his victims , like Dracula , to keep himself alive forever . Michael puts his life on the line to get to the bottom of the " Tattoo Murders " only to end up on a slab with his blood being drained out by the mad Francis Paladine himself . It's only little Heather , after snapping out of her coma , that comes to Michael's rescue . SPOILER ALERT With all the bad guys put on ice in the city morgue for good we , and Michael , get the shock of our lives in the final moments of the movie which we all thought was going to be a happy ending . Were shocked to see this strange and bizarre finger pointing routine we saw earlier in the film by the real cult leader who , judging from the persons age and medical condition , didn't seem to have much long to go in this world . As it turned out the cult leaders " Lifeforce " was transfered on to someone else in order to keep the evil alive and active in its next incarnation . That someone else turns out to be someone that's very near and dear to both Michael & Janet hearts !
There's Hell beneath your feet on the 4th Floor	Effective and original little thriller set on the island of Manhattan about a young woman terrorized in her rent-controlled apartment by unknown forces that want her out . Juliette Lewis , Jane Ehelin , is at her feisty best as the victim of this horror drama who won't let herself be driven out of her apartment as the terror below her that at first is just annoying begins to turn deadly . The movie " The 4th Floor " has a lot of false leads as to who the person or persons are that are terrorizing the hell out of Jane . If your very attentive you'll notice something almost at the beginning of the movie , that is repeated in the films final sequence , why all of this is happening to her . After her Aunt Cecile was killed from a fall down the stairs of her building it was found out in Aunt Cecile's lease that she put Jaen on it as co-occupant to her apartment . Jane was all set to move in with her boyfriend Greg Harrison , William Hurt , a local TV weatherman in the house that he just bought in the New York city suburb of Westchester County . Jaen instead canceled her plans in order to move into that empty and very affordable apartment in the city . As soon as Jaen moved in things began to happen all originating from the 4th floor , the apartment just underneath her . The director and writer of the movie " The 4th Floor " leave a lot of red herrings as well as yellow and orange maggots and white and gray mice to what is behind all this and you almost suspect everyone in the movie that Jaen comes in contact with . The ending is quite a surprise because even when it comes it still may keep you hanging as to what was the reason for tormenting Jaen and driving her almost mad and out of her brownstone apartment . The very last scene in the movie really explains it all . Besides Juliette Lewis William Hurt is very good in an unusually small but important role so are Shelley Duvall , Martha Stewart , no not the Martha Stewart in the news . There's also Austin Pendleton , Mr . Collins , as Jaen's neighbors and a very good performance by Tobin Bell the locksmith and next-door neighbor of Jean who knew a lot more to what was happening in Jane's building then what he let her on to . Tension-pack and really creepy movie that will make your skin crawl as Jaen is slowly constricted by the four walls around her as the terror , that's a lot closer to her then she thinks , closes in on her for the movies surprising as well as really weird and shocking conclusion . " The 4th Floor " is a lot better then you would , or I did , expect from many of the negative reviews that it got and is well worth seeing .
Malice in Forethought	SPOILERS What takes a lot away from the movie " Malice " punch is that it's actually two stories in one that have really nothing to do with each other . Were at first made to believe that the film is about a serial killer on the loose on this small New England collage campus murdering and raping young female students . It's then when were introduced to the new doctor in town handsome arrogant and all full of himself Jed Hill , Alec Baldwin , that the film changes course into an illicit affair between Doc . Hill and the assistant dean of the collage Andy Safian's , Bill Pullman , sexy wife Tracy , Nicole Kidman . The serial killer angle is quickly eliminated with the killer collage handyman Earl Leemus , Tobin Bell , discovered and apprehended , after a life and death struggle , by Andy which in all respects should have ended the film . It's then that the real or core story comes to light in regards to Dr . Hill and Tracy and the almost unbelievable plan that the two concocted in fleecing the towns general hospital of $20 , 000 , 000 . 00 in a malpractice suite . Faking pregnancy Tracy keeps that from her husband Andy who's in fact , but doesn't know it , sterile . All this has Tracy end up in the local hospital with a case of an inflamed ovary due to massive doses of fertility drugs that she's been taking . Operated on by Dr . Hill Tracy has both her ovaries removed by the insistent Dr . Hill , against his fellow doctors advice , where one of them is later diagnosed to be healthy and fully functional . It's then that the devious plan devised between Dr . Hill & Tracy starts to unfold with Dr . Hill purposely making a complete fool of himself at a meeting at the hospital's lawyers office . It was there that it was to be determine by both sides , the hospital and the patience , if the removal of Tracy's second and healthy ovary , under the urgency of saving Tracy's life , was absolutely necessary . Dr . Hill claiming to be God himself insists , against his lawyers and the hospitals strong advice , that he and only he in fact blotched the operation leaving Tracy unable to conceive and thus opening the door for a multi-million malpractice suit against the hospital where Dr . Hill was employed . As all this is going on Andy realizing that Tracy was cheating behind his back goes to see her lawyer Dennis Riley , Peter Gallagher , feeling that he's the person whom she's been having an affair with . It turns out that Tracy has been holding back a lot more then her being pregnant by Andy in what Riley , after convincing Andy that he's not the other man , tells him . This leads to Andy then tracking down Tracy's mother , whom she told him died twelve years ago , Mrs . Kennsinger ( Anne Bancroft ) . Andy with the help of a bottle of expensive malt scotch liquor gets Mrs . Kennsiner to open up and reveal the truth about her deceitful and gold digging daughter ; A truth that shocks Andy back to reality from the fantasy world that he's been living while married to Tracy . Despite an excellent cast that includes both George C . Scott as Dr . Kessler , Jed Hill's professor at Harvard Medical School , and Babe Neuwirth as the local police detective Dana Harris , assigned to the collage serial murder case , the movie " Malice " just doesn't hold water and fall apart well before it's totally ridicules and unconvincing ending . What was really off the wall in the film was the very strange relationship between Dr . Hill and Tracy as well as Tracy herself . Why would a bright and very attuned young man like Dr . Hill get involved with an unstable and possibly schizophrenic Tracy Safian ? Dr . Hill with his vast knowledge of medical matters should have realized thatSPOILERSTracy would unravel as soon as things start getting hot for the two of them . As Andy started to put , with his knowledge of their underhanded money scheme , the screws on both Tracy and Dr . Hill it was Tracy that predictably cracked and that in effect lead to both her and the doctor turning on each other . Hill at least was willing to give in to Andy and split the take , the $20 , 000 , 000 . 00 malpractice suit that Tracy got , with him . It was Tracy's greed and stupidity that lead her to not only get caught in trying to finagle the money out of the hospital coffers but also end up with a both murder and , of a young man that she thought can implicated both her and Hill , attempted murder rap pinned against her .
Becker's World	SPOILER ALERT Almost unknown little action movie that's some twenty years ahead of its time in showing the public how prisoners are treated in an enemy or allied POW camp . In conditioning a group US servicemen and one woman to the rigors of prison life their not only tortured and humiliated by their captors but water-boarded and driven almost insane with ear-splitting sounds and music to deprive them of their sleep . These are the very same tactics we read about and see in both todays newspapers and on TV . Tactics that are being imposed on enemy combatants in both Gitmo-Guantanamo-and Abu Ghraib prison by the US military and CIA . The group of US Military volunteers going under this inhuman and degrading treatment by Cpt . Becker , Anthony Zerbe , didn't know just what they were in for . It's that the Captain was not only an egomaniac but a psychotic as well . Brutally breaking down the helpless prisoners Becker found the only woman among them Lt . Casey , Lisa Eichhorn , a real challenge for him . In that Casey was by far the toughest of the bunch of POW he was in charge of . After failing in everything he and his men could do to brake the plucky young womens will Capt . Becker came up with this " brilliant " idea of having Lt . Casey raped like in a real held by the enemy prisoner scenario with him of course doing the raping ! When this got out to those fellow POW's who were imprisoned with Lt . Casey it lead to a prison uprising that sent Capt . Backer and his tin pot dictatorship , or Becker's World as he liked to call it , blowing up in his , and his fellow goons , face ! The passive prisoners lead by Major Logan , Tom Skerritt , took control of the prison , or Camp Becker , as Becker's men were out in the jungle looking for Major Logan . It was Major Logan who escaped and killed one of Becker's goons , Tuang played by George Chenug , earlier in the film . Lt . Casey who despite all she went through by being raped beaten and humiliated by Becker and his men refused to break under the pressure . Left for days standing up in a " tiger cage " Lt . Casey , reused by Logan , still refused preferential treatment and went out in the unfriendly jungle to take on Becker and his men . Casey did this literally , she almost lost her right arm from a blast from a M-16 , singlehandedly ! Besides the usual blood & Guts action scenes , that happened in the last fifteen minutes of the movie , it was without a doubt Lsia Eichhorn's portrayal of the gusty Lt . Casey that made the movie " Opposing Force " worth watching . Lt . Casey's courage wasn't in her , at the end of the film , Rambo-style ability to take on and defeat Capt . Becker and his men at their own game . It was her courage and determination to take everything Becker & Co . could dish out at her and refuse to break under it and still end up being he last man or in Lt . Casey's case woman standing !
Going Ape in Hollywood Circa 1943 Bela Lugosi style	" Some Spoilers " One of the many films that Bela Lugosi made for Monogram Pictures as well as among the other bargain-basement Hollywood studios that he worked for during his " Lost in the Wilderness " , as well as heroin addiction , phase of his career during the 1940's and early 50's until he kicked his drug habit . It was also around that time that Bela met the great cult and bad movie director Edward Wood and made the movies , that we all know and love him for , that made Bela Lugosi the legend that he is today some 50 years after his death . " The Ape Man " is pretty standard stuff in the movies that studios like Monogram put out back in those days . A prominent scientist Dr . James Brewster , Bela Lugosi , makes a major discovery about the link between man and primate but not being able to test the serum that he discovered on human beings , for it's against the law , tests it on himself where he becomes a half man half ape " missing link " . Brewster finds out together with his associate in the discovery Dr . George Randall , Henry Hall , that the only thing that can bring him back to normal is human spinal fluid that if extracted from a person will instantly kill him . Dr . Brewster with the help of an ape , that he has in his laboratory , goes out at night and kills a number of people in order to get the valuable spinal fluid . All goes well until Dr . Randall refuses to participate any more in Dr . Brewster's mad scheme where Dr . Brewster in an insane rage kills him . Later in the movie Dr . Brewster with the help of his partner , the ape , kidnaps beautiful newspaper photographer Louise Currie , Billie Mason , but when Dr . Brewster is about to extract Billie's spinal fluid the love sick ape , who took a liking to Billie , attacks and kills Dr . Brewster during a long and bitter struggle . The ape chases Billie all around the laboratory until Billie finds the secret passage , with the help of her fellow reporter and boyfriend Jeff Carter ( Wallace Ford ) , and escapes into his arms as the police , who Jeff called for help , who blasts the ape with a hail of bullets that kills him . As the movie is ending we see both Jeff and Billie go off into the sunset , it was really moon-light , and I guess lived happily ever after . There's nothing really that great about the movie " The Ape Man " unless , like me , you're a Bela Lugosi fan and Bela does lift the movie up a couple of notches making it if it's not scary both cheesy and campy . Louise Currie is very nice to look at and the rest of the cast did a very good job with the material that they were handed . The guy who played the ape , Emil Van Horn , made a monkey out of himself wearing a gorilla suit with him flinging his arms and grunting during the entire movie . Van Horns , or the apes , fight in the end with Dr . Brewster , as Billie was trying to get away from the carnage that resulted from it , was both exacting and suspenseful . What really annoyed me about the movie was that skinny and goofy looking reporter , Jack Mluhall , who popped up in almost every scene in the film as well as acting like a jerk and spoiling any tension and surprises that there were in the movie . Mluhall also got somewhat of an ego trip in telling those of us watching , at the end of the film , that it was he who wrote the story that we just saw on the screen . At least someone like Alfred Hitchcock , a far better movie maker then Jack Mluhall , who was in almost all of the movies that he directed had nothing more then a cameo appearance in them , this guy wanted to be the star of the movie !
Absolution	SPOILERS Starting with the 40 day's of Lent on Ash Wednesday a series of murders occurred in and around this suburban Detroit church , The Holy Redeemer , that has everyone , the public and police , shocked and puzzled to who would do such a thing . Leaving a rosary on the bodies of his victims the killer seems to be sending a message to what his motives are . Later in the movie he makes himself and is motives known during confession to father Robert Koesler , Donald Sutherland . Three years ago his 16 year old daughter was killed and the murderer is holding the church and it's priests and nuns responsible for her death and now is exacting vengeance on them . Father Koesler unable , and unwilling , to go to the police in order not to break the church's age old policy of not revealing confession's of it's members and congregation is now troubled . Feeling that whoever is now killed by this " Rosery Murderer " will be his responsibility and tries to solve the killings himself by tracking down leads that the killer gave him . Checking out three year-old newspaper obituaries Father Koesler finds the name of a Cathy Javison , Jane M . Smith , who died at the age of 16 the same age that the killer said his daughter died . Going to the Catholic school that Kathy attended to find out about the circumstances of her death Father Koesler is shocked to find out that the young girl committed suicide ! It's seems that her suicide was covered up by he school since Kathy has a Catholic funeral service at the Saint Camillus Chaple and was buried in a Catholic cemetery . Meanwhile back at the Holy Redeemer Church the murders of priest's and nuns continue with Father Koesler trying to find out just where the late Kathy Javison father , the prime suspect in the killings , is since the house that the Javisons used to live at was found abandoned by Father Koesler . Going back to Kathy's school father Koesler get in touch with Kathy's teacher and good friend and confidant Sister Mary , Anna Minot , who after upholding a three year old vow of silence since Kathy death agrees to tell the priest the reason for her killing herself . Sister Mary's revelations shocks Koesler almost to the point where he has trouble understanding what she's telling him ! Even though it was as clear as a bell to anyone in the audience listening . With the killing reaching a climax with the coming of the end of Lent , Good Friday , is starts to crystallize in Father Kloesler's , as well as the police , mind that the main object of the Rosary killers obsession is non other then the presiding priest of The Holy Redeemer Church himself Father Ted Nabors , Charles Durning . We later find out , from the killer Kathy's father Robert Javison , James Murtaugh , that Father Nabors was the priest to whom he confessed his sins to just before his daughter killed herself . Sins that Javison committed that directly lead to his daughters suicide ! Somewhat overdone crime drama that has too many side or sub-plots that makes it a bit hard to follow . It's when " The Rosary Murders " starts to focus in on it's main theme and we start to zero on the killer that it's starts to get interesting . The reason for his murderous rampage against those in the church was in helping his daughter Kathy not that the killers actions in any way were justified though you can understand his sick and demented reasoning . He was trying to offset what he did to his daughter and put the entire blame on the church who's only crime , in regard to Kathy's suicide , was that of omission .
Birds of a feather stick together	SPOILERS Losing custody of her two young daughters Susan & Rebecca , sisters in real life Natasha & Daniella Napoli , because of the hours she keeps and the people that she deals with prison psychiatrist Dr . Lila Coletti , Gina Gershon , is sent into a deep depression . Lila Unable to do her work , counseling and rehabilitating mentally derange and dangerous convicts , at the state penitentiary starts to feel lost and worthless . The first evening the two girls are with their father and his fiance Paul Coletti and Jenny Kemp , Nick Boranie & Carolyn Balogh , someone breaks into the house and brutally murders them yet leaving the two sisters alone and unhurt . Right away the suspicion of who killed Mr . Coletti and Jenny falls on Dr . Coletti . She had the most to gain by their death with her getting custody of her daughters and the Coletti estate , including the house , worth some two million dollars . Were put right on to who may have been the possible double murder on two former prison inmates whom Dr . Coletti dealt with Ciro Ruiz , Jon Huentas , and Ed Brinkman , Sean Patrick Flanery . The two not only were given parole because Dr . Coletti positive evaluation of them before the prison review board but because they both seemed to have become very infatuated with her . To the point of willing , like Ciro told her , to commit murder in her behalf . As for Lila's part she turns out to be secretly in love with the police detective that's been put on her husbands and his girlfriends murder case Det . Macy Kobacek , Michael Biehn . The movie leaves a number of baffling clues to both the police and audience that has to do with Lila's mental condition . Not just over her loss , to her husband Paul , of her two daughters but her own childhood where both she and her mom were abused by her deranged father . This childhood experience left Lila feeling that somehow he was killed by her or someone else in the family to put an end to their suffering . Ed Baikman whom we soon find out had the same kind of abusive childhood as Lila was put away for some twenty years after murdering both his parents . That's what seemed to have bonded him with Lila who was responsible for his overcoming his anger and inability to function in a free society . Being a suspect in Paul & Jenny's murder becomes more evident when the recently released convict Ciro Ruiz who was seen with Lila , who lied about it to the police , the night of the murders is found dead of an overdose from shooting himself up with drugs that come from the prison pharmacy . Only Lila had access to to the drugs that killed Ruiz ! Arrested for murder and put behind bars Lila is in the same prison where she worked at as the prison psychiatrist . It's when Lila is arrested and put in prison when the movie gets really convoluted . First Lila isn't able to make bail , this for a double-murder ? , and later is let out to find who really murdered Paul & Jenny ! Were then lead to believe that their killer non-other then the weirdo Ed Baikman who seemed to worship the very ground that Lila walks on . Ed mad at Lila because she turned down his advances goes to another psychiatrist Dr . Karen Kendler , Louise Barnes . This causes Lila to storm into Dr . Kendler's office and let her know in no uncertain terms what a mad and dangerous person her new patient is thus having her drop Ed from treatment . The movie goes to it's totally unbelievable and mind twisting conclusion with Lila and Ed's unusual connection to Paul and Jenny's murders that takes us , the audience , into this never never land of madness and insanity . We have Lila's confused and by now flabbergasted boyfriend Det . Kobecek , who suddenly and unexpectedly pops up out of nowhere , only get it in the neck as Lila & Ed have it out with each other . This gives you the impression that both of them must have been cut with the same cookie cutter , out of the same dough , in how crazy and off-the-wall they both act . The endingMAJOR SPOILERS is a real shocker , if you can somehow figure it out . Lila & Ed , had this whole scenario planned right from the start and sucked the love-sick and clueless Det . Kobecek into it making him the fall guy to take the blame , posthumously , for the twin murders ! Were also lead to believe that their , Lila & Ed , in some way also related in a photo that we see as the movie draws to a close .
The Ancient Enemy	SPOILERS Kicked of of the faculty of the prestigious Oxford University because of his off-the-wall theories Prof . Timothy Flyte , Peter O'Toole , now writes for the supermarket tabloid Wide World News . You could imagine the surprise he had when one evening he was visited by these two FBI agents Hawtthorne & Wilson , Bo Hopkins & Robert Knepper . It seems that Flyte was on to something in his writings of mysterious disappearances all throughout history since the beginning of life on earth . The disappearance of entire civilizations like the Mayans in 610 AD the English colony of Roanoke in the new world in 1590 and even more recently the 3 , 000 Chinese soldiers who vanished without a trace outside the city on Nanking in December 1939 . This thing that was responsible , according to Flyte , for these strange phenomena has struck again and this time in the small town of Snowfield Colorado . Sisters Jennifer & Lisa Pailey , Janna Going & Rose McGowan , traveling to Snowfield , where Jennifer runs a medical clinic , from L . A . they find the town eerily deserted . When the two sisters check into Jennifers home they find her maid Helda dead . Looking from house to house and store to store in Snowfield they find that everyone in town had either died of some mysterious disease or were hacked to death . It wasn't until the local sheriff Bryce Hammond , Ben Afflect , and his two deputies Stu Wargel & Steve Shanning , Live Schriber & Nicky Katt , came on the scene that they all realized that something out of , or under , this world happened to the people of Snowfield . The only clue that they had was a message scrawled in lipstick on a locked bathroom mirror stating " The Ancient Enemy , Thimothy Flyte " . Even though the story is a bit hard to follow the film " Phantoms " does have it shocks and thrills with the human race battling this ancient enemy that has resurfaced again to claim it's share of victims like it did over and over on earth since time immemorial . Living off life on earth these " phantoms " are not only able to wipe out whole towns cities or even civilizations they can even mimic their victims and absorb their minds and memories as well as their flesh and blood . Which makes them almost invincible even in the face of modern scientific and military technology . The ending of the movie " Phantoms " was even more far fetched with Prof . Flyte coming up with this chemical component that has to do with cleaning up oil spills that does in the " Ancient Enemy " of all Mankind once and for all , or does it ? The movie has a very young and teenage-looking Ben Afflect playing not only the town's sheriff Bryce Hammond but also being a Harvard graduate as well as a former FBI agent who quit because he killed a little boy by accident and never wanted to touch a gun again . You wonder why Bryce would later get a job as a sheriff where he's obligated to not only carry but very possibly use handguns if he's so spooked by them ?
You People Make Me Sick !	( Some Spoilers ) Standard made for TV movie with Saturday morning cartoon special effects and a really monotonous and annoying soundtrack about a plague breaking out on a pleasure cruise luxury ocean liner , the Orion Star , on the high seas off the coast of Miami Beach . After romping through the jungles of an out of the way Caribbiean island a passenger of the ship carried aboard the Orion Star a deadly airborne infectious disease that attacks the blood system much like the deadly Ebola infection . Within hours a number of passengers and crew members come down with the deadly illness and the ship is quarantined by order of the president of the United States Brian Dennehy . It was just pure luck that one of he passengers on board is non other then Dr . Stephanie Tauber , Lindsay Wagner , a top specialist of infectious diseases at the US Goverments CDC offices in Atlanta Ga . Dr . Tauber taking control of the boat on orders of President Dennehy , to the shock and outrage of the ships captain Horst Bucholz , quickly begins to turn the luxury liner into a floating medical laboratory with a number of Navy Seals and CDC personnel coming aboard to maintain some sense of order in the mist of total panic on the part of the ships 1 , 800 passengers and crew . Back in D . C Pres . Dennehy is being manipulated by his close adviser's Henry Northcutt and his sidekick Michael , Martin Sheen & Andrew Airlie , who want this emergency to be stretched out like the 1979-81 Iranian hostage crisis in order to have Dennehy thrown out of office , like President Jimmy Carter was in 1980 , and get their guy who , like Northcutt said , will steer this country in the " RIGHT " direction . Michael who seems to be the man in charge of public relations for the White House gets these paid off hacks and snake oil salesmen , masquerading around as world renowned epidemiologists , on every talk and discussion show on TV . Telling the American public that the virus on he Orion Star is so dangerous that if anyone is allowed to leave the ship and come onshore they would infect millions of Americans . This is part of Northcutt's grandiose plan to bamboozle and terrorize the population in putting pressure on Pres . Dennehy and keep the crisis going on for months if not over a year ; thus seal his fate in the next presidential elections . Feeling helpless and abandoned the ships crew led by hot head McBride , Michael Ironside , stage a mutiny and try to take over the Orion Star and both drive and beach it ashore on Miami Beach thus freeing themselves from the governments unforced quarantine . The revolt frizzles out with McBride and a number of his mutineers shot and killed by the Navy Seals and Dr . Tauber who sent McBride off the ship the one way he didn't want to leave it ; in a rubber body-bag . There's a stroke of luck in all this chaos when Dr . Tauber discovers one of the passengers Alex Reid , Steve Bacic , who was infected with the deadly virus had miraculously recovered . Dr . Tabuer quickly had a sample of his blood sent to the CDC labs back in the states and from it a serum was developed to cure the disease and in the end save the day and the lives of the remaining passengers of the Orion Star including Dr . Taber's teenage daughter Aly , Katharine Isbelle . Decent film with a really standout performance by Martin Sheen as the creepy and back-stabbing presidential adviser Henry Northcutt who together with his " right-hand " man Michael tried to make political points , for their man in waiting , to take over the government by having hundreds of unsuspecting Americans die for what Northcutt & Michael deemed to be a high and noble cause . Sheen's Henry Northcutt is eerily similar to another low-life political swine that he played in the 1983 movie " the Dead Zone " Sen . Greg Sillson who felt that it was his destiny to get elected president of the United States in order to bring about the long awaited battle between good and evil : Armagaddon . Thank God that in this film " Voyage of Terror " , like in the movie " the Dead Zone " , Sheen's character failed miserably .
I'm gonna sit right down and write myself a letter	SPOILERS Nice little thriller with Loretta Young playing Helen Jones the loving and caring wife of a very unstable , both mentally and physically George Jones , Barry Sullivan . George got into in his warped mind that Helen and the doctor who's attending his illness , a sever heart condition , Dr . Renny Grahame , Bruce Cowling , are planning to murder him . George having met Hellen seven years ago when he was in the US Army Air Force was a totally different man then he is now after he left the service . It was the then US Navy doctor Let . Grahame who introduced him to his future wife Hellen Brown who was the doctors secretary . Now laid up in bed with Helen taking care of all his needs and wants Georges mind goes cuckoo , an empty mind is the Devil's workplace , with his feelings of dependency and helplessness . George dreams up this conspiracy hatched by both Helen & Dr . Grahame to murder him , with a drug overdose , and make it look like a heart attack . George's sick and evil , as well as clever , mind had concocted a fool-proof plan to implicate both Helen and Dr . Grahame in his death , a well planned suicide on George's part . The final kicker in George's plan is a long and detailed letter he wrote to the state district attorney confirming all the evidence he planted , and the bases he covered , to indite and convict Helen & Dr . Grahame for his murder . Sharp and heart stopping film with Helen Jones on the run to prevent a letter , that her husband George gave her to mail , which is to be the proof of her involvement in his murder . George spilled the beans to Hellen as she was caring for him by letting her know what she's in for before he , after pulling out a gun to shoot her in " self-defense " , dropped dead on the spot from the massive amounts of medication he was secretly stuffing himself with ! George wanted to cover all the bases all right by both killing himself and killing Helen to prevent her from killing him if killing himself , with a drug overdose , didn't work . Helen who earlier , before George's crazed revelations to her , gave the letter that George wrote to her mailman Joe Carston , Irving Bacon , now tries desperately to revive in but to no avail . Joe the Mailman is absolutely fanatical in following the US Postal Manual regulation , what seems to be his holy Bible , which says that once a letter is mailed it cannot be retrieved under any circumstances . Unless it's demanded by the person who wrote it which was the dead George Jones . Doing everything she can to keep the letter from getting to the D . A's office , and implicating her and Dr . Grahame in George's death , Helen goes as far as the city of L . A's General Post Office to plead with it's Mail Superintendent , Art Baker . Hellen is to be told that it's George , not Helen , who has the authority to get the letter back . That would mean for Supt . Baker to speak with him on the phone or in person , to get George's authorization , which Helen knows would be impossible . With everything seeming to go against Helen with Dr . Grahame showing up at the Jones ' house and finding George dead and him being accused by George in his letter to the D . A's office , along with Helen , in his death things could not get any worse for the two of them . It looked like it was now only a matter of time before the two would end up behind bars waiting to be tried for George's murder . Then something happened that stymied all of George's insane and evil plans . It was the fact that George put so much time and effort , as well as ink on paper , into his whacked out scheme to make it work that it was that very reason that it inevitably worked against him .
And then along comes Mary	SPOILERS First shown on a segment of the Robert Stack narrated crime / mystery show aptly titled " Unsolved Mysteries " back in the 1980's the story of " Resurrection Mary " has been the subject with the exact same title , making it difficult to know which is which , of four different films over the last five-from 2002 to 2007-years . The story is based on this young girl named Mary who was taken advantage of by her drunken boyfriend at the O'henry Ballroom in Chicago back in the mi-1930's . Leaving the ballroom in sub-freezing weather only wearing her white party dress Mary was run down and killed by a motorist who didn't stop to help or call for assistance . It's been said that Mary has been haunting that strip of highway-Archer Av-in Chicago and outside where she's entombed-the Chicago Resurrection Cemetery - ever since . In the film Shawn , Jason Ryan Lovett , is at a party where he comes in contact with this mysterious young blond woman , Eva Bloomfield , whom he falls heads over heels for . Being engaged to Amy , Rebbecca Shea , Shawn has second thoughts about marrying her and his outrageous rendezvous , in the ladies room of all places , with the blond woman just about destroys his engagement with her . It's when Shawn is driving Amy home that the woman of his dreams , the mysterious blond at the party , becomes his worst nightmare ! Shawn ends of picking her up hitch-hiking on Archer Av outside , you guessed it , the Resurrection Cemetery ! As it turned out the young woman was non-other then the fabled Resurrection Mary ! Feeling very strange , and even scared , with the woman in the back seat of the car Shawn drops her off right outside the Resurrection Cemetery where he just picked her up . This later leads Shawn to have his car skid off the road in turning the car around , at Amy's insistence , to pick up the stranded Mary and cause Amy-who suffered a massive brain concussion - to end up in the local hospital on life support . During the remainder of the film Shawn is haunted with the guilt of having cheated on his fiance Amy and at the same time having Mary , who knew how Amy felt in what happened to her when she was alive , make him pay for his infidelities . SPOILER ALERTMary doesn't just stop in driving poor Shawn insane and almost suicidal but also has it in for , and does in , the ballroom , where the party was thrown , manager Wilkes , Joe Esteves . Wilkes ends up getting it , in the throat , for both knowing and talking too much , about who Mary is and what's she done over the years . Mary's other victim is Wilkes ' waitress / cashier Sophie , Elezabeth Bagby , who's driven insane and ends up hanging herself for trying to warn Shawn what he's , in Mary's diabolical plans for him , in for in the future ! Not that satisfying of an ending with Shawn being put through the ringer and on the brink of death only to come back to life , like his fiance Amy , at the very last moment . All that noble and heroic efforts on Shawn's part turned out to be in vein with Resurrection Mary coming back to life , like she's done over the last 70 or so years , to both haunt and drive insane other young men like Shawn who end up falling , at the expense of their wives girlfriends and fiances ' , for her .
A Recipe for Murder	( Some Spoilers ) True story about a murder at the US Marine base at Quantico Virgiia that involved two officers in the US Marine Corps , a husband and wife . Being drummed out of the Marines former Marine Captain Robert Russell , Nick Searcy , had developed an extreme dislike of his Marine Cops wife Capt . Darnell Russell , Jasmine Guy , for being the success that he isn't . Living on base as a military Dependant starts to get to Robert as he drinks himself into an ugly and violent rage that leads him to consistently brutalize Darnell to the point that she has to cover her arms from the black and blue bruises he gave her . One Sunday afternoon after Darnell came home from church services she just disappeared never to be seen again and the talk around the base is that her husband Robert murdered her . The evidence , beside the violent beating that Robert gave Darnell , is the fact that she got a court statement for him to sign for a separation and that may well have set off the very unstable and dangerous Robert . Getting on the case that at first was a missing person investigation is NIS investigator Joanne Jensen , Mitzi Kapture , who starts to put all the facts together and comes to the realization that Darnell may well have been murdered and that Robert is the one and only suspect . Robert does very little to help his case by being both arrogant and obnoxious when he's interviewed by the NIS and even goes as far as threatening Joanne about ending up the same way his wife Darnell did . It turns out that Robert has a very strange superiority complex that by being a hard as nails marine , which at the time he wasn't , and as smart as a whip that no woman has the smarts and guts to be able to get him convicted of Darnell's murder . It later turns out that Robert made a major mistake when , after he was forced to resign from the Corps , he left in the possession of the NIS a computer disk that was a blueprint to his wife's murder ! Unusual murder case with no body or murder weapon to convict the defendant but the circumstantial evidence was more that enough to get Joanne and the Federal Attorny Kenneth Rowland , Mitchall Laurance , who prosecuted the case against Robert a murder conviction , the first of it's kind in a Federal Court , without a body a weapon or a confession by the accused .
It ' the law of the circus , if a knife ever kills it's never used again , it's buried together with it's victim !	SPOILER ALERT Nifty little whodunit thriller set at a traveling circus outside of London that also has to do with an armored car robbery . A robbery that is somehow connected with the big top . Christopher Lee playing the hooded Russian lion tamer Gregor comes upon this suitcase of some 250 , 000 pound sterling in the deserted farm , where he keeps his wild animals caged . The cash was taken in the spectacular armored car robber on the London Bridge at the beginning of the movie . Gregor also finds the body of one of the robbers , who was killed , with a knife in his back , there too . Whoever planned the robbery had the money specifically brought there , the deserted farm house , on the circus grounds by one of his unwitting henchmen corrupt cop Mason , Victor Maddan , and then had him murdered to keep the cash all for himself . The rest of the film " Circus of Fear " has the unseen and unknown killer try to murder anyone who has any idea of who he is . That includes the cheating partner of the jealous and hot headed circus knife-thrower Mario ( Maurice Kaufmann ) Gina , Margaret Lee , as well as the not to on the ball and creepy person who's supposed to smuggle the stolen cash out to the country for the armored car robbery gang Manfred Hart , Klaus Kinski . With some of the stolen car robbery money being passed around the town where the circus is preforming it soon becomes evident to the Scotland Yard chief investigating this baffling case Elliott , Leo Genn , that the killer is somehow in the circus as a performer . This makes knife-thrower Mario the number one suspect . Going undercover as a news photographer Scotland Yard inspector Elliott zeros in on lion tamer Gregor and his pretty assistant Natasha , Suzy Kendall . We soon learn of the black-hooded Gregors , who's face was supposedly ripped to shreds by a wild lion , somewhat checkered past and how he may well be helping his recently escaped from prison brother Otto . Otto was convicted of killing the circus ' ring master's Carl , Heinz Drache , father . Gregor is also made to look very suspicious in the circus killings when we see that one of the circus performers Mr . Big , Skip Martin , is blackmailing the big hooded guy . This is done by Mr . Big in return for withholding information about Gregor from the police ! Just who really is this big and scary-looking guy anyway ? can he actually be the escaped killer Otto who's also a wild animal trainer like Gregor and just happens to be the father of Gregor's assistant Natasha ? Interesting twists and turns has you guessing just who the killer is and it takes a major mistake on the killers part . Or was it just his sick and arrogant attempt to gain publicity . In the end It was the killers own greed and vindictiveness in being given thankless menial and humiliating jobs by circus owner Barberini , Anthony Newlands , that made him go so insane and then take out his frustration and anger on everyone in the circus that he felt kept him from being the big star that he always envisioned himself to be . Planing the London Bridge armored car robbery and using the circus grounds to stash away the money after double-crossing and murdering both his fellow robbers Mason and Manfred the killer's subconscious desire to get attention is what eventually gave him away .
I didn't think that it would go this far !	SPOILERSAfter a hard day of cooking for and serving her very very satisfied customers at her star-rated restaurant " The Toulouse " Kathryn Stanfill , Mary Tyler Moore , noticed as she left for home this beady-eyed young man waiting outside in his car looking straight at her . Scared to leave for her car Kathryn called for the police to check this guy out . Within minutes a squad car pulled up and out popped the police officers who , after the person refused to open his car door , worked him over to the point where his life was hanging on a thread with the cop in charge Sgt . Brian Kaleen , Fredric Lehne , doing all the dirty work beating him with his baton until he fell limp on the ground like a sack of flour . Kathryn shocked at what she saw , even though it was her who call the police , in the police beating she's later contacted by internal affairs Let . Patkanis , Edward Asner . It turns out that Let . Patkanis has had it in for the brutal Sgt . Kaleen for some time and asked the very reluctant restaurateur to testify against the thug with a badge . At his trail Kathryn's testimony is what convicted Sgt . Kaleen and have him suspended for six months , without pay . Kleen also had his personal file frozen so that he'll never go beyond what he is now , a sergeant , for the entire time that he's is on the police force . Angry and vindictive Kaleen isn't going to take all this , his six month suspension and career frozen in place , lying down and for the rest of the movie he'll make life hell no only for Kathryn but her husband Neil , Dennis Arndt and son Adam , Adam Scott , as well . Kaleen has trumped up sexual harassment charge planted on Neil and also has Kathryn's very troubled young son Adam framed in the brutal murder of a young hooker that he picked up in the city's downtown red-light district . Shocking but not really surprising story of what a corrupt or overly brutal policeman can do with the help of his friends on and off the force to an average citizen who's foolish enough to testify against him and think that his , or in this case her , life will ever be the same again . This is not to say that Kathryn did anything wrong in at first calling the police for help and then reporting the police to the internal affair office for using too much force . It's that the police and local justice departments couldn't offer her , and her family , any help when she stuck her neck out in reporting and testifying against police who are out of control . Somewhat convoluted and feel-good ending doesn't at all erase the pain and suffering that poor Kathryn and her family went through . The two or possible three murders that Sgt . Kaleen and his fellow hoods with badges committed to cover up his crimes did't convince anyone that by going to the police to report a crime will ever ingratiate you with them when you ever need their help you in the future . In fact the dirty cops , like in the movie , will go out of their way to make you regret that you ever reported , and testified in court , a crime to the police that they committed .
Move Over Boys I'm One Of The Gang Now	SPOILERS Campy movie from Monogram Pictures about zombies on the loose on some uncharted Caribbean island . With the head honcho Dr . Sangre , Henry Victor , of the Isle trying to use the power of Black Magic through the chanting of Island High Priestess Tahama , Madam Sul-Te-Wan . In order for him to get the brain of the captured US Admiral Wainwright , Guy User , transferred by the miracle of " Transmigration " to his niece's Barbara Winslow , Joan Woodbury , skull . This is Dr . Sangre plan to get valuable military information , from Wainwright , about the fortifications of the Panama Canal Zone . The movie " King of the Zombies " was made as a comedy but for some strange reason was nominated for an Academy Award as best musical score for a dramatic picture ? HOW ABOUT THAT ! Dr . Sangre obviously in league with his fatherland Nazi Germany even though the country is never mentioned in the film ? Maybe the makers of " King of the Zombies " were afraid that if Hitler ever saw the movie and how it portrayed his Aryan Supermen he would get so mad he'd order his Luftwaffa to bomb Hollywood . Dr . Sangre who learned from the natives , mostly from High priestess Tahama , of the island how to " Zombify " people and use them in service to the Third Reich seemed unable to " Zombify " one of his subjects Jefferson " Jeff " Jackson , Mantan Moreland . Jefferson in fact turned out to be the hero of the movie and saved the day for the good guys by getting the ball , as well as his eyes , rolling . In him getting his two naive and unsuspecting friends who crashed on the island with him Mac & Bill , Dick Puncell & John Archer , to see what was really going on with Dr . Sangre and his evil experiments . Getting the zombies to revolt against Dr . Sangre , probably because of the bland and salt-free food that he served them , the doctor trying to get the info from the admiral via his niece's brain , dressed up looking like Dracula with a weird wooden Halloween mask , ends up being chased by the zombies into a pit where he gets a giant hot foot . In a last and desperate attempt Dr . Sangre tries to shoot the rebellious dead walkers not knowing , or forgetting for a moment , that you can't kill someone who's already dead !
If I don't know what's going on I don't worry about it	SPOILERS Sleaze and corruption in a deep southern state has middle-age carnival dancer Lane Bellamy , Joan Crawford , go from rags to riches . As she's brought full-circle with the man of her nightmares corrupt sheriff and state power-broker Titus Semple , Sydney Greenstreet , in an explosive showdown at the conclusion of the movie " Flamingo Road " . Having no place to stay after her dancing troupe left the town of Bolden Lane is found sleeping in a deserted tent by deputy Sheriff Fielding Carlisle , Zachary Scott , Fielding . Sheriff Fielding gives Lane some money and gets her a job at the Eagle caf . Soon he begins to fall in love with the former dancer . Titus who's looking to put Fielding in the state Governor's mansion is upset at his involvement with the dirt-poor Lane and breaks up his relationship with her by threatening to destroy Fielding's future in state politics if he doesn't . Dropping Lane for the much younger and politically connected , through her family , Annabell Weldon , Virginia Huston , Fielding get's married to her . Later , unknown to Fielding , Titus has Lane framed and arrested for prostitution putting her in a women's work camp for thirty days . Out without a job or a place to live Lane is determined to go back to Bolden and put her life back together despite Tits's attempt to run her out of town as well as the state . Lane get's a job as a waitress at Lute Mea's place where there's a big convention going on of the state's political boss ' including the big man himself Dan Reynolds , David Brian . Dan get's to appreciate Lane when she cured him of a hangover and later falls in love with her because of her honesty , something that's very alien to him , about herself and her past . Lane for all her honesty doesn't tell Dan about her past involvement with both Titus and Fielding that almost destroys her marriage to Dan later in the film . By now Fielding's marriage to Annabelle is on the rocks and his future in state politics in just about history with an outraged Titus kicking him out of his job as state senator and having Fielding end up a pitiful drunkard . Titus now turning his rage on Dan Reynolds , for daring to challenge his power , plans to run someone against Dan's hand-picked man for governor Parkhurst and that being himself . Doing what he does best Titus has one of the men who works for Dan's construction company Burr Lassen , William Haade , blackmailed by framing his son on a bogus drunk-driving charge . This is done in order to frame Dan on a charge of having convicts work for him without pay . Meanwhile Fielding drinking himself blind gets up enough courage to see Lane at the Reynold's house to tell her what a fool he was by leaving her and thus destroying himself . Lane trying to get Fielding to stop drinking and sleep it off turns her back on him , mixing him a drink of all things , for just a moment as he staggers into the bedroom and shoots himself . With the people of Boden being whipped up by Titus ' stooges in the media to drive Lane out of town for being unworthy , her past of her being arrested for prostitution is leaked out , to live among them . An hurt and outraged Lane goes to Titus ' place to get him to admit in public that he set up her husband or else she'll kill him . Titus seeing his chance to now get Lane implicated on an attempted murder charge underestimate her determination to stop him ; which backfires on him in a way he never expected it to do . A bit unrealistic but still very effective political power drama with Joan Crawford giving a stand out performance as the abused and maligned Lane Bellamy . A woman who's driven to the limit by those who are out to destroy her but instead stands firm and fight back .
Who killed the piano player ?	( Some Spoilers ) 1940 turned out to be a bumper year for Boris Karloff with him staring in eight movies mostly as a kindly misunderstood man of science . In " Before I Hang " Boris is at it again as the meek and sensitive Dr . John Garth who's life long quest for the secret of eternal youth and excellent health has lead him to face the hangman in the murder , or mercy killing , of one of his patients . Condemned to death and sentenced to be hung for his crime Dr . Garth nevertheless is allowed to conducted his experiences behind bars . Hours before he's to be executed Dr . Garth has himself injected with a serum that would forever keep his cells from decaying and keep him both healthy and youthful . It also turns out that Grath has become infused with the blood of a triple murderer who's been executed the day before . That serum that was to help the future of humanity in fact created a monster who will kill anyone who stand in his way , in his mad and misguided attempt too save the human race , even his sweet daughter Martha played by Evelyn Keys . Garth despite him murdering fellow scientist Dr . Ralph Howard , Edward Van Sloan , and prison orderly Otto Krone , Frank Richards , is overlooked in their murders only because he left no eye witnesses to his crimes . It's later-moments before he was to be hung - when Dr . Garth's death sentence was commented by the state Governor that he really went to work on his experiments . Later granted a full pardon and being reinstated back in the medical profession Dr . Garth , feeling invincible , goes bonkers in him murdering any one who refuses to under go or rejects his " youth " treatment even his best and most trusting friends ! One of Dr . Garth's very talented and elderly friends the world renowned concert pianist Victor Sondina , Pedro de Cordoba , who in fact , against his better judgment , consented to his crazy experiment ended up not being cured from the aging process , like Garth promised him , but being strangled by the crazed scientist who just lost control of his senses ! It was when the helpless Dr . Garth almost ended up strangling his own daughter Martha , who only survived her father's insanity by almost dropping dead from fright , that he finally realized what a complete nut and psycho killer he really was . It was then that Dr . Garth decided to let the law exact justice on his troubled soul and also ended up , in again losing control of his actions , having the state save the expense of hanging him !
If you get Marinaro to come in you can try with Mayo	SPOILERS Overly long and ponderous crime drama involving an elite squad of New York City detectives who take the law into their own hands in fighting the drug epidemic that pledged the Big Apple back in the 1970's . The way these elite cops fight crime is by ripping off the drug dealers that they bust and then , being illegal aliens , ship them off on the first boat or plane back to their native country . With the Chase Commission breathing down corrupt cops necks one of the members of this elite group of law enforcers Danny Ciello , Treat Williams , seeing the writing on the wall decides to come clean . Danny will talk and use a wire but only on dirty politicians and lawyers , as well as D . A's , but not cops especially those cops , or partners , that he works with . This very " high and noble " effort on Danny's part , which was really to save his own hide , has him record hundreds of conversations between him as well as lawyers hoodlums and junkies that in the end would result in some 30 convictions . Danny also gets all of the members of his elite squad indited with the exception of the weak willed and suicidal Officer Bill Mayo ( Don Billett ) , who ended up blowing his brains out , for crimes that Danny himself committed ! It's hard to work up any sympathy for the cops in the movie " Prince of the City " in not only how greedy corrupt as well as , when they's riding high , arrogant they are but how totally lacking and unwilling their in taking their punishment when caught ! This to the point of giving up their best friends or partners to the Chase Commission inquisitors in order to save themselves . Danny who's supposed to be the hero in the movie is so gutless and wimpy when he's caught with his hand in the cookie jar , by perjuring himself 40 times after he supposedly came clean , that it seems like the biggest crime in the movie is him getting off Scot-free in the end ! Were told by the D . A's office that the only reason that Danny was sprung was that by inditing and convicting him after ratting on his own fellow cops , as well as other members of the law enforcement community , no one like him , a corrupt cop who gets nabbed , will come forward in the future to do the very same thing ! Way to go Danny Boy ! The movie goes into the sleazy business of cops being drug suppliers to junkies to get information on their suppliers which in fact is who the police are ! We see a number of hair-rising scenes of junkies going into convulsions and almost dropping dead because they can't get their fix that are as disturbing as anything you'll see in a slasher horror movie . Danny who's arrogance and false bravado in showing how tough , as well as stupid , he is has him expose himself to his fellow cops as well as the hoodlums that he's secretly recording . This , with his cover now completely blown , has Danny become such a crying sorry a of a man that even his old lady Clara , Lindsay Crouse , has in the end far more male testosterone's then he does . The at first macho , where things were going his way , Danny Ciello turns into a Valium popping crybaby by the time the movie is just about over when he gets his big moment testifying in open court . Danny by then afraid of his own shadow needs to get himself up to testify by downing at least three Valium tablets , chased down with a couple shots of scotch , just to get on the stand ! The most telling scene in the movie has to do with Danny having a talk with his Mafia Uncle Nick's , Ronald Maccone , good friend Mafia soldier Rocky Gazzo , Tony Munafo , who incidentally Danny was setting up by secretly recording their conversation . Rocky somehow sensing what a back-stabbing wimp Danny is tells him right to his face what he , which the movie proves , never would dream of doing . Do you think I'm afraid of going to jail ! I spent half may life behind bars and most of the time I spent there was for keeping my mouth shut and not ratting out my friends Rocky tells Danny . That's something that Danny as well as the sht-kicking elite members of his drug-busting unit would never have the guts , even to spend one day behind bars , to do .
Full Circle	( Some Spoilers ) Somewhat average thriller with Jaclyn Smith , Kathy Wathely , coming back to her family in the small rural farming town of Devlin for rest and rehabilitation . Kathy being a policewomen back in Chicago has just gone through a traumatic experience in shooting and killing a wanted rapist as he attacked her and her partner in a back ally . The shooting was found to be justifiable by a police review board but deep in her heart Kathy knew otherwise . It wasn't an act of self defense it was an execution . This killer instinct that Kathy has stems from her being attacked raped and left for dead by an unseen attacker when he was a teenager back home in Devlin . Kathy has been following a number of murders in the Devlin area , while she was in Chicago , and deduced that the killer is the same person who raped and tired to murder her back some fifteen years ago . Back in Devlin Kathy is treated like an outcast by not only the townspeople but her own family members as well because she had an , unfounded , reputation of being loose with the young men there before she moved to Chicago and became a policewoman . The fact is that Kathy never was with a man since her terrible , and almost fatal , experience in Devlin when she was a young girl . Kathy with the help of the local family doctor and friend Josh Longcrest , Jeffery Demunn , unearths the clue to who the serial killer is . It turns out that his mode of operations in the killings fit exactly what happened to her confirming Kathy's darkest suspicions ; they also confirm that he's also someone that was close to her back then as well as now , very very close . Slow moving but still interesting drama / thriller with Jaclyn Smith a bit too glamorous to be a hard nosed tough as nails cop with a killer instinct that would put her a notch or two above SF police inspector " Dirty Harry " Calahand . Miss . Smith did come across quite convincing in her acting as a rape victim who was ostracized by her family and friends more for being a victim then the rapist / killer who assaulted her . It was also kept secret who the rapist was by Kathy's own mom Mrs . Helen Wathely , Louise Latham , who made up the story that her injuries , as a result of her being raped and beaten , was a fall off her pet horse Lulubelle . You couldn't help feeling sympathy for Kathy not because of her ordeal some fifteen years ago but how she was treated by everyone in Devlin with he exception of Josh and her brother Linc , Richard Masur , who showed at least kindness and understanding for what she went through . Kathy's dad Mr . Cy Whately , Howard Duff , was so revolted by her just being in the Whately home that you , as well as Kathy , wondered if he had something to do with her being rape and his dislike of Kathy had more to do with that then her supposedly carousing around with all types of men , which was just a vicious rumor with no validity at all . It turned that Kathy's mom knew who the rapist , and serial killer , was and her keeping it under-wraps and at the same time allowing him to continuing his murderous rampage set up the shocking ending that destroyed whatever justification that she still had left in keeping it secret .
You gal's are all alike when O'l Johnny steps on your starter	( There are Spoilers ) Being told in flashback by gangster Fred Dorella , Vic Taybak , we get the lowdown of the bank heist that he was involved with the on the lamb cop killer Johnny Cabot , Johnny Cash . Johnny fled him home state of New Jersey after a blotched warehouse robbery where his partner Pete , Max Manning , and two policemen were shot and killed . Cooped up with his gun moll Doris , Midge Ware , in this flea bag motel in Carmellia Gardens outside L . A Johnny is edgy and a bit irritated in not being on a bank job where he can get back into action as a seasoned criminal . It's when Johnny's contact in town bowling alley owner Max , Merle Travis , gets in touch with him about a pending bank robbery that things start to pick up for the by now deeply depressed , in being stuck in dull as dishwater suburbia , Johnny Cabot . Meeting New York hoodlum Fred Dorella Johnny not only gets the job that he's been craving for , as the both wheel and hit man , but as a bonus finds out who set him and the late Pete up in the blotched warehouse job back in Jersey . The plan thought out by Dorella to rob the Harper Federal Trust in Carmellia is foolproof with Johnny holding the bank's vice president Ken Wilson , Donald Woods , wife Nacny , Kay Forrester , hostage in her suburban home . Dorella is then to get Wilson to give him $70 , 000 . 00 from the bank vault in order to insure his wife's safety . The plan as air-tight as it is has in fact a number of very serious flaws in it that both Dorella and Johnny , having no idea of Wilson's secret love life , didn't take into account . There's also the problem of both Wilson and Nacy's six year-old boy Bobby , little Ronnie or later to be known as movie mogul Ron Howard , who has a habit of showing up unexpectedly from school . Johnny who would kill a man or woman just for looking at him cross-eyed or not appreciating his country & western music , he plays the guitar in his spear time , has this thing about shooting adolescents . Jonny Cash , in what seems to be his first movie role , has the time of his life playing the ruthless and murderous Johnny Cabot doing as good of a performance as you would have expected from a young James Cagney or Humphrey Bogart . Even when Johnny is slapping Nancy , and threatening to blow her brains out , around he still finds time to play his guitar , Cash also wrote and sings the films title song " Five Minutes to live " , and crack a number of jokes that puts off the edge of the tension that's built up in the film . Wilson who's being blackmailed by Dorella to clean out his bank vault is really not all that interested in his wife's safety since he's planning to leave her for his girlfriend Ellen Harcourt , Pamela Mason , and fly to Las Vages to get married that very evening ! Everything falls apart as both Dorella , in the bank , and Johnny , at the Wilson home , get royally screwed not by Ken Wilson and Nancy but by a number of people or innocent bystanders , that includes little Bobby , who unexpectedly get involved with their so-called master plan . Like all perfect crimes the one that Dorella and Johnny concocted didn't factor in the unexpected and it was the unexpected that in the end did them both in .
Do you know that I had analyzed the protein value of an acorn by the time I was six !	( Some Spoilers ) Thrown out of the prestigious Vienna Medical Academy for his illegal experiments Dr . Peter Blood , Kieron Moore , is now back home in the lovely and scenic coastal town of Port Carron England to continue his work undercover and underground . Using his fathers position as the town doctor Robert Blood , Ian Hunter Peter builds a laboratory in the deserted coal mines outside the town to do his business undisturbed . While vacationing in the South American jungles Peter discovered the drug Curare from the local native tribesmen and has been using it in his experiments in his theory of eternal life . A brilliant but arrogant student Peter felt that he's smarter then all the professors and teachers in the academy put together . Which lead to him being run out of town , Vienna , on a rail . Still not learning his lesson Peter is back on the road to destruction with him kidnapping people in and around town and after knocking them out working them over , in his secret lab , by taking organs out of one and putting them in another to keep the one receiving the organ going until he needs a new transplant . Looking and acting normal on the outside the tall dark and handsome Peter attracts , his fathers Dr . Robert Blood's assistant , pretty nurse and recent widow Lnda Parker , Hazel Court , who at first falls in love with him . Peter putting on an act that he's in love with Linda takes her to his secret lab in the coal mines to , what seems to me , knock her out put her under the paralyzing drug Curare . Peter then use her in his experiments of involuntary organ donations . Lucky for Linda Peter's mad scheme is interrupted by the local town hobo Tregaye , Fred Johnson , who unknowingly to himself , and Linda , saved her life by popping up just at the right time . Actually the brilliant Peter didn't come across that smart at all in the movie with all his experiments falling flat on their faces . All of Peter's victims from mine inspector George Beale , Andy Alston , to the local town undertaker old man Morton , Gerald Lawson , to the before-mentioned hobo Tregaye didn't produce the results that he hoped for . In the end Peter ended up being the victim of one of his experiments that went very wrong for him but just right for the town and people of Port Carron . That experiment finally put and end to his insane actions once in for all .
You Russians are stubborn , that's you weakness	SPOILERS A bit drawn out and looking a lot more like a play , which the story originally was , then a movie Counter-Attack looks like it was filmed in almost total darkness . With just one or two scenes outside the factory basement , where most of the film takes place , where there was any sunlight at all . Leading an attack on German units across the river a team of Russian commandos are shot to pieces with only two of the group Alexie Kulkov and Lisa Elenko surviving . Trapped underground in a German occupied Russian factory the two Russians , who are the only ones with firearms , find themselves together with seven also trapped German soldier's ! That leads to a standoff between the two combatants each trying to get information out of each other . With the hope if they survive or are rescued by their own men it would help in the battle shaping up outside between their two armies . It what later turns out to be a battle of wills the Russian private Kulkov and German officer Von Sturmer who play a deadly game of cat and mouse . Feeling out each others strengths and weaknesses as the fighting goes on outside . With both of them , Kulkov & Von Sturmer , having no idea who's side is not only winning but is in control of the devastated factory where both of them , with their fellow comrades , are trapped in . Not the usual war film that you would have expected with most of the fighting not taking place on screen or among the cast members . Instead concentrating on how fear of the unknown in who's outside , the Germans or Russians , to either save execute or imprison them as well . Lack of sleep also drives the men , and one woman , to the point of madness far more then exploding bombs artillery shells and bullets coming from the other side of the battle-line . What surprised me most about the movie is how it portrayed the German , who were the bad guys in the film , in putting them almost on an equal footing with the Russians , the films good guys , on moral issues . Like being more then ready to gun down each other if members of the opposing side is the first to come to their rescue . Because of the slow pace and darkness it's hard to follow what exactly is happening . There's a confusing scene with Lisa during an attempt by the captured Germans to overpower her . There's also Kulkov when the what little light there was in the cellar , from a flashlight , went out we find her badly injured and even dying from a knife wound . Yet later she seemed to have completely recovered without as as much as a scratch on her only to see her much later on at the very end of the movie being carried out on a stretcher ! Again being on the brink of death from her knife wound by the Red Army troops and medics who broke into the cellar to rescue her and Kulkov ! The movie was also a little hard to swallow in that one of the Germans soldiers Pvt . Stillman trapped with both Kulkov and Lisa was crazy enough to go over to their side . thinking that it would save his skin . This in the spring of 1942 when the Germans were well on their way , or so it looked at the time , of winning the war against the USSR . Also in regard of the Red Army's brutal treatment , the USSR in fact didn't sign the 1929 Geneva accords in the human treatment of POW's , of German prisoners it made you wounder why Pvt . Sillman would voluntarily give himself up in the first place ! It made no sense , unless he just lost his mind , and was driven to become a traitor to his country and fellow German soldier's . With his family back home facing a stay in a German concentration camp and him being shot by the Gestapo or being sent to Siberia by the NKVD if either one got there , the cellar , first !
NeverMore	SPOILERS Fate brings six people together one night at the Black Raven Inn thats on the Canadian USA border . The first person who shows up is escaped convict Whitey Cole , I . Stanford Jolly , who has a score to settle with the Inn's owner Bradford , George Zucco . Having been double-crossed by Bradford and losing his half of the Black Raven Inn Cole wants him to pay for his backstabbing but is subdued by Bradford and his handyman at the Inn Andy , Glen Strange , and tied up and held captive in the basement until the police come to arrest him . Soon another customer arrives Mike Bardoni , Noel Madison , a wanted hood who's trying to make it across the border to Canada to escape the law . The next four persons who arrive at the Inn is Horace Weatherby , Bryon Foulger , a bank clerk who just embezzled $50 , 000 . 00 from his bank and the couple of Allen Bently , Bob Randell , and his fianc Lee Winfield , Wanda McCay , who are also trying to elope to Canada to escape Lee's domineering and gangster father Tim Winfield , Robert Middleass . Winfield also arrives at the Inn in order to stop his daughter from going through with her marriage to Allen . Winfield is also the man who brought Bardoni down as a top gang leader in the world of organized crime and you just can imagine what happened when the two men end up in the same room together . Cole unties himself and escapes into the woods as Winfield recognizes Weatherby from his picture in the newspapers as the bank embezzler and gets him to give him the $50 , 000 . 00 so , as he tells Weatherby , he'll return it to the police and nothing would happen to him . Earlier in the movie Brdoni noticed the money Weatherby was carrying in a satchel and wanted to take and keep the loot for himself but as it turns out both Winfield & Bardoni end up getting murdered , who did it ? " The Black Raven " isn't one of George Zucco's best but it would be watchable only if the lighting in the movie was better . It looked like the movie was filmed in a mineshaft with some scenes so dark that it was impossible to make out who was in them . There was also an attempt of having some humor in the film with a bumbling sheriff , Charlie Middleton , and a cowardly Inn worker Andy . Glen Strange who played Andy is almost twice as big , at six foot seven inches , as anyone in the movie and him being scared to death of every little sound and shadow came across as phony as a three dollar bill . It was left up to Bradford as well the audience , the dopey Sheriff was no help at all , to figure out who the killer or killers were and the ending when he was discovered by Bradford did surprise me .
How I spent my summer vacation	SPOILERS Extremely gruesome black comedy that has a summer camp consoler , the counselor of the week no less , Angela Baker , Pamela Springsteen , putting her sick and misguided moralistic ideas into action by slaughtering almost the entire troop of camper . Including her fellow and head counselors , of the Rolling Hill Summer Camp , T . C & Uncle John , Drian Patrick Clarke & Walter Gotell , by the time the movie is over . Having committed a previous summer camp massacre at the now dead and debunked Camp Arrowack Algela was arrested and sent to a facility for the criminally insane . Now four years later after massive doses of strong anti-psychotic medication as well as electric shock treatment she's out and back doing what she likes doing best . Counseling and murdering campers . Weeding out those camper who's " uneathical behavior " don't measurer up to her high standards Angela begins her crusade against evil by smashing in the head , and then cutting out her tongue , of camper Phoebe , Heather Binion . What was Phoebe's crime ? She was engaged in talking about camps horror stories over the campfire with the boys . Algela ends her righteous rampage against iniquity by murdering the head counselor Uncle John for the unforgivable crime of firing her because he didn't agree with her unorthodox methods of keeping the boys and girls of Camp Rolling Hills in line . Which by then , thanks to Angela , there was no one left in the camp to counsel . Angela even goes beyond those in the camp in her actions by slashing to death a motorist , Jill Jane Clements , who picked her up hitchhiking at the end of the movie . What was Jill's crime ? she was smoking with the window rolled up in her truck . Pamela Springsteen as the crazed Angela is more funny then scary and her victims , for the most part , are the typical horny teenagers who always end up dead in slasher films just for the " crime " of exposing themselves and engaging in sex . Angela's actions go even beyond the crime of physical acts between the campers with her doing in poor Demi , Kendall Dean , just for the crime of talking too much . Like in most slasher movies Angela's victims are murdered for no other reason then her sense of outrage and indignation at their actions . But she never for a second sees how sick and outrageous , as well as criminal , her actions are . Angela is a classic case of an out of control sociopath who masked her actions in a false sense of being superior and more principled then those that she did in .
Street Without Joy	SPOILERS Hard hitting and thought-provoking film about life on the streets in one of the most depressing and run down section of the city of Los Angeles that's so barren and lifeless that it looks like it was hit by a nuclear explosion . Even the color in " Streets " is so washed out and lackluster that it comes across like an black white and light-brown film . Surviving on the streets since her prostitute and drug addicted mother deserted her as a little girl Dawn , Christina Applegate , has been turning tricks to support her self and her heroin habit . One day as she's talking business with one of her Johns under the boardwalk he suddenly attacks and tries to strangle her to death . Rescued from the psycho by vacationing music student Sy , David Mendenhall , the two become almost inseparable for the rest of the film due to circumstances beyond their control . It just so happens that the psycho who attacked Dawn turned out to be LA motorcycle policeman Lumby , Eb Lottimer , who's sick obsession is into both taking as well as giving pain . Being stalked by Lumby , who we find out is a serial murder of local L . A prostitutes , who's sick mind just can't accept that Dawn got away from him with Sy's help . During the rest of the movie h murders a number of Dawn's friends in order to get from them information where she's staying at in order to both torture and murder her . The scenes of Dawn living and surviving on the cold hard and unfriendly streets of inner city L . A are about as realistic as any movie that I've ever seen about street people . The film also shows how their lives are nothing more then being able to survive from one day to the next with death as the only way out for them in this hell on earth . Which in many cases is not of their own choosing but whatever fate or providence choose for them . The psycho on the loose angle of the movie is it's weakest point with Lumby being made to be an L . A policemen who thrives on inflicting pain on himself . We also see him going out on the streets and murdering homeless people who don't have anyone who as much as cares if their alive or dead like Dawn . It would have been more believable if Lumby were just your average solitary and rootless psycho-killer who could get away with his crimes a lot easier then a member of the local police force . Who's constantly supervised by his superiors and watched by his fellow police officers whom he works the streets with . The film " Streets " doesn't at all cop out in it's depiction of Dawn who comes across as a hard and bitten street hooker who's seen her best and most productive days long pass her by and rarely if ever as the girl next door type in both her lifestyle and her taste in the good things in life . All Dawn wan't in life in a mattress to lay down on , every now and then with a John customer , a roof over her head and her occasional shot in the arm , with a needle of heroin , to keep her from remembering the depressing life that she's living . Christina Applegate the hot as a pistol teenage sexpot Kelly Bundy of " Married with Children " fame is eerily convincing as the down in the dumps unwashed and unwanted teenage hooker Dawn and her acting in the film is about the best that I ever saw her do on both the big and small screen . Eb Lottimer as the Psycho cop Lumby also making the best of a very difficult role that seemed forced into the movie to spice and heat it up a bit . 18 year-old actor David Mendenhall whom I once saw in a frightening futuristic Twilight Zone episode about mind control called " Examination Day " is both heroic and touching as Sy who tries to not only save Dawn from being killed by her former John , Lumby . But later tries to turn her life around by offering her to come back home with him to his family , something that Dawn never had . Despite a better life and family to love and care for her Dawn in the end goes back to the only life that she ever knew and felt comfortable with the one on the mean bitter and hostile streets of inner city L . A .
The ending says it all	SPOILERS The movie " The Grasshopper " is just like it's title says with it's star the 25 year-old drop dead gorgeous Jacqueline Bisset , Christine Adams , on grass as well as in bed with a whole batch of men hopping from one to another as she self-destructs in the wild life-style of swinging Las Vegas and L . A . Leaving her hometown Kingman in Canada Christine travels to L . A to live with her banker boyfriend Eddie , Tim O'Kelly . When her car breaks down she get a lift from comic Danny Raymond , Corbett Monica , who instead takes Christine to Las Vegas where he's doing a gig at one of the hotels . This single event in her life sets the stage to what happens to Christine during the entire movie with her getting hooked on the wild life-style of swinging Vegas . Christine leave her boyfriend Eddie and a job at the bank that she had with him in L . A and goes back to Vegas to become a showgirl . Later on she gets involved with this band , the Ice Pack , and one of it's members Jay , Christopher Stone , who turned innocent and pretty Christine on to drugs . Later Christine meets and falls in love with former football super star Tommy Marcott , Jim Brown , who works as a greeter at one of the Vega hotels and the two get married . Things turn sour for the happily married couple when a construction tycoon with mob connections Roosevelt Dekker , Ramon Bieri , makes a move of Christine . Bieri getting Christine in his hotel room to discuss her husband Tommy's career , yeah right , brutally beats her up when she refuses to go to bed with him ; what on earth did Christine expect by being alone with this creep . This gets Tommy real mad and he later rearranges Dekker's face when he chases him down and traps him in a sand trap at a local golf course . Tommy & Christine end up leaving Vegas in fear of mob retaliation and go to L . A where Tommy is offered a high paying job from former football player and friend Marion " Movin Marion " Walters . Having a talk with " Movin Marion " about his new job and playing a game of basketball with him at a local park Tommy is later gunned down by mobster and henchmen Aaron , William H . Bassett , of the Dekker mob ; did " Movin Marion " set Tommy up ? Christine just falls apart after Tommy's murder and gets heavily involved on to drugs with Jay being her supplier as well as her live-in boyfriend . Christine's luck turns around when , as a call girl , she meets the very wealthy Richard Morgan , Joseph Cotton , who's crazy about her and wants to marry her . Even though Richard offered Christine everything that she longs for , financial security , she turns him down for the creepy violent and drugged out Jay , love is strange isn't it ? Jay getting her to sell her body as a streetwalker poor Christine is just about burnt out and useless to that sleazily lowlife when he leaves her and takes whatever money that she had left . Broke alone and dejected Christine come up with an idea that's pure genius who with the help of Elroy , Bill Callaway , a mechanic as well as pilot at the airport where Richard keeps his plane who , like everyone else in the movie , fell for the beautiful Christine . The two skyjack a plane for a ride and sky afternoon riding adventure . Now airborne Elroy with Christine spells out or sky-writes over the friendly and innocent skies of L . A for the whole city to see just what Christine thinks of life as well as those of us watching in the theater or on TV think of the movie " The Grasshopper " .
Above and Beyond Believability	SPOILERS One thing you have to say for " Flightplan " and that is that it keeps you at the edge of your seat . You keep wondering like Kyle , Jodie Foster , and everyone else on the massive 4-474 passenger plane if her ten year-old daughter Julia , Marlene Lawstone , is really on the plane or is just a figment of Kyle's imagination . We already see at the beginning of the movie Kyle is having trouble distinguishing between the real world and her imagination with her dead husband David being alive and then being in a casket ready to be shipped back to New York for burial . David were shown fell , or jumped , off a six story building in Berlin Germany killing himself . Were also a bit confused about Kayle's daughter Julia who seems to have been greatly traumatized by her fathers sudden death . Julia is terrified to leave her , and her moms Klye's , hotel room to go to the Berlin International Airport for a flight back home to the USA . Later she gets separated from Kyle at the airports main terminal , where Kyle finds Julia by a newspaper & candy stand but seems to be the only person at the crowded airport terminal that can see her . Everything goes smoothly on the plane with Kyle keeping a close eye on Julia and not letting her out of her sight . It's not until she dozes off for a few minutes and then all hell breaks loose . Finding Julia missing Kyle goes to see an attendant about searching the plane and after a check of all the passengers it's determined that she was never on the plane in the first place ! In fact it turns out that Julia was killed together with her father David who jumped to his death with her in his arms ! You like the captain of the 4-474 Capt . Rich , Sean Beam , are left wondering if all this is some weird mind induced hallucination on Kyle's part about her daughter still being alive . Then just when you think that you figured out what's happening your hit with this hijack and extortion scheme cooked up by the unknown , up to that time , hijackers that destroys anything that made any sense in the film up to that point . It ' s really hard to believe that the hijackers's who so intricacy planned this caper , that would land them $50 million dollars in a Swiss numbered bank account , would screw it up so badly at the very last moment . When that should have been the easiest part of their whole extremely complicated operation ? You also find it hard to believe that very attuned and competent Captain Rich would fall for the hijackers's plan to frame Kyle for their crime ! Thus having her end up with a bullet between her eyes as they got away Scot-free with their stolen millions ! The hilarious final minutes of the movie " Flightplan " has Kyle doing a die-hard type of act . Taking on the hijackers and extortioners and at the same time finding Juila asleep , or on drugs , hidden deep inside the planes storage area . Long before the two hijackers are put away by Kyle and the FBI agents their master plan completely fell apart . With them stupidly being on the plane with Kyle who only had to talk them into staying , why they did makes no sense at all , when all they had to do was just leave like everyone else . Then they could have had the FBI and airport security at Goose Bay Newfoundland Airport , where the plane made an emergency landing , do the rest ; shoot the crazed and dangerous Kyle as they made their successful getaway . You really wanted the movie " Flightplan " to work and be effective with the slow and careful buildup it had as it kept you wondering what exactly was going on the plane . You wanted to know if Kyle and Julia and who , if anyone on the plane , was behind Julia's disappearance . The payoff turned out to be so ridicules that it negated whatever tension and suspense there was in the film before it .
Panic Attack	( There Are Spoilers ) At the start of the movie " Tell Me No Secrets " L . A assistant D . A Jess Koster , Lorie Loughlin , is being stalked by this creepy looking guy at the L . A district court garage . Later we learn that the guy terrorizing Jess is non-other then Sean Ferguson , Tracy Walter , who she's to prosecute for the rape and battery of his former girlfriend Connie Ching , Lauren Tom . The movie gets even more dicey when it turns out that the lawyer defending Ferguson is Jess ' former husband Don Shaw , Bruce Greenwald , now how's that for a courtroom drama . Jess had a nervous breakdown four years ago when her mom Pearl Koster , Michole Mercurio , walked out of the house and was never seen again . Recovering from her breakdown Jess passed the bar and got a job at the L . A district attorneys office as an assistant prosecutor which didn't help her mental condition by dealing with the dregs of society . This lead to her having panic-attacks especially when she lost a case . The case she has against Ferfuson is taxing her more then usual with the viciousness of the crime and her former husband defending him her clients , Connie's , attacker . Connie then all of a sudden changes her mind not to testify against Ferguson , like she told Jess that she would , because he threatened to murder her if she did and there would be no one to take care of her six year-old son Lewis with her gone . Jess get's Connie to agree to go on the stand promising her police protection from Ferguson but later Connie goes missing and is found viciously murdered with Ferguson the main suspect . All of a sudden Jess feels that she owes it to Connie to have Ferguson put away for life since all the evidence points to him but her husband Don gets him off on a technicality , no fingerprints on the murder weapon a piece of piano wire . This almost leads Jess to have another breakdown . Eariler Jess ran into Adam Stiles , Joe Flanigan , at the courtroom who was there as a spectator and later going to buy a new pair of shoes finds him working at the store and slowly starts to fall in love with him . I for one wondered just what Adam's role in the movie was since he had nothing at all , except being Jess ' love interest , to do with what was happening in the film . Adam , who turned out be an ex-lawyer , at first came across as creepy as Ferguson with a really weird foot faddish that he used to pick up pretty girls , like Jess . It even looked for a time that he was really the person who was sending Jess sick and threatening letters , who she thought were sent by Ferguson , that was driving her to the point of insanity . The film " Tell Me No Secrets " slowly links Jess ' missing mom to what was happening to her now and the ending is truly shocking but at the same time not very convincing . It not only exposes who killed her mom , Jess finds out that she was in fact murdered , but who set up Jess to lose the case against Fergurson knowing that he's guilty of murder but planning to be his judge jury and executioner all at the same time .
He's a real man , he doesn't need you !	( Some Spoilers ) True story about the armed robbery of the Southwest Bank in St . Louis and the fate of the four bank robbers who participated in it . Getting a crew together to knock off the Southwest Bank head crook John Egan , Crahan Denton , wan't his boys to case out the bank for a week before they rob it . The robbers spends hours at a time checking every angle and escape route to make sure that the robbery goes off without a hitch . Right from the start things start to go sour when one of the robbers Gino , David Clarke , recruits young George Fowler , Steve McQueen , as the wheel man in the operation . George isn't a hardened criminal and only want's to pull off this job to get enough money for him to finish college and make something of himself . Gino knows Geroge from him being his sisters Ann , Molly McCarthy , boyfriend and feels that he won't choke up when things get hot . That very fact , George being romantically involved with Ann , turns out to be the Achillese Heel of the " Great St . Louis Bank Robbery " . Needing a place to stay until the day of the robbery Gino tells George to go see Ann , whom he recently broke up with , an ask her for $50 . 00 and tell her that he needs it to keep him from being sent back to prison in Chicago . Reluctant at first Ann gives George the money , with a personal check to send to Gino . Later Ann sees him in the city , St . Louis , and knows that he and George are up to no good . Depressed at the thought of Gino and George robbing the Southwest Bank , she saw George case it out from a diner across the street , Ann starts to get so out of hand that she jeopardies the impending bank robbery by getting drunk one evening . Later Ann goes a step farther writing in lipstick " this bank is going to be robbed " on the Southwest Bank's windows . Outraged at Ann's behavior , and George and Gino not being able to control or shut her up , John and his partner Willie take Ann to their hideout where John in a fit of anger throws Ann off the fire-escape killing her . With both Gino and George totally in he dark to what happened to Ann , John and Willie tell them that she flew off to Chicago , the four get ready for the big bank heist . Then for some strange reason George is told that he'll have to take part in the robbery and that Willie is to replace him as the wheel man ; it was John's way of keeping Willie quite about his murdering Ann . The fact that Willie is put behind the wheel and George , who's not only a better driver but far more responsible and loyal to the group , was sent into rob the bank turned out to be a complete disaster . John gets shot by the cops with Gino killing himself when he saw there was no way out , and the thought of him going back to prison was just too much for him to take . George ending up badly wounded is arrested and sent to prison for the rest of his life . This destroys his dream of being able to finish his education and become an honest and upstanding citizen in the community . The man responsible for all this mess happening Willie , the getaway driver , gets away without as much as a scratch on him leaving the three other crooks to face the music , and police bullets . Solid crime caper with Steve McQueen , as George Fowler , doing his best as he methods acts his way through the movie . McQueen goes from a quite and scared college kid to a hardened and unfeeling criminal within the 89 minutes of the film . The ending is something to watch as George almost bleeding to death and holding a young couple hostage in the bank , Eddie and his wife of two months ( Larry Gerst & Martha Gable ) , finally sees the light to what he got himself involved in . If George was as smart as he though he was he should have listen to Ann , when she was still alive , and all this would have never happened to him or her .
Bay of Pig's II ?	SPOILERSThe movie " Kill Castro " starts with a statement saying that the events you are about to see are true and that the names have been changed to protect the innocent . The introduction to the movie ends saying that this film is dedicated to all people who desire to live in a free and democratic society , talking about laying it on thick . Then there's some newsreels of " The Bay of Pig's " invasion back in 1961 that proved to be a disaster for the Anti-Castro Cubans and the US government . Hudson , Robert Vaughn , or Hud as he likes to be called is going to Key West to see Mr . Bell , Raymond St . Jacques . Mr . Bell is in charge of US Caribbean operations on an assignment to assassinate Fidel Castro . Hud a veteran of the 1961 " Bay of Pig's " which he holds the US government responsible for it's failure has waited almost 20 years to get another crack at Fidel . Mr . Bell has him allied with Rosselini , Michael Gazzo , the local mob boss who also wants Castro out of the way . Rosselini wants to reclaim all of his holding in Cuba when they were nationalized by Castro after the Cuban Revolution in 1959 . So we have here an alliance with the US government and organized crime in a common cause to overthrow the Castro regime . They both need Captain Tony , Stuart Whitman , who runs a popular bar on Key West who knows the Cuban waters like the back of his hand . Rosselini , to make sure that Captain Tony cooperates has his girlfriend Maria , Maria-Louise Gassen , and her young son taken hostage as insurance . What Hud and Rosselini don't know is that Mr . Bell is setting them both up to be done in by Castro's men after he , as ordered from higher ups from the US government , tips off the Cubans about the plot so they can squash . The U . S Government is having this done as a show of friendship and cooperation between it and the Castro Regime , so that as Mr . Bell says it " We can do Business together " . As for Captain Tony , he's to be terminated as soon as the operation is over , on the Cuban beaches by Castro's men or if he's lucky to makes it back home by those who sent him on the mission . All this comes out to Bell Hud and Rosselini making Tony a loser no matter which way thing turn out to be . Pretty good movie with a complicated plot that's not that confusing and easy to follow . Unlike most films that are about government back-stabbing and intrigue with surprise endings . Looking back at " Kill Castro " after some 20 years later the story makes sense and is believable for a movie that wasn't supposed to be taken seriously at the time . When you take out all the action that padded the movie with the fights , shootings , explosions , shark and man eating turtle attacks and concentrate on the core of the story it makes for a pretty interesting movie .
Something I got wrong about " Detour "	SPOILER In my previous comments on the movie " Detour " I wrote that both persons that Al was involved with during his hitch-hiking in the movie died of natural causes . I was right about Haskell who died in the car with Al from what was an apparent heart attack but I was wrong about Vera whom I wrote died from over drinking . In fact Vera was accidentally strangled by Al with a telephone cord when she locked herself in another room at the hotel where they were both staying at . That was when Vera threatened to call the police and tell them that Al was responsible for Haskell's death with Al trying to get the phone away from her . Being heavily drunk and with the cord slipping around her neck Al from the other room tried to pull the phone away from Vera and have the cord snap while he was pulling it under the locked door but ended up accidentally killing her .
Just look at yourselves ! Your nothing but a bunch of drunks and lechers !	SPOILERS 1950's exploitation film involving these two women Paula and her kid sister Nancy who end up as call-girls from a prostitution ring in circa 1956 Hollywood . Nancy who came to Tinsel Town to visit her older sister Paula , who's been gone for some four years , is impressed with her lifestyle of a having big and spacious apartment and fur coats and jewelry . Paula to her credit tries to talk Nancy into going back home and forget about being a " big star " like Nancy thinks that she is . Even when this old over made up floozy friend of hers Liz shows up at the apartment asking Paula for some cash , obviously for either drugs or booze , Nancy still doesn't realize what she's getting involved in trying to make it big in Hollywoodland . Picking up this business card , for the Antoine School of Art , that she finds at Paula's apartment Nancy instead of going back home like Paula begged her to do goes straight to the " art school " to start her career as a big time model . It isn't long that the owner of " Antoine " Bernie Sokol recruits Nancy to work for him at his private " Colony Club " outside L . A . It's there at the " Colony " where the rich powerful and horny of the city's upper crust go for fun and games as well as having their way with the girls , like Nancy , that are there to " entertaine " them . Surprisingly Nancy seems at ease to all the goings on , like the casual sex and drunken parties , at the " Colony " that you at first can't find it in yourself to really care for her one way or another . Nobody forced her to join Mr . Sokol's harem of call and party girls and she's treated rather nicely compared to her roommate the less attractive and much older Easy . In fact it's Easy who gets the worst of all the girls or women at the " Colony " in being abused and worked over by both the customers and manager there . The manager of the " Colony " Mr . Vito Perini starts to feel that Easy is a bad influence on his prized possession Nancy who in no time at all becomes the most popular girl there . Perini decides to have Easy shipped out to a dingy hotel in the skid row section of L . A to teach her a lesson for her insubordination . Refusing to go along with his wishes Easy is then brutally beaten up by Perini to the point where she loses consciousness ! It's just then that Perini's boss Bernie Sokol unexpectedly shows up at the " Colony " and , seeing what he did to Easy , has him sent to manager the same sleazy hotel that Perini was to send Easy to just moments before ! It when Perini now out of his head , in losing his very well paying and prestigious job at the " Colony " , just goes wacko in dumping an unconscious Easy in his car and speeding off , to who knows where , only to be chased and caught , after he was run off the road , by two state troopers . In what looked like and attempt to commit suicide by cop , getting the police to shoot and kill him , Perini not only succeeds in getting himself offed but also , with Easy now alive and willing to testify , get his boss Mr . Sokol busted for trafficking in white slavery or prostitution . It's when Paula later shows up to work at the " Colony " , to replace the departed Easy , that she's shocked to find her little sister Nancy , whom she thought was back home in Indiana , entertaining the drunk and horny boys in attendance there ! The ending is really worth the price of the DVD with Paula letting the barley sober customers at the " Colony " really have it and have it good in a powerhouse speech that even Winston Churchill would envy . It's just when an outraged Mr . Sokol and his hoods are about to do in the uncontrollable and mad as hell Paula that LAPD's Let . Bushinski , the hero of the movie , shows up just in time . Bushinski arrests and puts the cuffs on Sokol together with his cohort Mr . Barnes , who replaced the now deceased Vito Perini , the " Colony's " new manager . If that hot headed as well as brainless Vito Perini just left Easy alone all this wouldn't have happened and everything would have been just fine for him as well as Sokol & Co . Like they say Perini was the weak link in the chain of the Sokol sex , and probably drug , empire and that weak link just couldn't handle all the pressure and finally broke . Which in the end was a stroke of good luck for Nancy Paula Easy and all the other girls who were forced to both work and suffer in that den of sin and depravity called the " Colony " .
Tell me Mr . Malansky waddaya think , teal or the periwinkle ?	( Some Spoilers ) Taking a trip to NYC to get an award from the American Bar Association Perry Mason and his private secretary Della Street , Raymond Burr & Barbara Hale , run into an old friend at a local restaurant the founder and editor of Metropolitan Magazine Lauran Jeffreys , Diana Muldaur ; not knowing that within the next 24 hours she'd be charged with murder and he'll be the attorney defending her in court . It turns out that Lauren after having a loud argument at the restaurant with rival fashion editor , of the sleazy tell all tabloid Suite 2000 , Dyan Draper , Valerie Harper , she came over to Dyans place later that evening . It was after Lauren left Dyan was found dead with her head cracked open on the floor . Perry as usual has his work cut out for him with Lauran not only being at Dyan's place the night of her being found murdered but having a motive in killing her . Dyan was going to print an editorial about Lauran taking bribes from fashion designer Marco Sabatini , GIanni Musso , in order to write favorable columns about him in her Metropolitan Magazine . Perry later at cross-examination of Dyan's eventual murder seems to have gotten the two magazines mixed . The mysterious murderer had the favorable columns about Marco written on Dyan's Suite 2000 Magazine personal computer . This was to make it look like it was written by Lauran who coincidently also turned out to be the mother of Dyan's assistant and one of her top fashion , or gossip , writers Julia Collier , Ally Walker ! Trying to track down the link , Designer Marco Sabatini , that can connect Dyan's murder to who murdered her Perry gives that assignment to his hot shot PI the very durable and punch-drunk Ken Malansky , William R . Moses . Malansky gets hooked up with members of the New York Mafia who were financing Marco's career in the world of fashion and who's boss is Marco's distance cousin Albert " Big Al " Nandone , George Dicezzo . Getting nowhere with " Big Al " and his top henchman tough guy " Brooklyn Tony " Loomis , Robert Clohessy , Malansky finally has Perry himself get to step in and get " Big Al " to open up only to have Marco . It's then while " Brooklyn Tony " is slapping the pestering an annoying Malansky around that Marco gets killed by a hit-and-run driver who later turns out to be the person who murdered Dyan . It takes a while for Ken Malansky to convince " Big Al " to keep his emotions from overtaking his logic in whacking anyone whom he as much as suspects murdered Marco . Malansky later finds out who was involved in Marco's hit-and-run death who also turned out to be the same person who murdered Dyan ! It also turns out that the double-murderer was working for Dyan herself and even more shocking Lauran knew who she was and wouldn't report him , or her , to Perry or the police ! Seething hatred revenge and a 25 year old grudge against Lauran lead to a maniacal plot to frame her for a murder that she didn't commit against a person , Dyan Draper , whom the killer should have been eternally grateful to .
Your just evil and weak and empty inside	( Some Spoilers ) Since she was a little girl Donielle Driscoll had a gift that terrified her and caused her not to have any lasting relationships all through her adult life ; the gift of psychic perception . Now grown up with a teenage daughter , Racheal , Donielle move to the quite and sleepy fishing village of Stevston B . C to start a new life . Not having any skills Donielle or Donnie gets a job as a cocktail waitress at the local watering hole bar The Wild Duck and it's there on her first night on the job that she meets Doug Brister . The movie " Vision of Murder " doesn't keep it's audience in suspense to who the serial murderer on the loose is . Were shown right away that this guy Doug is a little short circuited upstairs . Although Doug at first comes across to Donnie as a Knight in Shining Armor we quickly see that there's something very disturbing going on inside of his mind and Donnie quickly picks up his vibrations as soon as she picks up a shot glass of booze that he was drinking out of . Going with her gut feelings about Doug , that he's a murderer , Donnie still can't bring herself to fear him . With that little boy smile and puppy dog eyes it's hard for her , as well as those of us watching , to believe that sweet kind and chivalrous Doug can do the things that Donnie feels that he's not only capable of doing but did already . Even though the movie has a very capable cast with Melissa Gilbert in the lead role as Donnie Driscoll with her fellow waitress Gloria sensitively as well as tragically , played by Maria Conchita Alonso and Rip Torn in a small but important role as the policemen on the case of the Steveston serial killings Det . Manny Garett it's Thomas Ian Griffith as the killer Doug Brister who not only steals the acting honors in the movie but steals every scene that he's in . Griffih plays the murderous Doug Brister so cool and chillingly that he makes you understand why serial killers , of mostly women , are so effective in real life like he is in the movie . There are , to be fair , a number of plot lines in the film that don't quite come across that convincingly . After Donnie goes to the police pleading for them to help stop Doug from murdering a local teenage girl , that she saw him murder in a vision of her's , Donnie later refused to cooperate with the local authorities when her vision of the murder was confirmed . With the girl's body found floating in Steveston Bay ? There's also the scene where Doug comes home one night on his motorcycle and finds his live in girlfriend , and accomplice in his murders , Claire with another man . The man is later found murdered by Doug but we never see or hear from Claire again in the movie ! did Doug murder her as well ? Like in the movie " The Wolfman " with Lon Chaney Jr we see Doug morph from a Dr . Jekyll to a Mr . Hyde-like character right before our eyes but unlike with Lon Chaney Jr's . Wolfman where it took pounds of makeup and reels of film to make it work for Thomas Griffith it only took his chillingly and effective acting to do the same thing .
No Man Is Above The Law	SPOILERS For the first time in his life brilliant detective and world renowned criminologist William Sabastian , Robert Culp , is scared and unsure of himself in solving an unsolvable , for anyone else but him , crime a crime involving the supernatural . William had dabbled in the supernatural before and ended up almost losing his life . His heart was literally ripped out his chest but with the help of his faithful maid Lilith ( Majel Barrett ) , who has a deep knowledge of occult practices , saved his life but William was left a very weak and frighten man . Calling his friend Dr . Ham Hamilton , Gig Young , over to go with him on a case in the UK William feels that he'll need him if anything goes wrong in a case , of the bizarre and supernatural , he's investigating there involving the Cyon House headed by Sir Geoffery Coyn , James Villiers . Sir Geoffery's sister Anitra , Ann Bell , feels that there's strange and evil goings on in and around the Coyn Esatae and that her brother Geoffery is the cause of them and that her life is now in danger . Willian and Dr . Hamilton arrive in London and go to see a friend of his , Quellious , at the Marlin's Mews but find the place on fire with Mr . Quellious dead viciously clawed by some unknown animal in the middle of a giant Pentagram that was on the floor . William knowing what the Pentagram stands for , The Devil's Sign , get's himself and Dr . Himilton to stand in the middle of it and thus prevent themselves from being burned alive . William also finds a journal on Quellious written in ancient Coptic that if deciphered explains what evil is really going on at the Coyn House and who's responsible for it . Later at the Coyn House William and Dr . Hamilton meet the Coyn's including young Mitri , John Hurt , a professional pilot who flew them to England from the USA . William senses that these's a strong presence of the Devil there but , besides the Coyn's also their staff of maids and male servants , who exactly is he or she ? Using his skills as a top crime investigator William deduces that all this horror that struck the Coyn House centers at the Stonehenge-like site on the estate called the " Fire Pit " . The " Fire Pit " was excavated by Sir . Geoffery some three years ago and since then all hell broke loose . Thats when these strange and weird events , that according to Anitra , began to happen . William also finds out that all the workmen who were part of that excavation mysteriously died . Robert Culp as a modern Sherlock Holmes with his Dr . Watson-like friend Dr . Hamilton have their hands full in this suspense / thriller . With them stumbling upon the place where the Demon Asmodious , the Lord of Lechery , has his home-base the secretive " Hell Fire Club " . It's there where those in power and high office , in both England as well as in the world , were members of . Wild and fiery ending with the demon worshipers and their Idol Asmodious thrown back into the bottomless pit by a courageous and revived , back from his heart-ailment , William Sabastian during an orgy of sex and human sacrifices . The very graphic orgy sequence in the film must have been cut when " Specter " , a made for TV movie , was first broadcast on NBC Television back in May 1977 but is in the cable TV version of the film .
Act of God	SPOILERS Not all that bad direct to video movie involving the manipulation of storms and hurricanes by a rouge unit of the CIA . It's this playing God that in the end jeopardizes the city of Los Angeles when the person in charge of this black ops operation Gen . James Roberts , Martain Sheen , is found out , in what he's really up to , by the two top man running the project Doctors Ron Young & Daniel Platt , Luke Perry & David Moses . It turns out that Gen . Roberts has been involved in weather manipulation since he was in Vietnam and now he's doing it here in the US . This has cost over the years hundreds of people to be killed in a number of man made hurricanes , like Andrews in August 1992 , that the General had created with this gadget of his , an in flight electro magnetic generator , in both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans . Working secretly with the major oil companies Gen . Roberts is now , without those under him knowing , planning to start up a major five category hurricane , or typhoon , on the west coast of Mexico . This mad plan on Gen . Roberts ' part is to devastate that country and force it to both come to he US for emergency aid as well as stop , which is the real reason of Roberts plan , from nationalizing it's oil wells ! An act that in effect would put the international oil companies , that Roberts is working for , out of business ! Not as far fetched as you would think since manipulating the weather is a fool proof method of causing havoc on a nations population and military establishment without , being that it's an Act of God , those doing it being blamed for it ! And thus rule out military retaliation by the targeted country . It's when both Dr . Young and Platt get wind , no pun intended , of Gen . Roberts insane plan of wiping out an entire Mexican town with it's thousands of inhabitants that they go into action in bringing his mad dream of both controlling the weather and thus the world to an end . Like a genie let out of a bottle once Gen . Roberts plan was set into motion it was almost impossible to stop it . Dr . Platt in refusing to both intensify and then guide , with the electro magnetic generator , the Pacific typhoon to make landfall is murdered , or orders of Gen , Roberts , by his co-pilot before he could guide the storm back to sea . SPOILERS It's now up to Dr . Young who at the time is under arrest , in him being set up by Roberts in a hit and run accident , to both finish the job that the ill fated Dr . Platt started ! With the now rampaging killer storm , with the out of control electro magnetic generator guiding it , heading straight for Los angles it's up to Dr . Young to keep it from making landfall and wiping the city off the map . It's also in Gen Roberts best interest to get Dr . Young freed to do the job or else he'll have to answer for the deaths of thousands of American citizens . What Roberts is also planning is to disappeared , or have murdered , Dr . Young after he completed his mission ! Better then you would expect since we've been hit by a number of 3 4 and 5 category hurricanes , like depicted in the movie , over the last few years since the film " Storm Tracker " was released . Like were told in the movie , by non other then the deranged Gen . Roberts , that the weather can be the most effective weapon of mass destruction in history . In that its both impersonal and deathly effective at the same time . It was the very ironic fact that Gen . Roberts grandiose plan of using the weather to achieve his , and those who employ him , aims had finally been made public , by Dr . Young , that had him offed by the very people that he was working for !
Unbeleiving Dog . . May Your Father Never Cease To Bark	Little know war movie set in Libya during the German advance toward the Egypitan cities of Alexandria and Cairo in the fateful summer of 1942 . Yossof Streyer , Wilhelm Von Brincken , masquerading around as a Czech running the Streyer Importing & Exporting Co . in the Lybian city of El-Mocha . Streyer really is a German spy who's importing thousands of German Mauser rifles to arm the Arab tribesmen and incite them to revolt against the occupying British helping Rommel and his Afrika Corp take over Lybia Egypt and the Suez Canal . In pops American reporter Mike Malone , Walter Wolf King , looking for the big scoop and almost single handed loses the war in North Africa for the allies by his obnoxious actions . Malone soon gets his later girlfriend and fiance Nancy Brooks , Joan Woodbury , almost killed when he breaks into her house and leaves a German Mauser rifle that he stole from the perusing Arabs on her sofa . The jerk takes off leaving Nacy holding the bag , or rifle , and almost certain death at the hands of the vengeful Arabs . The only reason that Nancy was speared was that the leader of the Arab tribesmen is the good and kind Sheik David , Duncan Renaldo , who's also in love with her . Malone keeps getting into trouble all through the film by being so ridicules and rude towards the local Arabs that he's put in prison by the British just to keep him from starting a revolt against them even without German help . Putting on a fake clip-on beard as a disguise the British police have no trouble at all recognizing him and grab Malone and put him behind bars for his own protection . Malone is helped to escape from the jail , fake beard and all , by Parkyakarkus a Brooklyn N . Y native who ended up in El-Mocha trying to sell razor blades , to the Muslem men who don't shave , and local belly dancer Haditha , Amarilla Morris . Malone is caught later by the Arabs when he and Parkyakarkus went back to the cave where the Arabs had the German rifles hidden , Parkyakarkus escaped . Just wen he's about to be done in by Sheik David's second in command the villainous Sheik Ibrahim Malone is saved by David and Joan who just happened to be with him in his tent when his execution was about to take place . Meanwhile Streyer , who's bankrolling the Arab revolt , is getting sick and tired of the good Sheik David stalling the revolt and during a heated exchange with him pulls a gun out and shots him dead . With now the German controlled Sheik Ibrahim in charge the Arabs revolt and storm the city of El-Mocha but all of a sudden the dead Sheik David appears alive and calls for peace not war with the British . It was a medal that David had on him , that was handed down to him by his father who it was handed to by his grandfather , that was very close to his heart that took Streyer's bullet thus saving his life . The shocked Sheik Ibrahim , as well as Streyer , pulls a gun out to shoot David but is shot and killed by Malone who beat him to the draw , Ibrahim was so slow in pulling out his gun that by the time he pulled the trigger the movie would have long been over . Streyer running into his office is shot and killed , off screen , by none other the the clownish Paryakarkus who turned to be an undercover agent for US military intelligence and just like that the Arab revolt was over . I found the American reporter in the movie Mike Malone really annoying the way he acted as if he knew the outcome of the movie , by reading the script ahead of time , and saw that nothing would happen to him and thus acted accordingly , like a first class jerk , and almost got all the good guys in the movie " A Yank in Lybia " killed .
A Man called Bigfoot	SPOILERS Terrifying Bigfoot / Sasquatch horror movie with the rampaging Bigfoot monster , played to perfection by Michael Deak , tearing the whole movie set apart with almost the films entire cast and crew . When people stated to encroach into his secret forest domain outside the town of Flatwoods the big guy , Bigfoot , just about had enough of the human race and everything that goes with it . Without breaking a sweat the usually big as an 800 pound guerrilla but harmless as a toy poodle Bigfoot went bananas and broke into a number of homes outside city limits making his presences felt . It just happened that the crippled , in both mind and body , mountain climber Preston Rogers , Matt McCoy , was sent by his doctor , for rest and relaxation , to stay at his former home in the deep woods where Bigfoot decided to put his big foot down . Bigfoot had been raiding the local farmers livestock earlier in the movie but now for some reason decided to attack man whom he considers , unlike the livestock , his mortal and eternal enemy . We get the usual sexy , and willing to take their clothes off , teenage or collage student who get themselves , with the also usual exception of a single survivor among them , knocked off by the Bigfoot who also devourers them . This is something new for Bigfoot since it was always thought that he was a vegetarian ! Preston who's being taken care of by , what seems like , his male nurse Otis , Christian Tinsley , sees the Bigfoot running around his front lawn but his cries fall on deft ears . Otis thinks he's , from the fall he suffered with his wife ending up dead , completely nuts . As for the girls the collage students next door , or in the next cabin , they think that Preston is just another pervert or Peeping Tom trying to get a good look at them , with heir clothes off , with his binoculars . The Bigfoot finally comes out of hiding when he attacks and kills a number of hunters , Lance Henriksen Jeffrey Combs & Rex Linn , for uncovering one of his recent kills : Collage student Karen Herdberger , Ashley Hartman . The Bigfoot attacked Karen and dragged her into his secret cave where he was in the process , when hunter Henriksen discovered it , of preparing his dinner with Karen as the main course ! With Preston Otis and the girls trapped with no place to go the Bigfoot now went into action as he tore into his human adversaries with both teeth claws as well , with his scent , as his extremely offensively strong body odor ; By far the worst weapon in his entire arsenal . The movie ends with the Bigfoot getting a king-size stomach ache but only after killing off almost the entire movie cast including Otis who was left with his face completely bitten off ! Not that bad of an acting job by both Bigfoot impersonator Michael Deak and the hero of the film , playing the paralyzed Preston Rogers , actor Matt McCoy . Bigfoot did have things going his way in killing livestock and collage student together with armed to the teeth hunters but when he started messing with Mister , Preston , Rogers ' Neighborhood he just went a bit to far . Far enough to get himself crushed in the heavy forest traffic !
Could have been much better if the movie stuck to one theme	SPOILERS Uneven horror story about super wolves , Wolfen , who take matters into their own hands , or is it paws , when their hunting grounds , the city slums , start to be encroached by big city developer Christopher VanDerVeer and cause havoc in NYC by doing in anyone who tries to disrupt their way of life . " Wolfen " starts off promisingly with a midnight attack in Battery Park on VanDerVeer , his wife and chauffeur , much like the beginning of the movie " Night of the Demon " . But it soon begins to get more and more confusing and not making the point between the Wolfen and the American Indians whom they seem to have some kind of alliance with and disintegrates into just another whodunit type of murder mystery . Director Michael Wadleigh throws a lot of red herrings at the audience as to what and why the Wolfen's are all about or if their really wolves at all , or are really just disgruntled American Indians upset at how their being treated by the US government in regards to the destruction of their ancient and ancestral homelands . " Wolfen " could have been a much better movie if it stuck to the supernatural angle of the Whitley Striber novel instead of trying to be both a crime and horror movie at the same time . Good photography of NYC with the tragic World Trade Center in many of the scenes and very good use of the innovation of " Wolf Vision " every time we see things from the Wolfen's point of view . But it would have been much better if it were filmed in the wide open country-side of the American south-west where Indians and wolves lived in harmony for over a millennium instead of a big city like New York where both have nothing in common . Albert Finney at times looked as confused about what he was supposed to be doing in the movie as was the movie audience who were watching him .
Blue Thunder / Black Ops	SPOILERS Said to be the ultimate weapon against crime or a terrorist attack on America the Blue Thunder combat helicopter is to be tested over the skies of Los Angeles against common street criminals . With LAPD copter pilots Murphy and Lymangood , Roy Scheider & Daniel Stern , as it's crew . Very early in the movie both officers Murphy & Lymangood realize that the newest weapon against crime , the Blue Thunder , is actually going to be used against the average law abiding American citizen instead . Those behind using the Blue Thunder are planing to create terrorist violence and then use it to keep the innocent public under control . The shocking truth comes out with the rape and mugging murder , that was a cover for an assassination , of the head of the L . A task force on urban violence commissioner Diane McNeely , Robin Braxton . Diane was about to release her findings that would expose those in the local city state and federal government of their real reasons in incorporating the Blue Thunder in all the big city police departments . It was found out by the McNeely commission that these high in government officials are secretly planning to stir up trouble in the ghettos and barrios of the city of L . A . If successful it would be an excuse for a major takeover of the country in instigating violence and chaos and then repealing the rights of Americans in the name of national security , sounds familiar ? Those behind the Blue Thunder are planning to suspend the US Constitution and Bill of Rights and create a police state and fascist dictatorship . Knowing that their marked men the two LAPD helicopter pilots tape a conversation of these secret government-types that includes Murphy's former partner and co-pilot in Vietnam Col . Cochrane , Malcolm McDowell . This leads to Lymangoods ' murder when he's first kidnapped and then after escaping his captors is run down and killed on the streets of L . A . Getting the news to where the incriminating tape was hidden , from the murdered Lymangood's telephone answering machine , Murphy hijacks the Blue Thunder and has his plucky girlfriend Kate , Candy Clark , retrieve it in order to bring it to a local L . A TV news station to be broadcast to the world . It's now a race against time as those in power planning to take over the government are themselves in a panic of being exposed by the tape . They do all that they can , using the L . A police and even the USAF , to shoot down and kill Murphy and Kate before they can make the secret takeover public . With everything that they do failing miserably to stop Murphy and his Blue Thunder helicopter the anti-freedom conspirators bring in their big gun Col . Cochrane to finally get the job done . Spectacular and breath taking aerial acrobatics high over the city of L . A has maverick cop Murphy evade and then shoot down a number police helicopters as well as a fully armed USAF F16 jet fighter . With all this action and excitement it almost overshadow the films basic story about crime and corruption in high places in government . The dog fight between Murphy and Cochrane is about as good as any air to air combat shoot him ups thats been in movies with much faster fighter jets as the two have it out blowing up almost half of the city . Playing an airborne cat and mouse game with Cochrane Murphy outmaneuvers him , doing a complete circle in the air , and then getting on his tail blows Cochrane to pieces before he sets the Blue Thunder down on a railroad track having it demolished by an oncoming locomotive . With that demolishing the hopes and dreams of those who wanted to use it , as an excuse for crowd control , in their planned takeover of the United States . P . S " Blue Thunder " was also 54 year old actor Warren Oates , who played Murphy and Lymangoods boss Capt . Jack Braddock , last movie .
The man in the closet	( There are Spoilers ) Creepy movie about a woman Michelle Dupre , Stefanie Powers , and her six year-old adopted son Cory , Mickey Toft , being terrorized by this stalker who for some strange reason has become fixated with her to the point of murder and madness . Michelle having moved out of her previous residence because of the house being burglarized and her confronting the burglar , Jason Gavalier , with a loaded handgun and not having the nerve to use it had her move to a new town to overcome the trauma that she suffered there . Unknown to Michelle is that the house that she just moved in to was the subject of a brutal murder over a year ago and that the owner or landlord whom she rented it from Robert Culley , Doug Lennox , kept from her . Almost as soon as Michelle moved in she became the victim of a stalker who called her at all hours in the day or night only to hang up when she answered the phone . At first it was suspected by Michelle that Mr . Culley's somewhat retarded and weird 30 year-old son Bobby Jr , Martin Neufeld , was behind all theses strange happenings until it was found out that he later committed suicide and the stalking and phone calls still continued . Michelle's nutty next-door neighbor Sally , Margot Kidder , also got into the act by first baby-sitting young Cory and then getting a local psychic Rebbeca , Pamela Witcher , to case out the place finding that there was a murder committed in the house and that the person responsible is still at large . Michelle checks out the towns newspapers on microfilm and finds out that an Ann Gayson , Linda Smith , used to live in the house and was murdered by her fianc Edward Lilly , Alan Faucett , on the night , Halloween , that he proposed marriage to her ! If Rebbeca is right Lilly is an innocent man jailed for life for someone else's crime ! The movie has another angle or component to it with little Cory being controlled by this imaginary friend , who calls himself B . J , who lives in his bedroom closet . B . J at first is thought by both Michelle and Sally as being a figment of Cory's imagination but later find out to their surprise is really a flesh and blood human being . Who ends up murdering both Sally and Michelle's ex-boyfriend Charles Jensen , Barry Flatman , whom Michelle at first suspected was the creepy stalker and crank phone caller . The ending of the movie " Someone is Watching " has an almost unrelenting attack launched by the psycho killer as both Michelle and her son and the killer's little playmate Cory run for their lives all through the house . Even Det . Carvelli , Stewart Bick , who was assigned to the stalker case was unable to stop the out-of-control lunatic getting beaten unconscious by him with a baseball bat . Michelle who at first was unable to hold or shoot a gun at anyone , even the deranged killer threatening her and Cory's lives , finally got up enough nerve to do it as he came hurdling towards her and her son by pulling the trigger and finally blowing him away .
In his Image	SPOILERS Based on a true story " Seeds of Deception " has to do with the criminal actions of geneticist Dr . Cecil Jacobson , George Dzundza . The overly jolly friendly and concerned Dr . Jacobson in order to give some dozen , will never know the exact number , young women the gift of life ended up impregnating them with his own sperm . Dr . Jacobson's reign of terror-of rape by long distance-came to an end when a number of the women whom he cured of infertility notice that their new born children had a striking resemblance to the man who treated them ! Dr . Cecil Jacobson ! One of Dr . Jacobson's success stories Mary Bennett , Melissa Gilbert , who together with her husband Greg , Tom Verica , had no possibility of having a child were excited as hell when it was reported that Mary was in fact pregnant . Later when their child was born he , Jesse played by Michael Charles Roman , developed a minor eye diseases Strabismus , or lazy eye , that had him wear an eye-patch in order to correct it . It was around that time when Dr . Jacobson was being accused of unethical behavior by the Virginia Medical Association that Mary coming to the Doctor's defense noticed a number of children at the Hall of Justice with the same kind of eye-patches that Jesse has ! This shocking revelation on Mary's part started her thinking if the good doctor was in fact worth defending . Mary went from being a staunch defender of the good doctor Jacobson to soon became a pain in his butt . This had Mary testifying , in disguise , against Jacobson in open court on the crime he perpetrated on her her husband as well as her , an Jacobson's , son Jesse ! This all lead to Jacobson's conviction on as many as 52 charges of mail and wire fraud that put him behind bars for some five years and had his license suspended from practicing medicine . It's hard to understand just what Dr . Jacobson's motives were in the very strange and destructive , to his patients fragile mental state , actions he did in the film . Admittedly Dr . Jacobson's research and artificial insemination techniques were very successful in having an amazing 25 % success rate on the women , including Mary Bennett , that he treated . Why Jacobson had to use his own sperm to impregnate his patients instead of that of unknown but screened for disease donors was never really explained in the film . Dr . Jacobson's lame explanation , when the evidence of his crimes were a forgone conclusion , of not having anyone available to donate sperm so he had to use , after paying a trip to the bathroom , his own just made his guilt , in trying to explain it away , more obvious to the jury as well as those of us in the audience . Dr . Jacobson's crimes may well have been motivated by his overblown ego more then anything else . Jacobson prided himself as being known in medical circles as " The Baby Maker " and what turned out that , in his way of making babies , his treatment wasn't for the most part with the sperm denoted to his laboratory or clinic by unknown but healthy and mentally sound donors but with his own . In trying to create what seemed to be a race of his own , and in his own image , like the crazed Dr . Eric Vornoff in the movie " Bride of the Monster " Dr . Jacobson not only betrayed the trust and confidence of his desperate patients but gave their offspring's the very same imperfections , mentally and well as psychically , that he had !
You always have a Banana !	+ There may be Spoilers + Nothing really new here involving a couple who run into this injured stranger as their driving through a heavy rainstorm in rural Maine . David & Alexis Weinberg , Alan Rickman & Polly Walker , were on their way to catch a ferry home but are delayed until the next day when they miss the boat . Picking up this young stranger , Norman Needus , who was thought at first to be dead he ends up also getting on the ferry the next morning and sailing for the Weinbergs ' island home . Hanging out in the woods and the nearby beach the stranger come in contact with the Weinberg's again in a most unusual way . The Weinbergs planing to sail back to the mainland get trapped in a fog bank and go off course and runs aground on nearby Seal Rock . It's there again they to run into the stranger , as if he knew that they would be there . This the stranger get knocked out by David with a log thinking he's trying to rob both him and Alexis . The stranger , after recovering from his head wound , helps David & Alexis get their boat fixed so they can sail back home . Later cooking up a large and magnificent meal for the couple he's allowed to stay over until the next morning when David is to take him , by boat , back to the mainland . Up until the time when David leaves both the stranger and Alexis alone , and goes to see some friends on the mainland , you have no idea where the movie " Dark Harbor " is taking you . There's something going on between the three , David Alexis & the stranger , but it's so weird that you feel that at any moment you would find out that it's a dream , or hallucination , like the dream that Alexis had , about David attacking her with an ax , earlier in the movie . " Dark Harbor " goes in and out of sequence as if it were badly edited with a number of scenes that are never explained ? Like what just exactly happened to David when he wakes up with a bloody mouth and who gave it to him ? Alexis ? the stranger ? There's also David , bloody mouth and all ? going off the handle and what seems to be accusing Alexis of driving her father to suicide where she completely loses it , and almost runs him through with a set of kitchen knives . All this while the stranger calmly sit at the table watching the entire scene . The stranger himself is attacked by what by now seems to be an insane David only to lose him in the woods with Alexis who it turned out David was leaching off , during their seven year marriage , throwing him out of her house and island . Finding the stranger in the woods , cold and with nowhere to go , Alexis seems to accept him back as David's replacement as " the man " in the house . We then see both she and the stranger munch down some wild mushrooms , that grow on the island , during a pouring rain . Just when you think the film " Dark Harbor " is over your hit with theses two scenes catching you off guard , as your trying to figure just what happened in the film , that explains the reason for the strangers present on the island and in both David's & Alxis ' lives . Very confusing story but the breathtaking and gorgeous photography of the state of Maine make the movie worth sitting through . The surprise ending isn't really that hard to figure out since the stranger showed his true feeling , and colors , to Alexis earlier in the film when he did a skit of a 1962 birthday party for JFK at Madison Square Garden . It became obvious at the end of the movie that all that happened between David & Alxis involving the stranger was no accident at all but planned well in advance . It was only in the films final moment that you realized who did all the planning .
Parts of a Man	SPOILERS What the movie " Resurrection " shows is that religious nuts , from all dominations and cultures , are about as dedicated to their religious beliefs as those who try to suppress and eradicate them . This deranged psycho is out on the streets of Chicago trying to replicated Jesus ' Easter suffering by using unsuspecting persons , whom he kidnaps and brutally murders , body parts in his recreating Jesus ' ordeal on the Cross . This wacko goes so far as seeking out his victim in that they have the same biblical names that connects them , in the Bible , with Jesus ' Apostles ! He also makes sure that his victims are also the same age that Jesus was when he was crucified : 33 years old ! It's transplanted , from New Orleans , Cajun Chicago police detective John Prudhomme , Christopher Lambert , who gets the jump on the killer by deciphering his notes , that he carved into his victims bodies , he left at his crime scenes . Det . Prudhomme's attempt to catch the elusive killer leads to his partner Det . Hollinsworth , Leland Orsen , ending up not only getting shot by the police , in mistaking him for the killer , but having his left leg cut off , by the killer , when he's left alone and under intensive care in his hospital room ! As things turn out it takes FBI profiler Agent Wingate , Robert Joy , to get Det . Prudhomme as well as the Chicago PD to finally get it straight in not just why this psycho is committing these ghastly crimes but who he really is ! This revelation , on Agent Wingate's part , is by far the most shocking and surprising sequence in the movie . What really makes the movie " Ressurection " go completely downhill is that after the killer's identity is revealed he walks right into a trap , that with his great intelligence and intuition he should have seen coming , that Det . Prudhomme and the Chicago PD set for him . With the killer being so smart as well as omnipresent during the first 75 minutes of the movie he then , after he's discovered , does everything in not at all bothering to prove his innocence that he easily can , by his manipulating the law and the courts , but goes out of his way in his death wish-like effort to prove his guilt instead ! This has him going on a mindless and murderous rampage knocking off some dozen people by the time the movies over ! Most , if not all , of those that he murders have nothing at all to do with his sick scheme in replicating the Miracle of Easter ! You have to have a really strong stomach to be able to sit through this movie that tries to outdo the film " Se7en " which has an almost identical storyline . " Ressurection " goes to show how unchecked religion , or religious fanaticism , can effect a disturbed and unstable mind who uses it for his own sick and maniacal purpose's . In the case of the movie " Ressurection " the sick person who's mind is effected uses religion , like the psycho in Se7en , to mask his dark and deep psychotic and murderous fantasies by having it justify not , what in reality it would do , condemn them !
Into the Heart of Darkness	SPOILERS With the Democratic Convention coming to New York City a rash of murders of local gay New Yorkers has put the NYPD on the case in a very big way . From the mayor on down every city official wants the politically explosive murders stopped , and solved , as soon as possible . NYPD Detective Captain Edelson , Paul Sorvino , gets local patrol cop Steve Berns , Al Pacino , to go undercover in the gay community to help find and arrest the killer before he kills again . At the same time Burns is very uncomfortable with his new and secret assignment . Not having any idea of the local gay lifestyle Burns feels it would alienate him from his live-in girlfriend Nancy Gates , Karen Allen , but he really has no choice in the matter . The movie " Cruising " has some of the most graphic scenes ever , in a major studio released motion picture , about the heavy leather and S & M gay world . Those scenes are peppered into the movie in almost every other sequence to the point that it almost loses it's story about a gay serial killer on the lose . Burns taking the name John Forbes and moving into a West Village apartment tries to get familiarized with the clubs and bars that the killer frequents to find new victims in his bloody rampage against gays . Even with a strong police presence the killer goes on his way killing gays but now he's being tracked by the undercover Steve Burns aka John Forbes who got a good idea to who he is . It turns out that the killer Stuart Richards , Richard Cox , is an art student at Columbia University . Stuart's first victim was a professor Vincent who's class he attended . Officer Burns realized that Stuart was seen at the local gay bars in the village were a number of the killers victims were picked up and later murdered . The very fact that Stuart was also a student of the murdered Prof . Vincent , who was also gay , was just too much of a coincidence to be overlooked . Breaking into Stuart's apartment on the Columbia Collage campus Burns finds a number of leather jackets and caps hidden in his closet . The clothes match the ones that Burns saw the person who looked a lot like Stuart at a number West Village gay bars and clubs . There's also a box-full of letters written by Stuart to his father , who's been dead for ten years , begging his forgiveness for not being the man that he always wanted him to be . The movie ends on a confusing note where we don't exactly know if Stuart is really the killer or not . Ever more surprising it's not made clear if someone else had taken up Stuarts cause or " crusade " against New York's gay community . Since a number of murders , including Burns ' next door gay neighbor Ted ( Don Scardino ) , happen after Stuart was already taken into custody . You don't know for sure but it seems as if the now very troubled and confused , about his own sexuality , Officer Burns had lost his bearing and went off the deep end . Burns may have began murdering gays like the killer he was assigned to capture . As the movie ends we see Capt . Edelson investigating Ted's murder and then pulls back in a white fright , this was the first time in the movie that he showed any real or genuine emotions at all , when he finds out who possibly may have murdered him ! Edelson finds that Officer Burns , using the name John Forbes , was living in the next door apartment at the time of Ted's murder ! Did Edelson at that point realize that in what he did in trying to find and apprehend the gay serial killer he unknowingly created an even bigger Frankenstein Monster ! A monster Which he and his bosses in the NYPD would have to answer for in the very near future ?
Gary Cooper's last movie and unfortunately not one of his best	Heavy handed drama where every move and action , no matter how insignificant it is , is followed by a loud blast of orchestra-like music that almost blows you out of your seat . In many cases the music is aided by quick and ultra-sharp close-ups that makes you think that your seeing a Mel Brooks comedy of an Alfred Hitchcock film like his 1977 movie " High Anxiety " . These techniques are done over and over in the movie " The Naked Edge " that after a while you forget what the story is all about in the first place . Gary Cooper in his last movie , before he died on May 13 , 1961 , looks drawn and tired as George Radcliff a witness to the murder of his boss Jason Roote , Martin Boddey , and the robbery of 60 , 000 pound-sterling from the London office of the Jason Roote Air-Fright corp where he works . It was Radcliff's testimony that sent fellow worker Donald Heath , Ray MacAnally , away for life . Radcliff seems to be hiding something about the crime that happened at the Jason Roote office from his wife Martha , Deborh Kerr . That's the main core of the story in the movie " The Naked Edge " but you have to suffer through almost 90 minutes of ridicules Hitchcock-like dramatics to get to the truth in the last ten minutes or so of the movie which , the films totally contrived ending , didn't seem worth sitting through . Even top stars like Gary Cooper and Deborh Kerr as well as Eric Portman and Peter Cushing couldn't save this turkey . We see at the start of the movie George Radcliff testify about a murder and robbery at the Jason Roote office in a weird dream-like flash-back where Roote is murdered , off-screen . The killer , unrecognizable in dark shadow , takes off with a sack of the companies daily c . o . d's amounting to 60 , 000 pound-sterling . Searching for the killer the police find Heath in the boiler room drunk but the money is nowhere to be found . Identified by Radcliff as the murder Heath is convicted and sent to prison for life . It's right after that were bombarded with clues and innuendos to who the real killer . It's not until almost the end of the movie that we finally find out just who he is . Watching the film is like going 15 rounds in the ring with a 30 year-old Rocky Marciano that in the end leaves you totally punch-drunk from the pounding to your five senses . The blasts of music and eye-popping close-ups as well as the strain on your brain make any kind of sense of what your seeing on the screen moot . A key piece of evidence shows up five years after the Roote murder that's in a letter that was lost in the mail addressed to Radcliff thats being used t blackmail him for the crime . Radcliff also came into a large sum of money just after the Roote murder which he tells his confused and surprised wife Martha that he made in a " Killing " in the stock market . You sit through the rest of the movie wondering if Radcliff did or did not kill Jason Roote and stole the 60 , 000 in pound-sterling . Radcliff at the same time does everything possible to convince you , and his wife Martha , that he did and almost drives her to commit suicide . The really off-the-wall and obnoxious ending in the movie is far worse then the murder / robbery in the film " The Naked Edge " . It just about does you in and leaves you in an almost comatose state of mind .
It isn't what I want It's what's got to be !	SPOILERS It's interesting to watch Humphrey Bogart playing of all thing a whacked out and homicidal artist who needs to tap into , if you can make out what the heck he's talking about , the life force of his victims in order to bring out his artistic talents . Meeting Sally Morton , Barbara Stanwyck , while doing some shopping in London American artist Geoffery Carroll , Humphery Bogart , falls head over heels for her . Later on a fishing trip in Scotland Geoffery proposes marriage to Sally it's then when she finds out , when a letter falls out of Geoffrey's jacket , that there's actually a Mrs Carroll who's living with Geoffery in London . Geoffery back home with his sick wife , he told Sally that she's an invalid , and young daughter Bea , Ann Carter , is seen giving her a glass of milk , off camera , and in the next scene it's two years later and he's now living with Sally in Ashton as man and wife . It's obvious that the first Mrs . Carroll was dead and also her death was the result of that glass f milk that Geoffery gave her . An ill-tempered and nasty guy still Geoffery's great talent as an artist attracted classy Cecily Latham and her mother , Alexis smith & Isobel Elsom , to his and Sally's mansion to have the grouchy Amerian paint a portrait of her . Acting very unsocial to both her and her mother Geoffery nevertheless accepts to do the portrait and eventually falls in love with Cecily . Problems start to pile up on Geoffery with Cecily both madly in love with the neurotic nut-case and also wanting him to drop his wife and take off on a sea cruise with her to South America . Even more pressing on Geoffery's disturbed mind is him being blackmailed by London pharmacist Horace Blagdon , Barry Bernard , who prescribed the poison that he used two years ago to murder his first wife . Using the excuse that he's going to London , some 40 miles away , to enroll little Bea into an exclusive girls school Geoffery get's to see Blagdon about the blackmail money that he's demanding from him with the crazed Geoffery bashing his head in instead killing the blackmailer . Rushing back to Ashton Geoffery is late for a party that Cecily together with her mother and family friends are attending . With the party now over and everyone leaving it's now up to Geoffery to finish Sally off and complete his masterpiece , an awful and horrific portrait of Sally that he's secretly painting , by giving Sally a final glass of spiked milk that would put her to sleep and out of her miseries forever . But something went terribly , for Geoffery , wrong with his demented artists master plan ; Sally had already found out about it . Embressing final sequence with Humphrey Bogart as Geoffery Carroll going completely bananas as he tries to do in poor and sick Sally who's locked in her bedroom trying to call the police . Flying through the upstairs window like Tarzan of the Apes Geoffery was so ridicules that it had to take all the talent that Barbara Stanwyck had as an actress to keep her from cracking up and at the same acting as if she's absolutely terrified of him . It may have been better for Geoffery to be shot and killed at the end of the movie so we wouldn't have to hear his totally unbalanced monologue , as he's being taken away , and instead die with some dignity instead but that was not to be . As Geoffery is being taken into custody by the cops he meekly tries to get them to have a drink a drink of the spiked milk that he prepared for his wife Sally !
Too much of a story with very little to say	Highly overdone thriller with a slew of sub-plots that confuse instead of enhance the story that in the end seems like a big wast of time , unless you see it for it's unintentional comedic values . A bank robbery ten years ago in Brooklyn NY to steal an expensive ruby from a safe deposit box goes astray when one of the crooks ends up stealing it from his fellow robbers . A short time later strolling with his eight year old daughter , Elisabeth ( Brittany Murphy ) on the subway he's chased beaten and thrown to the tracks , by the crooks whom he double-crossed , where he's then run over by a train and killed before the eyes of his terrified daughter . Just before Elisabeth's dad is buried in Potter's Field his daughter puts her doll , Miska , in the Coffin with him not knowing that he hid the sought after ruby in it . Ten years later the crooks who killed her father , who were arrested on the scene and sentenced , are released from jail . The first thing that they do is go looking for Elisabeth to get the number of the grave that here father is buried in to get a hold of the ruby . Now how does Michael Douglas , Dr . Nathan Conrad , come in to all this ? It seems that Dr . Conrad is a top hot shot psychiatrist who's associated with the mental hospital where Elisabeth is a patient . This is after she recognized one of the crooks who killed her father and went bananas and slashed him to death . The crooks want Dr . Conrad to find out from Elisabeth the number of her fathers grave by him getting her to talk to him . To make sure that Dr . Conrad cooperates they kidnap his eight year old daughter Jessie , Skye McCole , so that he gets the massage . The movie " Don't say a word " goes on with at least a dozen more sub-plots that would take a good size book to explain them all . The final scene in Potter's Field goes on for what seems to be an eternity . Under normal conditions you should have concern and sympathy for Dr . Conrad his wife and daughter , as well as young Elisabeth , but you just can't . The movie is so contrived that the characters didn't seem real so why even bother to care about them . The most absurd part in the movie , with so many absurd parts , was the hard as nails , all pampered and polished , detective Sandra Cassidy , Jennifer Esposito . Cassidy in the end of the film takes on the whole batch of hardened criminals single-handedly without even bothering to call or wait for back-up . Even " Dirty Harry " Callahan wouldn't do that and ends up wiping out almost all of them ! even after taking a bullet in her gut ! Cassidy is so though that she seems ready to get back on duty the next morning ! And to think that there are some people who say that women can't cut it as policemen .
Pre " Silence of the Lambs " like serial murder thriller set In Toronto Canada	SPOILERS When the slashed body of Debbie Jones is found floating in Toronto Bay bells go off in the head of Toronto policeman John Reed when a note is found in Debbie's clothes implicating John Barens in her murder . It seems that Reed is infatuated with Barnes in having him arrested in a number of murders of young women where he was eventually found innocent . Arrested and jailed Barnes refuses to have a court-appointed lawyer or cooperate with police psychiatrist Dr . Rimbaue in what , if anything , he had to do with Debbies murder . With no evidence at all to hold Barnes he opts to stay behind bars instead of being let free which has you wonder what exactly he's hiding from the police in not only Debbie Jones murder but the murders that are soon to hit the city with a religious-like vengeance . Murders that he predicts in advance but at the same time is , by being behind bars , not out on the streets to commit ! We get a glimpse of what's behind this string of murders , as many as two dozen , as soon as the movie started with a flashback to 1979 in the little college town of Clemmends . It's not until the very last few seconds that we come to realize who set off this ten year rampage that had some unknown religious psycho go on . The movie is a lot like " Silance of the Lambs " that was in fact released a year later but nowhere as popular or well received . The film " Murder Blues " was almost totally ignored , by both movie critics and the movie the going public , in that it was kept of the self for almost two years until it was finally released not in the theaters but directly on video tape . " Murder Blues " despite it's low budget and zero publicity is in a way better then the Anthony Hopkins / Jodie Foster blockbuster . The killer in the film doesn't have any superhuman strength or omnipresence intelligence like Hannibal Lector in " Silance of the Lambs " . He also makes mistakes , proving that he's only human , which in the end , unlike with Lector , eventually does him in . We never really get to see what's the reason behind these murders until a mysterious book is discovered in of all places a bank safe deposit box that belonged to the late Debbie Jones . SPOILER ALERT The occult-like book titled " The Church of the New Soul " links all the killings going on in Toronto now in 1990 to the one unsolved murder that took place in Clemmends back in 1979 ! What's far more disturbing is that Toronto cop John Reed who's the chief investigator of the " Toronto Serial Killer " case knows a lot more about it , and the killer himself , then he's leading us , the audience , on to what he knows !
Every day miracles happen that no one can explain	( Spoiler Alert ) Dr . Jimmy Kildare , Lew Ayres , has his hands full in this movie in having to get his mentor Dr . Leonard " Barry " Gillespie , Lional Barrymore , to take a brake from his work so he won't end up in the hospital mortuary . Trying find a cure for pneumonia Dr . Gillespie has been working for weeks at a time with not more then two hours sleep a day . This is aggravating his already serious skin cancer , melanoma , condition . Dr . Kildare trying to get Dr . Gillespie to take a break from his work agrees to look after heiress Nancy Messenger , Helen Gilbert , who thinks she's suffering from a brain tumor . It in fact turns out that Nancy is in perfect health but her family nurse Nora , Sara Haden , has her brainwashed to believe that she's not . It also turns out that according to Nora Nancy's mom died of the same illness , a brain tumor , some 12 years ago ; her death was in fact caused by pneumonia . Dr . Kildare going to see Nancy as just a a friend of the family realizes that she's being convinced by this quack doctor Archley , Grant Mitchell , hired by Nora that she needs surgery for her " brain tumor " . This causes Nancy to to think that she's both going insane and losing her sight . Dr . Kildare soon blows his cover as a doctor in order to take charge of Nancy's treatment and convinces her , together with Nancy's concerned boyfriend Charles Harron ( Robert Kent ) , that she'll all right if only she can overcome her unfounded phobias that both Nora and Dr . Archley planted in her mind . This eventually get's Nancy back to normal in restoring her sight as well as has the bull-headed Dr . Gillespie who without his valuable assistant , Dr . Kildare , was forced to take a vacation which in the end also saved his life . A life he was foolishly squandering away in his hell-bent attempt to eradicate pneumonia from the face of the earthThere's also a little side story in " The Secret of Doctor Kildare " that has to do with his dad Dr . Stephen Kildare , Samuel S . Hinds , who like Dr . Gillsepie is a workaholic and is suffering , because of his heavy work schedule , from acute heart disease . Getting the two doctors in the same examination room , at Blair General Hospital , together was the best thing that came out of this whole movie . Dr . Gillespie was able to diagnose Dr . Stephen Kildare illness and prescribe the right medication , a long vacation , to get him back to good health and Dr . Gillespie was able to do it by being well rested , from his forced vacation , and having his complete faculties in good working order in order to do it .
Why don't you Staaay just a little bit longer	SPOILERS Surviving a fiery car crash on the Brooklyn Bridge young 20 year-old art student Henry Letham , Ryan Gosling , goes to psychiatrist Sam Foster's , Ewan McGregor , office seeking help for the strange and weird experiences he's been going through since that accident . Not wanting to live anymore and face the thought that he was responsible for his parents death Henry tells Dr . Sam Foster that the following Saturday , his 21t birthday , at midnight he's going to kill himself . Sam had been through this before when his girlfriend Lila , Naomi Watts , tried to kill herself by slashing her wrists whom he saved in just the nick of time . With Sam trying to get Henry committed over the weekend to keep him from killing himself he begins to suffer strange hallucinations as if he's being controlled by Henry and wonders if he , not Henry , is the one who needs psychiatric help . Things seem to be out of kilter for Sam as he starts to see people who are supposed to have recently died like , who Henry recognized , his dead father Leon , Bo Hoskins , and later Henry's dead mother , Kate Burton , and even his pet dog Olive . It turns out that Sam and Henry are one and the same person with Lila unknowingly referring to him as Henry and the supposedly deceased Mrs . Lethman as her son Henry Lathman ! Sam now trying to save himself as well as Henry backtracks in order to find all the people who knew and were involved with Henry as he starts to get the eerie feeling that he's somehow spiritual connected with his patient and that Henry's impending demise will also be his own . The movie " Stay " has Sam going through a number of Daja-Vu and astral , as well as real world experiences . As he tries to prevent Henry from taking his life and at the same time finding out the dark secret in Henry's past that's driving him to do just that . You know almost right from the start that the Brooklyn Bridge is the center of gravity in both Henry's and Sam's mindless and almost irresistible rush to self-destruction . We see in a number of flash backs Henry with his girlfriend Athena , Elizabeth Reasen , and parents in a car driving through Brooklyn Heights to make their way , and fatal turn , on the world famous bridge ; the best example of art in the 19th century as Henry put it . A bit , if not very , confusing movie about life and death and how the world of the living and that of the dead sometimes interact with each other and even crosses over to give us a glimpse of what really is the difference , if there is one , between fantasy and reality when the physical and ethereal worlds suddenly collied with surprising and devastating results .
Girls will be Girls	SPOILERS Italian film about a werewolf on the loose in and around a young women reformatory thats much better then it's comical US title " Werewolf in a girls dormitory " suggest . Dr . Julian Olcott , Carl Schell , is given a job at the reformatory as a science teacher after six years of not being able to find any work as a doctor . After he was tried and acquitted of the death of a young woman that he was treating . Dr . Olcott soon becomes a prime suspect in the murder of a girl at the school after his first day on the job when Mary , Mary McNeeran , is found savagely murdered outside the grounds of the school . Her gruesome death indicates that Mary was attacked by wolves that have been seen roaming around the woods nearby . With traps set up to catch the killer , or killers , he always avoids them and it becomes obvious that he's not any animal but some kind of insane lunatic who like to tear people apart like a wild beast . With everything being done to kill or capture the person or beast being totally ineffective the staff and inmates of the reformatory as well as the people of the surrounding town are in a state of panic . Thinking that the murderer is living among them and suspecting anyone who's new in the area like Dr . Olcott . There are some deep secrets about the girl who was murdered and who murdered her by the owners of the reformatory Mr & Mrs . Whiteman Maurice Marsac & Anni Steinert and the caretaker Walter Geoffrey , Luciano Pigozzi . Walter who was suspected of the murder of Mary jumped to his death when he was caught trying to suffocate her friend Sandy , Grace Neame . It was Sandy who had a number of incriminating letters between Mary and Alfred Whiteman . Mr . Whiteman killed himself when he was confronted with those letters by Dr . Olcott and Priscilla , Barbara Lass , another girl in the reformatory and also a very good fiend of Mary . And his wife Shenna Whiteman was then herself murdered by the killer for knowing too much about who was involved in Mary's murder by giving her an overdose of drugs . " Werewolf in a girl's dormitory " keep it's audience guessing until the last fifteen minutes or so to who the killer or killers are . The movie has very good atmospherics as well as action in the scenes of the attacking werewolf who was much faster and more frighting that you would expect unlike in many other other werewolf movies . Where he's both slow and lumbering with all that makeup on . Luciano Pigozzi steals the movie with his Peter Lorre look-alike portrayal of the creepy caretaker and everyone else's acting in the movie is above average as the staff and inmates of the girls reformatory . Don't let it's title fool you , the movie is much better then it sounds .
School of Vice	SPOILERS A number of young women have disappeared or have been found murdered in and around town . The one connection being that they all have in common with each other is that they attended or are attending the Crescent School for the Fine Arts . The local police department as well as the up and coming assistant DA James Horton , John Archer , as well as John's good friend and mentor police Captain McVeigh , H . B . Warner , have been trying with interest to find out who's behind these missing and dead young women . D . A Horton starts to put the heat on the schools owner Joseph Thompson , Boyd Irwin , who's a front-man for the cities top mobster King Peterson , Philip Van Zandt . Thompson has no idea of what the school that he's running is all about , Peterson's prostitution and call-girl racket . Peterson tries to pay off assistant DA Horton with $10 , 000 . 00 to stop his investigation but the incorruptible Horton tells Peterson to take a walk with Capt . McVeigh listening in on the office inter-con . Peterson later comes up with the idea to frame and blackmail Horton in order to get him off his back . Later Tompson panics when it turns up in the newspaper that a student Pauline Randolph in the Crescent School was connected with with one of the murdered girls Thaila Arnold . Thompson wants out of the whole dirty business but Peterson won't let him in fear that Thompson would go to and tell the police in order to save his hide . Pauleine is later also found murdered and the police now have enough evidence to make a case against the Crescent School and it's owner and administrators , the Peterson mob . Peterson then sets up assistant DA Horton by having one of his girls Kate Nelson , Patrkia Knox , to call him over to her hotel room with information on the Randolph murder . Having Horton secretly photographed with her in a somewhat intimate pose Kate later gets into a fight with Peterson who kills her . Horton having himself photographed with Kate in her hotel room and later Kate being found murdered in that same room is now in no position to handle the case . He may very well be indited for murdering Kate ! Two things then unexpectedly happen that saves the day for Horton and the forces of law and order . The photographer who took the photo gets scared when he finds Kate's body and is later kidnapped by the Peterson mob only to be rescued by the police and then spills the beans on him , Peterson . Later Thompson's daughter Nora , Astrid Allwyn , who's a newspaper reporter goes undercover in the Crescent School as a student . Nora is recognized by Peterson and in a fit of disgust and outrage goes to call the police on him . the police and assistant DA break into his office and catch him red handed . Peterson is later convicted of murder and sentenced to the electric chair and at last the mystery of the missing and murdered girls is finally solved . " City of Missing Girls " is a mostly typical crime drama with the exception of touching on a very taboo subject back in those days , the 1940's , in Hollywood : prostitution . It's interesting to see how the film makers avoided to even mention that word even though the movie plot was all about it , prostitution and call-girls , as if that subject and those very words were off-limits by the moral majority of that day which they were .
Seeing is Believing	SPOILERS Nowhere as bad as you would think " The Eye " does have it's scary moments and the ending is as exciting as well as surprising as anything that you'll see in a horror / suspense movie coming out of Hollywood . Being a remake of the highly acclaimed 2002 Japanese thriller " Gin Gwai " you can't expect the film to outshine the original but surprisingly is some cases , with its fine special effects , it does . Jessica Alba as the blinded , and later having her vision restored , concert violinist Sydney Wells does a decent job of acting even though she comes out as wooden in some of the scenes in the film as the disembodied , yes Sydney sees dead people , spirits that she sees in it . After the operation on her eyes by renowned eye surgeon Dr . Haskins , Obba Babaturnd , turned out to be a complete success Sydney is assigned Dr . Paul Faulkner , Alessandro Nivola , to get her to not only see but understand what she's seeing . Sydney has been blind since a fireworks explosion took her sight away when she was five . It turns out that not only can Sydney see she sees things that nobody else notices like dead or soon to be dead people that greatly disturbs the sensitive young woman . At the hospital that she's convalescing in Sydney sees this angle of death or grim reaper taking away a number of people like Mrs . Hillman & little Alicia , Karen Austin & Chole Moretz , that she's acquainted with ! Sydney's visions become more and more bizarre with her seeing fires break out wherever she's at like her apartment the hospital or a local Chinese restaurant that she dropped in to munch on a plate of spear ribs . There's also this ominous number that keeps popping up in Sydney's visions as well as on her bedroom clock 106 or 1 : 06 AM ! What exactly does that number have to do with her visions about death and destruction ! Determined to find out the source of her strange and terrifying visions Sydney asks her now good friend as well as personal physician Dr . Faulkner to help her find out who the donor of the corneas implanted in her eyes is ! After thinking it over , he can lose his medical license if he does , Dr . Faulkner finally decides to reveal to Sydney her organ donor's identity ; A young Mexican girl , much like herself , who committed suicide about a year ago named Ana Christina Martinez , Fernanda Romero . I's when Sydney together with Dr . Faulkner traveled to this little Mexican village where the late Ana Martinez lived that the truth finally came out to what see was seeing with Ana's , not her , eyes . Ana could not only see death in the faces of those about to depart this world she could also see death waiting in the wings ready to explode at any moment ! The visions of fires wherever she goes the ominous number 106 showing up with the fires and the fact that Sydney is tormented day and night with both of them comes full circle at the Mexican / USA border crossing on her way back home from Mexico . The border has been closed holding up all the traffic coming into the USA because of the threat of a runaway car , with a bunch of Mexican car thieves , coming that way ! SPOILER ALERTHeart-stopping final with Sydney together with Dr . Faulkner finally realizing what's about to happen and desperately trying to stop it . Ana from beyond her grave is trying to prevent a holocaust , like she was unable to do in real life before she committed suicide , in the making and is using the both very confused , until she finally got the massage , and emotionally drained Sydney Wells to do it !
12 Noon to 8 PM	SPOILERS One of the many slasher movies released in the early 1980's following the amazing success of " Halloween " the Canadian import film " Visiting Hours " has the distinction of both the killer and his victims not being in their teens or early twenties and partying day and night but grown ups holding down full time jobs . The psycho / killer in " Visiting Hours " has been troubled over what happened to his father when he was a little boy , which we see in a number of flashbacks that left the old man almost brain-dead and in a vegetated state . Working at his job as a janitor at the America Today studio Colt Hawker , Michael Ironside , gets infuriated over the shows host Deborah or Deb Ballin , Lee Grant , support of a woman who in self-defense crippled her abusive husband by pushing him down a flight of stairs . This reminds Colt of what happened to his father when his mom splashed a pan of boiling oil in his face as he was abusing her . The rest of the movie has Colt going after Deb with a vengeance and murdering some half dozen other persons , who got in his way , in the process . After slashing Deb in her home Colt spends almost the entire movie stalking her at the local hospital where she was admitted at . Even taking time to pick up a date Lisa , Lenore Zann , at a diner who he almost kills . The ending is more or less what you would have expected with a major role change between the hunted an the hunter as Deb turns the tables on Colt as she's being stalked by him in an almost empty hospital . The movie ends with a long long list of credits of the people in the movie , on and off the screen , about the size of the Montreal White Pages . Better then you would expect slasher film only because of Michael Ironside's creepy performance as Colt Hawker who comes across as someone who just doesn't give up . As he goes as far as slashing his left arm on a broken beer bottle in order to get himself admitted into the same hospital where Deb is staying at just so that he can get to her ; it just turned out that Deb got to him first . P . S . There's also William Shatner in the movie paying Deb's boss Gary Baylor who , despite his top billing , has about two minutes of screen time in the entire film .
Staying on the road was the only way to stay alive	SPOILERS A lot like the 1981 Mel Gibson apocalyptic auctioneer " Road Warrior " the movie " Resident Evil : Extinction " has to do with an experiment gone wrong ; terribly wrong . Having mistakenly released the deadly T-Virus out of their main laboratory in Racoon City the Umbrella Cooperation is now trying to find an antidote to it in order to save the last few uninfected human survivors still left . One of the head honcho's of the UC Dr . Isaacs , Lain Glenn , is secretly experimenting with those infected by the T-Virus in order the make them obedient slaves to their masters , the cooperations , when and if a cure is found to keep , if not eradicate , the T-Virus in check . The key to finding a cure for the T-Virus is the now escaped head of security of the UC Alice , Milla Jouovich . Cloning scores of Alices ' by Dr . Isaacs have all failed with them being killed , running through a deadly obstacle course , in trying to find out that their a perfect replication of Alice . It's the real Alice that Dr . Isaacs wants and to find her he'll use every means at his disposal to track her down even if it means going against the orders of his superiors at Umbrella Corps . Alice after a close and deadly encounter with a number of flesh-eating virus infected zombies and mutant wild dogs makes her way to this caravan of human survivors in the Nevada Desert . It was while Alice was out on her own she came across a booklet with transcribe radio transmissions from Alaska . The radio transmissions say that Alaska is the only place on earth that the T-Virus hasn't been able to penetrate . Giving this very vital information to the leader of the desert caravan Clair Redfield , Ali Larter , Alice has her decide to travel up north to finally get away from then tens of thousands of flesh eating zombies that roam the now almost totally deserted , of human beings , United States . Exciting run to daylight by the trucks cars and oil-tanker of the , what seems like , last human survivors of the continental US with tens of thousands of zombies either hot on their tail or in their face . Alice & Clair gets the convoy as far as Las Vegas where it ends up being stuck in five to ten feet of loose and shifting desert sands . Forced to make a stand the caravan survivors are almost wiped out by the rampaging and almost unstoppable zombies thirsting for their flesh since , from the looks of them , they haven't eaten in days . Alice saves the day by getting the few survivors out and then together with Carlos , Oden Fehr , runs the gantlet in smashing into the UC main headquarters and experiment center just outside of Vegas . With the remaining survivors safely put on one of the UC helicopters and out of harms way Alice makes her way into the heart of the experiment center . It's there that she finds out what Dr . Isaacs , who had morphed himself into an outer space alien-like monster , had planned to do to both her as well as himself to , in his own unique and insane way , single-handedly take over the world ! The films confusing story is saved by its very effective and heart-stopping action scenes . Alice with her both super 9mm automatics and ferocious looking Gurkha bolo's , machetes , is more then a match for the hundreds of wild and screaming zombies that she has no trouble at all putting away . It's only later when Alice confronts the what seemed to be indestructible Dr . Isaacs , looking like the intergalactic stowaway monster in the movie " Alien " , that she finds she has her hands full in trying to take him out . SPOILERS It turns out that Alice has a friend that the megalomaniac Dr . Issac had completely overlooked in his attempt to both capture and , after he got what he wanted out of Alice , do her in . That friend not only rescues Alice but together with her help will not only put a stop to the rampaging T-Virus but the , what's left of them , top men of the UC ; who's mad and self-serving experiments had created it in the first place .
Blood Feud	SPOILERS The murder of young Gerald Gates , Bill Paxton , by the up and coming rookie Mafioso , Joey Rosselini , Adam Baldwin , for not stopping the truck that he was driving , for a rival vendor company when ordered set off deadly repercussions that went from the city of Chicago to the hills and coal mines of rural Kentucky . Geralds murder by a member of the Mafia's powerful Isabella family started a violent " blood feud " between the Gates ' and Isabell's that even dwarfed the legendary feud between the Hatfield's and McCoy's . Gerald's older brother Truman , Patrick Swayze , who's an undercover cop in the Chicago PD knew what was coming with the Gates family back in Kentucky up in arms and wanting revenge for their brothers murder . Showing up , unannounced , in the big city is Briar , Liam Neeson , Gerald's other brother looks to track down his killer , or killers , but Truman talks him out of taking the law into his own hands and letting the police and courts bring Geralds killer to justice . When there's nothing happening in getting Gerald's killers by " the law " Briar goes into action and tears up the Isabella mobsters only to later get shot down and killed by them . Even Truman begins to realize that only him and his kin will have to be the judges juries and executioners of Gerald's killer and leave the Chicago justice department and police alone on their coffee break , which seems to last the entire movie , that their on . The Kentucky Hillbillies turn out to be more then a match for the Chicago mobsters taking the fight to them in a final and bloody shootout at a local cemetery . Not even the dead are speared in this film , with the mobsters being shot with shotguns and bows and arrows as well as chased by dogs . In one horrifying one of the scene one of the mobsters is trapped in a trailer with dozens of dangerous snakes , poisonous as well as deadly constrictors , who go on to do a job on the poor smuck who's hopelessly trapped there . The head of the Isabella mob family Big , or Big PaPa , John Isabella , Andreas Katsulas , ends the bloodbath by blasting young Joey who's incredible and brainless arrogance and stupidity started this whole mess by murdering Gerald . It was the mob-hillbilly conflict that lead to the death of Big PaPa John's one and only son Larry , Ben Stiller , who was blown to bits by the outraged Bariar Gates . Patrick Swayze comes across as his usual pleasant and nice guy self as Truman Gates and at first tries everything to stop the impending war between his people , the Hillbillies , and the Chicago mobsters . Later Truman sees that the only way to settle things is with guns not with do-nothing lawyers DA's and police investigations and gets with " the program " set by his brother Briar and his fellow mountain men . Truman is also not as unsophisticated as his fellow home boys being married to Jessie , Helen Hunt , a concert violinist and well educated young woman . Loseing both his brothers , Gerald and Briar , in the war with the mob Truman can now look forward to his wife giving birth to a future Gates and go back in peace , as a Chicago policeman , to raise his family . The movie " Next of Kin " is a bit unusual with the mob getting the hell beat out of them by a group of people who they never had any contact with and always looked down on , like the vicious and ignorant Joey , and never really took seriously until now .
Baseball & Murder in Houston Texas	SPOILERS Towards the end of the movie " Night Game " Houston Astro pitcher Sil Daretto , Alex Garcia , walks off the pitchers mound as the game is about to start and to the surprise and astonishment of all those on the baseball field and in the stands walks over to newlyweds Mike & Roxy Sever , Roy Scheider & Karen Young . Daretto congratulates them on their wedding and sincerely tells Mike & Roxy to enjoy the game , the nightmare was at last over for all of them . A number of young women were found dead in and around the beaches of Houston and Galveston and the one thing they all had in common is that they were murdered when Houston Astro ace pitcher Sil Daretto pitched and won a night game at the Astro-Dome . They also they had their throats slashed by some hook that the killer used . The movie " Night Game " mixes baseball with murder in this very unusual story about a disgruntled former Houston Astro player Floyd Epps , Rex Linn , who was cut by the team to make room for Daretto and on top of all that lost his pitching hand in a bus accident as he was leaving . Epps wants to upstage Daretto when ever he wins a ballgame by committing a murder that same night and getting the headline for his crime over Daretto victory . It's Epps ' insane way of getting even for what he holds Daretto responsible for ; the loss of his job being a pitcher for the Astros and his left hand . Roy Scheider sleep-walks through his role as a former baseball player now Galveston policemen and the movie is better then the average made for TV movie even though it isn't but should have been one . The ending was a bit ridicules with Epps chasing Roxy all over the catwalk outside a waterfront restaurant with Roxy not having the sense to get inside and thus not getting trapped by the insane hooked killer . In fact Roxy actually ran outside the eatery as she saw Epps and easily got trapped by him . Mike came to Roxy's rescue in just the nick of time with Rex hook and all getting dumped in the ocean below after taking a number slugs from Mike's revolver . Dopey but watchable film that was a bit too unbelievable not in the fact that Epps was a crazed former baseball player who felt that he got a raw deal from life and wanted to rectify it in his own crazy way . As you would have expected the local police as well as the Texas justice department were so slow and incompetent in realizing who Epps was when the evidence was right in front of them , the man the hook and the motive , but were just too blind to see it .
A House Divided	SOME SPOILERS Working to help the helpless and unfortunates among us is what Dr . Edelman , Onslow Stevens , has dedicated his life to . Having a practice in a seaside castle in Vasaria the good doctor is awakened one evening by this guy in a top hat and tails desperately needing his help . It turns out that Baron Latos , John Carradine , has a problem with being exposed to the sunlight , he's a vampire . The Baron is actually Count Dracula , with a British accent , who's sick and tired of having to go out at night looking for victims to suck dry for their blood in order to keep him going and in the pink . Dr . Edelman doing what he can to help the Count is unaware that he's really after his sexy assistant the beautiful Miliza Morrelle , Martha O'Driscoll , in trying to turn her into a vampire like himself . Also on Dr . Edelman's mind his his sweet and pretty but deformed hunchback nurse Nina , Jane Adams , who like himself works tirelessly to help those who can't help themselves in the doctor's medical experiments . One of those helpless souls Larry Talbot , Lon Cheney Jr , turns up at the castle but because of Dr . Edelman's heavy schedule he's told to come back later . This rejection by Dr . Edelman had Larry go crazy at the local police station . With Larry begging the police chief Insp . Holtz , Lionel Attwil , to lock him up in the clink before he kills somebody . Dr . Edelman showing up at the jail-house at the invitation of a very concerned Inspt . Holtz is shocked to see Larry turn into a wild beast , a werewolf , at the sight of the full moon . Taking Larry under is wing Dr . Edelman finds out that he has a very overactive cranium that cause these seizures that turns him into a wolf-man . The cure , a fungus that he's growing in his greenhouse , to Larrys very pressing problems will not be ready until at least a month after which Larry will have to face a number of full moons and turn into a werewolf . Disgusted with living Larry jumps off a cliff into the sea almost killing himself but , together with Dr . Edelman who came to Larry's rescue , finds in a sea cave the Frankenstein Monster , Glen Strange , unconscious yet alive . All the lead characters in the movie are now in place , Dracula the Wolf-man and Frankenstein Monster , for the big and explosive final that will turn the Edelman castle into a monster free for all . Sill there will be one added attraction in this wild and crazy mix : Dr . Edelman ! The doctor is himself turned into a monster by the schemings and evil Baron Latos , aka Count Dracula . The count did that by giving the doctor instead of taking from him a paint of his vampire blood during a mutual blood transfusion . In putting all the Universal Studio famous monsters into one movie took something away from it by spreading them too thin and not giving the monsters enough screen time to really scare you . Larry , Lon Cheney Jr , had the most meaty role of all the monsters as the famous Wolf-Man but he was cured almost as soon as he showed his canine teeth . Larry ended up spending the rest of the movie mostly in a wheel chair , recovering from his successful operation , looking and acting more like a 1960's hippie peace-nick then the wild and ferocious werwolf's the you expected him to be in the film . The big final also has the namesake of the movie Count Dracula conspicuously absent from it only having the Frankenstein Monster and Larry Talbot , who's normal and not a werewolf , having it out with each other . With the big bumbling Monster blindly and uncontrollably walking into the walls furniture and test tubes in and around the castle . Dr . Edelman by now a crazed psycho , because of the vampire blood in his system , ends up murdering both Seigfried , Ludwig Stossel , the friendly coach driver and his nurse Nina whom he promised to cure of her hunchback , before he went nuts . Dr . Edelman is then put away for good by Larry Talbot who reluctantly blasts him full of holes with his handgun ; this to a man who saved Larry's soul by in the end losing his own .
Did he jump off that roof or did you help him a little !	SPOILERS Tough talking and hard hitting undercover NYPD cop Eddie Ryan , Robert Duvall , goes a bit too far by working over this innocent Puerto Rican party goer whom he causes to jump to his death off a six floor building . This all happens in the first five minutes in the film " Badge 373 " , Eddie Ryan's police badge number , during an outrageous bust of a Puerto Rican social club where the worst thing going on there is a little pot smoking by some of the party goers . Suspended from the police department Eddie soon gets involved with this nationalist Puerto Rican group from the Bronx who are in the process of starting an armed revolt in their homeland . Supplied by a Harvard educated Puerto Rican hoodlum called Sweet William , Henry Darrow , the revolutionaries are expecting a shipment of over $3 , 000 , 000 . 00 in arms to achieve their aim . It turns out almost by accident that Eddie's partner officer Gigi Caputo , Louis Cusentino , got involved with this hooker Rita Garcia , Marina Dorell , while he was on suspension that lead to Gigi's murder . Gigi through Rita somehow got in cahoots with both Sweet William and the Puerto Rican revolutionaries and became a willing accomplice in their arms running racket . Eddie making it a point to avenge his late partners murder gets his unsuspecting girlfriend Maureen , Verna Bloom , involved with his personal crusade that in the end gets her killed as well by the revolutionaries . Eddie for his part goes all out , without a badge or the authority behind it , to stop Sweet William and his Puerto Rican revolutionaries headed by Rita's brother Ruban played by Fellipe Luciano , one of the founders of the Young Lords , from accomplishing their aims . During the course of the film Eddie gets worked over by the revolutionaries who after a wild car bus chase who , despite Eddie putting some dozen of them away , just put him in the hospital with a couple of broken bones . The film comes to it's very predictable final with Eddie getting the lowdown to where the arms supply is to be loaded on to , a freighter in the Brooklyn Navy Yard . Catching the freighter's crew with it's pants down Eddie has them panic where Sweet William in a fit of insane rage guns down a totally befuddled Ruban Garcia who was killed just for having an emotional breakdown ! Ruban just lost it's when the boat took off without the precious arms on board . Sweet Williams then wildly shoots up the fleeing freighters crew who had finally realized just what a bunch of lunatics , Sweet Williams & Co , that they were dealing with . With the entire Brooklyn North police force showing up at the port all they could do is just watch Eddie climb up , on a 150 foot crane , after a hysterical and totally out of it Sweet William for the films final and talky showdown . We get the usual BS story from Sweet Williams in how he lived better then any of those , the perusing cops , ever dream of living . Sweet William also hints that he'll be back , dead or alive , to continue the revolution even if it ends up killing him ! This brain numbing harangue goes on and on until Eddie , with Sweet William unarmed and no threat to anyone , finally blows him away just to stop Sweet William from talking Eddie the police and movie audience to death with his boring and endless dialog . Sub-par " French Connection " follow up with the real hero of the " French Connection " Eddie Egan , as Eddie Ryan's friend and boss Lt . Scanlon , in the cast . Robert Duvall was a bit hard to take as suspended policeman Eddie Ryan taking on persons , by two's three's and even four's , twice as big as he is . Henry Darrow as ex-Puerto Rican hood and now full time freedom fighter Sweet William was a lot more effective in the little time that he was in the movie . The unrelenting violence as well as x-rated and racist dialog in the movie , by its screen writer the ultra-liberal newspaper columnist Pete Hamill , was so laughable and off the wall that it came across more comical , how could anyone take it seriously , then anything else .
Is He ? Or Isn't He ?	SPOILER ALERT Starts off as your average run-of-the-mill psychic helping the police solve a crime flick to later becoming something totally different . Something so strange and baffling that the local police chief Capt . Tucker , Cliff Robertson , starts to wonder if he's not the one who needs some kind of psychiatric therapy . Not the person he later suspects in Maggie Dawson's , Dianne Hull , murder self-confessed super psychic Franklin Wills , Joel Gray . After teacher Maggie Dawson was found murdered in her Volkswagen in a Laural shopping mall parking lot it became apparent that the killer covered his tracks very carefully . Leaving no fingerprints and having no one , in broad daylight , see him the case begins to run cold until out of nowhere Franklin Wills suddenly comes on the scene . Knowing things about Maggie Dawson's murder that only her killer and the police know Wills is taken seriously by Chief Tucker even though he really didn't , or up until then , gave as much as a rat's a about the occult or clairvoyance that Wills ' obviously has . Given all the leeway he needs by Chief Tucker Wills slowly uncovers more and more of the missing pieces of Maggie Dawson's murder . Wills is so good in his ability to track down the clues about what happened to Maggie that fateful afternoon at the Laural Mall that Chief Tucker starts to suspects that maybe , just maybe , he's , Franklin Wills , the person who murdered her ! The first half of the movie " Man on a Swing " is pure gold in it's buildup to what Franklin Wills is all about and what exactly he knows about Maggie Dawson's , and later in the film Virginia Segretta , murder . You get the impression , just like Chief Tucker , that Wills is the real deal not some phony trying to make both a name and money for himself masquerading around as a crime solving psychic . It's the last half of the movie that really gets a bit overindulgent in trying to cover all the bases , instead of tracking down Wills ' very accurate clues , in finding out if in fact Franklin Wills is really the real McCoy that he claims he is . Wills himself is anything but normal in his actions like going into spasmodic fits while putting himself under self-hypnosis , to find out who Maggie's killer is , but hell he's been right all along so why complain ? We have Chief Tucker go so far as to almost kill Wills when he's wife Janet , Dorothy Tristan , felt that he was somehow threatening both her as well as his life . Admittely Wills is somewhat off the wall and even a bit dangerous in his demanding that Janet accept his handkerchief to the point where she became terrified of him . It was as if Wills felt insulted or hurt by Janet in not accepting his gift ! Still Wills ' never goes so far as even laying a hand or even finger , with the exception of Chief Tucker in showing him how Maggie was strangled to death , on anyone but himself in the movie . SPOILER ALERTThe film ends on a sour note with the audience as well as Chief Tucker not really finding out if Wills is real or not in his ability to mentally solve crimes . We can only guess , like Chief Tucker , that Wills is really on to something in his crime solving methods but what that is anybodies guess . All we get from Wills , who's predictions in the movie were dead on , is a sinister grin in that he knows something that we don't know as the movie suddenly comes to an end !
The Mail Must Go Through	SPOILERS Strange movie , even for one with Bela Lugosi in it , thats a combination of a crime / drama & musical / comedy with a bit of a disaster movie thrown in for good measures . Ricardo Cortez plays Gung-Ho Postal Inspector Bill Davis who's so off-the-wall that in one of the scenes that he's in he jumps from something like a 100 foot plank , minus his well-pressed suit , into the flooded streets below . In doing that Davis risks a broken neck in order to save a postal crook who was no more then a few yards away from a police speed-boat that was just about to rescue and arrest him anyway , without Inspector Davis foolishly risking his life . There's a number of songs sung in the movie by nightclub singer Connie Larrimore , Patricia Ellis , and a duet at the end of the film with Connie and her fianc and brother of Postal Inspector Davis Charlie , Michael Loring , who's also a Federal Treasury Agent . The " Golden Eagle " nightclub owner Greg Benez , Bela Lugosi , is in big trouble with the local mob loan shark when he gets a telegram that another nightclub owner , Fred Commings owner of the Jack-O'-Lantern , was gunned down for not paying back his load from the mob . Benez is out $50 , 000 . 00 to the mob and is two weeks behind in his payments . " Golden Eagle " singer Connie Larrimore talking to both Postal Inspector and Federal Agent Bill & Charlie Davis get some inside information from big-mouth Charlie that he's going to send through the US mail $3 , 000 , 000 . 00 of used ten dollar bills to the Washington D . C Treasuary Dept . The bills are to be put out of circulation by having them incinerated . Later Connie talking to her boss Mr . Benez unwittingly tells him about the cash transaction through the local mail and Benez sees an out in getting the money that he owes the mob as well as pocketing the rest , $2 . 950 Million , for himself . The Benez gang steals Charlies car and uses it to corrals and rob the mail truck with the 3 million dollars in cash going back to the Treasuary Department and also shoots and kills the driver . This all happens as the town of Yarborough , where the movie takes place , is being flooded by a heavy downpour with the local river overflowing its banks . When the police and Postal Inspector Davis find the car belonging to Charlie at the crime scene they feel that he committed the crime but his brother Bill gives him two hours to come up with who really did it feeling that he's innocent . Later Benez and his gang kidnap both Charlie and his girlfriend Connie who went to Benez's place in order to find out who in the club took Charlie's car . This later leads to the exciting final speed-boat chase scene through the flooded streets of Yarborough with Charlie & Connie ramming a platform from where Benez and his hoods are trying to escape from the police knocking them all down and into the floodwater's below . Bela Lugosi is very subdued and , uncharacteristically , dull as the nightclub owner and mobster Greg Benez and has a supporting , but not his usual leading , role in the film . Which didn't give him that much screen time to really do " His Thing " . Both Patricia Ellis and Michael Loring were adequate as the singer and Fed Agent , as well as lovers , in the movie but Ricardo Cortez was really over-the-top as Postal Inspector Bill Davis . Davis spouting platitudes about the wonderful US Post Office in almost every scene he's in that you for a moment thought you were watching a commercial for the USPS . Even though he tried to play his part as seriously as possible Inspector Davis did have a very strange sense of humor in the film . Postal Inspector Davis almost hanged and electrocuted , this was supposed to be his idea of comedy relief , a fellow postal worker in his office with gadgets that were illegally sent through the US Mail . Inspector Davis also seemed to be more worried about the mail of the Yarborough Post Office getting soaked by the raging floodwater's engulfing the town then he was worried about the lives and safety of the postal workers working there .
Out of sight ! Out of mind !	SPOILERS Weird 1940's Hollywood type film noir filmed entirely in the former Communist Peoples Republic of Romania of all places ! The movie has former Chicago Jewel thief Harry Barlow , Dennis Hopper , get involved with this aimless drifter Pierre , Jordan Frieda , who at first tried to rob Harry's beach-front bar . Catching Pierre with his pants down Harry has him put under his wing and trained to rip off the local amusement park's daily take . This all is to happen after the amusement parks grand opening of it's world famous roller costar known as the anti-gravity ride . Pierre ended up getting stuck at this dingy coastal town when his money , that he had hidden in his hotel room , was stolen by this homicidal religious fanatic Simon Guant , David Murray . Simon got Pierre to rip off Harry's Bar only to have Harry , who caught him in the act , get Pierre to work for him instead . Harry plans to use Pierre to rip off the amusement park's owner Michael Philips , Jim Carter , take when the park opens . What both Harry and Pierre don't know is that Simon is playing it both ways in planning to have Michael murdered with the help of Michael's cheating wife Eileen , Gina Gershon , whom he's planning to double-cross at the very last moment . The slippery and slimy Simon has Elieen confess on tape , without her knowing , that she's to have Michael murdered which will be all the evidence that Michael will need , by paying Simon $10 , 000 . 00 for it , to get an air-tight divorce against her ! To round the utterly confusing movie plot out there's also Michael's snotty and spoiled daughter Kelly , Dominique Swain , who's Pierre girlfriend and is also looking to stick it to both her hated parents Michael & Eileen . Kelly is also unknowing working in concert with the greedy and unscrupulous banker Fraser MacDonald , William Armstrong , who's got a lean of Michael's amusement park by him being behind on his loan payments to his bank . It's Fraser who's also just dying to get his hands on the 60 aces of prime waterfront real-estate , that comprises Michael's amusement park , and turn it into a multi-million dollar shopping mall ! SPOILER ALERT The whole mind boggling plot , by Simon Eileen Pierre Kelly & Harry , falls apart with Pierre breaking into Michael's house and thus keeping his wife Eileen from murdering him and being stopped by her partner in crime Simon , who planned to double-cross her all along , from doing it at the very last moment ! Harry who , like almost everyone else involved in break-in at Michael's pad , has no idea of what's going on and is later attacked and both brutally tortured-as well as crucified-and murdered by the crazed and criminally deranged Simon . The by then helplessly drug and alcohol addicted Simon thought that both Harry and his accomplice Pierre ripped off Michaels ' amusement park receipts as well as his wife's , Eileen , jewelry which in fact they didn't ! In the end Simon , together with the femme fatal Eileen , ends up getting everything that he so rightfully deserves with Pierre taking off in the by then late Harry's 1969 firetruck red Cadillac Seville and riding into the California , or is it Romanian , sunset . It's now left for Pierre girlfriend Kelly to put on an act , as well as throw off suspicion on herself , as the grieving and orphaned daughter of her dead parents Michael & Eileen that she unintentionally had a hand in doing in as well as Simon that she very intentionally did leave hanging on a vine .
The doctor's are crazier then the patients in this hospital !	SPOILERS Top rate production values make " Bad Dreams " a notch or two above the average blood-splatter horror movie with a fine and very convincing performance by Jennifer Rubin as Cynthia a Wacco-like , this in a film that was made some five years before the tragedy at Wacco ever even happened , cult survivor who ended up in a coma that lasted for 13 years . Being put in a mental clinic for borderline personalities Cynthia is suddenly visited by her former and dead cult Guru Harris , Richard Lynch , who died together with his cult followers in a flaming holocaust , that he started , back at their cult headquarters or home in 1975 . Harris sometimes appearing to look normal or in other scenes looking like an undercooked barbecue spear rib keeps popping up with only Cynthia seeing him . You like Cynthia don't exactly know if your in the real world or some kind of dream world with a number of scenes in the film making no sense at all looking like their spaced-out or drug-induced hallucinations . Every time that Harris shows up one of the patient's at the hospital ends up killing themselves which causes Cynthia to feel guilty that she's alive and , like Harris keeps telling her , wan't to join him in the world beyond . Dr . Alex Karman , Bruce Abbot , takes a very personal interest in Cynthia's mental condition and wan't to have her put into another hospital where she can get far better treatment then in the clinic that she's now but his boss Dr . Berrisford , Harris Yulin , overrules him . Dr , Karman checking out Dr . Berrisford's treatment of his patient's soon comes to realize that he's purposely treating them with highly toxic and dangerous drugs that's diving them to madness insanity and eventually suicide . Dr . Berrisford is replacing Harris , Cynthia former Guru , with himself as her both lord and master . Dr . Berrisford is obsessed with cult leaders like Harris and his ability to have his followers do anything that he wan't them to do including kill themselves or kill anyone that he would order them to . This all seems to be the ultimate power trip for Berrisford , That's if he can achieve it with the use of strong psychedelic drugs . It takes a while to get used to the constant flashbacks and psychic visions in the movie but when you start to get the hang of it you just go with the flow and don't get distracted by Harris and his constant surprise appearances , as a human being or a swiss crisp rib stake . There's a series of really gruesome , real and imaginary , scenes in the film that will shock you out of your seat , or skin . The real surprise in the film is saved for the final few minutes where Dr . Karman , finally realizing what's going on behind the scenes in the clinic , has it out with the crazed and determined psycho Dr . Berrisford , on top of the hospital roof . Both battle it out in a life and death struggle over the life and soul of a very spaced out and detached from reality Cynthia .
He saw her . . He toyed with her . . He killed her . , And then he came after ME !	SPOILERS The movie " Highwaymen " that takes place on the wide open roads of California is a fairly entertaining as well as interesting film if you overlook some of the major inconsistencies of it's plot . A homicidal driver Fargo , Clom Feore , who's mode of operations is running down , and killing , young women drives his car into and kills James " Rennie " Cray , James Cavlezel , young and beautiful wife Olivia , Guylaine St . Onge , right before his eyes . Tracking the killer down James slam his car into him causing Fargo to lose an arm a leg and an eye . That action also puts James behind bars for three years for vehicular homicide . Out of jail and still looking for his wife's killer James connects a string of hit-and-run " accidents " to Fargo and starts to close in on him . Fargo after his accident is more robot then man and as James puts it " His body is his car " . Fargo begins to play a deadly cat-and-mouse game with James that soon involves Molly , Rhona Mitra , who herself had been traumatized as a little girl when she survived a car accident that killed both her parents . James Cavlezel is so glum and serious in the film that he acts as if he on a mission from God to stop and apprehend or kill the mad motorist , Fargo , from his deadly rounds of killing people all over the state . Clom Feore is both weird and terrifying as the machine-like killer who uses his car as an ingenious and effective killing device . This despite his serious disability is more then a match for the entire California Highway Police Department . Rhona Mitra is both pretty and courageous as Molly the person who Fargo has in his sights as his next victim and who's used , somewhat unwillingly , as bait by James to trap and catch him . Frankie Falson is a reluctant hero as State Traffic Investagator Will Macklin who doesn't carry and never shot a gun in his life . It was Will who put the crazed Fargo's rampage of murder on the roads and highways to flaming and bloody end . The movies many action scenes , that are really stunning , includes a heart-stopping car and truck smash-up in a traffic tunnel that seemed to have be done without the use of any computer-enhanced special effects , thats so common in movies like " Highwaymen " today , that made it all that more startling and effective .
Death is in the Cards	( There are Spoilers ) Having a lot of things on his mind William Everest , Richard Dix , stumbles across a well traveled city street and almost gets run down by a speeding car . Hitting his head against a lamp-post Everest completely loses his memory and stumbles into this Greenwich Village night club " The Salt Shaker " to get a drink . It's there where his future is uncannily foretold by Jean Lang , Janis Carter , in a deck of cards that she's playing with : Everest the cards predict has just 24 hours left to live . Leaving both her sister Frankie played by Jeff , a strange first name for a girl , Donnell and her boyfriend Charlie , Loren Tindall , Jane follows Everest outside in order to keep him from his date with death . Not knowing who Everest really is , since he doesn't know himself , Jean calls him " George " and the two try to figure out his true identity . Looking through " George's " pockets Jean comes up with a number of clues that eventually leads to who he really is . The strange clues include a skeleton key and receipts for a bouquet of flowers and birthday cake as well as a doctors perception and railroad schedule and most of all a Canadian dollar bill with a car license plate written on it ! Spending most of the evening together tracking down the clues the two soon fall in love with each other and George ends up staying the night with both Jean and Frankie in their apartment . George besides being a real dreamboat , in Jean's eyes , also turns out to be a great cook in his God-given ability in frying perfect sunny-side up eggs as well as him being a perfect gentleman ; he also says grace before meals . This has the very suspicious Frankie , who's not as turned on by " Gerorge " as her sister is , to soon fall heads over heels for him as well . There's only one slight imperfection , that goes almost unnoticed by the two women , about this " George " that's very disturbing ! Any living thing that he touches , parrakeet's kittens and squirrels , suddenly and mysteriously die ! It doesn't take long to realize , with the exception of the love and star-struck Jean , that " Geroge " is bad news to anybody that he comes in contact with and that includes Jean Lang who by then really should have known better . Without giving away any more of " The Power of the Whistler's " storyline Jean's cards did in fact predict " George " , or William Everest's fate . SPOILER ALERTIt was only too bad that Everest , an escaped and on the loose psycho from a local mental institution , came across so likable and friendly at the beginning of the movie . Knowing who and what he is would have saved a number of our innocent and fellow living creatures , I can't remember Evererst or " George " murdering any human being in the movie , from the horrible fate , by him poisoning the sweet and lovable little critters to death , that he had in store for them .
Payment for Services Rendered	SPOILERS William Devane is perfectly creepy as the shadowy and somewhat crazed killer Alex Brandt . A man who makes his living whacking people involved in family disputes and demands $100 , 000 . 00 per contract , of the victims relative or lover , or else . Following Chicago PD Captain Steve Murtaugh , Prtrick Duffy , to Portland Oragon Alex is very angry with Steve for running out on him in Chicago . This after he knocked off his former girlfriend who threatened to expose his affair with her to his wife Ellie , Chelse Field . Sending Steve a note demanding $100 , 00 . 00 in cash for his services , which Steve didn't ask for , in the murder of his annoying and blackmailing former girlfriend . Steve gets himself transfered to Portland to get away from this crazy and murderous lunatic who threatened to murder his wife instead of telling her about his secret love affair . Alex then followed Steve and his unsuspecting wife Ellie to the Pacific coast city to shake him down for , what he thinks , is his well deserved fee . Being an electronics expert Alex uses hidden microphones , in places like fountain pens , to zero in and pick up conversations of people having material or family troubles . He then takes it upon himself to settle those differences for a hefty price , $100 , 00 . 00 in cash with no question's asked . While in Portland stalking and terrorizing the Murtaughs Alex takes time to make an extra $200 , 000 , 00 by murdering Arthur Kramer , Walter Hoppert , who he spied on abusing his wife Sally , Mariette Hartley , who threatened to kill him . Sending Mariette a note for payment for her husbands murder Alex has her blackmailed in the fact that she's the only suspect in his death . And if Mariette doesn't pay up he'll see to it that she ends up behind bars if she doesn't or goes to the police with his threats to her ; Mariette pay's Alex the money and keep her mouth shut thus having Alex leave her alone . Murdering Leo Walsh , Alan Miller , by shoving him down an empty elevator shaft Alex demands $100 , 000 . 00 from his brother Jerry , Harris Laskaway , who's business Leon was going to buy out and get's it . But Jerry opens his mouth to the police breaking the bond between them , as Alex angrily puts it , causing Jerry to join his brother Leon in the city morgue . Determined to get his money from Steve Alex overreaches himself by playing his deadly cat and mouse game with Steve a little too close to the vest . This leaves him open to be caught by the Portland Police who , together with Steve , set a number of traps on him . Alex almost gets caught in his secret hideout when the Portland Police track down where he's staying by him joining a local gun club , of all places , from where Alex ordered the unique paper that he wrote his blackmail notes on . Still obsessed with collecting his $100 , 000 . 00 from Steve who later admits to Ellie of his illicit affair back in Chicago , which almost breaks up their marriage , Alex keeps up the pressure but he also starts to get careless by unnecessary , in his arrogant hubris , exposing himself . There's one major fault in the movie " Murder COD " when Alex beaks into the hotel room where Ellie is being kept in hiding by the police . After murdering the policemen guarding her Alex lets her , for some strange and unexplained reason , live where she can later identify him . That lead to him being shot and killed by her husband Steve which brought the film down a few notches ; otherwise the movie is a better then average made-for-TV suspense / thriller .
A Rainy night In Georgia	SPOILERS One rainy night in Georgia a young women is found murdered at the Ft . McCullen Army Base . She turns out to be the bases commanders Lt . Gen Joseph Campbell , James Cromwell , daughter Capt . Elisabeth Campbell , Leslie Stefanson . Elisabeth worked in the Pys / Opps department on the army base which is into manipulating and playing with peoples minds . Assigned to the case are Warrant Officers Paul Brenner and Sara Sunhill , John Travolta and Madeleine Stowe , to find the murderer . There are a number of fingerprints found on the murder site that belong to Col . Robert Moore , James Woods , and he's arrested and put into lock-up . Later because the officer , Col . William Kent , Timothy Hutton , in charge of lock-up wasn't told the reasons for Moore's incarceration he's released to his quarters . Brenner and Sunhill go to Moore's house to re-arrest him and find him dead , he shot himself . The trail of Capt . Campbell's murder leads the investigators to West Point where they find out that Capt . Campbell was brutally raped in a military exercise some seven years ago . The rape , with the help of her father Lt . Gen . Campbell , was covered up for the good of the military as well as the academy . Elisabeth Campbell over the years developed a deep and bitter resentment against her father Lt . Gen . Campbell for not trying to find and punish those who beat and raped her . Working in Pys / Opps she used what she learned there , in mind games , to play with and torture her father's mind over his betrayal of her for his love of the army . One of those games that she was playing on her father seemed to have gone terribly wrong the night she was found murdered . Ridiculously contrived story about the going's on behind the scenes in the US military . John Travolta acts in the movie more like a vicious thug then an army investigator brutalizing and intimidating everyone that he comes in contact with in regards to the murder investigation , from generals to privates and this guy is only a warrant office ! The best thing that you can say about Travolta's acting in the movie is that he dropped that very unconvincing and annoying southern accent that he used early in the film ; who did he think he was playing ? Gomer Pyle USMC ? . The accent was so phony that it almost got him killed earlier in the movie when he tried to set up some militia type , by selling him arms . The on the ball militia man got wind of him just by listening to Trovolta talk as well as his stupid and obnoxious actions when he was dealing with him . The way the movie treated the US military was the biggest crime in it . There's nobody in the movie that you could consider normal including it's star John Travolta . With a surprise ending that was so contrived , in the light of the serious subject matter , that it came across almost as a comedy . With the only normal and stable person in the army as well as the movie turning out to be the murderer . The only good thing that one can say about " The Generals Daughter " , in light of how it insulted and demeaned the US military , is that it was based on a not true story .
One-Trick Whodunit	Witty little British Whodunit based on the Frank Vosper play " Murder on the Second Floor " has everyone in the cast suspected of murdering one of the tenants of the Armitage Lodging House where they all live in , but who did it ? Joe Reynolds is found stabbed to death in his room and everyone in the lodge may have a good reason to have done him in . Ram Sigh , Turhan Bey , who we saw at the beginning of the film together with Joe , at the London docks , working for an organization to free India from British rule . Singh as a patriot and Reynolds as a profiteer . They later got into an argument at the lodge about the money , $500 , 000 . 00 , that was supposed to go to that organization . Singh is later attacked in his room by some thug whom he killed , who may have worked for Joe . Sella Armitage , Fredia Inescort , the owner together with her husband Tom , Milles Mender , has been having an affair with Joe . Tom earlier in the movie caught her and Joe embracing without them knowing about it . Did Tom kill Joe in a fit of jealous rage ? There's Lucy , Phyllis Barry , the lodge's maid who was also having an affair with Joe behind Stella's back . Did Lucy murder Joe because he broke it off and at the same time did Stella kill Joe for him two-timing her ? The last three person residing at the Armitage Lodge are Tom & Stella's daughter Sylvia , Heather Angel , playwright Hugh Bromilow , Bruce Lester , and spinster Phoebe Martis St . John Snell , Mary Field . On the surface the three don't seem to have any reason for killing Joe but there something in the past that we'll find out later in the movie that he did to one , or all , of them to make them murder him . All I can say is that even the great Sherlock Holmes would have a hard time solving this murder mystery much less the audience .
Night of the Orgies	MAJOR SPOILERS Having felt that man has not lived up to his potentials since he's restricted by the laws imposed on him by society Dr . Emil Hobbs , Fred Doedrlein , has developed this parasitic type earthworm . The parasite when entering the human body , orally as well as sexually , will cause the person to drop all his or her inhibitions , as well as their pants and skirts , and let it all hang out attacking and raping anyone they come in contact with . Having implanted his new " invention " on one of his patients Annabelle , Kathy Graham , Dr . Hobbs soon realized that he had created a Frankenstein monster ! In a wild frenzy Dr . Hobbs strangled Annabelle in his suite at the Starliner Apartment Complex before , feeling a deep sense of guilt , slitting his own throat . It turned out to be too late for the guilt-ridden Dr . Hobbs to stop the sexually transmitted plague that he created . It soon becomes evident that the parasite left the dead Annabelle's body and started infecting everyone in the apartment complex . Traveling though the air-condition ducts garbage disposal and plumbing systems of the apartment complex the parasite has easy excess to everyone living there . By the time the movie is over everyone living and working in the apartment complex had become a victim of the attacking parasite . Both young and old , from pre-teenagers to senior citizens , people that were infected by the parasite became so horny and sexually aroused that they went on a full scale wild orgy by the time the movie ended . These uncontrollable sexual acrobatics not only spilled into the surrounding neighborhoods but city's and towns as well . Even though the movie " They Came from Within " or " Shivers " was made some five years before the emergence of the deadly AIDS epidemic in the early 1980's its striking similarities to that both sexually and blood transmitted disease is absolutely amazing . The deadly parasite , like the AIDS virus , enters it's victim and causes him or her bodily defenses to totally collapses : It's there where the similarities between the AIDS virus and parasite ends . The parasite soon causes its infected host to go out looking , like a vampire looking for blood to survive , for new victims and strikes out at anyone uninfected in a wild sexual frenzy . This ends up with the infected person implanting the parasite in his or her victims body to start the whole cycle , person to person transmission , all over again . The film is a lot like " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " in that nobody knows who's been infected , like the people who's bodies were taken over by the body snatchers , by the parasite until it's too late . The resident doctor at the apartment complex Dr . Roger St Luc , Paul Hampton , gets the lowdown to what exactly is going on there from his colleague Dr . Rollo Linsky , Joe Silver . Rollo had been working with the late Dr . Hobbs before he completely cracked up and killed , along with Annabelle , himself . It's later that Rollo himself falls victim to the deadly parasite when he's attacked by Nicholas Tudor , Allan Kolman , a resident at the apartment complex . Tudor had been infected by the parasite when , cheating behind his wife ' Janine's ( Susan Petie ) back , he had a sexual tryst with Annabelle . Trapped in the complex with its sex-crazed residents trying to both rape as well has induct Roger into their ranks has him make an desperate attempt to escape the fate that awaits him there . Roger tries to cross the causeway , connecting Starliner Island to the mainland , making a wild dash to both freedom safety . SPOILERS It's then that Roger realizes just how helpless his both escape attempt and him warning the general public is ! The cat , or parasite , is out of the bag , or plumbing system ! And with it being able to greatly intensify man's most darkest and suppressed , through laws and religion , thoughts and taboos there's nothing on God's green earth , military medically or psychologically , that can stop it !
There's nothing that goes on in this town that I don't know about	SPOILERS You usual control freak with a badge movie has handsome but mentally unstable Sheriff Dave Ward , Harry Hamlin , running the small , on the Canadian , border town of Redwood like it's his own little fiefdom where his word is the only law in town . Sheriff Ward is also big with the ladies in town even though were constantly told that he's happily married with his wife being about as visible , or invisible , as that of TV L . A Detective Let . Francis Columbo who's only heard of but never seen by anyone in the audience or cast . It's when perky and pretty single mom Annie Walter , Michele Greene , shows up at the local police station for a job interview that Sheriff Ward starts to overplay his hand . That in the end leads to Ward's ultimate downfall as the top dog in Redwood by becoming just another jailbird in a Federal pen facing a long stretch behind bars . Annie transferring from the Cincinnati PD is a bit more sophisticated , then the members of the Redwood Police Department , with the law and how it should be both followed and applied . She soon realizes that the handsome Sheriff Ward is not only a sexual harasser , which is the least of his many imperfections , but also an illegal drug and contraband dealer . The Sheriff also likes to work over helpless prisoners in getting them to confess to crimes that they didn't commit . It's when Sheriff Ward starts to put the screws on Annie , in trying to get her to go to bed with him , that she goes over his head with a sexual harassment suit that she files against him . It was a hard thing for Annie to do since she's stuck in Redwood with her young daughter Sarha , Elysa Hogg , and a $180 , 000 mortgage form a cabin that the manipulative Sheriff Ward got for her . Sheriff Ward not only leans on Annie but his private secretary Patty Renault , Linda Doucett , which has the two women file federal sexual harassment charges against him . Sheriff Ward is now also very desperate to keep the lid on his illegal , which the sexual harassment suit can expose , activities in town which can very well , and do , bring the weight of the Federal Government , or the FBI , on top of him . You know right away as soon as you see him that Sheriff Ward is a bit off center with him always wearing heavily bleached dungarees instead of the police issued pants that all the police in his department wear . Maybe this was his way of being either sexy , to the the women in town , or just pain different . There's also the strange relationship that the Sheriff has with Redwood's local child abuser , and later rapist , Fred Brandon , Don Thompson . Thompson is always getting drunk and beating the living hell of his pre-teenage daughter Kristi , Amber Warrent , with Sheriff Ward , after busting Thompson's face up , letting him go free and on to later continue his beating Kristi ? It's later found out that Thompson is involved with the Sheriff's illegal drug and contraband smuggling activities which is why he's always covering up for him . Later when Sheriff Ward catches Thompson stealing some of his sht he has no trouble smashing his skull in with his flashlight killing him . This mindless act on Sheriff Ward's part brought the FBI , who were watching him for months , into the mix and had Annie stick her neck out , with an undercover wire , to finally catch the bum . Actually Sheriff Ward's sexual harassment of both Annie and Patty , who later dropped all the charges against him , would never have gotten anywhere with him being an upstanding citizen and happily married , with his wife never being seen at all in the film , man . It was his illegal drug pushing or dealing , as well as arrogance , not his inflamed and overactive libido that in the end did Sheriff Ward in where he ended up being the one getting screwed instead of his female victims .
Dog Bites Werewolf	SPOILERS At the start of the movie " Bad Moon " Janet , Mariel Hemingway , is harassed by this two-bit shyster Flopsy , Hrothgar Mathews , who's trying to make a quick buck by inciting Janet's and her young son Brett , Mason Gamble , handsome smart and courageous German Shepherd Thor on him in order to sue her for everything that she's got . Thor has Flopsy running for his life with his tail between his legs and threatening to report her and Thor to the local sheriff . Later Janet gets a call from her brother Ted , Michael Pare , who's been away for a while on the Indian sub-continent with his fellow archaeologist and girlfriend Marjorie , Johanna Lebovitz . Janet is more then happy to invite Ted to stay with her not knowing that Ted had picked up a little something in the wilderness of Tibet ; a vicious wolf bite when he and Marjorie were attacked in their tent by a wolf-like animal that tore Marjorie to pieces and left Ted barely alive . At the house Thor senses that there's something strange about Ted and Ted knows it . Thor's got the drop on Ted for what he really is . Thor being civil doesn't let on to Janet and Brett who Ted really is in order not to spoil the family get-together but keeps a close eye on Ted to the point where one night he follows him into the woods and sees what he really is , A Werewolf . Ted to his credit does try to prevent himself from going out in the woods at night , when there's a full moon , and killing both people and animals by handcuffing himself to a tree in the forest . This doesn't work all the time with Ted breaking loose and attacking and killing a number of campers and neighbors . One night Flopsy sneaks onto Thor's dog-house with an ax in order to kill him for making a fool out of him by showing him up for what he really is a coward and chiseler . Flopsy instead of finding Thor is found by Ted , in his werewolf mode , and ripped to shreds . Sheriff Jenson , Ken Pogue , who Flopsy reported that he was attacked by Thor earlier in the movie has the local ASPCA take Thor to the dog-pound to be euthanized for the suspected killing of Flopsy . With both Janet and Brett alone and Thor not being around to protect them Ted again turns into a werewolf at moonlight . Janet follows Ted into the woods to see just what he's been doing all those nights that he's been away from the house and , seeing him for what he really is , gets the shock of her life . Ted chasing Janet into the house while Brett , who left earlier , drives with his bike to the pound and saves Thor from being killed by letting him loose . Thor immediately shoots right to the house , almost getting himself killed in the heavy traffic on the country roads , where Janet is being attacked and fighting off the man-turned-beast Ted . Taking on the much bigger and more powerful werewolf Thor's courage and valor more then makes up for Ted's strength and ferocity . With the help of Janet blasting Ted with a full load of lead from her handgun Thor , injured and bleeding , then slams Ted right out of a top floor window killing him . Thor who was on death-row just hours before ended up saving the day , or was it the night , as well as both Janet and Brett lives . " Bad Moon " is a pretty good dog coming to the rescue film with Thor stealing every scene , as well as bone , that he was in . The one thing that puzzled me about the hero of the movie , Thor , was what happened to him after he was savagely bitten and mauled by the werewolf ? shouldn't he have also turned into a werewolf himself like Ted did or are werewolf bites only effective on humans not animals when it comes to making then into beasts ! The answer may be that Thor being a dog he can't be effected by any werewolves bites since he's , I know this is very hard to believe , a beast already ?
Midnight Madness	SPOILERS Action flick that never lets up for a moment as it takes you on a terror ride that will leave you on edge and out of breath . Mark Hamill is as creepy as you can get in this film as the escaped mental patient Justin who takes Lara , Savina Gersak , hostage and ends up killing sixteen people , by my count , before the night is over . After having a domestic fight with her cop husband Lawson , Michael Dudikoff , Lara leaves for a friends house and picks up a harmless looking hitch-hiker Justin and then ends up having the ride of her life . Killing everyone that he comes in contact with Justin ends up murdering ten policemen and six civilians as he takes Lara to the hospital where he escaped from earlier in the evening . Justin wants to see and have a talk with his doctor Dr . Hardy , Robert Mitchum . Lawson who Justin tried to murder by driving a taxi with him strapped to the hood gets to the hospital just before Justin puts Lara under electric shock treatment , which Dr . Hardy refused to do . They then both have it out with Justin falling down a balcony and getting electrocuted on a grid . Were told later by Dr . Hardy that Justin is insane , to no ones surprise watching the movie . Only to have Justin re-appear later in the hospital elevator , disguised as a hospital patient , with both Lara and Lawson only to get a bullet between his eyes by a fast thinking and fast shooting Lawson . The movie " Midnight Ride " works on all levels as a suspense horror thriller as well as a chase action movie and it's a wonder that the film is not as well known as it should be . Mark Hamill steals the acting honors in the film as a psycho killer who makes movie psycho's like Michael Myers from Halloween and Jason from Friday the Thirteenth look like school yard bullies in comparison . No matter how unbelievable the actions that Hamill does in the film are you still believe that he could do them . Thats just how convincing he is as a uncontrollable escaped psycho . Robert Mitchum is effective in his small part as Justin's doctor and both Michael Dudikoff and Savina Gersak were very good as Lara and her husband Lawson . But it's Mark Hamill's one man show as the murderous and insane Justin that really makes the movie " Midnight Ride " as good as it is . This is one movie to watch that you would need to strap on your seat-belt and hold on tight for an unbelievable adrenaline rush .
The only man who's not afraid to die is the one who's dead already	( There are Spoilers ) Showing up unannounced at the Sage Home for the Blind professional hit-men Charlie and Lee , Lee Marvin & Clu Gulager , acting with no concern at all for the physically disable persons who work and are patients there find whom they've been paid $25 , 000 . 00 each to rub out instructor Johnny Nichols , John Cassavetes . Not at all making any attempt to save himself Johnny waits for the enviable and gets it , a dozen slugs , as both Charlie & Lee empty their guns on him . Later it plays on Charlie's mind the reason why Johnny was so serene looking and almost wanting to die ! Making up his mind to find out the truth about Johnnys past Charlie and his hit-man pal Lee make it a point to check out the dead Nichols ' friends and associates . Criss-crossing the country , from Florida to California , Charlie & Lee come up with a very intriguing story . Four years ago Johnny Nichols , who's real name turned out to be Johnny North , was involved in a million dollar mail-truck robbery with the money from that heist never being found or accounted for ! Being a top race car driver Johnny got in with the wrong crowd that included sexy but conniving Shelia Farr , Angie Dickinson . Told by his close friend and car mechanic Earl Sylvester , Claude Akins , that Shelia was nothing but trouble Johnny ignored him ending up out of shape , form partying with Shelia , for the big upcoming race . Neglecting Earl's advice not only cost Johnny his car which was totaled in the race but career as a top professional race car driver as well . Trying to make a living by drifting from one cheap track to another racing old and decrepit jalopies and using assumed names Johnny is later again approached by Shelia . It turns out that Shelia is now in tight with these gangsters who's boss Jack Browing , Roland Reagan , she's romantically involved with . Browning planning a major mail robbery needed an expert driver and Shelia convinced him that Johnny was his man . Johnny just couldn't get Shelia out of his mind and not only agreed to take the job but planned to take her away from the dangerous and vindictive Browning as well . All this is seen in flashback with the two hit-men , Charlie & Lee , tracking down a number of Johnny's partners in the mail robbery . Told by one of the robbers Mickey Farmer , Norman Fell , that the robbery went off without a hitch . But later Johnny doubled-crossed him & Browning and his fellow mail robber the deceased George Flemming , Robert Philips . By kicking Browning out of the getaway car and then taking off with the stolen million . Johnny did somehow get away from the Browing gang but not from hit-men Charlie & Lee . At the end of the movie we finally find out just who hired these two hit-men in the first place and even worse , or far more sinister , what his real reasons were . Re-make of the film-noir 1946 classic , " The Killers " with Burt Lancaster , with future Presdent of the United States Ronald Wilson Reagan in what turned out to be not only his last movie role . The film also turned out to be his one and only part , in the some 50 films that he stared in , where the good natured friendly and affable actor played a heavy ; the ruthless cold-blooded and back-stabbing hood " Black Jack " Browning .
Cat O ' Nine Tails	SPOILERS Weird and unbelievable movie , well after the Bill Clinton / Monica Walinsky affair I'm willing to believe anything , about an up and coming California politician David Stratton , John Forsythe . Stratton got the state senate seat in his sights but ends up getting blackmailed kidnapped beaten and almost killed by a young women , and her oddball friends . Stratton found the bunch sleeping in his daughters bedroom one morning when he came back from a political dinner , both his wife and daughter were on vacation . The young women Jody , Ann-Margret , gives David a sob story about her being a runaway from a broken home and the jerk falls for it . I really think that Stratton fell for Jody's gorgeous VA VA VOOM body more then anything else . The guy may be a bit foolish and naive but he's not blind . David goes as far as going out to the store to get Jody a new set of clothes but as David is away Jody calls her friends to come over to David's place and party . It turns out that Jody isn't the sweet and innocent fawn that she claimed to be but a hardened juvenile delinquent who just escaped from a home for uncontrollable young girls . That after she tried to burn the place down and stabbed an attendant who tried to stop her , wild and crazy girl that Jody is . Crashing David's house that night Jody's friends Ron Buck & Midge , Peter Brown Skip Ward & Diane Sayer hold David hostage as they drink and drug themselves into such a wild frenzy that Midge later leaves them in terror . Ron in what had to be a drug induced hallucination tells Buck to slash him with a razor . It's his way of showing that his will-power can stop the pain and bleeding from the wound ! Instead he ends up being in danger of bleeding to death . Getting David to drive the three across the border to a doctor that they know in Mexico to treat Ron they go on a drug and drinking binge in Tijuana . It gets so out of hand that even Jody can't take it anymore and gives David back his car keys to take her back across the border to California . Judy then plans to give herself up to the police and face the music . David driving with Jody to California is then attacked on the highway by Buck & Ron who drive David them off the road but the two are so stoned and drunk that they lose control of their car and go crashing off a cliff into flames and to their deaths . With Jody thrown clear from David's car and smashing her skull killing herself , only David survived the double car crash . The police covered up David's involvement with the three dead felons and thus saved his reputation his marriage and political career . David laying in his hospital bed with his head and ribs and bones broken can now recover and get back to the normal world that he lived in . Thats before Jody walked , or slept , into his life with nobody but himself and the police knowing for better or worse what happened . Don't you just love those Hollywood happy endings .
I planned this too well , I Won't Have It Spoiled Now !	SPOILERS At their big wedding ceremony just as both the groom David McLean , Robert Ryan , and the bride Ellen Ewing , Claudtte Colbert , are about to say " I Do " this party , or wedding , crasher pops up out of nowhere . The crasher then announces that Ellen is already married and that he should know since he was the best man at her wedding . Giving out some information about what he knows about Ellen and her husband a Mr . Lucian Randell , David Barbour , the crasher takes off like a house on fire never to be heard or seen again . Thats until very late in he film when his reasons for putting on this strange surprising spectacle become very evident . The priest is reluctant to continue with the marriage ceremony when what the crasher said checks out after a quick phone call by the town of Riverview's District Attorney Eric Lowell , Paul Kelly , where the supposed wedding took place . It turns out from the towns record department that it's a fact that a Ellen Ewing and Lucian Randell were indeed married there on March 21 just as the wedding gate crasher said before he took off ! Left high and dry on their wedding day both David and Ellen decide to travel to Riverview and get to the bottom of this mystery so they can get on with their lives as a happily married couple . At Riverview it turns out that not only do the records check out that Ellen is married to a Mr . Randell but that everyone there recognizes her as being married to him ! Staying at the Shallman Hotel Ellen is even more shocked when the maid Leah , Vivian Vance , not only recognizes her as staying there , in fact in the very same room that she's now in with David , with Lucian Randell on their wedding night but also has a gold pin , that belonged to Ellen's late mother , that Ellen supposedly gave her as a tip ! It just get's too much for David and Ellen with everyone that they talk to in town remembering Ellen and Mr . Randell being married there and finally decide to see this Randell for themselves . Finding out that Randell hangs out at this local jazz club both Ellen and David go to see him and get to the bottom of this mess once in for all . At the club Randell comes up the a shocked and befuddled Ellen , to the annoyance of David , and chats with her as if he and her were married to each other . He then invites Ellen to go into a private room to talk things over as David is left behind paralyzed with his jaw almost dropping to the floor . A moment later behind closed doors a shot rings out and when the musicians and David rush in they find Randall dead from a bullet wound and Ellen standing there in a state of shock with a gun that belongs to her , the murder weapon , at her feet ! Arrested for her " husbands " murder Ellen goes into a deep depression that has her institutionalized but all the psychological and medical tests on her shows that Ellen is total incapable of committing a violent act ! If this is true who was in the room with her and Randell to gun Randell down ? Was it Ellen or did Randall who seemed so happy and gay at the time , commit suicide ? Why if anyone did murder Randell why didn't Ellen see it ? The movie " The Secret Fury " gets more and more stranger as it goes along and as Ellen slowly loses her mind and grip on reality . David goes back to Riverview to find out the truth about his future wife and circumstances of Randell's death and the truth turns out to be even stranger then fiction or what we were lead to believe that it was up until then ! The mind is not only a terrible thing to waste but even more a terrible thing to play around with and manipulate . This is what happens in " The Secret Fury " with poor Ellen being driven insane and into a mental institution hopefully , in the mind of the person who's driving Ellen mad , for the rest of her life . The real murderous psychotic in the movie is someone who no one , especially Ellen , would ever suspect and his reasons for doing these terrible things to Ellen are even more insane that he is ! The killer made one big mistake in his subconscious and innocent quirks that are at first totally overlooked by everyone , including Ellen , in the film . It just happened that as Ellen became more and more psychotic , or paranoid , her subconscious mind picked up these quirks and putting two and two together she soon realized who the person is . Getting the jump on Ellen the killer , who also picked up Ellen picking up his very unusual mannerisms , quickly goes into attack mode revealing the real reason for his actions , cold blooded and naked revenge , but not for what she but her late father did to him . This sets off the final nail-biting scene where David comes to Ellen's rescue without knowing what exactly is going on and who exactly is trying to murder her until the very last , and most exciting , moment in the movie .
Get the " Flock " otta here !	SPOILERSRichard Gere sheds his sexy and good guy image here in " The Flock " by playing this borderline psychotic Erroll Babbage who's one of the most outrageously bad law enforcement agents , he works for the Department of Public Safety , in motion picture history . We get to see Babbage in action within the first few minutes of the movie when he smashes in paroled sex offender Vincent Dennison's , Dwayne L . Barnes , skull because he did't give him the right answer to his question ! : " Do you still have any sexual fantasies ? " . It's amazing that Babbage's boss at the Department of Public Safety " Bobby Stiles , Ray Wise , put up with Babbage all these years with him battering beating and in some cases playing Russian Roulette , on the persons hands , with the persons , all convicted sex offenders , that he's suppose to just monitor ! It's now gotten so bad that the DPS , Department of Public Safety , want's Babbage to be put out to pasture , or retire , as soon as possible before he finally , after numerous tries , kills someone in his custody . Given three weeks to break in his new replacement Allison Lowary , Clair Danes , Babbage would put her through so much stress and danger that by the time the three weeks are up Allison will either be ready for a padded cell or become a female version of the person she's to replace ! Her mentor the mentally unstable and dangerous Erroll Babbage ! Babbage is obsessed in finding this girl who was kidnapped by , what he thinks , one of his flock , the persons that he's monitoring , Harriet Wells played by Kristina Sisco . With less then a month left to his forced retirement Babbage goes all out to find both Harritt and the person , or persons , who kidnapped her . Working the streets of Albuqerque as well as driving the roads , with Allison , of the wide and open desert outside the city Babbage slowly unearths what not only happened to Harriett but a person from his dark past who's been haunting him for years Abagail . Abagail was a young teenage runaway who Babbage let slipped through his fingers some years ago in her being both kidnapped and never , until the end of the movie , being seen again . The lowlife scum of humanity that Babbage has to deal with in the movie can turn anyones stomach but the way he deals with them , being that he's supposed to help make them fit to live in society , makes them even worse . Babbage does in fact uncover this sex and torture ring that's , which is no surprise at all , exclusively run by members of his " Flock " of paroled sex offenders ! The sex / torture / and later murder ring includes both Viola Fray , KaDee Srickland , and her psycho boyfriend Glenn Custis , Matt Schulze , who do most of their bloody work in an abandoned trailer park outside the city . Custis besides being a sick and sadistic sexual pervert also has a full blooded wolf , incidentally named by Custis " Wolf " , as a pet . It's later in the film the " Wolf " in a vicious attack almost tears Babbage's left arm off . Another member of the Fray / Custis kidnap and torture team is young and sensitive looking Edmond Groom , Russell Sams . Edmond who besides being into S & M also Ike's to work over his women , mostly teenage runaways , by trying not to leave any marks on them that his monitor Babbage would notice . Later in the movie Edmond himself gets worked over by Babbage , in front of some half dozen witnesses , who was in disguised wearing a ski mask . It's in the end of the movie that Babbage's brutal methods finally bear fruit but at the price of his own sanity . As for Babbage's partner Allison Lowary she ends up a lot wiser in her job with not only dealing with paroled and dangerous sex offenders but with the sick and disturbed co-workers , like Erroll Babbage , that she may sometime have to deal with as well .
Nobody puts the finger on Joe Reno and gets away with it ! And Don't You Forget It !	( There are Spoilers ) Having trouble holding his splintering crime syndicate together mob boss Maxie Meadows has his henchmen Joe Reno & Axe Duncon get one of his boys Slick , alone in a L . A parking lot , and beat the guy to death . Slick made the mistake of leaving Maxie's organization for the up and coming Mr . Big of L . A crime Billy Tompkins who's muscling in on Maxie's turf . Math teacher Alan Avery on his way home from the drug store sees Slick getting it , from Reno & the Axe , and calls the police not giving his name . Alan unknowingly leaves , in the phone booth , a prescription that he got for his pregnant wife Edie with both her name and address on it . Confronted by the police and pressured to identify and later testify against the two murderers sets into motion a series of events through a snitch in the police department . This all leads to Alan's wife Edie getting brutally murder by one of Maxie's henchmen the hulking and brain damaged former boxer Chester . Chester not knowing his own strength was told by Maxie to just smack Edie around but over did it and pummeled her , a woman eight months pregnant , to death . Alan now not caring what happens to him is determined to take the law into his own hands since the police and D . A are helpless to indite Maxie or Chester for Edie's murder with no one willing to testify against the two hoodlums . It turns out that he doesn't have to with the Topmkins mob doing it for him . Early Charles Bronson crime drama that's eerily similar to his block buster hit that made him almost overnight an international action star 16 years later as the New York vigilante avenger Paul Kersey in " Death Wish " . In fact Bronson's Alan Avery was also like Paul Kersey in " Death Wish " a Korean War veteran who like in that ground-breaking crime film Alan was motivated to take matters into his own hands after his wife Edie played by Gloria Henry , like Hope Lange who played Mrs . Kersey in " Death Wish " , was savagely murdered ! The movie moves to it's surprising climax with Alan buying a gun at a local pawn shop and as he's about to break into Maxie's place as Tompking & Co . beats him to it . Maxie was having a Christmas Eve party and expected everyone who's anyone in L . A crime to show up . Instead Maxie is left a broken man as Tompkins has all his hoodlum desert him . With the only friend in the world that he still has the almost brain dead Chester getting worked over and knock out cold by Tompkins ' hoods . With nobody left for Maxie to give orders to he goes into his study and breaks down crying like a baby . Alan , now after all the action is over , enters the place gun in hand and ready to blow the now former mob boss away . In what has to be the most effective and even touching scene in the movie Alan for the first time loses his determination in wanting to do in his wife's killer or the man who was responsible for her murder . Alan then slowly walks away and drops his gun on the ground as he does it . It turned out that Alan did the right thing as he left Maxie's place he sees a number of police squad cars pulling up in the driveway . The cops have a number of warrants for Maxie's arrest gotten from his now indited for murder and jailed henchmen .
Decent remake of the 1956 thriller	( There are Spoilers ) Meeting young Philadelphia collage student Dorothy Carlsson , Sean Young , at that city's municipal buildings marriage license bureau Jonathan Corliss , Matt Dillon , finds the office closed for lunch . Jonathan then talks the madly in love with him Dorothy into going up on the roof to see the sights until the office opens . Chit-chatting with Dorothy about their forthcoming marriage and what her authoritative father copper tycoon Thor Carlsson , Max Von Sydow , would do to her when he found about about it . Jonathan suddenly grabs a shocked Dorothy by her legs and shoves her off the roof and to her death below . Quickly leaving the building Jonathan drops a letter in the mailbox written by Dorothy that's supposed to be a suicide note that he had earlier tricked her into writing . We later learn that Dorothy was made pregnant by Jonathan and the thought of him marrying her with her father cutting Dorothy out of her sizable inheritance was not in his plans . This drove him to murder her in order to keep Mr . Carlsson from finding out about it which he did anyway . What we also learn in what's in Jonathan's sick and devious plans is to go to step two and get to know and romance Dortohy's twin sister Ellen , also played by Sean Young . In this way Jonathan can have her replace the deceased Dorothy as his very rich and future wife . Hitch-hiking to New York City where Ellen works as a volunteer at Castel House , a Covenant House-like shelter for the homeless , Jonathan is picked up Jay Faraday , Adam Horovitz , who we later find out he murdered and stole his identity . In no time at all Jonathan works his way into Ellen's heart getting a job at Castle House and working together with her driving around the drug and crime infested streets of mid-town Manhattan . The two volunteer workers pick up and give hope as well as finding a home for discarded homeless and drug-addicted youths . Unknown to Jonathan Ellen never believed that her sister Dorothy killed herself and with her going out on her own to solve Dorothy's death it will lead to uncovering who her real killer is ; Ellen's future husband Jonathan , now known as Jay Faraday , Corliss ! Unlike in the original " A Kiss Before Dying " in the updated version Jonathan and Ellen do get married and her finding out about him being her sister's murderer she discovers on her own . Not with the help of the ex-cop and now private investigator Dan Corelli , James Russo , whom she hired . Ellen as well as her father Thor are far more naive about her boyfriend / husband in this version of the movie then in he original with all the clues about Jonathan right in front of them . The most obvious being that Jonathan was using an assumed and stolen , from one of his murder victims , name which by not being able to find that very simple fact out was by far the biggest blunder that Thor Cralsson made in the movie . Were earlier told that Mr . Carlsson was so protective of his daughters that he had anyone who dated them investigated from head to toe . So why couldn't he find out that his future son-in-law was not only an impostor but possibly , with him assuming the name of a missing person , a murderer as well ! The ending is by far the best part of the movie far better then the ending of the 1956 version . Even though overall it was not as good as the 1956 original Jonathan gets it a lot worse here in the form of a runaway diesel locomotive ; where in the 1956 film he was only done in by an 18 wheeler .
Charlie Chan : G-Man	SPOILERS Recruited by the US Government to help in the war effort back home Charlie Chan , Sidney Toland , has his hands full in tracking down a shadowy hooded figure , looking a lot like the ghoul in the movie " Scream " , who heads a Nazi spy ring in San Francisco . Setting a trap for Nazi spy Raush , Charles Wegweheim , on the SF waterfront Raush evades Charlie and his partner NYPD Capt . Flynn , Robert Homans , only to end up murdered by one of his fellow spies . Raush had to be silenced because he knew too much and was about to be caught and made to talk by Charlie & Co . Getting the license plate number of the getaway car with the person who murdered Raush driving leads Charlie together with his # 3 son Tommy , Benson Fong , and Charlie's chauffeur and Tommy's sidekick Birmingham Brown , Mantan Moreland , to the Cosmon Radio Center . It turns out that the getaway car belonged to radio actress Diane Hall , Helen Deverell , who reported it stolen earlier that evening . It also turned out that Raush's killer is one of the people working at the radio studio ! With him leaving his bloody footprint-thus the title of the movie " The Scarlet Clue " - there the same footprint , and shoe size , that he left at the murder scene . From this point on the killer knowing that Charlie is zeroing in on him , in working at the radio studio , starts to murder anyone who can implicate him in Raush's murder as well as being a top Nazi spy . Even those Nazi spies that he's in charge of ! Typical Charlie Chan movie with # 3 son Tommy gumming up the machinery in him trying to show that he's as good a detective as his Papa Charlie is . Mantan Moreland's Birmingham Brown is by far best thing going for the movie stealing every scene that he's in . Moreland's hysterical quick and witty dialog keeps the audience entertained when the film starts to lag , with a number of confusing sub-plots thrown in , in the second half . There's also Morelands good friend , in real life , Ben Carter who makes a guest appearance in the film as , who else , Ben Carter . The two , Moreland & Carter , go into this routine where they never finish a sentence as if they were reading each others minds . This drives # 3 son Tommy almost to drink in trying to figure out just what the two are talking about ! Charlie himself comes across as if he's suffering from a severe case of sleep deprivation talking in an , more then usual for him , mechanical-like monotone voice throughout most of the film . If you didn't know any better you would think that Charlie was either under hypnosis or just plain tired , Sidney Toland made a record 5 Charlie Chan movies that year , or overworked . In the end Charlie got his man-The Nazi spy master-with the same trap that he set for Charlie # 3 son Tommy and Birmingham Brown earlier in the film . It just goes to show how ineffective the head Nazi spy and his bumbling cohorts were in that he , as well as them , not only couldn't steal the secret radar plans from the US Government but were totally ignorant to what deadly traps they , in trying to off Charlie & Co . , set up in he Cosmo Radio Center as well .
I only write about nightmares you create them	( There are Spoilers ) Dark and depressing movie about man's fight to keep his individualism in a world run and controlled by faceless and unfeeling bureaucracies . Franz Kafka , Jeremy Irons , has been quietly working as a clerk for a major government insurance company for almost nine years with the only person that he ever had a social relationship with being fellow clerk Edward Raban , Vladimir Gut . Edward had been secretly an active member of a revolutionary group that the secret police have been tracking and ends up dead floating in the Danube River . Kafka informed that Edward committed suicide by police official Gruback , Armin Mueller-Stahl , takes it upon himself to find out what really happened to his friend . Kafka gets in touch with Edward's girlfriend and fellow insurance clerk Gabriela , Theresa Russell , that has him ending up joining the anti-government group that the late Edward Raban and Gabriela are members of . Being a strong proponent of individualism himself Kafka fits right in with Gabriela and her fellow revolutionaries and become involved in overthrowing the government that he works for . A government that has enslaved him and his fellow workers by taking away their right to think for themselves . Where they eventually end up as a mindless mass of brainwashed zombies loyally obedient to every command , as senseless and ridicules as it is , that those in power give them . Kafka getting a promotion by his boss the chief clerk , Alac Guinness , that was supposed to go to his dead friend Edward . What he doesn't know is that he's being spied on by the two bumbling assistants that he's been assigned and that the government has already put him on their sht-list as a person who's ideas are dangerous to the state . It's later when Gabriela is fired from her job that Kafka realizes that the government , through it's secret police , is on to both him and the revolutionary group that he and Gabriela are members of . Thats when trying to track her down he finds this secret morgue that the government uses to store the hundreds of bodies of undesirables that it secretly murdered . Giving them false death certificates claiming that their deaths were due to natural causes . Determined to get to the bottom of what's going on Kafka makes his way into the Castle where all the records of everyone in the country are stored . It's there that he comes face to face with both the madman Dr . Murnau , Ian Holm , who runs the place and his biggest and most frightening nightmare . In the end Kafka goes back to his job as government clerk knowing that he as an individual can never defeat the massive and faceless bureaucracy that runs his , and the peoples , life . But through the power of the pen he can put his thoughts and ideas on paper and hopefully , when published , that will galvanize the people to rise up and tear down the bureaucracy that has taken away his , and the peoples , will as well as heart and soul . Franz Kafka would not live to see his 41th birthday dying on June 3 , 1924 . Unknown at the time of his death his writing have become the inspiration to many writers and philosophers over the years in informing the public about that dark cold and unfeeling world . A world that Kafka observed during his lifetime , 1883-1924 , and was force to live and suffer in .
He's the reason that we have the death penalty !	( There are Spoilers ) Somewhat overblown TV movie about a convicted serial rapist released on parole into an unsuspecting community and when his true identity is discovered it results into explosive consequences . After doing seven years behind bars for a series of rapes and robberies ex-con Eli Cooley , Michael Ontkean , is released into the quite little town of Fairvile . Eli has his brother Dwight , Sam Anderson , take care of his lodging and give him a job at his business establishment the " Dwights " hardware Store . At first Eli fits right into his new surroundings as a hard working likable and law abiding citizen . But soon things are to change abruptly for him and change for the absolute worst . We see Eli getting along with the friendly and neighborly people of Fairvil making friends with his next door neighbor single mom Annie Hopkins , Annette O'Toole , and her little boy Cody , Cameron Fife . Who just thinks the world of the tall strong and quiet type of a guy Eli Cooley and his pet dog Fred . Eli is also a big hit at his brothers hardware store as a cashier . Who with his kindly and honest manner gets the store , which was doing good before he came there , more business then ever before . Just when things couldn't get any better for Eli his neighbor Annie , who works in the Fairview Police Station as a secretary , comes across a police rap sheet about this just released multiple rapist and robber Eli Coolly ! Who just happens to be the nice sweet and caring neighbor who lives next door ! And whom shes been , what seemed like , very interested in going out on a date with ! The quite and sleepy little town of Fairvile explodes in a fury as everyone in it makes Eli's , as well as his brothers Dwight family , life a living hell with Eli's parole officer Wanda Gilmore , Pamala Reed , being unjustly attacked for allowing Eli to dwell among its fine good and law abiding citizens ! With , what they all thought , lust and the thought of raping their women , young old and in between , on his evil mind . Eli who you can at first sympathize with doesn't make his lot in life in Fairvile all that good either . Later when we see him at the local rapist rehabilitation clinic , just after the shocking truth about him came out , run by counselor Vonette McGee . Where a smirking Eli during Miss McGee's self-help sessions , when he should have known better , didn't at all show any empathy for his victims . All Eli did was just joke and act about what he did to them was nothing more then a number of totally harmless and childish pranks ! Eli trying to keep from being sent back to jail , for breaking his parole , soon loses his interest in staying out from behind bars . Since he now feels that he has more freedom inside , with the criminal element of society that he's used to living with , then outside . Eli then starts to really stretch his parole officers , Wanda Gilmore , patience's with him by doing things that would land him right back into the clink . The people of Farivile can in a lot of ways be as cruel as Eli ever was by killing his beloved best friend his dog Fred , who had nothing to do with Eli's life of crime , just to get under his skin . That almost had the heart-broken Eli go postal and shoot up the entire town . But it was Wanda who talked him out of doing anything so stupid and destructive risking her life in telling a very angry and distraught Eli that no amount of killing raping pillaging and and burning would bring Fred back ! It's when all these terrible things were happening to the by now mentally disturbed Eli that a number of rapes broke out in town with , you guessed it , Eli being the prime suspect . Turning even Wanda , who was very sympathetic to Eli , against him with one of the rapist victims being supermarket cashier Holly Benson , Robin Joss . The only person in town , besides Eli's brother Dwight , who was willing to even talk to him ! This made Eli , who of course didn't do it , almost become suicidal and in the end attempts to end it all in a weird and insane plan that he cooked up in his deranged mind . With an unsuspecting Wanda being part of it , of suicide by police , by giving them no other alternative for the police but to blow Eli away . Far too contrived to really take seriously the movie is just too pat in it's story and unbelievably unrealistic in it's ending . Even the excellent acting of Michael Ontkean and Pamela Reed , as released rapist and robber Eli Cooley and his parole officer Wanda Reed , can't quite overcome it's very simplistic storyline . Becides the two aforementioned stars watch for Annette O'Toole who had a very small role in the film as a rape victim . Annette spills her heart out at what happened to her to Eli after she found out about his criminal record . And just watch how Eli , at first not knowing just what to say , mindlessly responds to her and ends up putting both his two feet straight into his mouth !
It's been twenty years already , why don't you give it a rest .	SPOILERS Trying to put the past behind him Chuck Hausman , William R . Moses , at the urging of his wife Rebecca , Marcia Cross , never the less travels back to his home town of Deerfield for the reading of his fathers Reverand Leo Hausmer's , John Saxon , will . Right away old wounds are opened up as we see how the people in town respond to Chuck with total disdain and disgust blaming him for the murder , that was declared an accident , of his first wife Mary , Cyntyhina Preston some twenty years ago . At the reading of the will it's discovered that Rev . Leo left Chuck $10 , 000 . 00 together with another ten grand to his housekeeper Mrs . Ford , Katherine Helmound , who didn't bother to show up . But the over $250 , 000 . 00 that was given to him by Pete Gromek , Brandon Maggart , together with Art Sannar & Clift Bartok , Daniel Quinne & Jack McGee , to invest was completely gone due to , from what Leo said in his will , bad investments . A number of story lines run concurrently in the film " Living in Fear " with the suspicion of Chuck being his first wife's murderer leading the pack . Chuck is also discovered to have been institutionalized , for a nerves condition , while in the US Marines during the Vietnam War . a fact that he withheld from his wife Rebecca . That as well as being somehow involved in the later deaths of housekeeper Mrs Ford and his former high school sweetheart Jeanine , Michele Scarabelli . Jeanine was not only suffering from a very severe case of wife abuse but who was also blackmailing Chuck with information that she knew about Mary's death and who's body was later found in the trunk of Chuck's car . The most shocking thing that comes out of Chuck's past has in fact something to do with the death of his first wife Mary that was no accident but a crime of passion , as everyone in town had long suspected . But the passion of the person who killed her and why had nothing to do with Chuck at all , even though he helped cover up the crime . This we discover was the real reason for Chuck's mental breakdown and instability that has haunted him all these twenty years . It also turns out that someone in town knowing that the $250 , 000 . 00 was somehow hidden in the late Leo's home , where both Chuck & Rebecca were staying at . That person saw Chuck as the perfect pasty in murdering Jeanine , who in the killer's deranged mind knew too much . He then ends up leaving the clues to her death right on Chuck's doorstep , or car trunk . Then incites Jeannie somewhat mad dog husband Stuart , Ted Haler , on him in order to have Chuck murdered in a fit of uncontrollable passion on his part . This effort in getting the lost money on the killers part was a bit confusing since why take the chance of having Chuck killed before he can find out where the hidden cash was that Chuck later , with the help of an old photo of him when he was 12 , found ? We also learn the person responsible for Jeanine death also had it in for Chuck ever since he married Mary some twenty years ago . Since he was her boyfriend at the time and felt that Chuck stole her from him . Knocking off Deerfield Sheriff Lyle Pointer ( Chris Kriesa ) , who stopped his van on the way to Chuck & Rebecca's place , for good measure and also planning to frame Chuck with it the killer now has his master plan all set up . The killer then has the crazed Stuart manipulated into killing Chuck for the murder , that the killer committed , of his wife Jeanine . The entire plan falls apart when he prematurely opens his big fat mouth , not knowing that crazy Stu was lurking around in the house and listening in , which had his whole crazy plan fall apart together with him .
The evils of mind altering and addictive drugs : A Case History .	SPOILERS Wasted form years of taking and trafficking in mind-altering and illegal drugs Doctor William Davis , Harry Carding , sits down in his shabby hotel room reflecting on his sad and unholy life experience writing out his last will and testament , a suicide note . We the audience then go back with Davis to better and happier times when the now almost brain-dead Dr . Davis was the toast in the medical world as one of its most outstanding young practitioners . Young and ambitious William Davis got involved with his friend and collages alumnus Gee Wu , J . Stuart Blackton Jr , when looking for some kicks as well as rest and relaxation by going down to Chinatown and getting stoned out of his mind in one of its many , at the time , legal opium dens . Davis who bragged about how his powerful will can overcome anything even drug addiction put that powerful will to the test and had a big surprise coming his way . Davis got hooked on heroin , as well as pot and pills , that destroyed his medical practice home and family home as well as his very life . Getting himself plastered every day at the opium den drained Davis of his savings and health and before he knew it he was out on the street hawking this heroin-based snake-oil concoction that he called Tiger-Fat . Accoding to Davis it was supposed to cure anything but only turned those who used it into heroin junkies . Davis does a complete circle in the film going from an upstanding and admired citizen of the community to a lifeless and all alone , with everyone he knew deserting him , drug fiend . After years of shooting and puffing , with his handy opium pipe , up together with the wild drug parties Davis is left a broken and beaten down man with nothing to look forward too but a quick and painless death , via a bullet in the head ; which an already dead in mind and soon in body Davis is all too eager to administrate on himself . One of the earliest and at the same time honest anti-drug movies coming out of Hollyood that for once has it right showing just how destructive drugs like heroin and cocaine really are by not trying to sensationalize but educate it's audience about them . " Narcotic " is a far better film then Dwain Espers later masterpiece about mental illness " Maniac " released the next year but in the movie being serious about its subject matter , and not mindlessly overdoing it , no where as entertaining .
This Buffalo is Mine !	SPOILERS Strange set of characters here with Wild Bill Hickok , Charles Bronson , teaming up with Oglala war chief Crazy Horse aka Worm , Will Sampson , to take on the great White Buffalo . The White Buffalo has been haunting Wild Bill's dreams for over a year and the only way he can finally put his nightmares to an end is to hunt down and kill the beast . Traveling to the Black Hills of South Dakota in the mining town of Cheyenne Wild Bill , wearing a pair of cool looking shades , uses the name James Otis so no one would recognize him . It seems that Wild Bill has made enemies with almost everyone in town who , if they knew he was there , would blow him away the first chance that they get . Wild Bill's ridicules disguise , looking like a cross between Dr . Fu Manchu and a 1950's Greenwich village beatnik , doesn't fool anyone with him , in a series of shoot outs , ending up putting about a half dozen gunslingers into the towns Boot Hill cemetery . Finally going out into the Black Hills with about the only friend he has in town the one-eyed and Indian hating Charlie Zane , Jack Warden , Wild Bill runs into the exiled and former Ogala War Chief Crazy Horse . Crazy Horse has been kicked out of his village by his old man the original " Worm " , Chief Tug Smith , for acting like a wimp not a brave and fearless Ogala warrior . This is after the White Buffalo , the same one in Wild Bill's dreams , did a number on Crazy Horse's village killing among some dozens of Ogala's his own infant daughter ! It takes a while for Crazy Horse and Wild Bill , after each took turns in saving each others lives , to become allies in their personal war against the " Great White Buffalo " of the " Black Hills " . the movie " The White Buffalo " was a box office dud in the USA but somehow became a smash hit overseas especially in Asia and the Far East . This may have been because of Charles Brosnson's Genghis Khan-like interpretation of Wild Bill Hickok . That may have had Brsonon mistaken by the millions of Asian movie-goers for a fellow Oriental . The White Buffalo itself is anything but convincing in it's rampaging throughout the film . The big white and pink eyed bison comes across looking like the mechanical bull , standing still when it was supposed to be charging , in the movies " Urban Cowboy " and " Stir Crazy " . In the end it took a lot more for Wild Bill to get his one eyed Gabby Hayes-like partner Charlie Zane from shooting his new found friend Crazy Horse aka Worm in the back then in him backing Bill up when the White Buffalo made its grand appearance ; in the films final slowdown between man and beast . The breathless photography of the scenic and snow capped Black Hills together with the movies beautiful and haunting musical score made the film " The White Buffalo " more then worth sitting through . SPOILER ALERT With the White Buffalo , finally being put down by Bill Worm & Charlie , now history Wild Bill could now go back to sleep without having nightmares about the big " Albino Bison " charging at him . One-eyed Charlie had now learned to respect the American Indian , whom he despised and hated all his life , in what Worm did in his bear handed Indian-style , with only a tomahawk , confrontation with the big white bison . And most of all " Worm " in proving with his bravery that he's fit to carry the name can go back to being called " Crazy Horse " . P . S There's no evidence that Wild Bill Hickok and Chief Crazy Horse , who were both murdered within a year of each other , ever really met during their lifetimes . What is known is that Crazy Horse was given his name by his father who was also named Crazy Horse . Being Ogala tradition to not have children named after their parents Crazy Horse senior changed his name to Worm , after naming his newborn son Crazy Horse , which he was to be known by for the remainder of his life .
Fingers !	SPOILERS British super sleuth Sherlock Holmes , Basil Rathbone , gets himself involved in helping his friend Scotland Yard Inspector Greson , Matthew Boultor , in solving the case of a notorious killer who has this thing for his victims right forefingers . It soon becomes apparent that the murder of four women is the work of one killer when each of them has their right four finger sliced off after they were murdered . Holmes getting on the case is perplexed in why the killer is so obsessed with his victims fingers ? After the fifth women is murdered and her finger , the right forefinger , is found missing there's a sudden break in the case . It turns out that an acquaintance of both Holmes and his sidekick and bumbling partner Dr . Watson , Nigel Bruce , a Sir George Fenwick , Paul Cavanagh , had found himself in a cheap hotel room after the latest finger murder not having a clue to just how he got there ? Later in his his mansions study room Sir George found the missing finger in a box in his desk drawer ! Reeling with guilt , in that he may be the finger killer , Sir George buries the finger in his garden but is later found by both his daughter Maud , Eve Amber , and Holmes shot dead in his study . In Sir George's cold dead hand is found , by Sherlock Holmes , a book of matches from the Pembroke Club . The club where Holmes saw Sir . George and a mysterious attractive blond woman , from behind , just the night before his murder ! This of course , the finger murders , turns out to be a sinister plan cooked up by Homles ' arch-enemy the evil Professor Moriarty , Henry Daniell . The news of Moriarty being executed in the South American country of Montavideo turned out to be a hoax on his part to throw off Holmes and Scoland Yard to his whereabouts in England . It's back in jolly old England that Moriarty came up with his master plan to murder a number of women which is only half of his scheme ! It's then by using hypnosis , through his partner in crime Dr . Onslow , ( Frederick Warlock ) , Moriarty will have innocent victims like Sir George made to think that they were the killers and then blackmail them . Using hypnosis Moriarty has people like Sir George and later the zombie-like British Army corporal Williams , Tom Bryson , hypnotized into to thinking that they , instead of Moriarty , were the actual murderers of the unfortunate and fingerless women ! The key to capturing Moriarty is the mystery woman , " The Woman in Green " , who was seen with Sir George at the Promboke Club just before he was murdered . Holmes has no trouble tracking down the " Woman in Green " in that she Lyndia Marlowe , Hillary Brooks , together with Moriarty had him set him up to be first hypnotized then induced , by Dr . Onslow , to commit suicide by jumping off Mrs Marlow's tenth floor balcony . This is to be the highlight of Moritery's brilliant and almost perfect , if it wasn't for Sherlock Holmes , criminal career . Having his bitter enemy Sherlock Holmes confess in writing , while under hypnosis , that he's , Professor Moriarty , the better man of the two was a high that the arrogant and super egomaniac Moriarty just couldn't pass up . That high on Moriarty's part turned out the be his totally surprise and unexpected downfall . SPOILER ALERTDid both Moriarty and his fellow criminal Lyndia Marlowe really think that they can fool the great Sherlock Holmes into falling for their very obvious , to Holmes , plan to do him in ? Holmes was on to the two right from the start and just played stupid to get them to get their guard down . If anything was to go wrong in capturing the two scheming rascals , Moriarty & Marlowe , it wouldn't be on the part of Holmes . That bumbling and blithering idiot Dr . Waston , why does Holmes always put up with that jerk anyway ? , almost ruined Holmes ' plan to get both of them . Watson almost got Homles killed with his misunderstanding of what hypnosis is all about by , in trying to clumsily save his life , almost pushing his partner and live-in roommate off the ledge that he was balancing himself on !
Lust never sleeps	MAJOR SPOILERS Treating a very disturbed young woman Diana Baylor , Uma Thruman , who seemed to have developed suicidal tendencies over the abusive treatment that she received by her father when she was a little girl . San Francisco psychiatrist Dr . Isaac Barr , Richard Gere , gets a surprise visit one afternoon by Diana's older sister Heather Evens , who's such a knockout that it causes Issac to forget his client's , Diana , illness . Heather , very concerned about her kid sister , tells Issac a number of things that Diana kept from him which included the very disturbing fact that she was constantly raped by her father . That may well have been responsible for his death by Diana setting him on fire when he was laying dead drunk and out cold in bed one evening . The movie then takes a sudden turn with Issac falling in love with Heather and , as if he completely forgot about her disturbed sister , stating to treat her for psychological problems as if she were his patient not his lover ! It's during Issac ' treatment , and affair , with Heather that he learns that she's married to a top San Francisco mobster named jimmy Evens , Eric Roberts . Jimmy is constantly abusing her and Issac fears that he'll eventually murder Heather for not giving Jimmy the almost slave-like attention that he demands . When you finally see Jimmy in the movie you begin to realize that it's Heather , not Jimmy , who's the abusive one . Not that Jimmy isn't a cold-blooded hoodlum he never once in the brief time you see him as much as lifts his hand on the very neurotic Heather . It ' Jimmy who's the one that's very concerned about Heather's drinking that causes her to black out and go wacko making a complete spectacle of herself in public ; as we later see in a scene with Jimmy and Heather having dinner in a local restaurant . It's not that long after were introduced to Jimmy that we see what a real flake Heather is . We discover that it's not Diana that needs the professional psychiatric help that Iassc can provide but her sister Heather ! Not only is Heather trying to involve the Innocent and unsuspecting Issac in a plan to murder Jimmy , and collect a 4 million insurance policy on him , but have Iassc framed for it and ! Even more sinister Heather is using her sister Diana as bait to do it ! Overly complicated psychological thriller that's saved from total ruin by the acting of it's top stars Richard Gere Uma Thruman and the very sexy , and hot as a steam engine , Kim Bassinger . There's three great scenes in the movie " Final Analysis " that are more then worth the price of admission . SPOILER The first being where Heather is being questioned , with Isaac present , in the mental institution that she's committed . Thinking those asking the questions are members of the District Attorney's office and having Diana show up with the " evidence " , that Heather planted , to frame Isaac for her husbands murder . Heather ends up getting the surprise of her life , when for some reason Diana didn't deliver the goods , where she completely changes her demeanor and loses it . Going from a calm and totally in control of the situation individual into a dangerously wild and crazy lunatic in just a matter of seconds ! That scene in itself should have earned Kim Basinger an Academy Award nomination for best actress . There's an even better scene in the movie later on when Heather , changing places with Diana in prison , escapes and tries to get in touch with Det . Higgens , Keith David , in order to give him the murder weapon that she used to kill her husbands with Isaac's fingerprints on it . Only to have Issac grab the murder weapon , a steel dumbbell , before Higgins got it making it totally unless as evidence . The best part of the movie is saved for last with both Iassc and Det . Higgins , who finally realized that it was Heather not Iassc who murdered Jimmy , having it out with the the now totally crazed Heather on top of a dangerously damaged lighthouse , off the Golden Gate Bridge , during a violent and murderous downpour . That scene was as good , if not better , as anything you would see in an Alfred Hitchcock psychological thriller .
A gadget this size can supply enough juice to barbecue Brooklyn !	SPOILERS Trying to get to Provincetown MA . for a play that she's staring in the famous and temperamental actress Laura Winters , Rita Morley , who's stranded in NYC , some 300 miles away , gets herself so smashed on gin that she'll have trouble remembering her name much less her lines . This has her very concerned agent Jan Letterman , Barbara Wilkin , get a charted plane to fly Laura there for opening night as a major storm approaches the New England coast . Down and out shuttle pilot Grant Murdoc , Byron Sanders , who at first balks at flying through the dangerous cloud-cover changes his mind when Jan offers him three times the amount of cash that he usually takes for the flight . Airborne and on a due north course to Cape Cod with the storm overtaking his plane Murdoc is forced to land on this uncharted and , what at first looks like , deserted island in Long Island Sound . Murdoc together with Jan and the barley sober Laura are surprised to find this creepy-looking guy who claims to be a professor in marine biology Peter Bartell played Joseph Gobbels look-alike Martin Kosleck . Acting normal , which is a herculean task for him , not to get his guests on the island suspicious to his real intentions Bertell is well on his way of perfecting this radio active and flesh eating algae or plankton . Who's formula he's planing to sell to the highest bidder , the US the USSR the UK and even Germany East or West . With which it , the country that Bertell sells it to , can not only conquer the waves but the world as well . Things get a little muddled for Bertell when he loses himself in a fit of carnal and uncontrollable lust when he finds Laura sunning herself on the beach all by herself . Bartell tries to rape the drunken , but very well endowed , Laura who fights off the horny old guy . Laura had already gotten herself so drunk that the next day she completely forgot what happened to her . Which gives the hot in the pants Bertell a second chance at her which he does later in the film . It's later that when this spaced out beatnik Omar , Ray Tudor , shows up on his raft that things really start to get out of hand . Omar together with Laura later discover what Bartell is doing which cost them both their lives . I turned out that the professor himself is , more then anyone in the movie , responsible for his own demise by thinking that he can fool with the laws of nature and get away with it . Bartell's mad experiments with the man-eating plankton which , after he electrifies it , turns into a glowing and flesh-eating crab-like monster . A monster which there's no way of him controlling or stopping from swallowing all life , human as well as fish and animal , on earth . Really a Martin Kosleck movie with everyone else in the film , with the possible exception or the drugged out and mind addled beatnik Omar , just there going through the motions and nothing else . Kosleck or the person he's playing Proffesor Peter Bartell gives it all he's got as the crazed , in the flashbacks we don't really know for sure if he was or wasn't , ex-Nazi mad scientist who like his deceased and beloved Fuhrer wants to take over the world . In Bartell's case for a nice and tidy profit not to , like in German Fuhrer Adolph Hitler's case , National Socialize or Nazify it . Like all movie about mad scientists Bartell screws himself up big time by him trying to create an army of killer and flesh-eating micro organisms he instead creates , by electrifying the waters off shore , a giant illuminating crab . The glowing crab has the crazed Bartell run for his life only to get attacked by flesh-eaters who make short order of him by turning Bartell into a bag of bones . Murdoc who found out , through Laura's strange death , what can stop this crab-like creature and with a syringe of anti-flesh-eating serum , plain human blood , sticks it to it and puts an end to this insanity . An insanity of gigantic proportions that only a fruitcake , with lots of nuts in it , like Professor Peter Bartell could have dreamed up .
Loneliness is a disease that can destroy a man's mind	SPOILERS One of the most unusual and unpredictable of " The Whistler " movies that has to do with burnt out industrial and banking tycoon John Sinclair , Richard Dix , who after working himself into an early grave , in making his millions , finds out that he'll soon and up in one if he doesn't get his act together and take a long vocation from his work . Going to his rented island vacation house off Chicago's Lake Michigan Sinclair has a sudden seizer and ends up in Chicago cab driver's , who gave him a lift , Erin Sparrow , Rhys Williams , next door hotel room . Despite his phenomenal success in the business world Sincleir never had a chance to develop any lasting relationships and is in fact , despite his many millions , all alone in the world . It's Sparrow , a former English lightweight boxing champion , who shows the clueless Sinclair , who now calls himself John Carter , what friendship is all about and how to make friends as well has his , Sinclair , ability in influencing people to invest in his banks and businesses . Having a new lease on life Sinclair easily makes friends with a number of people that he comes in contact with in Chicago including registered nurse Joan Martin , Lynn Merrick , who Sparrow introduced him to . Not really being that hip in Joan's future with her long suffering fiance Dr . Fred Graham , James Cardwell , who's trying to open up his own practice , he works almost for nothing at a local charity clinic , Sincalir make Joan a proposal to marry him and move into his new home away from home a converted , with all the modern convinces , lighthouse off the coast of Maine . A destroyed Dr . Graham leaves Joan feeling that her marriage to Sinclair , with him not expecting to live for more then six months , so that she could inherit his money is incredibly greedy as well as unfeeling towards him . It's when Sinclair's health improves and his sudden death , predicted by his doctors , doesn't come to pass that things start to get a bit stressful for everyone involved including Dr . Graham . The doctor unexpectedly showed up at the lighthouse expecting Joan to come back to him , after her husbands John Sinclair's demise , as well as as also getting himself a piece of Sinclair millions . The movie " The Voice of the Whistler " then takes a turn for the worse for everyone involved with Sinclair and Dr . Graham plotting each others murder with Joan , who's caught in the middle of all this , not Sinclair's money being the ultimate prize . SPOILER ALERT FROM THIS POINT ONYou never know what's coming next but when it does it will shock your socks off . Sinclair for all his smarts let's the cat out of the bag in giving Dr . Graham the idea to murder him . It's that idea on Sinclair's part that leads to the double disaster at the conclusion of the film . If Sinclair was honest with himself he would have left Joan alone and not think that he could buy her like the many expensive , homes cars and yachts , items he bought for himself all through the years . In he end Sinclair overestimated himself in trying to outsmart Dr . Graham and giving him the opening that he needed to put him away for good and thus have Joan all for himself . It wasn't that Dr . Graham saw through Sinclair devious and murderous plan but that Sinclair , always feeling that he's in complete control , overlooked some very vital things , like the nailed shut lighthouse windows , that in the end lead to his downfall .
Buried Secrets	SPOILERS Movie about a Love Canal like town , Landry Texas , thats about to explode with long buried toxins seeping out of the ground and effecting everyone there , man and animal alike , through the water supply as well as the air itself . After a young boy was found dead at the bottom of a shaft on the Buckhurst Industries site the owners of the company went all out to prevent the truth from coming out . The Buckhurst bigwigs going to meet in secret at a hotel room in L . A to plan their next move are spied on and their talk tape recorded by electricians Mike Newman and his partner Doug , Dale Robinette & Kane Holiday . Thinking that their getting the goods on some guy cheating on his wife , for a defective agency that they have a contract with , the two electricians instead overhear a plan by the businessmen to cover up their unsavory actions over the years . They plan in having the entire town of Landry blown up by staging an accident for a tractor-trailer loaded with the deadly chemical agent 10-45T . The deadly chemical was a secret agent that was used by the US military in Vietnam and at the same time was buried in and around Landry by the truckload , as they drove by the Brockhurst factory site . With dozens of people in the and around Landry starting to come down with fatal illnesses it's only a matter of time when it's discovered that that chemical was buried there and those responsible , Brockhurst Industries , will be sued into bankruptcy . The conspirators accidentally , through a glass of red wine where they can see the electricians laser , find out that there's some kind of laser device being beamed on the hotel room . The Brockhurst group then get two of their paid hit men out to find where the beam is coming from , and to shut up those responsible for it for good , and retrieve the audio tape . After a half hour car chase through the city the hit men track down Mike and Doug to Mike's home where they murder Doug and , after a ferocious fight , finish off Mike but they can't find the incriminating tape of their boss ' conversation at the hotel . The Buckhurst gang now get after the late Mike Newman's wife singer Brooke Newman , Lynda Carter , who hid with her young daughter in terror from them in a closet and who they think has the tape . The fact is that Brooke does know about the tape but she doesn't know just where it is and it's a lot closer to her then to the hit men now looking for it . Standered plot about corruption and murder in corporate America , circa 1980 , with leggy and frisky , not to mention beautiful , Lynda Carter as singer housewife private investigator and now action hero , or heroine . Lynda not only plays detective to break the case wide open but also flies up and down the friendly , and unfriendly , skies of Texas with helicopter pilot Sid Pachanski , Ronny Fox . Lynda & Sid try to get the jump on the bad guys before they turn Lawery Texas , by causing a tractor-trailer truck loaded with the deadly 10-45T to explode , into what Chernobyl in the Ukraine turned out to be some six years later in 1986 : uninhabitable . Besides being the reluctant heroine , at first all Brooke wanted to do is get out of town with her young daughter , Brooke also had a chance to sing the title song " The Last Song " in the film .
We just got to take back what's ours Snook !	( There Are Spoilers ) Unintentionally funny crime film about these five misfits , one who joined after she was kidnapped by them , in a robbery spree that goes from New Jersey to Texas and ends up with the bunch foiled by this old geezer , he looked to be at least 90 , and his wife who's out of the way general store they were shoplifting in . Getting out of prison after serving three and a half years Frank , Jack Gwaltney , is picked up by his former cell-mate Bobby , Jeff Monalhan , and driven back home to New Jersey . Picking up Bobby's girlfriend Eve , Annie Golden , at a Brooklyn strip joint where she works the three later get to Franks late mothers farm and are met by his not to attentive and mind addled brother Snooky , Robert Turano . Frank to his utter dismay finds that the slow witted Snooky left everything in shambles while he was away in the pen and that the bank was about to for-close on the farm for non-payment of the mortgage . Working for Frank's former boss Walt , Michael Ironside , who was the reason for Frank being put away , Snooky was constantly ripped off and in many cases not paid at all by the unscrupulous Walt that led to the farms foreclosure . Frank and Bobby decides to go to Walt's gas station and garage to rob him of his payroll in retaliation for his taking advantage of the poor and doltish Snooky . The pantyhose hooded robbers , to their shock and surprise , found that Walt had just under $150 . 00 in his safe and only one dollar in his wallet ! Tying Walt up the bunch , with Snooky and Eve outside in the car , the robbers try to make there get-away but they find out that the get-away car is out of gas and also Eva has to go to the bathroom , probably because of all the beer she's been drinking . The not too sharp Eve is then grabbed by Walt , who untied himself , who puts a gun to her head and now he's the one with all cards as the helpless Frank and Snooky have to give up the robbery plan in order to save Eva's life . Walt turns out to be even more brainless then the two not too bright robbers since he failed to notice that the # 3 man , Bobby , of the gang was still outside . Catching Walt from behind by surprise Bobby blasts the befuddled gas station owner away as the four take off and take Walt's bookkeeper Besty , Isabel Gillies , hostage as she just happens to come on the scene . The rest of the film has the Frank & Bobby gang drive down south robbing hardware and convenient stores whenever they needed cash for gas or food with the cops , in about a half dozen states , totally clueless to whats happening . Besty who at first resisted the robbers , and who's boyfriend in a local sheriff , later begins to suffer from the " Stockholm Syndrome " and not only gets very friendly with the highway robbers but even joins them in their adventures . It seemed that the reason for the trip down south was a plan that Bobby concocted , while behind bars , to rob this curtain bank in Texas but at the last moment he chickened out . The crooks decided to knock off this broken down grocery store run by this elderly couple ; the robbery turned out the be the last time the bunch would rob , or try to rob , anyone . The movie " One Way Out " came across a lot like a Robert Altman directed film with lots of improvisation in the acting and what seemed to be no real script at all . Most of the scenes looked like out-takes that we used to see , put in just for laughs , during the ending credits of a Burt Reynolds movie back in the 1970's and 1980's . Also the music in the movie was so load and annoying that it made it hard to follow the story , whatever it was . There was a scene at a Texas bar late in the film that had the music played so load that it drowned out all the dialog that had to do with the impending bank robbery . Not at all believable with an ending that looks totally out of place to the movie that you watched up to then . How could Snooky & Besty get away Scott-free where in the case of Besty she was actively involved in a number of robberies with the gang ! Snooky who at least didn't participate in any of the gangs crimes , and to his credit tries to talk them out of committing them , was still with them voluntarily and as a willing participant in all their shootings and hold-ups all across the American north and southwest !
Oh ! What A Night	SPOILERS Walking around the almost empty streets in the dead of night " The Man " , Tom Conway , is almost hit by a taxi cab driven by pretty taxi driver Patty Mitchell , Ann Rutherford . It turns out that " The Man's " mind is as blank as a fresh sheet of typewriter paper with him in a complete fog to who he is and what he did and what caused that gash that he had on his head when Patty first picked him up . Seeing the evening papers " The Man " and Patty see the headline banner news of theater producer Robert Dilling being murdered in Oceanview where " The Man " was just hobbling around . The description of Dilling's killers matches the description of " The Man " right down to his pin-striped suit that he's wearing . " The Man " together with Patty slowly uncover his identity by backtracking to where he was that evening before he fell , or was hit , on his head . Putting everything together " The Man " at first finds that he's called " Step " by his friends . Later with the unexpected help of " Step's " forgotten friend and associate Mark Evens , Lester Matthews , finds out that his real name is Ted " Step " Allison and that he checked into the Recency Hotel where Ted and Patty just came from to check out who he was in the first place . Ted finds in his hotel room a letter from a friend of his , the late Larry Tenny , about a play that he wrote called " Two O'Clock Courage " and that the play seems to be the reason that Dillings was murdered . Ted himself is almost killed later in the film , as he gets too close to who the killer is , with a bullet to his head but it was that attempt on Ted's life that brought back his memory and with that the identity of the person who murdered Dilling . Ted really had some night for himself in the movie " Two O'Clock Courage " ; he loses and finds himself he ends up being arrested by the police for the murder of Robert Dillings talks his way out of being put behind bars and later solves the Dilling murder and the reason that he was killed . There's also the secondary emotional plot-line that erupts at the end of the film between the killer and his jilted girlfriend . To top it all of Ted meets falls in love with and marries lovely taxi driver Patty Mitchell ; all this happens to Ted before the night was even over . Besides Richard Lane playing the bumbling reporter Haley who in the end drove his boss news editor Brant , Charles C . Wilson , almost into the loony bin the police inspector Bill Brenner , Emory Parnell , on the Dilling murder case was even funnier in a dangerous sort of way . Insp . Brenner had a very bad habit of holding his revolver pointed at almost everyone that he came in contact with in the movie . It was sheer luck that everyone in the film made it to the end without unconsciously getting themselves shot or killed by this absent-minded policemen .
From now on Joe Bell runs the other way	SPOILERS John Garfield's electrifying yet touching performance as fugitive from he law Joe Bell lifts this very convoluted and predictable movie about a man with a chip on his shoulder to where it gets to you no matter how corny and dated it is . Sent up the river for 16 months for a crime he didn't commit Joe Bell is released when the real criminal was arrested for another crime and confessed to the one that Joe was convicted off . Bitter at society for the raw deal it gave him Joe spends the rest of the movie getting into trouble , from being arrested as a vagrant to being on the run for a murder , with a number of total strangers coming to his aid . The strangers help the confused and quick-tempered young man out despite jeopardizing their own safety and freedom in doing it . First there's the old railroad break-man Pop , Charlie Grapewin , who let Joe and two of his hobo friends the Glenn brothers Hank & Jimmy , Bill Holap & Bobby Jordan , stay in a box-cart when he should have had them arrested . Later Joe hungry and desperate needing , together with his newlywed wife Mable ( Priscilla Lane ) , a bite to eat meets kindly grocery store owner , Ferike Boros . Ferike offers Joe food for free seeing that the young man didn't have a dime on him . This act of kindness has the both guilt-ridden and embarrassed Joe walks out of the store , forgetting about his plans to rob it . and not take up Freike's offer for a free meal . On the run and always a step ahead of the police Joe and Mable , who's step-father Charlie Garreth ( Stanley Ridge ) was the boss of the work farm whom Joe accidentally killed , end up in a small town where Joe finally lands a job that can make him a productive citizen . Joe becomes a photojournalist when he accidentally snapped a number of photos of a bank robbery that later resulted in the capture of the robbers . Being a local hero Joe is very apprehensive to have his photo taken . His boss newspaper editor Mike Leonard , Alan Hale , hearing Joe out about his past misfortunes with the law takes the credit himself for the photos , to keep Joe from having his face plastered all over the papers . This has Mike end up almost being kidnapped by the hoods who robbed the bank . Joe seeing that Mike is about to be kidnapped and possibly murdered runs to his aid and not only saves his life but ends up getting all the unwanted publicity that he tried to avoid . Not all that predictable of an ending " Dust be my Destiny " has all the people who helped Joe throughout the movie come to his defense . This leads the jury to find Joe innocent of the murder of Charlie Garreth due to extenuating circumstances . The bitter young man in the end learned that the world , and the deck of cards it dealt him , wasn't against him and having a persecution complex would only makes things more difficult not easy for the combative Joe Bell . Made in 1939 " Dust be my Destiny " is not as corny and dated as you would have at first thought . John Garfield as well as Priscilla Lane's performances don't come across looking phony at all and . Their attempt to live honest and decent lives in spite of being on the lamb shows that , at least with John Garfield's Joe Bell , whatever miscarriage of justice that they were victim of it didn't drive the two to forsake the law and choose a life of crime .
Flower Power !	MAJOR SPOILERS It was bad enough for drummed out of the department and forced to retire police captain Tim Foster , Preston Foster , to get these three on the lamb hoodlums to pull off a million dollar heist of a Kansas City bank . What was even worse was Foster planning to later double-cross the hoodlums he hired and , like an arsonist pulling a fire alarm to throw off suspicion's on himself , then turning them in for a big fat cash reward . But by far the biggest mistake that Foster made was in framing the local flower delivery man Joe Rolfe , Tom Payne , in the crime that he and his fellow crooks committed ! You see Joe Rolfe loved his job delivering flowers and when he lost it due to his arrest by the cops for his alleged participating in the bank robbery the guy just blew a fuse . And that fuse ignited and blew to smatterings the well thought out plan that Foster , in his scheming and conniving mind , had dreamed up ! Even though released because of lack of evidence Rolfe was greatly pied off in him spending a few days behind bars and being worked over by the interrogating police . Joe Rolfe was even more then mad in losing his job , because of all the bad publicity , as a flower delivery man that he , in being the best in the delivery service company that he worked for , loved so much . Determined to clear his name and get his job back Rolfe tracked down one of the bank robbers Pete Harris , Jack Elam , in Tijuana Mexico who , after twisting his arm , spilled the beans on his fellow crooks . It turns out that they all , after laying low for a couple of days , are to assemble in this town , on the Mexican Coast , called Barados . It's there were they'll split the take that the got from the robbery back in Kansas City ! Unfortunately for Harris he never made it to Barados in him getting gunned down by the police , after resisting arrest , at the Tijuana Airport . Taking Harris ' identity and the one thing that can identify him , a half cut playing card , to his fellow crooks , who wore masks all during the bank robbery , Rolfe shot down to Barados to find out , besides the now deceased Harris , who framed him . Rolfe's sham as being Pete Harris fell apart almost as soon as it started with him being exposed as an impostor with the news of Harris ' death reaching Foster . Still the two remaining bank robbers ladies man Tony Romano , Lee Van Cleef , and psycho cop killer Boyde Kane , Neville Brand , were unable to do Rolfe in . Despite them knowing that he's not only ripping them off of their hard earned cash but very possibly setting them up in a police sting ! The very thing that their cohort in crime the mysterious ex-cop Tim Foster is planning to do to them ! SPOILER ALERT The slick and slimy Foster is himself compromised by the sudden arrival of his law student daughter Helen , Coleen Gray , who falls heads over heels for the tall dark and handsome flower delivery man Joe Rolfe . This all leads to a breakdown in Fosters plans to have Romano and Kane caught so he can collect the big reward , $200 , 000 . 00 , offered for their arrest ! It also has Rolfe freed to manipulate both bank robbers to do themselves in , together with Foster , by the time the movie finally ended ! P . S The films happy ending has Rolfe not only get his job back , and have those who caused him to lose it pay for it , but get a goggled eyed and madly in love with him Helen to marry him as well !
The missing piece of the puzzle	( Some Spoilers ) David Lind , Dylan McDermott , didn't at first realize how lucky he was on the morning of July 1 , 1981 . That's when he saw the breaking news on the local TV of a brutal massacre of four persons , a fifth was in very serious condition , at 8763 Wonderland Av . Spending the previous evening in a San Franando Valley motel room with a hooker after dealing drugs Lind just missed being victim # 5 . Maybe it was from his heavy drug use , that altered his sense of reality , that Lind didn't see the inevitable coming . Just three days earlier on June 29 , 1981 Lind together with his two drug dealing and sniffing friends Ron Lanius & Billy Deverel , Josh Lucas & Tim Blake Nelson , raided Eddie Nash's , Eric Bogosian , pad and ended up not only taking over one million dollars of drugs jewelry cash and even antique guns from him they also brutalized and humiliated Nash ! This is something that Nash won't forget and make sure that those who did it will end up paying for it . Eddie is one the city's major drug and illegal contraband traffickers and one of the most feared men in Los Angeles . The murders at Wonderland Av lead directly to the Nash Mob which a terrified Lind told L . A police detectives Sam Nico & Louis Cruz , Ted Levine and Franky G . But the tie that binded the two , the Wonderland killings and the raid on Nash's place , together was none other then porno superstar John Holmes , Val Kilmer , known professionally to his many fans , which Eddie Nash is one of them , as the " Amazing Johnny Wadd " . The movie " Wonderland " traces the rise and fall of porno actor John Holmes through a number of flashbacks told from different viewpoints of people , as well as that of Holmes himself , who both knew and despised him . I couldn't find anyone in the movie who had anything good to say about him ! Even Holmes ' estranged wife Sharon , Lisa Kudrow , and teenage " love slave " Dawn Shiller , Kate Bosworth , were anything but kind in their descriptions of what life was like , a living hell , in their relationships with the man who was to become the " biggest " and most recognized star in porno movie history . Late in the wild and swinging 1970's with his career in porno films just about kaput because of his heavy drug use Holmes became nothing more that a gofer for sleaze-balls like Lanius and Nash . Getting high on coke provided by Nash and the Lanius boys Holmes played both of them to his advantage which in the end lead to the massacre at Wonderland Av . Setting up Nash to get hit by the Lanius gang Holmes never thought that Nash will retaliated against him since he kept himself out of the loop staying home with Dawn while Lanius and his boys did all the dirty work . Not having to be a Sherlock Holmes to figure out that Holmes , who was dealing with both Lanius and Nash , had set him up Nash them had Holmes kidnapped beaten and forced to reveal who was behind the June 29 , 1981 raid on his pad . It was then that Holmes agreed to set up the Lanius gang the same way he set up Nash , by leaving the door open to their place , and Nash's hoods did the rest . But unlike with Nash who survived together with his 300 pound bodyguard Greg Diles , Falzon Love , and sable of hookers the Lanius gang with the exception of Lanius ' wife Susan , Christina Applegate , ended up being brutally beaten to death . John Holmes managed to keep himself from being rubbed out by Nash and imprisoned for both drug and murder charges by the California , as well as Federal , Justice Department by giving out just enough information about the Wonderland murders to have him given some kind of witness protection . Later when the LAPD and Feds got tired of playing games with him and put Holmes on trial he did in fact beat the rap by being found innocent of the killings in a court of law ! This even though Holmes freely and openly told the LAPD and Federal Authorities that he had a major part , from behind the scenes , in orchestrating the murders ! In the end it was the ravages of AIDS , due to his both abusive sexual and drug addictive lifestyles , that did John Holmes in . Holmes a broken man who lost everything including his amazing ability to preform sexually on and off the screen died penniless in a Los Angeles veterans hospital on March 13 , 1988 at the age of 43 from AIDS related encephalitis ; swelling of the brain . As for Eddie Nash he stood trial for the Wonderland killings in 1995 and was found not guilty with the jury voting 11 to 1 to convict . It later turned out that Nash paid off the lone juror who voted in his favor with a $50 , 000 . 00 bribe ! Five years later Nash was finally convicted in the Wonderland murders but only for criminal conspiracy to commit murder not murder itself . The statute of limitations on Nash's admitted bribery of a member of the jury on his previous murder trial had by then run out . Being found innocent of the murder charges in his earlier trial Nash couldn't be tried again for the same crime , first degree murder , twice . All that Nash got for having four people murdered was 37 months behind bars and is now in 2007 at age 78 a free man . P . S In the case of he notorious 1981 " Wonderland Murders " it's true to say that this time Justice was really Blind !
Mother's Day	SPOILERS With a much better then average cast , for a straight to Video movie , you would have expected the film " Natural Enemy " to be a lot better then it actually is but only ends up just being just another psycho with an grudge flick that has young William MaNamara as stock market whiz kid Jeremy Harper out to get even with those who abandoned and kicked him around . After murdering a number of people including his both adopted and surrogate fathers by setting them on fire as well as having his natural dad , who's young wife Jeremy was having an affair with , murdered by hanging him on the chandlers of his home this out of control psychotic sociopath ends up getting nailed in the end by Chris , Christian Tessier ; who unknown to him happens to be Jeremy's step or half-brother . With his mother 17 and pregnant in high school she has her new born child , Jeremy , given away to an orphanage . It's there where Jeremy ends up being adopted by some three different sets of parents , one of whom he sets on fire at the beginning of the movie . Jeremy always wanted to get to meet his real mother and show her just what he thought and felt about her and after years of searching that magic day was about to come true . Reaching adulthood the psychotic young man plans a get together with his real mom the now Sandy Robards , Lesley Ann Warren , that's to take place on his 25th birthday the following Saturday November 30th . Jeremy plans give her a Mother's Day present that she'll never ever forget even if it kills him and her . Working like a maniac studying finance and the world of stocks and bonds Jeremy becomes a market genius graduating at the top of his class at the prestigious Harvard Business School . All this hard work is so that Jeremy can get close to him mom and her husband Ted Robards , Donald Sutherland , who's a stock broker and what better way to do that then he himself be a big wig and expert in the stock market and end up working for Ted . Getting a job with Donald's firm for half the salary that he could normally get anywhere else Jeremy want's to destroy Donald's business and his wife's Sandy's home life like he feels that Sandy destroyed his life by abandoning him as an infant . Worming his way into the Robards home as well as his business , like a rat gnawing through a cement wall , Jeremy is now in the perfect position to do what he was planning to do for so many years : get even and get even BIG for what Sandy did to him . I for one was shocked not only to see beautiful Tia Carrere have such a small part in the film as the missing and adopted child investigator Christina D'Amello but also get killed off so early without ever being giving a chance to show off her breathtaking natural and physical attributes to an eager audience just dying to see them . Jeremy as sick as a man infected with rabies and on crack / cocaine plus LSD added into the mix goes out to break Ted financially by making it look like he's hiding something from the FBI and Securities and Exchange Commission investigators . That sleazy action by Jeremy has the poor and confused man blackballed out of the stock brokerage industry . Jeremy murders both his natural father Stanley Knox , Viasta Vrana , whom he also destroyed financially and his fathers young wife as well as Jeremy's mistress Gina , Lenore Zann . It's then that this low-life creep also has to murder the gorgeous and unsuspecting Christina D'Amello who's body he threw down a garbage disposal shoot after having the whole sick and disgusting event secretly video taped in order to show and " impress " his natural mom Sandy . On the eve of his birthday , November 30 , Jeremy planned to have his mother Sandy murdered for all the pain and suffering , that's only inside Jeremy's sick and diseased mind , that she caused him after having already murdered her husband Ted . Jeremy made just one big mistake that brought his demented and insane plan to a complete halt and turned him into a king size pin cushion . The lowlife murdering creep decided not to murder his wimpy half-brother Chris but to torture and humiliate him instead ! It was that sadistic streak in him that put Jeremy Harper away for good in a place where he can't hurt or murder anyone anymore .
Call Me Indestructible	SPOILERS Charles " Butcher " Benton , Lon Cheney Jr . is on the rampage up and down the California coast and there's not even a Gov . Arnold Schwarzenegger around to stop him . Benton coming back from the dead to get his share of the loot , all of it , from an armored car robbery that he was set up for and framed by his double-crossing partners mob lawyer Paul Lowe , Ross Elliott , and small-time hoods Squeamy Ellis , Marvin Ellis , and Joe Marcelli , Ken Terrell . Brought back to life , after he was executed in the San Quentin gas chamber , by Pro . Bradshaw ( Robert Shayne ) and his assistant Joe Flynn . Benton rewarded them for saving his life by strangling them . On the move from the San Francisco Bay area to LA , where the stolen money and his ex-partners are , Benton murders a motorist to get his car as well as two highway patrolmen at a roadblock . Getting to a strip joint where his girlfriend Eva , Marian Carr , works in downtown LA . Benton finds out that a letter with a map of where he stashed the money , that he left with Eva , was taken by that double-crossing shyster swine Lowe . Which makes Benton even more crazed then he already was . Tracking down and finishing off both Squeamy Ellis and Joe Marcelli , as well as a LA policeman who got in the Butcher's way , Paul Lowe is the only one left on the Butcher's hit list and he's scared to death . Trying to get arrested Lowe slugs a policeman at he police station only not to have the policeman press charges on him . In order to save his hide from being snuffed out by insane Benton Lowe comes clean and confesses to the Armored car heist in which he crossed Benton and had him end up in the gas chamber . Lowe also tells the police where Benton hid the money and where their likely to find him , in the LA sewer system . The entire LA police force mobilizes and goes into the dark and dangerous tunnels and the stage is set for a battle with " Butcher " Benton that would lead to the movie explosive as well as electrifying final . One of Lon Cheney Jr's . better movie late in his career before he became a parity of himself in many of the movies that he made up until his death in 1973 . The movie " The Indestructible Man " has some nice location photography of LA and the films dramatic ending really lights up the screen .
The Dirty Dozen	SPOILERS Coming back home to London after serving his tour in Afghanistan Royal British Paratrooper Dan Bryant , Sean Bean , is shocked to find the girl he left behind his wife , Kate Lewington , making out with another man in the comfort of his own home ! If Dan didn't lose it already in the horrors he faced and participated in Afghanistan he lost it now here in jolly old England ! It's then that Dan starts to get a little crazy in not knowing exactly what to do to suppress his uncontrollable anger . Dan soon decides to clean up the town of crime to make him forget the crime committed on him ; By his old lady in dumping Dan at a time , with him suffering from post traumatic stress , that he needed her most . Dan recruits a number of people who've gotten a raw deal from both the criminals , who victimized them , and courts , who let their victimizers off Scot-free . It's with these people that Dan creates an outfit that goes after both the criminal element of London and the corrupt politicians police and judges who let them off . The anti-crime outfit coined by the London Media as the Outlaws that Dan's in charge of wakes havoc on the crime syndicate running London and it's untouchable , from the law , Godfather Manning , Rob Fry . One of the members of Dan's team is barrister Cedric Munroe , Lennie James , who was prosecuting Manning and had his wife and unborn child murdered by Mannings hoods . Dan also had Munroe's personal chafferer retired London policeman Walter Lewis , Bo Hoskins , join his team of crime fighters . It's Lewis who provided Dan with important information to who's in the pay , and is paying off , those in the justice system to keep Manning from ending up behind bars . Dan at first gets the job done in cleaning up the streets of London of the criminal scum who's been given a free ride by politicians like , he's in fact mentioned a number of times in the film , the then British Prime Minister Tony Blair ! What Blair had exactly to do with the likes of hoodlums like Manning is never quite explained in the movie ? It's later that Dan's dirty half dozen , the number of persons including himself in his hit squad , start to really screw things up ! with Dan himself doing more then his share of screwing ! SPOILER ALERT The movie " Outlaw " moves to its inevitable conclusion with what's left of Dan's crime fighters somehow , it's really left up in the air by the films writers and director , being double crossed by one of their own . There's a wild shootout outside of London around Manning's secret hideout with almost everyone of the Outlaws getting plugged by the cops . Yes it was non other then the London Police themselves who came to Mannings rescue ! These so-called law enforcement agents , the police , were so trigger happy and unprofessional that they even shot down one of the Outlaws when he dropped his weapons and willingly surrendered ! A gross and major violation of the Geneava Accords of 1929 ! Something that the Nazis were convicted of doing at the Nuremburg Trials back in 1946 ! But all was not lost with the Outlaws , or one or two of them , coming back to exact justice . The justice that was denied to one of those major criminals whom the corrupt British Justice System wantonly allowed to escape .
Santa Clause is coming to town	SPOILERS Based on an obscure Damon Runyon short-story the movie " Johnny One-Eye " is about an on the lamb wanted killer who was turned in to the D . A by his partner in order to save his own neck by coping a plea in a murder rap . We get to see Dutch gunned down on the Statan Island Ferry by Martin Martin , Pat O'Brien , who pulled a gun on him after dropping $50 , 000 . 00 in cash that he ripped off from both Martin and his partner Dane Cory , Wayne Morris . It's now some five years later and Martin now a successful businessman is told by this arrogant sleaze-ball Ambose , Lawrence Cregar , who got a spy in the D . A's office that Cory is making a deal in fingering Martin in the Dutch murder . Martin like a complete fool goes to see Cory , whom he knows is untrustworthy , who's now in the theater business and ends up getting shot by one of his men Cute Freddy , Harry Bronson , who ends up getting killed by Martin in the crossfire . Badly injured Martin despite having his picture on every newspapers as well as on the TV news walks from the midtown Theater District to Greenwich Village , about two miles , without anyone , man woman or cop , recognizing him as well as offering the badly injured Martin any medical attention . Hiding in this abandoned building Martin is discovered by Elsie , Gayle Reed , and her cute but badly inured dog , the poor mutt is blinded in one eye , Skippy . It just happens that Elsie's mother Lily White , Dolores Moran , is one of Cory's discoveries in the theater whom he promised to make a star . Befriending Elsie and her mutt Skippy Martin calls him Johnny One-Eye and tells the very young , she's about four years old , and impressionable Elsie that he's actually Santa Clause in disguise , Martin doesn't have a white beard and a Santa Clause outfit , from a wanted photo of himself that Elsie shows him in a local newspaper . The movie has Martin later find out about Cory's involvement with Elsie's mom as well as his mistreatment of both Lily Elsie as well as Johnny-One-Eye , or Skippy , whom the despicable hoodlum blinded by kicking the pooch in the face . Martin in trying to get Johnny One-Eye help or find him a home goes to this Greenwich Village veterinarian , Donald Woods , who tells him that the best thing he could do for very sick Johnny One-Eye is put the dog to sleep . It's later when Woods repairs Martin's chest wound that he goes to see Ambrose about having a meeting with Cory offering him $15 , 000 . 00 in finding out Cory's whereabouts so that he can pay him a visit and pay him back for what he did to him . True to form Ambrose double-crosses Martin by setting him up to be turned over to Cory , for $25 , 000 . 00 . It's then that Ambrose's henchman a member of the D . A's staff and possibly Ambrose gay lover Francis , Lyle Talbot , gets cold feet in being afraid of losing his job , he was told by the lying Ambrose that Martin was to be turned over to the police . Where there's another shoot-out with both Francis getting cold cocked by Martin and Ambose ending up shot dead by an outraged Francis . Finding out that Cory is living across the street from where he's hiding out in the abandoned building , what a small world , Martin has him alerted by Elsie where he is that leads to the final shoot-out with both himself and Cory ending up dead . With what little life he still has left to him as he's dying from a bullet wound Martin tells one of the cops , who later came on the scene , to buy Elsie a new dog , Johnny One-Eye didn't have long to go by then , and make her think that the dog is her beloved pet Skippy or as Martin called him Johnny One-Eye .
" For What Shall a Man Profit When He Gains The Whole World Only To Loses His Own Soul "	( There Are Spoilers ) Arriving at the Sabourin Mansion in New York City the homicide squad headed by police Capt . LaFarge , Morris Ankrum , finds multi-millionaire financier Clementi Sabourin dead , shot to death , in his study . Capt . LaFarge has Sabourin personal secretary Bridget Kelly ( Yvonne De Carlo ) , the only person in the film who had anything good to say about him , called in for questioning about who could have possibly murdered her boss . It's then the movie " Death of a Scoundrel " fades into a flashback that takes up almost the entire film . Surviving a Nazi concentration camp in WWII Clementi comes back home to Czechoslovakia only to find that all the money that he gave his younger brother Gerry Monte , Tom Conway , was gone and his childhood sweetheart Zina , Lisa Ferrady , married to him . Told by both Gerry and Zina that they were informed that he died in the camps doesn't make Clementi feel any better . Later Clementi goes to he Communist Czech police and rats on his brother about him having illegal and black-market contraband . This leads to Gerry getting shot and killed by the police for " resisting arrest " . For his service to the government Clementi gets a French passport that he uses to immigrate to the United States and find his fortune . In America Clementi waste no time getting to the top of the heap of the stock bond commodity and real-estate markets . With his sharp mind and unscrupulous principles Clementi becomes one of the richest and most feared men on Wall Street . Clementi also scores big with the ladies charming them into investing in his schemes and make big bucks because of them . Like the Wall Street moguls of the 1920's , and later 1980's , Clementi specializes in corporate take-overs that ends up destroying the value of the companies that he takes over and throws thousands of stock owner out in the cold flat broke with their stocks totally worthless . It's doesn't take long before Clementi becomes the most hated and despised man in the world of finance and his biggest fraud the selling of a stock to the public called Sobourinuranium was the last straw when it collapsed with Clementi ending up with all the money as the stock owners went broke ; this brought the SEC , the Securites & Exchange Commission , in to investigate him and cause his fall from power and eventual murder . There wasn't anyone in the movie that Clementi didn't screw to get what he wanted ; his brother Gerry and later Gerry's widow Zina who ended up committing suicide when she found that he was cheating on her in a Chicago hotel with one of his many rich women friends Mrs . Edith Van Renassel , Coleen Gray . Zina ended her life blaming Clementi in a suicide note for her death . Clementi also used very rich and connected women like the beautiful widowed Mrs . Ryan , Zsa Zsa Gabor who he left high and dry and the mega rich Mrs . Van Renassalear who's marriage he destroyed to get cash , that he was alway desperately in need of , for his financial adventures . The only woman that Clementi fell in love with Mrs . Ryan's secretary Stephanie North , Nancy Gates , rejected his crude advances and thus gets even with Stephanie by destroying her career as an actress that he himself helped financed . The last straw to Clementi's rottenness was when faced with being deported back to Communist Czechoslovakia as an undesirable alien he tries to get his old and sick mother ( Celia Lousky ) , whom he ignored for years , come to America in order to declare him , in court papers , as being her legitimate son ! Clementi wants his mother to tell the court that he was actually born in Switzerland with his father being a Swiss citizen ! In order to prevent him from being shipped back behind the Iron Curtain and into a Soviet Gulag . It's at this point that Clementi finally realizes what a heel and scoundrel he really is and in a show of contrition plans to give all his money away to those he stole and cheated it out off but . By that time it was already too late for him since not all of his partners in crime , who profited from his sleazy ventures , weren't that " saintly " and one of them Mr . O'Hara ( John Hoyt ) , who was involved with Clementi's dealing right from the start , wasn't at all that willing to go along with him and depart from his ill-gotten gains . In the end all Clementi wanted was forgiveness for what he did from those that he hurt over the years and in a strange and mystifying way , after his death , he did in the end get it .
Devil Worship in New England , Past and Present	SPOILERS After listening to a lecture by Prof . Alan Driscoll , Christopher Lee , on the town of Whitewood Massachussetts back in 1692 where a local witch , Elizabeth Slwyn , was burned at the stake one of Prof . Driscoll's students Nan Barlow , Venetia Stevenson , decided to do a term paper on the subject . Nan drives to Whitewood to get whatever information she could get on the subject from whats available in the towns records dating back to the 17th Century about witchcraft in general and the Slwyn case in particular . Getting instructions from a reluctant local living in the area Nan drives into the town of Whitewood and checks into the Raven Inn where she meets the owner Mrs . Newlis , Patricia Jessel , and her mute helper Lottie , Ann Beach . Nan , unknowing to her at the time , was to meet a fate reserved only for someone like her , an innocent girl , that was needed for the Witches Holiday of February 1 , Candlemass Eve the Satanic mocking of the Church . Early Witchcraft and devil movie that predated " Rosemary's Baby " and " The Exorcist " but despite it's small budget is as good as either of those movies and the dozens of imitations that followed them . Eerie and spooky film about Witchcraft in New England that covers some 300 years from the Salem Witch Trials in 1692 to the beginning of the Disco Swinging era of the 1960's . The town of Whitewood is both in the dark and fog at all times in the movie with not a single ray of sunlight ever descending on it . This gives the town a really creepy look as well as unnerving everyone in the theater audience watching the film . It makes one feel that the movie was made in Northern Alaska during the time when it has six months of darkness instead of the state of Massachussetts . Gripping as well as interesting movie with a great ending sequence where good overcomes evil despite the overwhelming odds against it .
The not so sweet America's Sweetheart	SPOILERS Being paged by what she thought was her boss the star of the very popular Josie TV Show Josie Joplin's , Dayan Cannon , her associate producer Ivy West , Susan Diol , rushes over to Josie's suite at the Belmont Hotel only to find Josie dead . Ivy is herself belted and knocked out cold by whoever was the person who murdered Josie . Being on the scene with no alibi but that she was called by the murder victim to come over Ivy is arrested and booked for Josie Joplin's murder . Wild Bill McKenzie , Hal Holbrook , who's not only one of the nations top defense attorney but also Ivy's uncle is summoned to her defense . right away he spots an opening to get his niece off with the fact that the call to the police , over a violent fight in Josie's hotel room , and the time the police got there finding a dead Josie and a barley conscious Ivy was 14 minutes . Not only more then enough time for the real killer to have may his getaway but proof that Ivy , by innocently being on the scene , of not being responsible for the murder but a pasty who was set up to the take the rap for it . Leaving no stone unturned Wild Bill has his good friend Perry Mason's , hot shot private eye Ken Malansky , William R . Moses , check out who's license plate it was that was seen by Ivy driving away from the hotel the night Josie Joplin was found murdered . It turned out to belong to this masseuse who worked at a Malibu health spa named Martin Kessler , John Laughlin . Trying to get a statement from Kessler Malansky gets whacked and almost run over but lucky for him he get's the license plate of a young woman who was on the scene taking pictures Later Ken tracks down the woman who turned out to be Pat McDonland , Khrystyne Haje , a top reporter and photographer for the well known supermarket tabloid The Nationial Informer . Working as a team with Pat , who's looking for the big scoop , Malansky uncovers a maze of leads that all point to Josie . Josie was so nasty and vindictive towards everyone that she had any business with that those who would have had a reason to do her in amounted to almost the entire state of California including Ivy West . Wild Bill mixing the legal work with his own brand of inciting and aggravating those whom he's interrogating eventually found things out about the sweet and lovable Josie that made he realize that she had a lot of people who would have gladly did her in . Wild Bill in his uncouth behavior got people good and mad with her actions but the trick was to get guard down of who was , of dozens of suspects , as the person who murdered Josie . The clues to Josie's murder lead to a Malibu drug dealer of the rich and famous a stuck-up and strung out co-star of the Josie Show who just happened to be the drug dealers best customers . The was the last of the Perry Mason TV movies even though it's star Raymond Burr passed away some two years before the show was finally put to rest . Hal Holbrook as defense attorney Wild Bill McKenzie was a good replacement for the late Mr . Burr and didn't try to imitate the title character . Holbrook was very affective with his country or farm boy charm wits and common sense in his going out on his own and mixing with unsavory and dangerous characters in order to dig up evidence .
I was secretly glad that my name was Bell instead of Ballini	SPOILERS 1961 motion picture loosely based on the notorious August 30 , 1959 Salvador Agron " Capeman killings " in New York City's Hells Kitchen . The movie has the racial backgrounds of victim and killer reversed which made the film a bit disingenuous to the movie going public back then in 1961 , just two years after that terrible event . The killer Salvador Agron was Hispanic and his two teenage victims , Anthony Krezsinski and Robert Young , were white . Three members of the white Manhattan street gang The Thunderbirds cross into Spanish Harlem on the turf of the local Puerto Rican gang The Horsemen and zero in on young and sensitive harmonica playing Roberto Escalante , Jose Perez , knifing him to death . Caught minutes after the killing are the three gang members Reardon Di Pace & Aposto , John David Chandler Stanley Kristien & Neil Nephew . With the city D . A Daniel Cole , Edward Andrews , wanting a first degree murder conviction of the three teenage assailants , to give him a boost in the upcoming gubernatorial elections , he put's his best prosecutor on the case Asst . D . A Hank Bell , Burt Lancaster . With the three defendants claiming that they killed Roberto in self-defense their excuse falls apart like a house of cards when it's shown that he was totally blind and a threat to no one , much less themselves . It now starts to look like D . A Cole would get the first degree murder conviction that can send the three youths , all under 18 , to the electric chair . Bell who at first had no idea who the three defendants were soon realized that one of the accused killers , Danny Di Pace , is the son of a woman Mrs . Mary Di Pace , Shelly Winters , that he was in love with years before he got married to his present wife Karin , Dina Merrill . This made prosecuting Danny very difficult and painful for him . Slowly getting all the evidence in order and at the same time being attacked , far worse the his wife was earlier in the film , by gang members for doing his job Asst . D . A Bell finally gets to the bottom of the case . Bell finds out the real reason for Roberto's killing and it totally throws him off to what he's supposed to do in the case ; get a verdict that would strap the three into the electric chair , regardless of their guilt or innocence , in order to further his boss ' D . A Cole political career . A bit ahead of it's time " The Young Savages " goes into the mental mindset of the three accused killers of blind Roberto Escalante and comes up with some startling conclusions ; all three were not in full control of themselves or in what they did so a first degree murder conviction was unable to be reached by the jury . Not that they got off Scot-free for their actions and Roborto himself was anything but the innocent bystander that he was made out to be by his friends family and the liberal newspapers . A cowardly bully with a deep inferiority complex who was the leader of the pack Arthur Reardon is given 20 to life . A mentally retarded and delusional Anthony " Batman " Aposto , who thinks that he's the Batman of comic book fame , ends up in an institution for the criminally insane until he's seen fit , by a battery of psychiatrists , to again become a member of society . It was Danny Di Pace who got off from getting heavy jail time , Danny got a year in Juvenile Hall , for just wanting to be a member of a street gang to have the family that he never knew but that involvement lead to Roberto Escalante losing his life . Hank Bell threw away whatever future he had in the New York State D . A's office by looking at the facts and perusing Justice instead of letting the three gang member fry for the sake of his , and D . A Cole's , future in state or national politics .
I'm young I never worry about time	SPOILERS Out of gas in the seedy and non residential side of L . A aerospace engineer Walt Sherill , Alan Ladd , looking for a gas station is almost run down by a gang of drunken preppies . After giving them a piece of his mind the car goes in reverse and the well dressed and well spoken hooligans confront the startled Sherill who work him over where he ends up with a concussion and broken left leg . It's when Sherill gets in touch with the police that his young tormentors not only target him but his wife Tracey , Dolores Dorn , as well . The movie " 13 West Street " is a lot like the Charles Bronson urban crime thriller " Death Wish " that was released 12 years later . In the film Sherill at first goes to the police and when he does't get the results that he wants goes on his own trying to track down and exact revenge against those who left him a crippled and later tried to both murder and rape his wife Tracey . Ulike in " Death Wish " Sherill goes after only those who did him in not just any street hood who gets in his way , using himself as a decoy , like Charles Bronson did in that movie . Trying at first to let the police track down and arrest his attackers Sherill gets impatient and hired a private detective Finny , Stanley Adams , to do the job . It turns out that Finny despite finding those who brutally beat Sherill tails them in his car losing control by driving some 80 to 90 MPH and ending up dead at the bottom of a ravine . The hoodlums themselves are lead by by this conceded and what seems like stuck up , on those who are law abiding citizens , spoiled brat named Chuck , Michael Callan . Chuck gets so carried away in tormenting both Sherill and his wife Tracey that even his fellow criminals try to distance themselves from him . Bill , Arnold Merritt , one of Chuck's hangers on gets so guilt ridden at what he did to Sherill that he's murdered by Chuck , who made it look like a suicide , in order to keep his fellow hoodlums in line and from talking to the police . Det . Koleski , Rod Steiger , who's on the case has so much trouble in keeping Sherill from going off the handle and ending up not only killing any of his attackers but even innocent persons who get in his way almost has Sherill arrested for his own good . Meanwhile Chuck , who wasn't all there upstairs to begin with , gets this bright idea to break into Sherill's house and show just what a man he really is by raping his wife Tracey which alerts the cops who catch him both red handed and with his pants down . Running back to mommy and daddy , who've been covering up for him all this time , Chuck is caught by surprise by a cane swinging Sherill who after breaking his head almost drowns Chuck in his parents swimming pool . Sherill has to thank Det . Koleski for coming to his rescue not that he really needed him but to stop him from killing Chuck and ending up behind bars himself . P . S With all the comparisons to the movie ' Death Wish " there is a scene in " 13 West Street " that left me a bit startled . This happens when Sherill in his hospital room , with a cast and clutches , slips and falls on the ground and is unable to get up by himself . In pops this young man who at first you think is one of those who put him there in the first place . It turns out that the young man , Adam Roarke , is visiting his mom in the room next to Sherill who helps him up and gives him back his clutches . Adam Roarke looks so much like a young Charles Bronson that for a moment I almost thought that he was actually him !
Karcgaz ! Pete Karcgaz ! A Real American Name .	SPOILERS Film about a smuggling ring operating out of Havana Cuba getting fake papers and passports for people desperately trying to enter the United States . It becomes apparent to the US Immigration Service that something is not right in Miami when Ramon Santez , Charles Wagenheim , is killed in a car accident in NYC . Having just arrived from Cuba Sentez was in possession of a half $1 , 000 . 00 bill when he was killed . We earlier saw that Santez was scared by this stranger who approached him in a car and threatened Sentez about something that he had going with this guy named Palinov , Geore Macready . That threat had him running for his life and head first into a moving automobile ! who's the heck is this Palinov ? It's later fond out by the INS , Immigration and Naturalization Service , that Sentez was in the country illegally . It's also found out that he was supposed to pay the person who scared him into practically killing himself the other half of the bill that he had on him . Sending Hungarian / American INS agent Pete Karcgaz , John Hodiak , to Havana Cuba to check on the late Satnez connections there Pete decides to go undercover as an Hungarian national . Pete masquerade's around as the snobbish and self-centered Josef Gombush who's trying to enter the United States . This act on Petes part is to get to the bottom of the story that leads him straight to the mysterious Palinov . It's Palinov who approaches Gombush , the undercover INS agent Karczag , not the other way around and invites him to his caf the " Gulf Stream " in downtown Havana to talk business . Needing $1 , 000 . 00 to get the papers in order for Gombush to enter the US Palinov felt that the guy is loaded and $1 , 000 . 00 feed can easily be doubled or even tripled by him . It just happens that Palinov is also working on the papers of beautiful Buchenwald Concentration Camp survivor Marianne Lorress , Hedy Lamarr , who doesn't have the cash , $1 , 000 . 00 , but sure as hell has the looks to get him to get her into the United States . Gombush / Karcgaz also notices the gorgeous knock-out Marianne at the caf which almost causes him to lose both his composure as well as his fake Hungarian accent . Gombush / Karcgaz really over doing it by acting like some high class jerk get's Palinov suspicious of his intentions . He later has a number of his boys break into Gombush's hotel room and work him over . It's then found out that Gombush is actually Pete Karczag American INS agent which completely blows his cover . Knowing that the heat is on Palinov starts to work fast to check out of Cuba but makes a point to point out to the exotic and alluring Marianne that her boyfriend Gombush , he didn't take long to make a move on her , is really American INS agent Pete Karczag ! This has her drop Karczag cold and leave together with Palinvo , who's also crazy about her , and a number of other illegal refugees on a chartered plane to Florida . With the US military and local police having an all points bulletin out in looking for him Palinov has his pilot James , Bruce Cowling , crash land in the wetlands of the Florida Everglades It's then that Palinov takes off with James and of course the captivating Marianne by rubber raft for the open sea in a boat that he had hidden in the swamps . Tracked down by INS agent Karcgaz and his boss chief Westake , James Craig , Palinvo ends up losing his pilot James to an attack by a poisonous water-moccasins . Palivo now on foot makes it to the boat only to run into Karcgaz who made it there first . After trying to shoot and miss both Karcgaz and , I guess he didn't love her anymore , Marianne Palinvo helplessly sails into the fog to Key West . With all his plans now shot to pieces Palinvo is then picked up by the awaiting US Coast Guard as he become stranded , because of agent Karcgaz sabotaging his boat , in the Caribbean Sea .
Secret Love	SPOILERS Suffering from an unnerving mid-life crisis Saginaw Mich . truck driver Tom Weston , Gerald McRadeny , starts drifting into a second childhood where he looks to ditch his wife Nancy , Peggy Lipton , for a much younger woman . Having met 19 year-old Bobbi Gilbert , Josie Bissett , at a local bowling alley Tom starts to work on the unsuspecting and naive young woman by hounding her at her job at the Nelsons Linens laundry factory every afternoon that she leaves from work . It doesn't take long for the smooth talking Tom to get the shy and inexperienced Bobbi to go along with him in being his , who's well over 20 years her senior , girlfriend . To Bobbi's credit she puts up with the silver tongued Romeo only because she thinks that he's , like her , single and unattached but when she accidentally finds out otherwise things start to go sour between her and " Tommy Boy " . Tom feeds the very impressionable Bobbi this line of BS that she swallows hook line and sinker that he's going to divorce Nancy and marry her . In fact Tom whats to have it both ways with a wife and girlfriend on the side with the danger of him divorcing Nancy he'll lose everything , the house his cherry red mustang and bank account , and end up in the street . It's later in the movie that Tom comes up with this bright idea to have Nancy killed in a car explosion that he'll set up for her . Nancy already caught Tom and Bobbi together and had her suspicions about him only to have him convince her that Bobbi is only a friend of his and nothing more . You wonder how much longer Nancy would fall for her husbands half-a excuses whenever she finds him and Bobbi alone together . Back to Tom's plan of doing Nancy in he concocts this scenario of him being threatened by someone out to get him going so far as having his prized mustang bobby-trapped and blown up . Tom of course was nowhere next to his totaled car but made like , rubbing oil and and grease all over himself , that he was to throw off suspicion by the police . Tom's plan to kill Nancy in a similar car explosion backfires with her miraculously surviving and it's that very unpleasant fact , on Tom's part , that makes him a prime suspect in his wife's attempted murder . Bobbi now implicated in Nancy's attempted murder , which she had no knowledge off , comes clean and tells all that she knows of her lovers , and secretly married husband , Tom's double life . This all leads Bobbi in losing her job at Nelsons Linens and later losing her life in a , even though it's never proved , contract murder engineered by Tom behind bars in order to keep her from testifying against him at his trial . Nancy who was very reluctant to testify against Tom later changes her mind after Bobbi's murder knowing now for the first time what a murderous sleaze-ball he really is . Nancy's testimony leads to a conviction of her cheating husband Tom Waston on a charge of attempted murder together with a charge of bigamy . The criminal charge , if convicted of it , that would have really put Tom away for good , Bobbi's contracted murder , he got away with thus being given only a 20 year sentence . Tom Weston had the distinction of cheating on both his wife Nancy and girlfriend Bobbi Gilbert at the same time with both his victims totally kept in the dark about his real intentions . It was Toms attempt to shut Bobbi up by having her killed that in the end sealed his fate by finally opening Nancy's eyes and seeing what she failed to see during the entire movie ; that he wasn't worth lying or perjuring herself for to save his rotten neck .
What's Bugging Harry ?	SPOILERS Having been involved in bugging people for years in the surveillance business Harry Caul , Gene Hackman , has tried to detach himself from his job on snooping into other peoples business by trying to keep what he does at far away from himself as possible . Hired to do a job for the Director , Robert Duvall , in San Francisco Harry and his assistant Stan , John Cazale , have Ann & Mark , Cindy Williams & Fredrick Forrest , staked out with a number of bugging devices as well as men on the scene in this park picking up everything that the couple says . This assignment is no big deal for Harry since he's done far bigger jobs over the years making him the # 1 bugger on the west coast if not the entire country or even the world . What we at the time don't know , and are soon to find out , is that Harry has a very guilty conscience coupled with his being a very serious and observant Catholic about an event that has been burning up insides him . Harry pulled off an almost impossible spying job , that made him the legend in the spying business that he is now back in the summer of 1968 a job that cost the lives of three innocent people . Checking out the tapes on Ann and her husband Mark Harry picks up , after cleaning out the background noises , Mark saying " he'll kill us if he got the chance " and goes into a panic . Harry feels that he's somehow setting up the two to be murdered by the Director . With him already guilt-ridden over the deaths of the three people that he somehow involved in his surveillance job back in 1968 this , the possible murder of Ann & Mark , is too much for Harry's guilt-ridden soul to bare and he starts to do everything he can to stop it ; not giving over the surveillance tapes to the Director's stooge the snooty and arrogant , which makes Harry all that more determined not to to give him the tapes , Martin Stett ( Harrison Ford ) . Statt under orders from the Director to get the tapes , which Harry is to be paid $15 , 000 . 00 for , has Harry followed where his cover is easily discovered , the arrogant jerk doesn't even bother to put on a disguise , by a very observant Harry . Stett finally get's to Harry , by using someone else , at a party for fellow snooper at his loft , where Harry has all his tapes and equipment . Having invited top New York bugger Bernie Moran , Alen Garfield , who's very jealous of Harry for being the top man in the bugging business with him a very distance second and one of his lady friends Meredith , Elizabeth MacRae , Harry is at first made to look like a fool , by Bernie having him bugged without knowing it . Things got even worse with Meredith bedding Harry down in his loft as she induced Harry to spend the night with her , after everyone else left , not because Harry is so sexy and debonair but that Meredith is secretly working for the Director . As Harry is in dreamland Meredith slips out of his place with the very important tapes of Ann and Mark that Harry had hidden there . With no choice left to him Harry goes to see the Director the next day to pick up his fee for the tapes but he still has this bug up his a about what the Director has in store for Ann & Mark . Knowing where their staying , a hotel in the city , which was on the tapes he gave the director Harry checks into a room next to theirs and bugs it to keep in touch with what's to happen to them and if something bad does , which Harry suspects , he can come riding to their rescue . It turned that Harry was in a way right , but half-a backwards right , about Ann & Mark and the Director . After going through a number of wild and paranoid induced hallucinations Harry finally came to his senses with the knowledge that there indeed was a murder in the works in all this but it wasn't exactly what he thought it would be with both the victims , or victim , and the murderer , or murderers , in this whole mind-numbing scenario being in reverse ! Harry now completely out of it knowing that the murder , that he so desperately tried to prevent , was actually made possible by his misinterpreting the evidence , thus not being able to stop it , has another death , like the three back in 1968 , on his conscience . With the knowledge that he screwed everything up Harry goes back to his almost empty and spartan apartment , after he ripped out everything in it that wasn't bolted or nailed down , and tries to forget his troubles . Mindlessly plopping himself down in a corner , with the only thing that he can now relate too , and playing his beloved saxophone Harry is now disconnected from reality and his conscience . All this involvement with Ann Mark and the Director in regard to , what at first seemed like , a simple surveillance job on the part of Harry had just about driven him over the edge and left him in a state of such sever self-denial . Cut off from the world in order not to be exposed to both any human contact as well as becoming uninvolved in the wiretapping business that he's so good at doing on others , Harry in short has gone totally nuts !
Where There's a Will . . . There's a Way	( Very Minor Spoilers ) Even though G . Gordon Liddy , Robert Conrad , is mostly known for his involvement in the Watergate break in on the evening of June , 1972 the movie " Will : G Gordon Liddy " concentrates more on his steadfastness and loyalty to those whom he was working , and in agreement . That bull-bullheadedness like loyalty in the end put him in a number of brutal federal prisons for almost five years , longer then the US was involved in WWII as Liddy always likes to say . To it's and Liddy's credit , who's book the movie is based on , the film does in no way make any excuses for Liddy's actions during the Watergate scandal as well as his actions before that when he was an FBI man and Nixon campaign worker . It does , and somewhat rightfully so , complain of the severe sentence handed down to Liddy and his fellow Watergate conspirator who received between 20 to 40 years behind bars for a crime where nothing of any monetary value was taken or anybody was hurt . In prison Liddy is shown to take his punishment , from prisoners and guards alike , without any complaints and the only time he loses it is when he wife Fran , Katherine Cannon , is made to feel that he's having an affair , through the mail , with another woman by the prison officials . This is underhanded tactic done to brake him down psychologically and make him talk against his fellow Watergate conspirators . Liddy earns the grudging respect of both prisoners and prison officials alike who at first had nothing but disdain and revulsion for him . Allying himself with his fellow prisoners most of them being black and Hispanic , whom he had no use for before he entered prison , Liddy's skills as a lawyer won them their rights and privileges that the corrupt Prison Warden took away from them . Toward the end of the film we see his fellow prisoners cheering and applauding Liddy as he's driven around the prison yard on a lift giving them , what seem to me to be , the Fascist Salute . Liddy's strength seemed to come from his German background and his fascination with German 19th century writer and philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche and historic German militarism that dated back to the Germanic tribes who defeated the Roman Legions in the first century A . D . Even at the end of the film we hear Liddy as his being released from prison answer the reporters , who are asking him questions , in German . Again the film " Will : G . Gordon Liddy " doesn't excuse his actions during the Watergate era it only tries to show us a history lesson about that interesting man and those turbulent times that he lived and participated in .
Our chicken has flown the coop !	( There are Spoilers ) Not at all that bad cliff-hanger type of movie with some stunning photography , which the maker of the film didn't skimp on , and a lot of unintentional laughs . That had you feeling at times that it was a comedy not a serious crime drama . What I can't understand is why the movie ended with the Mr . Big behind this caper is only not apprehended but even exposed ? It's as if he , it could well have been a she , never existed at all ! This after were told over and over by the head law enforcement agent in the movie Agent Burrard , J . Douglas Stewart , just how important this person is ! The bad guys in " Final Ascent " aren't exactly a bunch of master criminals in that their so wacky and incompetent that they end up not trusting each other feeling , correctly , that there's an undercover DOJ , Department of Justice , agent in their mist . Even worse the head guy who comes across as being the most incompetent of them all Viggo , Patrick Muldoon , who then in his paranoia and inability to grasp what exactly is happening kills by kicking him out of a plane the very person Ray , Byron Lucas , who has the 30 million in government bonds that he and his gang ripped off . Viggo's act of madness and stupidity has Ray and the bonds land on top of an 10 , 000 foot high snow capped mountain in the frozen Rockies ! Trying to get to the bonds Viggo and his boys get to join this mountain climbing group who are scaling the mountain where they landed on , Mills Peak . It's then when the fun really begins to happen with Viggo losing it , together with his gang of hoods , as they get closer and closer to their objective , the 30 million in bonds . As the air gets thinner and thinner and Viggo & Co . brains get more and more , due to the thin air , swollen until he completely freaks out and ends up free-falling , without his precious bonds , to his death some 10 , 000 feet below . There's also a side story , that's no where as funny but much more interesting , in " Final Ascent " that has to do with the head climber Beth , Heidi Levhert , and her dad Paul , Jurgen Prochnow , together with her boyfriend the hunky and handsome David , Antonio Sabato . All end up surviving this disastrous climb in that they besides having to put up with Viggo and his gang had to overcome their , Beth & Paul , on personal guilt . Beath & Paul felt responsible in the death of , Beth's sister and Paul's daughter , Mary , Kimberly Warnat , who fall to her death on the same mountain , Mills Peak , at the start of the film .
Marty why do you do these things ?	SPOILERS Suffering from four bullet wounds cop killer Marty Rome , Richard Conte , had just about had it . with Marty to be given the last rites as he suddenly and miraculously recovers from his wounds . Marty is sent to the prison hospital to get well and healthy enough to be able to be executed in the state electric chair for first degree murder . It seemed that Marty got some help in his recovery when his sweet and innocent girlfriend Teena , Debra Paget , snuck into his not so well guarded hospital room in order to exchange sweet nothings with him . That was enough to bring Marty back from the dead . We have Marty , after his miraculous recovery , try get to the bottom of the de Grazia murder case whom he was to take the rap for . This sleazy shyster lawyer W . A Niles ( Barry Kroeger ) , who was defending Mrs . de Grazias actual killer Leggy White , calmly and unannounced strolled into the hospital emergency ward and tried to get a death bed confession out of Marty . Marty first escaping from prison and then breaking into Niles , whom he ends up murdering , office takes the both missing and stolen jewels of Mrs de Grazia , by Niels client Leggy White , out of his office safe . Marty is also helped in his criminal adventures by both his younger brother Tony , Tommy Cook , and former girlfriend Brenda , Shelly Winters , in his eluding the police and getting medical attention for his gun-shot wounds . Suffering from four gun-shot wounds and needing immediate medical attention Brenda gets this quack doctor from the neighborhood Dr . Vernoff , Konstantin Shayne , Marty is again brought back to life , just when you thought he was about to kick off for good . Marty goes back in trying to find his sweetheart Teena who's being kept safely hidden from the police by Nurse Pruett , Betty Grade . Whom the sweet taking and womanizing Marty charmed into making a fugitive from the law , for what ? Teena wasn't wanted by the cops for any crime that she committed like Marty is ! The other half of the story in " Cry of the City " has to do with Marty's boyhood friend from the neighborhood police Let . Candella , Victor Mature . Let . Candella is out to get Marty and bring him to justice or the electric chair . Still Let . Candella is just too nice to hurt Marty's mom Mr . Roma , Mimi Aguglia , in doing that . Candella want's Marty to give himself up instead so he can voluntarily be tried convicted and executed . With nobody having to be blamed for his demise but himself , fat chance ! We get the inevitable ending with Marty about to check out of the country with his love Teena whom he contacts in the neighborhood church . Only to have Let . Cardella now also gravely hurt from getting shot by one of Marty's criminal associates : the 250 pound masseuse Rose Givens , Hope Emerson . Rose is also involved in the Mrs de Grazia murder robbery and only helped Marty in order to get the jewels from that crime that Marty has hidden in a subway public locker . The very predictable ending has Marty get what he so rightly deserves . At the same time Marty's girlfriend Teena and younger brother Tony , who looked up to the career hoodlum and cop-killer , see what a lowlife and creep he really was . Hopefully they'll see that no matter how clever and likable as well as lovable he was Marty only looked out for himself . He used everyone , even getting them involved in his crimes , to further his own selfish gaols which in the end lead the smirking and self-assured Marty into an early grave .
Authority Cannot Be Questioned !	SPOILERS Getting his first assignment as the third officer on a merchant ship sailing out in the Gulf of Mexico , to the the port-side town of San Sebastian , Lt . Marriam , Russell Wade , never expected that his captain Will Stone , Richard Dix , was mentally deranged and obsessed with his authority over the men he was in charge of to the point of being able to take their lives if he deemed it necessary . Mild mannered and philosophical when off the boat and on land Capt . Stone lost it when he sensed that his authority was either challenged or his ability to command the freighter , The Altair , an its crew was exposed as anything but perfect . Out in the open sea things start to get real weird on The Altair as it's captain , Will Stone , showed that he couldn't take responsibly for his actions when he was wrong . With one of the crew members Pete , Paul Marion , getting an appendicitis attack Capt . Stone freezes up when he's to operate , as he was getting medical instruction via radio , on the stricken merchant sailor . The Captain has Merriam take over who successfully complete the operation . Marriam wisely keeping that fact of Capt . Stone's almost fainting at the sight of blood much less unable to operate on Pete , which as the captain of the ship he was supposed to do . Stone started to lose his marbles in his , and third officer Marriam , knowing that he's anything but the perfect seaman that he always thought himself to be . When he's later challenged by one of the crewmen Louie Parker , Lawrence Tierney , about not replacing the very sick Pete and not having a full crew , which would prevent The Altair to go out to sea , Capt . Stone has Louie go down in the ship's chain room and maliciously locking him in . This results in the poor man being crushed to death as the room is filled to capacity with Louie's screams for help drowned out . It's after the death of Louie Parker that Lt . Marriam realized that the captain is a homicidal lunatic . After reaching shore at San Sebastian Lt . Marrian tried to get Stone taken off the Altair , by his boss The Dunham Shipping Line , without success . Knowing that Stone was going mad Marriam left the jinxed ship only to end up back on The Altair , after being rolled and kidnapped on shore . Back on board Marrian's life is now in serious danger with him having to be with the crazed and vindictive , for changeling his authority , Captain Stone who's beside the ships captain its judge jury and executioner as well . Not at all a ghost story as it's title indicated " Ghost Ship " never the less is a chilling reminder of how power , absolute power , can drive a man to become a monster when he's in no way able to handle or appreciate it by not understanding that with power also comes responsibility . Very atmospheric in the scenes at sea the movie also has a very unluckily hero in the mute merchant seaman Finn , Skelton Knaggs . Finn not only saved Lt . Marriam and the crew from the insanity , of it's skipper , that engulfed the troubled boat by taking on the by then insane and out of control Stone . He's also the person who fills us in to what a psycho Will Stone is from him being the one man on the boat , by the many times he sailed with Stone , who knew him best .
I ' can't believe your that stupid Hammer ! Do you know who your dealing with !	( There are Spoilers ) Getting the terrible news that his best friend and army buddy Joey De Fellita was killed in a car smash-up private eye Mike Hammer who's on the scene of Joey's accident won't buy the story that Joey's death was at all accidental . In Hammers mind Joey was murdered and murdered for something that he wasn't supposed to know or do . Going against the advice of his friend in the police department Capt . Pat Chambers Hammer checks out what was the cause of Joey's death and finds out from his friend Ivan Saric a police pathologist that Joey was in fact brutally beaten to death and his death made to look like it was a car accident . That confirms Hammers darkest fears of what really happened to his friend Joey De Fellita . It's now a personal matter with Mike Hammer going all out in finding Joey's killer , or killers , and not caring who's toes he steps on . Hammer turns the entire city upside down and inside out to eventually catch , and personally punish , those who did Joey in . In the process Hammer uncovers a horror so terrifying that even he at first doesn't believe it . Joey was somehow involved with the mob in being a runner for this Mafioso bigwig named Machetti who through payoffs from corrupt Congressman John O'Hair is expected by hook and by crook to get him elected governor . O'Hair using uncut diamonds as payoff money , being that their untraceable , will have Machetti's political machine hand him over the votes that he needs to get into the state house . In return O'Hair will turn over large sections of the city of New York to Macheitt's money-making and money-laundering legit front , The Macheitti Construction Company . This would give Macheitti & Co . the opportunity to ransack the city in getting no-bid and useless , but very profitable , state contracts from future Governor O'Hair . Which besides putting tens of millions of dollars in Macheitti's pockets will drive tens of thousands of city residents , that includes Joey's mom Mama De Fellita , into the streets without a place to live . With the exception of Ralph Meeker , who played Mike Hammer in " Kiss me Deadly " , Kevin Dobson is about as close as being Mike Hammer as anyone who ever played the rough and tumble private eye . Sure of himself and not at all afraid of who he deals with and how much pull or muscle and firepower that they have . Dobson comes across as an almost suicidal type of guy who would rather get himself killed before making any deal with those that he's battling with no matter how good the deal is . The fact that the Machetti mob , through it's mobbed up lawyer Lou Krone , handed over the person , dead on arrival , who supposedly murdered Joey De Fellita on a platter , or hook , to him doesn't at all stop Hammer from going after Macheitti & Co . Whom he feels deep inside his gut were the real murderers of his friend Joey De Fellita . Hammer's private secretary Velda played by a perky Cindy Pickett is also an added plus in the film . With her not being the helpless and damsel in distress girl that were used to seeing in most Mike Hammer movies or TV shows . Pickett is more then able to take care of herself with out her hard knocking boss ' , Mike Hammer , help . It's sad that Dobson didn't get the chance to play in more Mike Hammer films in that he would have improved the character he played in " Margin for Murder " that he so skillfully and brutally depicted in that film ; Mike Hammer .
You Dirty Sadistic Swine !	SPOILERS Almost incomprehensible plot that has to do with a Nazi spy ring in the heart of New York City masquerading around as a bunch of refugee European society blue-bloods . Emotionaly disturbed and mentally broken Jon " Kit " McKittrick , John Garfield , is back in New York after a stay at a rest home in Arizona . McKittrick is recovering from the horrors of being held prisoner for two years , in a Nazi-like prison camp , in Spain . McKittrick finds out , through an old newspaper clipping , that his old friend and NYPD cop Let . Louie Lepitino had killed himself . It was Louie who helped get Kit out of the Fascist prison camp in Spain a year earlier . Kit is now sure that Louie's tragic death wasn't an accident , it was murder . Having been captured at the end of the Spanish Civil War were Kit fought the Spanish Fascists forces of Francisco Franco Kit was put under extreme torture by his captors to find something that he hide from them before he was apprehend . Unknown to the Fascists the item is safely locked up in a secret Libson Portugal bank safe deposit box . With all the sub-plots and double-crossing in the movie " The Fallen Sparrow " you never get a handle to what these cryptic-Nazis , hiding behind the facade of Spanish and French Royality , want from the poor and mentally unbalanced Kit McKittrick . Were given information from Kit , in what looks like a drug induced stupor , that he was involved in the death of a top German general in the Spanish Civil War . This general was a close friend , and fellow 1923 Beer Hall putsch veteran , of Adolf Hitler himself . It was Hitler who then ordered the Gestapo and Nazi agents to track down every member of this anti-Fascist brigade , responsible for the German Generals death . The Gestapo and it's agents in the US were not only told have them killed but to find the brigade pennant , or official flag , which only Kit knew where it is , in the Libson's bank safe deposit box Increidably complicated and convoluted plot that you just give up on almost half way through the movie . Kits all over the place looking for this lame or club footed Nazi doctor , like the one-armed man in the TV show " The Fugitive " , who's now the Nazi agent out to get him to talk about where the pennant is and , after getting the information from Kit , then murder him . This Nazi is also the man who Kit remembers back from his time in the Spanish prison from the sounds he made when he walked , Kit never saw him . It later come out that everything that happened to Kit from the time he left Arizona to when he got to New York was all planned , ahead of time , by this group of pseudo-aristocratic Nazis themselves . Like a boat in a thick fog at sea the movie just limps along making little if any sense at all as it reaches it's totally unbelievable climax . Kit finally finds out not just who was behind the death of policemen Louie Lepitino , it turns out that Louie didn't kill himself like Kit suspected , but the murder of his close friend , and Washington insider , Ab Parker , Bruce Edwards . I thought that it was a bit egotistical of Kit to think that the German Fuhrer Adolf Hitler himself took such a deep interest in him to the point of forgoing his responsibility of conducting the German military in WWII against the allies . An obsession on Hitler's part which , if you take Kit and the movie " The Fallen Sparrow " seriously , eventually cost him the war . The relationship between Kit and mystery women Toni Donne , Maureen O'Hara , also took a great strain on your thought processing mechanisms . You never for once know just what Toni's role in this half cocked scheme as well as her involvement with these Nazis really is ? You get at least three different explanations from her in the movie just what Toni's role is in all this , none of which make any sense at all ! The Nazi spies are headed by this off-the-wall torture fixated psycho Dr . Christian Skaas , Walter Slezak . Dr . Skass brain-addled sidekick is the former , or what he thinks he is , French monarch as well as the bluest of European blue-bloods Prince Fracois De Namur played by veteran Jewish Yiddish theater actor Sam Goldenberg .
The Devil's Elevator	SPOILERS The movie " Down " is a lot like the Larry Cohen 1982 shocker " Q " which despite it's graphic violence and horrific and brutal deaths it was still hard to take seriously . New York's giant Millennium Building seems to be targeted by terrorists who are fixing it's express elevators where they end up malfunctioning and killing dozens of people . This is the conclusion that the President of the United States himself and his top advisor's came to . The building is evacuated and ringed with the police and army units to find who's behind all the carnage that's been happening there . For over a week elevator mechanics Mark and Jeffery , James Marshall & Eric Thal , had been working on the cable equipment and could find nothing wrong with it . The elevators seems to have a mind of their own , as if they've been programed by some unknown forces , and keep on doing their thing by killing people every time they enter them . " Down " doesn't really try to explain what's causing these accident's were just given some confusing information about some crazed scientist , who worked in the black ops department in the US military , who's been experimenting with some chips that he invented and put in into the elevator mechanism . The chips took the elevator over and is responsible for all these killings . The movie also never quite makes the connection to what the chip has to do with the elevators actions . Were also never really told what the scientist Gunther Steinberg , Michael Ironsides , the inventor of this mysterious chip has to do with Mark and Jeffery's boss Mitchall , Ron Pearman . We later see secretly Mitchell meeting , ironically within the shadow of the World Trade Center , with Steinberg and being in cahoots in this off-the-wall venture that went haywire which wants Mitchall out this whole crazy plan . Like in " Q " the movie keeps you interested and watching it when it explodes with the almost unimaginable violence every time anyone goes near or on the killer elevators . The ending goes on and on with Mark and Jeniffer , Naomi Watts , a local news reporter attempting to get into the shut down Millennium Building to get to the heart of what is causing the elevators to act in such a deadly way , and put it to an end once in for all . Hard to follow because of it's very muddled storyline but still worth watching since the film , made in 2000 , eerily and unknowingly foretells what was to happened a year later in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center . It's amazing how the earlier attack in February 1993 on the WTC is actually mentioned by the soldiers in the Millennium Building ! were even told of Osama Bin-Laden's , the architect of the Septemer 11 , 2001 attacks , involvement in it ! Another startling fact about the movies comparison with the World Trade Center is besides the fact that the Millennium Building is also the tallest building in New York City and the same hight , 102 floors , as the WTC was !
I never told him anything about you and he never asked not once !	SPOILERS Back in September 1960 Al Cumberland the movie mogul husband of famous actress Nora Chandler , Ann Baxter , was reported lost at sea . After getting himself good and drunk Al sailed out into the vast Pacific Ocean never to be seen or heard from again . Since the loss of her husband Al Nora had become very weird and depressed where she stopped making movies in Hollywood sticking to foreign films and made for TV movies instead . Nora is also holding on to some choice property , left to her by her late husband Al , in Southern California that she refuses to relinquish . Nora wouldn't sell it for any price even though she's very financially strapped for cash and has to work , making TV films and foreign movies . Nora does this in order to keep her from going bankrupt and losing the property , to her studio whom she's very deeply in debt to . With all this information about Nora's checkered past , who's actions had cost her studios tens of millions , it's a simple run of the mill blackmail attempt that does her in . Nora's embezzling 2 million dollars from the movie company , that bankrolled her last film in Italy , leads to the murder of Nora's personal secretary and very good friend Jean Davis , Pippa Scott . Later in the film an attempted murder of gossip columnist Jerry Parks , Mel Ferrer also results because of the embezzlement . All this had Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , a great admirer and long time fan of Nora's wonder if there was anything more to her suspected murderous actions other then the reasons that was made to seemed so obvious to him . One of the most bizarre of all the Columbo mystery movies that even has the very on the ball Lt . Columbo in stitches and going to such absurd lengths , like someone throwing bowls of spaghetti on the wall , in hoping that something would stick . We in fact do see Nora plan to murder columnist Jerry Parks as she ambushes him in his garage with a make-shift gasoline bomb . It turns out that Nora mistook her secretary Jean Davis , who had borrowed Jerry's car , for Parks ending up murdering herLt . Columbo coming on the scene to inquire on Jean's death is at first so star struck at the very sight of screen legend Nora Chandler . Columbo was secretly in love with Nora , from afar of course , even with his wife's knowledge since he was a teenager . This love affair , in his mind , made it almost impossible for Let . Columbo to have a clear and objective mind in investigating her . Overcoming his very good feelings about Nora and getting down to business Lt . Columbo starts to see that there's a number of loose ends in the case of her secretary Jane's murder that lead right to her . Even the fact that were , and Lt . Columbo , lead to believe that Nora mistakenly killed Jerry Parks thinking that he was behind the wheel , not Jane , of his car falls completely apart . It's revealed that the reason for Parks to blackmail Nora , about the two million dollar embezzlement , was totally bogus . With the revelation that Nora's studio boss Frank Simmons , Kevin McCarthy , knew all about it after Nora voluntarily told him that fact two weeks before Jerry even found out about the embezzlement ! In fact it was really Jean and Jerry's plans to get married that was the real reason for Nora to panic and become homicidal . Taking a big chance by having planted a 32 degree Free Mason ring on the ambulance that was taking Jerry , whom Nora tried to run over , to the hospital Lt . Columbo cracked the case . Let . Columbo tricked Nora into believing that he found out the secret that she went so far as to murder to keep from seeing the light of day . A secret that Nora had kept to herself , and was responsible for her strange actions ever since , since that violent day in September some twelve years ago .
It all started deep in the heart of Texas	SPOILERS With no money and no future to look forward to a young couple from the dirt-poor Texas town of Pine Alley Chad Bixby & Sarah " Salome " Davis , Robert Wagner & Natalie Wood , went out in the world to find a better life for themselves . With his abusive father , the town's minister , passing away Chad felt that he can now do what he wanted to do for so long pay his horn and marry Salome . Things got a bit strained when Salome turned out to be pregnant with Chad being the father of her unborn child . Salome running away from home runs into Yale Ivy Leaguer Tony McDowell , George Hamilton , on a train going north . Tony on summer vacation had met Salome earlier back in Deep Elem , the black part of the town of Pine Valley , under not the best of circumstances . Not having any money and with Tony having a slight acquaintance with Salome he pays her way to ride with him to New Haven Connecticut . During that long ride up north they fall in love with each other . Salome and Tony getting married and settling down soon have a new member of the McDowell family a son Peter , what Tony doesn't know is that Peter is not really his son but Chad's . Chad meanwhile back in the sticks strikes up a friendship with the burnt out former jazz great Ruby Jones , Pearl Bailey , who since her husband left her for a younger women , as well as took all her money , is slowly drinking herself to death . It's Chad concern and compassion for her that gave Ruby a new lease on life as well as it gave Chad the opportunity to show his talents as a jazz musician . In no time at all Chad made it big in the Big Apple's , New York city , nightclub scene . Salome now happily married and with a young child gets the news from her sister-in-law Catherine , Susan Kohner , about Clad's success in the music world . Salome talks Tony into going to New York in order to see his act which in the end opens up the old wounds , that both Salome & Chad had from their failed and sorrowful relationship back in Texas . Big budget soap opera that has both Chad and Salome trying to get even and hurt each other , over what happened between them back in Texas . In the end only hurting those who were nothing more then innocent bystanders as well as the only one's that really and truly loved and cared for them . Chad marries Catherine just to get back at Salome for leaving him . Cathy is driven to where she almost ends up killing herself by Chad's , being so obsessed to hurt Salome , total disregard for her and the love that she genuinely had for him . Salome is also guilt-ridden over the fact that her and Tony's son Peter isn't really Tony's and feels that if he ever found out the truth it would end up killing him . Clad is also hit with the double tragedy of Ruby dying from the effects of alcoholism and it's her sudden , but not unexpected death , that finally brings him back to earth in not just realizing what he did to Salome but what he did to his wife Cathy as well . When Tony is finally told by Salome the truth about their son Peter it hits him so hard that for a moment you would have thought that he would walk right in the middle of the highway in front of a speeding 18 wheeler and end it all . The movie " All the Fine Young Cannibals " does in fact have a happy ending that in it's own way counterbalances all the depressing aspects that are in the film up until then . Not as bad as you would think it would be from all the bad reviews that it got " All the Fine Young Cannibals " may be a bit too depressing to take at first but the cast does it's best to keep it both interesting and poignant . The ending , though a bit too artificial , didn't hurt the storyline that much in it's attempt to right all the wrongs that were in it at the conclusion of the movie .
My friend has a boy half your age and he's half as stupid	( There Are Some Spoilers ) Light hearted crime movie that seems to have a wedding music soundtrack , even though some dozen people are brutally killed in it , about a robbery ring in Rome who end up getting way over their heads when they rob big time US mobster Norman Shelly , Jack Palance , of 5 million dollars in cash , or did they ? Shelly has his hoods track down one of the robbers at a pool hall where he's savagely beaten to death . The head of the ring the Barron , Guldo Mannari , tries to have the cash fenced into Italian Liars and US Traverlers Checks but is ambushed , at the fences office , by undercover cop Nico Giraldi , Thomas Millan . After a ten minute slug-fest the Barron is arrested and cuffed and later sent to the hospital as bait to get the Shelly gang to kidnap him to find out where he hid the money , which in reality Nico and the Roman PD . Grabbed by the Shelly mob , disguised as hospital workers , they get the information that they want from the Barron who tells them that the money is hidden in this old abandoned iron factory . Nico and the Roman police set up an ambush there of the Shelly Mob and after a wild shoot out and car motorcycle chase , with Nico on the bike , Shelly escapes from justice to the US Embessy in Rome ! We then find out that Norman Shelly is not just an American mobster in Rome but a high placed and Senior American diplomat , Richard Russo , at the US Embessy there and has immunity from arrest as long as he's at the American compound . Even though Nico can't arrest Shelly / Russo right then and there but gives the big time hood / diplomat something to remember him by with a hard kick in the midsection . It's also reviled , like Nico suspected , that Shelly / Russo was actually in charge of the robbery gang that robbed him of his 5 million dollars which was the result of a ransom that mobster / kidnapper Shelly / Russo got a while back . This was done to have the money later laundered by the fence and returned back to him clean and unmarked . Thomas Millan as Nico styled himself after the NYPD crusading policeman Frank Serpico in the movie " Cop in Blue Jeans " . Nico had a giant poster of Al Pacino as Serpico in his shabby apartment . The girls and young women in the movie went completely Ga-Ga over him , like they would have done over the handsome and heroic Frank Serpico . Nico also has a pet white rat in the movie that he aptly named Serpico . There was also a sub-plot and love interest , for Nico , in the film involving young and pretty book publisher Signora Callani , Maria Rosaria , who's important Russian novel manuscript was stolen . Nico being a former crook before he joined the Rome police Department got the manuscript back to Signora by using his long out of practice and dormant pick-pocketing skills .
He killed them all to bring her back	SPOILERS Scary if a bit confusing ghost story having to do with two little girls . The first Sarah , Sophie Stuckey , who mysteriously drowns in the Irish Sea and the second the ghostly Ebril , Abigale Stone , who somehow comes back from the dead wanting to replace the missing Sarah as her grieving parents Adelle , Maria Bello , and James , Sean Beam , daughter . It's shown in the film that both Sarah and her mother Adelle didn't exactly get along that well with young Sarah once attempting suicide by downing a bottle of sleeping pills . Going to see her father James who lives in Wales Sarah seems at first to have gotten over her resentment , that's never really explained in the movie , of her mother . It's later that Sarah starts to act strange as if she's being guided by an unknown force that eventually leads to her disappearance under the waves of the Irish Sea . That's when the truth comes out about what happened that caused Sarah to lose both her mind and soul . Getting the story from Dafydd , Welch for David , the handyman at James house played by Maurice Roeves Adelle is told this incredible story about what happened there , on the Welch coast , some 50 years ago . This grieving father lost his young daughter to an unknown illness and would do anything to get her back . The young girl's , Ebril , body was taken out to sea by her father and sent under the waves where , in Welch / Celtic mythology , she was to enter the land of the dead a place called Annwyn or spelled in Welch Annwvn . Being the head of a religious Celtic cult Ebril's father conned his followers to commit mass suicide , with him of course not joining them , in an effort to get his daughter Ebril back to the world of the living . It's by , according to Welch / Celtic mythology , sending someone to replace the dead Ebril to Annwvn that she , in exchange , will come back from the dead . Getting his entire following , with the exception of young Dafydd who knew better , to gleefully kill themselves-taking all their earthly belongings along with them-by jumping into the sea did if fact do the trick in Ebril miraculously coming back to life . What happened later was something that Ebril's father never expected and which lead him to try , at the cost of his life , to exorcise the evil that his daughter brought back with her . It's this same Ebril that shows up later at James ' and Adelle's home that set into motion a number of weird and , in the case of Dafydd , deadly events . These events lead Adelle to believe that Annwvn is in fact real . A place of lost souls , like in the Catholic Purgatory , that are waiting to return to life . With the only way they can come back to the world of the living , Adelle is now fully convinced , is by replacing them with someone else ! MAJOR SPOILER ALERT Being told by a wise but troubled Dafydd to leave things the way they are and let Sarah rest in peace a desperate Adelle makes the same mistake that Ebril's father did some 50 years ago . In the end Adelle in fact does get her Sarah back replacing her with Ebril being sent back to Annwvn . It turns out that it wasn't Ebril who replaced Sarah but Adelle herself ! And even worst of all the Sarah who came back to life wasn't , like Ebril some 50 years ago , the same Sarah that both her parents Adelle and James knew before her tragic death !
Highly recommended movie about troubled youth in the late 1950's	SPOILERS A now it can be told-like movie about a talented but troubled young actor Johnnie Dennis , Ken Clayton , who's success in the world of movies is destroying his ability to cope with the world of reality . Johnnie who has became alienated from his fellow actors due to his rise to stardom has become so obsessed with his early death that his friend and acting teacher Tanya , Lilya Chauvin , fears the worst and wants him to get professional help . Tanya who guided Johnnie in his movie career and is also in love with him is shocked by Johnnie's obsession with death and wants him to overcome it before it's too late . Johnnie " Death Wish " has reached a point to where he drew a self portrait of himself of being half dead and half alive as well as him reading everything about death in all the books and articles that he can find on the subject . Johnnie's friend and fellow actor Walt , Richard Gilden , has developed a deep resentment of him due to his success which Walt is jealous of feeling that he's as good as an actor as Johnnie is . This leads to two fights with Johnnie that Walt initiated . The first at the actor's diner , where Johnnie knocked Walt out , and the second fight sometime later at the parking lot outside the diner where Johnnie almost killed Walt after Walt tried to smash Johnnie's head in with a wrench . One afternoon Johnnie driving wildly down the street almost ran over a young girl Hellen " Preach " Preacher , Barbara Wilson . Later at the public library where Johnnie was reading a book about death and dying , what else , he sees Preach again and awkwardly tries to apologize to her about his actions earlier that day but makes no impression on her . The next night at the big premiere of Johnnie's movie Johnnie who tried to avoid the huge crowd by blending into it spots Preach again and starts a conversation with her . Johnnie is impressed with Preach by her not recognizing him at first even after she just saw him in the movie . When she finally did recognize Johnnie Preach was anything but star struck over him where he had to almost kidnap her to go swimming at a deserted lake . This in order for Johnnie to get away from the public who were very impressed by his performance on screen . Johnnie was also moved when he met Preach's father Mr . Preacher , Frank Stallworth , who knew nothing about Johnnie's film career who liked Johnnie very much and was happy to see his daughter have such a good and kind friend like him . It was Johnnie's meeting both Preach and her father as well as his relationship with his drama coach Tanya that made him get away from his morbid fascination with death . It was by him seeing that there are people in the world that like him just for what he is as a person not what he is as a movie star that turned Johnnie around . Still the final event that exorcised Johnnie of his " Death Wish " was his fight with Walt who he almost killed . That had Jhonnie drive himself almost to the point of getting killed in a car accident down the highway at night to the lake , where he and Preach were just a few hours ago . It was then and there that Johnnie threw away the self-portrait of himself into the water and once an for all took away all those negative feeling that he had about himself and the world . In the end Johnnie went back to face the world with Preach and her father and Tanya by his side with him being a much better and stable person for it . Better then you would expect from a movie having a title like " Lost , Lonely and Vicious " about troubled youth in the 1950's with , for once instead of the usual depressing and sad , an happy and uplifting ending . Johnnie found out the hard way that facing an uncertain future was better then trying to run away from it . The movie is worth watching just for the honesty that it brings out about the troubled youth portrayed in it .
You despicable excuse for a human being !	( There are Spoilers ) Your usual private eye fear with the hard as nails Joe Dancer on the trail of a missing man who holds the key to his family's , the very politically active and successful Farinpours , dark past . That past if reviled will put an end to councilman Farinpour's bid for not only getting elected Governor of the state California but later on President of the United States ! Contcted by Tiffany Farinpour to find her missing brother David PI Dancer tracks him down in his trailer home on the California Mexican border . Trying to convince David to came back home , to Tiffany , with him David is shot dead on the steps of his trailer . With him now the prime suspect in David's murder Dancer , after putting Davd's body safely on ice , is on the run both from the law and the thugs who were hired to murder David . If you researched the family history of a now very prominent US political family you can't help noticing the very striking similarities of the fictional Farinpours and themselves ! Two far more striking things about those similarities is that the real political family in question was not only engaged , like the fictional Farinpours , in having business with Nazi Germany before the US was at war with that country but even during wartime ! The second and even more striking fact is that the the family , the real one not the Farinpours , was practically unknown to the American pubic when the movie " The Big Black Pill " was being filmed back in 1980 ! Private eye Dancer goes through the ringer with him being worked over by the two hired thugs Little Al & Big Foot who are two brawny professional NFL football players , Robert Phillips & Bubba Smith , in real life . Dancer finally gets to the truth to what all these secrets that the Farinpour family desperately want's to keep hidden , to the point of contract murder , from the American public really are . This all comes to life from the mouth of the murdered David Farinpour himself ! David knowing that he's marked for death had secretly made a video tape revealing the truth about his family history which was to be made public in the event of his death ! Dancer finding , on the dead and frozen David Farinpour's body , the key to the private mail box where the tape was hidden now had the goods on who not only who had David done in but why ? The only question now is if Dancer can get this explosive information out to the public before David's hired killers , or or the police , get to him first ! P . S Look for Robert Blake's , who played PI Joe Dancer , wife Sondra in the movie as Dancer's wheelchair bound Girl Friday Charlie .
The Return of the Java Man	SPOILERS If anything else the film " The Secret of Dr . Renault " is a Tor de Force for veteran character actor J . Carrol Nash as Dr . Renault's , George Zucco , ape-like and super sensitive , about his looks , handyman Noel . Nash , or handyman Noel , steals every scene that he's in , with a minimum amount of lines , as he actually wins over the sympathy of the audience even though he ends up brutally murdering a number of totally innocent persons . Noel becomes madly protective of Dr . Renault's daughter Madeline , Lynne Roberts , not just because she's beautiful but because she's the only person in the movie who can bring the best , as well as human , side out of him . Being born and brought up as a wild ape in the Javanese jungle Noel despite Dr . Renault's many experiments into making him into a human being is still really a monkey at heart . It's when Madline's fiance American brain surgeon Larry Forbes , Shepperd Strudwick , show up at Dr . Renault's country chteau outside of Paris that strange things begin to happen both at Dr . Renault's place and the nearby town . The evidence of the murder of American tourist Mr . Austin , Jack Norton , that happens in the beginning of the movie points to the sensitive but a bit overprotective , in regards to Madeline , Noel who was turned off by a remark that Austin made . It soon becomes very obvious to who murdered Mr . Austin very early in the film and it's not Noel . The police in investigating Dr . Renault's handyman in the Austin murder are sure to find out the real reason that the doctor keeps Nole employed and it doesn't have anything to do with his plumbing and electrical skills . Trying as much as humanly possible to keep the animal in him under control the half-man half-ape Noel in the end give into his animal instincts and goes bananas from the very negative reactions that he gets from the local townspeople . This is in regards to what the townspeople say about his appearance looking like a cross between Mafia Godfather Don Corleone , with his mouth stuffed with cotton balls or candy jaw breakers , and Apache Indian chieftain Geronimo . Noel is also very hurt over the snide remarks said about him in his inability to dance like Fred Astaire as he was plodding all over the dance floor with Madeline during the towns Bastille Day celebrations . In the end Noel makes up for all the bad that he did in the movie by saving Madeline from being kidnapped held for ransom and possibly murdered by Dr . Renault's gardener the also ape-like , but still human , looking Rogell , Mike Mazurki . Dr . Renault hired the ungrateful Rogell , whom he testified for at his trial , despite him having a long and violent criminal record . Dr . Renault had a bad record himself in picking those whom he employed at his chteau . It was that sloppiness on his part that lead to Dr . Renault in having his neck broken when he got too overconfident in his pushing , with a bull-whip , the meek and obedient Noel around . Noel now completely taken over by his other self , the wild and uncontrollable ape , throws caution to the wind in going after Rogell who's making his getaway together with the kidnapped Madeline by boat . In the most exciting sequence in the film Noel and Rogell , who's at least a foot taller , slug it out at a deserted watermill with the lovely Madiline's life hanging in the balance .
The Assistant to the Assistant's Assistant	SPOILERS In order to lighten the workload for the very overly active yet wheelchair bound Dr . Lonard-or just plain Lenny to his friends - Gillespie , Lionel Barrymore , his boss Blair General Hospital supervisor Dr . Walter Carew , Water Kingsford , and the overly nosy and pain in the butt , to Dr . Gillespie , head nurse Molly Byrd , Alma Kruger , decide that the old man needs an assistant . That's before the not so in best of shape Dr . Gillespie drops dead on the job ! As it turned out three young interns qualified to fill Dr . Kildare's or actor Lew Ayres ' , who's away in the South Pacific serving his country as a combat medic and ambulance driver , shoes . With the three eager beaver interns Kansas Red Adams , Van Johnson , Aussie Dennis Lindsey , Richard Quine , and Brooklyn-even though he's an Asian / American-Lee Wong How , Keye Luke , picked to fill Dr . Kildare's shoes far more important things are happening at the hospital that makes their stories second rate . Shipping magnet Howard Allwinn Young , Stephan McNalley , the son of a good friend of Lenny's is about to go on his honeymoon with his bride of three days pretty fashion designer the former Clair-now Mrs . Young - Murtin , Susan Peters . For some strange reason Clair completely loses her memory just as the honeymoon is about to start ! This has Dr . Gillespie together with interns Red Lee & Dennis try to figure out what caused Mrs . Young's sudden and dramatic memory loss ! The very moment she was about to experience an event , her honeymoon , that she should remember for the rest of her life ! With the help of intern Red Adams , the all American boy of the trio , Dr . Gillespie uncovers the secret-or reason-for Clair's strange behavior . It's no memory loss at all on Clair's part but something she wishes she would soon forget from her not so distance , when she was 16 in her native Dallas Texas , past . Something that if her husband Howard knew about would very possibly destroy Clair's marriage before it got started or even worse consummated ! Soap opera like hospital medical drama with wise old Lenny the " Gip " Gillespe doing his best to bring Howard , who's completely in the dark to what's going on in the movie , and Clair together acting more like a marriage consoler then doctor . In the end the truth , about Clair's dark past , as well as true love wins out with Howard and Clair overcoming their difficulties . As well as the three interns , Red Dennis & Lee , not only ending up as permanent residents at Blair General but even more important being able to serve the free world in combating Fascism , as doctors on the front lines , in both the European and Pacific theaters of war ! Something that the man that they wish to replace Lew Ayres , or Dr . Kildare , actually did in real life not in the movies that got him canned for being a conscious objector , yet serving his country as a combat medic , from the movie series !
And the winner is !	SPOILERS after serving ten years at the Rocky Mountain Penitentiary Harry Lake alias Cueball , Dick Wessel , is back out on the street . The first thing he does is get hooked up with this group of of jewel thieves in a $300 , 000 . 00 rip-off of Lester Abbott , Trevor Bardette , a representative of Fine Jules inc . Getting himself on the ship SS Palmora , where Abbott was on board , Cueball strangles the Jewel dealer when he offers resistance and takes off with his gems . Not expecting anything violent to happen the group of crooks now become involved in something they never had in their plans murder . Those involved in this crime include antique dealer Precival Priceless , Douglas Walton , together with Fine Jules . inc owner Jules Sparkle , Harry Clemons , secretary Mona Clyde , Rita Corday , and diamond cutters Simon Little , Bryon Foulger , and his partner Rudolph , Skelton Knaggs , who looks like a cross between Alfalfa of the Little Rascals and Mister Moto . Things start to go sour for the jewel thieves when top cop Dick Tracy , Morgan Conway , and his bumbling sidekick Pat Patton , Lyle Latell , get on the case . Little chickens out but it's too late for him and all the other crooks when Cueball realizes that he's been short-changed , by Priceless & Co . , in the split of the $300 , 000 . 00 value of the gems . Cueball ends up getting only $10 , 000 . 00 with the rest of the gang , mostly Pricless & Clyde , taking what's left in the laundering of the stolen diamonds . Feeling that he's been taken for a sucker by his associates Cueball takes it upon himself to go solo , instead of being a team player . Wanting his take it the jewel robbery to be doubled to $20 , 000 . 00 , which his fellow thieves don't have , Cueball ends up murdering , with his hat-band , both Priceless and the owner of the " Dripping Dagger " bar " Dirty " Flora , Easter Howard , who at first help him hide out in her joint . Flora fond where Cueball hid the stolen jewels and tried to rip him , of all people , off of his loot ; not a very bright idea on her part . In the end it was Cuball's greed and brutality that got the best of him when he fell for a trap that Dick Tracy and his girlfriend Tess Trueheart , Ann Jeffereys , set . After kidnapping Tess who pretended to be the rich socialite blue-blood Blyth Belmonte , interested in buying the stolen jewels , he's caught in a police dragnet and ends up being chased into a railroad yard , by Dick Tracy . Cueball gets his foot caught between the rails and is crushed to death by an oncoming locomotive . One of Dick Tracy's most formidable foes Cuball just let his violent and paranoid nature cloud and distort his thinking . Suspecting everyone of trying to double-cross him and fleece him out of his share of the money in the jewels that he stole . This made Cueball lose the edge that he had in coolly calculating things and not letting his emotions take over like it did here .
John Ashley was just too good to be bad in this movie	SPOILERS Poor Matt Stevens , John Ashley , left all by himself in a big mansion with a maid and butler and everything he can ever want at his disposal . Matt also has a weekly allowance mailed to him by his parents who are jet setting all over Europe . With all these goodies what else can he do but organize a gang of goons to shake down and beat up anyone who doesn't pay the proper respect to his highness Big Matt AKA High School Caesar . Rigging the high school election Matt becomes the new student body president and with his new found power he has the right to get his hands on any of the students bodies that he wants . Putting Crickett , Steve Stevens , in charge of the treasury department the money really starts to pile up as Matt's operations in shake downs pay-offs . Matt also has a very lucrative test exam business with him having the keys to the principle's office where the exams are kept . That sleazy operation of his fills the students presidents coffers as Matt sells the exams to students who need to pass them but aren't smart enough to , which is like everyone in Wilson High School . Matt gets carried away with his power by trying to go off campus and take over the drag and road car race racket . Getting himself into a race where Matt put up a gold coin worth some $100 . 00 as prize money he feels that he's a shoe-in to win . To his surprise Matt loses to his beaten rival for school student body president Kelly Roberts , Lowell Brown . Not being one to take losing quietly he and Crickett ambush Kelly as he was driving home and force him off the road killing him . At the same time Matt takes back the gold coin that Kelly won from him . Crickett later turns on Matt not because he killed Kelly but because he didn't come through in getting him beautiful Wanda , Judy Nugent , as his women . Matt knowing a good thing when he sees one tried to have her all for himself . Trapping Wanda in the back seat of his car and with him and his grubby hands all over her Matt drops the important piece evidence , the gold coin , on the seat ! Wanda grabs and runs to her friends with it as proof that it was Matt who killed Kelly not that he was killed in a traffic accident . Crickett wanting to get back at Matt runs to the local student hang out where their having a birthday party for Matt to tell them it was Matt who killed Kelly . Crickett not being that bright doesn't quite realize that he implicated himself as an accomplice in the murder ! The movie ends with Matt beaten broken and all alone outside the diner where the students were to celebrate his birthday waiting for the cops to come and take him away . John Ashley or Matt Stevens just couldn't come across as a bad guy even if he killed the entire cast , much less Kelly Roberts , in the movie . Matt's acting as a rotten young man was not convincing at all . The movie also didn't give any reason for Matt's actions since he had all the money that he could ever want . With his drop-dead good looks Matt didn't need to rape any girl in the school they would have gladly thrown themselves at him just for the asking ! So why go through all the trouble to cheat rob and steal to the point of murder to get cash that was nothing to what he already had ! As for him trying to be liked and popular by doing it Matt only got the opposite results ! Matt was hated and despised by everyone in the school . Matt was both handsome and personable as well as a very likable guy that all he needed was just to be himself and he would have gotten all the love and respect that he wanted . Without him being a thug and thus turning off everyone and in the end ending up behind bars .
Sprung A leak	SPOILERS Very confusing movie that covers all the bases , infidelity betrayal murder and a dark past , thats as muddled as the bottom of the bay where the suitcase of money was dumped in the film . Two brothers Ben & Don as well as Ben's old lady Sara are out fishing one night and spot a light out at sea . Hiding in their boat with the light turned off they see something drooped into the water . When the other boat is gone they dredge out of the sea a suitcase that contains some $500 , 000 . 00 is stolen cash . Ben who wasn't getting along that well with his wife Sara then goes to the local village bar and lives it up with his new found wealth which only draws attention to himself by the mobsters who deep sixth the suitcase . Ben's big mouth makes things not only hot for him but the hood , Quinlan , who hid and then lost the loot . With the head mobster Sam who only seems to know three words in the English language , " Where's My Money ! " , as mad as hell to what happened to his money has Quinlan and his boys put on the hook to get the money back or else ! Besides all this we see that the lovable couple Ben & Sara aren't exactly law-abiding citizens themselves . It's not quite fully explained by the movie but it seems that Sara and Ben murdered her first husband Stu five years ago by shoving him down a flight of stairs . Sara made her husbands death look accidental by drenching him with a bottle of booze . The two lovebirds also collected a sizable amount of money from the insurance company that covered Stu's life . Later this mysterious blond Kim shows up and again were not quite sure just who she is . It seems that she's Stu's daughter as well as Quinlan's wife or girlfriend and knows about Sara , from an old diary of hers , and Ben being responsible for the murder of her father . The movie goes on with the on the lamb Quinlan getting hooked up with Sara in a plot to murder her husband Ben , who's always abusing her , and taking off with the cash that he has hidden in the couples house . Quinlan and Sara finish off Ben at sea and then sink the boat making it look , Ben's death , like it was a accident . Back at the house both Sara and Quinlan realize that Ben hid the money too well for them to find and before you know it Sam's gang are at the house also looking for it and trying to do in Quinlan . The movie ends with a car and speedboat chase a shootout where both Quinlan and Ben's brother Don are killed and the crazed Sam is finally shot by his own men when they just had all that they could take from him bellowing " Where's My Money " every ten seconds with then Sara , who earlier found the missing $500 , 000 . 00 , taken hostage by Kim . Both Kim & Sara now airborne , Sara is an experienced pilot , and out of trouble seem to have gotten away with murder . Kim takes a swig out of a bottle of champaign to celebrate and we sense that as soon as the plane lands she'll knock off Sara and take the stolen money ! What Kim doesn't know is that the champaign is laced with the deadly cleaner fluid Draino ! And they say crime doesn't pay ? it did for Sara in the movie " Dark Tides " .
Nothing stays buried forever	SPOILERS Mixing fact with fiction the movie in the end has you so confused to what exactly it's trying to tell you that you almost forgot about the person that it's supposed to be based on the real life , or death , of Elizabeth Short dubbed by the local L . A newspapers as the Black Dahlia , an aspiring actress and all around good time girl . Finding this vicious and gruesomely militated body of a young woman in an empty lot in L . A it's determined by the police coroner that it's a 21 year old Massachusetts woman named Elizabeth Short , Mia Kirshner . The manner of Elizabeth's death is so sickening and sadistic with her body was cut in two with a mockingly weird smile cut across her mouth and face makes the case of who or even what , it's hard to believe that any human could do anything like this , her killer is a nation wide media event in 1947 . This before the up to the minute and all day and night cable TV news coverage that we have today . Put on the high profile case is the golden boys of the LAPD ex-boxing buddies and partners officer Dwight " Bucky " Bleichert and Sgt . Leland " Lee " Blachard , Josh Hartnett & Aaron Eckhart , the B & B boys known to everyone on the force as Fire & Ice . It's also a fact that the two cop were involved in a shootout just minutes before the woman's body was found with a number of pimps and one of the the pimps customers Baxter Fitch , John Solari , ending up shot and killed by Sgt . Blanchard with a bullet in his chest . Fitch's death will prove to be much more then a routine shooting in self-defense by Sgt . Blanchard , which is what his partner officer Bucky Bleichert at first thought . Fitch was cold-blooded murdered and was the reason why Blanchard later ends up getting strung out on Benzedrine and even dead . We have here the two cops being involved with this utterly gorgeous Lana Turner look-alike Kay Lake , Scarlett Johansson , who from what we soon learn about her had been involved with this vicious hoodlum who trafficked in both the drug and white slavery rackets named Bobby DeWitt , Richard Blake . Bobby keeps Kay in line by having branded her on her back with a switchblade knife with the letter BD , DeWitt it's learned by Kay is to be released from jail any day now . The movie " The Black Dahlia " just bites into much more then it can chew by having at least three different sub-plots in it besides the unfortunate death murder and mutilation of Elizabeth Short and that's what makes it so hard to follow . There's the fact that both Sgt . Blanchard and his girl Kay were involved with DeWitt in a bank robbery back in 1939 where , were told later in the movie , he doubled-crossed DeWitt by turning him in . In fact it was Blanchard who arrested Dewitt with his girlfriend Kay taking off with the stolen cash . We also get involved with the Scotsman and mega builder , the then Donald Trump of L . A , Emmet Linscott ( John Kavanagh ) and his dysfunctional family that includes his sultry Elizabeth Short look-alike daughter Madeline , Hilary Swank , and completely whacked out wife Romona , Fiona Shaw , and his other not all there upstairs daughter Martha , Rachel Miner . It turns out that Becky while investigating Emmet gets romantically involved with Madeline who he later finds outSPOILERS was also having an affair with his partner Sgt . Blanchard who in turn was blackmailing old man Linscott over his involvement in the porno industry ! Lumbering along to it's very convoluted and unrealistic conclusion , unlike in real life , the murder of Elizabeth Short is solved by the time the film is over . Blanchard is murdered by being pushed off a balcony by his former partner in crime Bobby DeWitt who's shot and killed by someone out of camera range while he was being interrogated by Bucky . Bucky now on his own and obsessed with solving not only the Black Dahlia murder case but the murder of his partner Blanchard ends up being in bed with both Blanchard's girl Kay as well as Madeline in order to settle his nerves down , Bucky holds himself responsible for Blanchard's death , as well as relive the tension that built up inside of him during the movie . Way To Go Bucky ! We finally get the story of who's responsible for Elizabeth Short's murder but it takes at least some 20 minutes of explaining , in real time and flashback , to who was behind it and we get this insane scenario of madness and murder that involves almost all the members , including Bucky's bedmate Madeline , of the crazy Linscott clan including their psycho gardener , and former partner in the Linscott building empire , George " Georgie " Tilden , William Finley . The movie completely falls apart at the end when Bucky confronts the Linscotts at their mansion and in what has to be some of the most outrageous scenes in film-noir history has them each giving a different version or account of what really happened to Elizabeth . This mind-boggling spectacle finally ends withMAJOR SPOILERS the off-the-wall matriarch of the family Mrs . Romona Linscott blowing her brains out . In the end of the movie Bucky goes back to Key , who left him when she found him smooching with Madeline , and his life as a L . A policeman . The life , as well as mind , that Bucky almost lost by being assigned on this complex and almost incomprehensible case : The Murder of the Black Dahlia .
A long time ago we set some boundaries ; Don't cross them !	SPOILERS The life that the Chadways lived was anything but normal . The head of the house real estate developer Clay Chadway , Richard Crenna , seemed to take the abuse he suffered from his jealous and neurotic wife Renee , Angie Dickinson , all in stride forgiving her for every crazy and unfounded accusation that she threw at him . With the exception of Joanne , Molly Gross , Clay treated his children as if they were total strangers to him . Clay drove his son Bobby , Jeff Kizer , to become a virtual shut-in and older daughter Lisa , Christe Lynn Smith , to rarely stay at home spending most of her time , from work at the beauty salon , staying with her friends . It was when Clay was spotted by Renee at a local restaurant with her sister Ellen , Meg Foster , that all the secrets that he's been keeping from his children as well as himself came to the surface ! As if by accident Renee's suspicions of Clay having a relationship with Ellen brought out the truth about her and the circumstance of Renee's marriage to Clay . Circumstance that were too shocking for anyone , even Clay Chadway , to even try to describe ! Trying to put on an act as the caring husband and father Clay's fantasy world was soon to come crashing down on him . It was Clay's wife Renee's unfounded accusations against him that in the end had him finally lose it . Not that Clay wasn't somewhat responsible for his unfeeling treatment of his son Bobby and daughter Lisa , for some reason that would soon come out he didn't feel the same way about Joanne , he in fact was far more innocent of the acts that Renee accused him of then she was ! SPOILERIt was on one cold rainy night when Renee pulled another one of her disappearing acts on him that the by now out of patience Clay finally lost his cool ! And that in the end cost him a lot more then what Renee ended up losing ! Even though he was the heavy in the movie Clay Chadway , or Richard Crenna , was by far the most sympathetic character in the film . Clay did everything that he could to hold his both marriage and family together but the ghosts from his , and Renee's , past were just too much for him to overcome . It was in fact Renee's guilt , not Clay's , that was far more responsible for all the horrors that she suffered in life in trying to keep her past buried . P . S Look for an almost microscopic cameo appearance , and try to keep from blinking in order not to miss it , of actor Tony Musante as Mr . Lennox the Chadway family attorney . Musante's as the accused gay murderer in " The Detective " and the knife wielding subway psycho in " the Incident " , both films made within a year of each other , were two ground breaking roles that finally put stark and shocking realism into movies coming out of the then " World of make Believe " Hollywood studios .
Your driving down a dark stretch of highway with no headlights on !	( Some Spoilers ) Haunted by her father's , who was convicted of murdering his boss , execution when she was ten years old crime reporter Nikki Barrington , Isabella Hoffmann , had become over the last twenty years a crusader against the death penalty . Getting the chance to interview convicted murder Tyler Nash , James Wilder , just two weeks before his scheduled execution Nikki not only decides to make his case a Cause Caleb she also falls in love with the boyishly handsome and innocent looking death row inmate . This leads Nikki to go so far as testify in Tyler's behalf in being the mystery woman who was with him on that fateful night in August five years ago . That's when Tyler was arrested for the murder of local Marshall Falls resident Cecilia Flowers , Jocelyn Clarke , which he's about to pay for with his life . Despite a perjury charge hanging over her head Nikki is so sincere and honest in lying about her being with Tyler at the time of Miss . Flowers murder that the jury , in a second trial due to her new testimony , finds the once convicted killer innocent of her murder . Now Nikki's live-in boyfriend Tyler starts to shed his image as the innocent looking as well as poetic , he can really put his emotions and feeling down on a piece paper , young man . The sweet and loving young man soon becomes a quick tempered psycho . Nikki who's still very much in love with Tyler is also hurt by finding a poem he wrote exclusively for her , about ripples in a pond , was something he wrote to a fan of his , a women prison pen pal , months before she ever met him ! Tyler also shows his very violent side when , after being attacked first , he cold-cocks the late Cecilia Flowers boyfriend and a pal of his who pick a fight with him at a local bar " The Blue Moon Tavern " . The very place where Cecilia was found murdered in the bars parking lot five years ago . All this leads to Marshall Falls D . A Mitch Clarke , Jerry Wasserman , who at first successfully prosecuted the Flowers murder case check up on Tylers , a professional race car driver , whereabouts before the Flowers killing . It turns out that the now freed Tyler Nash was at Daytona Florida , for the Datoyna 500 car race , the very same time another young woman was found murdered there ! The woman was killed under the very same circumstances that Ceiclia was ! Tyler now getting crazy and paranoid because of the local police putting the heat on him goes wacko in an attempt to skip town after D . A Clarke told him not to . Thus showing by his guilty action that he may well have murdered Cecilia as well as the young women back in Daytona ! What makes things even worse for Tyler , if things wren't bad enough already , another young women is found murdered outside of town on the beach at Cannan Point ! With him not having an alibi were he was , when she was murdered , Tyler now becomes the prime suspect in her murder as well ! MAJOR SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON Well you'll have to see the rest of the movie , or story , to find out just what this Tyler guy is really all about . The last ten minutes of " Touched by a Killer " is so strange and mind-boggling that it comes across almost surreal . Nikki in her taking it upon herself to get Tyler freed in fact set off a number of events that had Cecilia's real killer resurface . This had at the same time have him zero in on her and Nikki friend Liza , Erin Gray , who in fact had no idea who he was which didn't prevent the psycho killer from trying to murder them ! The biggest surprise of all in the movie , besides the killers identity , is that it was Cecilia's real killer who's testimony put Tyler Nash on death row in the first place . On top of all that he also murdered the person , who's body was never found by the police , who's testimony could very well have proved him innocent ! Now he was going to do the job , as judge jury and executioner , himself not only on Tyler but his , on and off , girlfriend Nikki Barrington !
Tales of the Bizarre	SPOILERS Psychological drama that has to do with two women who can't bring themselves to accept the deaths or a loved one and go into a mutual fantasy existence playing the parts of the persons that each of them grieve for . Cenci , Mia Farrow , has never got over the death of her mother who after suffering for some three years from an unknown or unnamed illness finally killed herself by downing an entire bottle of sleeping pills . Spoting this woman on a city bus who looks a lot like her deceased mother Cenci becomes so infatuated with her that she follows the women into a local Catholic Church where she goes to confession . After trying to get away from the pesky young girl the woman whom we later find out to be a street hooker named Leonora Garbowski , Elizabeth Taylor , gives into Cenci's fantasies of being her dead mother . So that instead of spending her life in cheap flea bag hotel rooms she can have a decent place to live , Cenci's huge Gothic mansion . At the same time Leonora starts to fantasize herself about Cenci being her daughter Judith who died or disappeared five years ago at the age of 10 . Everything couldn't be better for the two women who feed of each others tragedies by trying to outdo themselves in who suffered the most until Cenci's step-father Albert , Robert Mitchum , shows up unexpectedly from the US . Albert a Philadelphia college professor is also somewhat of a sexual psycho who despite his strange vow , only to himself , of being celibate is at the same time sexually attracted to young girls , some as young as 10 years old . this attraction had him always on the run , or one step ahead , from the law during his entire time in the states . Albert shows up at the mansion sporting this atrocious leprechaun beard that even he's embarrassed with , did he need it to disguise himself from the cops looking for him . Thankfully he has it shaved off after five or so minutes of screen time . With Lenora knowing that her charade of being Cenci's mother is about to be exposed , by step-father Albert , she goes to stay at a fancy waterfront , on the English channel , hotel until Albert leaves . Lenora is then confronted with Cenci's mental deterioration where she becomes even more stranger and off-the-wall then she already was in the movie . Faking that Albert raped her and then , in what seems like a few days later , making believe that she's some eight months pregnant has Leonora completely lose it . In the conflict between the two unstable women Cenci finally realizes that she's , Lorona , not her mother and in effect attempts to kill herself like her real mother did with a bottle full of sleeping pills ! Everything goes to pot for poor Cenci as she in effect throws Leonora out of her house only to ask her back moments later and then succumbs from the effects of her swallowing the sleeping pills overdosing and dying from them . Albert who for all the bad things in the movie that's said about him is really a somewhat decent guy , especially after he shaved off that silly beard he was wearing . Albert never as much as made , it must have taken everything that he had in him , a real sexual move on Ceni ends up with a knife in his gut courtesy of Lorona at Cenci's funeral as the movie " Secret Ceremony " finally comes to an end . Very strange movie that has it's high as well as low moments with one of them , the highs , having Elizabeth Taylor for once looking really sexy . That beach scene with her wearing a low-cut dress is a real turn on where she's as hot as she was in " The Sandpiper " back in 1964 with her husband actor Richard Burton .
Hard to take seriously even when your drunk watching it	SPOILERS Even though the movie " Borderline " is about a serious subject drug smuggling , and has a number of people killed in it , it comes across more like a 1930's type screwball comedy . Johnny McEvoy aka MacKlin and Madeleine Haley aka Gladys LaRue , Fred MacMurray & Claire Trevor , are working undercover in Mexico and unknown to each other who they really are . Each one thinks that the other is a criminal trying to get each other arrested by the US border police after they cross into California with a load of illegal drugs . It's amazing to me that a criminal sharpie like Pete Ritchie , Raymond Burr , couldn't spot these two undercover US law enforcers , posing as a gangster and floozy , as soon as he laid his eyes on them . Ritchie must have either been high or suffering from brain damage from the drugs he was smuggling . After ripping Ritchie off of his drug stash the two are on the run to get to the Mexican border with the drug shipment only to get each other arrested by the border police . All this without realizing that they both play for the same team the US Custom Services , Macklin , and the L . A Police department , Haley . I couldn't get over the fact that the two fell in love with each other , which was obvious at the end of the movie , yet were more then willing to turn each other over to the authorities where they could have gotten long prison time for drug trafficking ? Doesn't true love mean anything to these two ? Couldn't they just let each other get away and concentrate on the capturing the major dealer and head of the drug smuggling ring ? The FBI let Sammy " The Bull " Gravono , who admittedly murdered 19 people , walk away Scot-free in order to get his boss John Gottie behind bars with his testimony and nobody , as far as I know , in the FBI was madly in love with Sammy ! The two crime fighters are now together in their efforts to stop the drug smuggling gang led by Mr . Big himself Harvey Gumbin , Roy Roberts . Harvey wasn't that much smarter then his Man in Mexico Pete Ritchie by not realizing who this McEvoy really was , an undercover government agent . In the end there was an incredible shootout at Harvey's hideout , where McEvoy brought the drug shipment . McEvoy himself urged on Harvey's gangster to shoot it out with the police , in order not to blow his cover , endangering not only himself but the very police that were coming to his rescue ! The best way to enjoy the movie " Borderline " is to watch it only for unintentional laughs .
Murder for Lust	SPOILERS Somewhat muddled and confusing little film-noir set in the quiet community of Beaumont Calif . about murder and obsession . Realestate developer Frank Stegner , Gene Armor , is shot and killed in front of his girlfriend as they were both going out for a moonlight dive one night in the hotel's , where they were staying at . Detective Cliff Burden , Michael Madsen , is put in charge of the murder case and right away zeros in on the hotel owner Cathy Merrims , Laura Johnson , as either the killer or someone who knows who the killer is . Burden follows all the leads and it turns out that Miss . Merrims had just moved into the hotel permanently from her home in L . A and was on the phone crying hysterically just minutes before Stegner was shot that night . As Burden follows up that lead it leads him to the office of a Dr . Bill Hook , Anthony Hamilton , the psychiatrist who's treating Cathy for serious emotional problems . Burden senses that Hook is somehow involved with Stegner's murder by the way he responds to his questions about Cathy . It turns out that Cathy was under the care of a Dr . Sosoria back in L . A after she shot and killed a burglar who broke into her home . She later developed deep guilt feeling about it , feeling that she murdered burglar instead of having killed him in self-defense . Det . Burder also finds that Cathy was under psychiatric treatment since she was 13 when both her parents were tragically killed in a plane crash . The shooting of the bugler made her mental state even worse and on top of all that her L . A psychiatrist , Dr . Sosaria , committed suicide over her for not getting romantically involved with him . This is where Dr . Hook came into Cathy's life by taking over the psychiatric care that Dr . Sosaria provided for her but in his case it was more that just a doctor patient relationship . Pretty good story with Det . Burder getting more involved with the sultry Cathy Merrims then with solving Stegner's murder . This all lead to a bloodbath at the end of the movie where almost everyone in it ended up dead . Michael Madsen looked more like a 1950's greaser then a cop and Anthony Hamilton as Dr . Bill Hook was so crazed and off-the-wall that it made you wonder why anyone would ever want to be treated by him for emotional problems . Hook since he seemed to be more teetering on the brink and about to have a complete mental breakdown then anyone else in the film . Laura Johnson was both vulnerable and sexy in the movie as the long suffering Cathy Merrims who was the object of the very unstable and dangerous Bill Hook's obsession .
I don't want to be comfortable , I want to stay hungry !	SPOILERS Strange movie that gives young 28 year old champion body builder Arnold Schwarzegger his first real staring role , if you discount his role as Hercules in the 1970 belly laugher " Hercules in New York " , in a major motion picture as what else champion body builder and former Mister Austria Joe Santo . With both his parents killed in a plane crash Birmingham blue-blood Craig Blake , Jeff Bridges , has reluctantly taken over the family business but is just content to hang out at the Blake Mansion shooting the breeze and partying with the local rich and political connected exclusive country club folks . The movie revolves around a health & body building spa , The Olympic Spa , in downtown Birmingham owned by the somewhat at first off-the-wall Thor Erickson , R . G Armstrong , who really cracks up at the end of the movie . It turns out that Craig is given the task to buy out the spa for this group of mob-connoted businessmen headed by Jabo , Joe Spineli . Jabo is so determined to get the spa , in order to demolish and build a high-rise office building over it , that he goes so far as hiring a number of local sht-kickers , who end up getting the sht beaten out of them by the spa workers , to terrorize and have the management give up it's lease on the place to him . Mary Tate , Sally Field , the receptionist at the spa had been Big Joe Santo's girlfriend for some time but starts to get very friendly with Craig who shows up at the place to buy it out . Craig get's so hung op on the spa , and those in it , that he decides to become a vital part of it even going so far as paying for the damage inflicted on the spa by Jabo's ineffective and bumbling thugs . Joe who you would think in having Craig steal his girl Mary Tate , who actually throws herself on him , would drive him to break Craig in two reacts very strange to having his girlfriend taken away from him . As we soon see Joe is actually forcing a confused Mary Tate on Craig to have sex with him ! Craig thinks that Joe is either a pimp or some kind of sex freak who likes to see his girl get it on with other men in order for him to get turned on ! It's later that Craig begin to realize that Big Joe's somewhat cuckoo-bird actions has to do with his unorthodox training methods that he invented to get himself into tip top shape . Joe trains himself in refraining from all earthly pleasures and , as he puts it , stays hungry for the upcoming Mr . Universe , or is it World , competition . The movie starts to get really nuts when Thor is taken into the confidence of Jabo and in order to get him to sell his place . The Jabo mobsters give Thor an unlimited amount of drugs , that he snorts , and two hookers for non-stop action in order to soften him up . As Thor is under the influence of drugs and hookers the big Mr . Universe , or is it World , competition takes place . It's there that Thor's " Main Man " Big Joe Santo easily blows the competition away with his muscle man act on the stage to the music of the movie Exodus . Mary Tate , who just broke up with Craig , unexpectedly shows up at the spa and is attacked by the now wild crazy and totally drugged out Thor who's then confronted by Craig ! This leads to one of the most exciting and incredible free for all slug-fasts ever put on film ! With all this insanity going on at the Olympic Spa it's rumored among the muscle man from one of them being on the scene of the Thor / Craig free for all that Thor had taken off with the cash ! It's then that all the body builders take off together with the winner of the contest Joe Santo to stop Thor from taking off with the prize money and thus leaving them high and dry . The outraged , in feeling that they were stiffed by Thor , muscle men run with nothing but their skimpy and macroscopic body trunks on in the streets of Birmingham , stopping traffic , headed for the Olympic Spa in order to keep Thor from checking out of town . It's the local police who get to the spa first and take a whacked out on drugs and bloodied , from his dumbbell throwing fight with Craig , Thor into custody and the local hospital for emergency treatment . The ending has Craig take control of the Olympic Spa and keep it out of the hands of the Jabo Mob . Mary Tate Joe Santo and everyone else involved with muscle man building in the movie now know that they have a friend in the city of Birmingham , Craig Blake , who'll see to it that they have a place to work out and build up their muscles . Worth watching for the oddity of seeing the future Terminator Arnold Schwarzenegger acting , but not at all looking , as meek as a kitten where he doesn't as much as raise his voice , much less his fist , in all the violence that swirls around him ! Schwarzenegger actually comes across like a peace-loving and non-violent Buddhist Monk in his trying to stop the violence .
Another disappearing act by Bela Lugosi	SPOILERS Until his film career was resurrected by the great innovated as well as bad movie director Ed Wood in 1953 Bela Lugosi's future was going down hill fast in both his work in films and his personal life . With Bela staring in bottom of the basement horror movies and having a very serious addiction to heroin , that almost killed him . It wasn't until that director Wood gave him another chance in his low-budget and later , sadly long after both Bela and Wood's deaths , highly acclaimed horror and pseudo-message films . Films way ahead of their times about transvestites and the danger of Nuclear destruction . Subjects that were very close to Ed Wood's heart and mind . It was these at first obscure but thought-provoking movies that put Bela back on center stage . Working for small film production companies like Monogram Pictures " The Corspe Vanises " is one of the many movies that Bela made during the 1940's that were elevated to where they were entertaining and remembered now by just his presents in them . In the movie Bela plays not only the mad scientist / doctor but also the mad herbalist Dr . Lorenz . Dr . Lorenz needs young and beautiful women to use in making his old and crazy wife the Countess Lorenz , Elizabeth Russell , young and beautiful again . Dr . Lorenz developed this orchid that he has secretly delivered to the brides just before their wedding that not only knocks them out but ends up killing them . Lorenz and one of his henchmen Mike , George Eldrdge , wait outside the church with a hearse to pick up the body and take it back to his lab to extract some fluid for the dead brides neck and use it to rejuvenate his mad and elderly wife . The predictable plot has newspaper reporter Pat Hunter , Luana Walters , go to the Lorenz mansion to get the big scoop about the dead and missing brides . Meeting there young and handsome Dr . Foster ( Tristram Coffin ) , who's also there as Dr . Lorenz's guest , they both fall in love and almost end up becoming Dr . Lorenz's next victims . Even though Dr . Foster isn't a young woman or bride he's still subjected to Dr . Lorenz's mad and crazy experiments . Dr . Lorenz's helper at the lab Fagah , Minerua Urecal , ends this whole insanity by doing in both Dr . Lorenz and the Countess at the end of the movie by stabbing them to death . This happens as the mad doctor was about to do in Pat for her fluids to keep the Countess from going stale and nuts . Dr . Foster also comes to Pat's rescue with the police but , as usual , they would have been too late to save Pat if it wasn't for Fagah's actions . Fagah had in in for the crazed Doctor Lorenz after he killed her son Angel , Frank Morgan a prizefighter in real life , who must have taken one two many hard shots to the head during his professional boxing career . Angel was getting a little too involved with the Doctors experiments and the doc didn't like that one bit . Dr . Lorenz was also responsible for the death of Fagah's other son Toby , Angelo Rossitto , a 2 foot 11 inch midget . The diminutive Toby was shot to death by the police and left to die by the fleeing Dr . Lorenz as they attempted to steal another June Bride at a local wedding reception . With Dr . Lorenz out of the picture and no fear of being killed and kidnapped by him and his stooges Pat and Dr . Foster are finally married at the end of the movie .
Mister Wallace . . I Want My MONEY !	( Some Spoilers ) Made for TV movie about corruption in high places in the city government . With a totally out-of-the-blue sub-plot that has nothing at all to do with whats going on in the film . Vinnie Romero , Tony Glorgio , is murdered by the Leopold Mob and dumped off a Pier with an ice pick stuck in his head . Vinnie was going to the DA's office to blow the whistle on Leapold and his connections with the city's head of the Utilities Authorthy Devaver G . Wallace , William Shatner , in rigging building contracts . Knowing he's a marked man Vinnie gave the evidence that he had on Leopold to his brother Frank , Richard Casellano , for safe-keeping . With Vinnie now in the city morgue Frank feels he'll join him very soon and goes to the DA for protection . Not wanting to be a stool pigeon , like Vinnie , Frank is let out on the street where the Leopold Mob is out to get him . Frank ends up almost getting flattened by a steamroller before he accepts help from the DA's office . In return for his testimony and documents he has on the Leopold Mob . Taking the police and members of the DA's office to the place where he hid the evidence on Leopold Frank is blown apart and killed by a bomb planted there by the mob who took the incriminating documents before hand . Back at Wallace's office panic is setting in with him and his assistant and partner Ed Shilling , Murray Hamilton , on the verge of bankruptcy in a failed stock venture . Shilling needs cash to stave that off with Wallace wanting more of the kick-back from the deal he has going with Leopold something called " The Portland Project " . Wallace to his dismay finds that " The Portland Projet " fell through , which earlier lead to his partner in crime Shiller committing suicide after he got the bad news from Leopold himself . It also comes to light to the shocked Wallace that the bank that he owes the money for his stock market adventure is owned by non-other then Leopold's nephew ! So he's in no position to ask Leopold for any kick-backs at all . Getting smacked around by Leopold's boys for not being able to pay him back his money Wallace later agrees , or is forced , to talk and at the end of the film we see him and Leopold being brought before the court to face justice . The sub-plot in the movie has to do with young Arthur Trenier , James Davidson , on trial for drug possession as well as drug trafficking that can put him away for as much as fifteen years . With all hope gone to keep Arthur out of the clink his wife Louise , Kathleen Llyod , reveals to the stunned prosecuting attorney Paul Hamilton Jr , Robert Pine , that she has this fatal disease and hasn't long to live , this dying from an unknown illness was a big thing back then in Hollywood . The DA Joe Dubbs , James Olson , who was very determined to put poor Arthur away agrees with the much more sympathetic DA's attorney Hamilton to give him probation . Run of the mill crime / court story that has a much better cast then the material that their given makes it both interesting and watchable .
Sleepy Time	SPOILERS Looking like he hasn't slept or eaten in days Chuck Scott , Robert Commings , finds a wallet outside a diner with $81 . 00 in it and immediately goes into the diner to buy himself a meal . Finding out the name and address of the person who the wallet belongs to Miami mob boss Eddie Roman , Steve Cochran , Chuck goes to his mansion to return it . Eddie is so impressed with Chuck's honesty , he even told him that he spent $1 . 50 of Eddie's money for breakfast , that he hires him as his personal chauffeur . Eddie isn't exactly that kind hearted of a person when we first see him . He abuses and smacks around his barber and manicurist , both women , and later in the movie has a business man who he's dealing with shipping magnet Emmerrich Johnson , Lloyd Corrigan , tricked into going into his wine cellar with a 130 year old bottle of of Napoleon Brandy . Eddie then has his dog Tommy attack and tear him apart . One evening Chuck drives Lorna , Michele Morgan , Eddie's wife to the beach and she tells him that she wants to run away from her husband , who terrifies and is very brutal to her . Lorna need his help to do it . Not wanting to travel alone and seeing that Chuck is such a nice and trustful guy Lorna wants him to get her and himself two tickets on a boat going to Havana to get away from Eddie . Chuck agrees and Lorna gives him $1 , 000 . 00 for the tickets and expenses and after getting two tickets at the Miami docks for a boat , The Cuba , to Havana the two make their getaway the next night for the Cuban capital . Everything goes as planned as the two lovebirds reach Havana later that night but as Chuck and Lorna are kissing in a crowded Havana nightclub Lorna falls dead with a knife in her side ! The knife is found to have been bought by Chuck just a few hours ago and he's arrested for murder by the Havana police . How did all this happen ? who killed Lorna ? was it Eddie or his henchman Gino , Peter Lorre ! And if it was how did they know that both Chuck & Lorna were in Havana and how did they get there so fast ? Dark and slow moving film that puts you to sleep just like the stars in it with Chuck in and out of dreamland where he as well as us watching the movie don't know if he's or were asleep or awake . Peter Lorre is so tired and worn-out looking that it seems to me that he's been working 12 to 15 hours a day as a Miami cab driver and then moon-lighting as one of Eddie's henchman , he seems to be the only one , to make ends meet . Eddie is so serene and mellow looking even when he gets mad and slaps people around that you expect him to kneel over and pass out at any given moment . In fact it seems that the only thing that keeps Eddie awake is pressing down on the gas peddle , which later proves to be deadly , of his limo that he has installed in the back seat . With the effort that it takes to stay awake , on screen as well as off , in acting in and watching " The Chase " The title of of the movie should have really been called " Sleepless in Miami " .
This guy's walking around in in a monkey suit killing people !	( Some Spoilers ) Early 1950's man from space movie where in this case , it's the spaceman thats in trouble not the earthmen and women . A UFO is tracked from Point Barrow Alaska entering the earth's atmosphere traveling at some 5 , 000 MPH as it heads south some 3 , 000 miles down the Pacific coast it loses speed and crashes in the ocean off Santa Monica Calif . The local police are alerted when all the electricity around Santa Monica gets blacked-out and a number of people are found dead ; one on the beach and another , a night watchman , outside an oil field that was set on fire . It turns out that the person responsible for all this is the spaceman , who ejected from the spacecraft before it crashed , and only killed in self-defense when he thought that he was being threatened by the people in the area . A local man-hunt is on to find the killer who sheds his space outfit and turns out to be invisible but he also finds it difficult to breath the air in the earth's atmosphere . The spaceman has to get back to the local observatory where his suit and helmet are to put on in order to stay alive . Slowing suffocating the alien tries to make contact with the earthmen , with some kind of Morse Code , but to no avail . With the scientists and police trying to make contact and show the spaceman that they mean no harm a local reporter takes a photo of the alien which has it drop it's life saving helmet , due to the camera flash that excited it , and it breaks . With that the last hope to stay alive for the spaceman is gone and as he runs up to the top of the observatory , chased by the earthmen , he starts to become visible as he slowly loses his ability to breath and dies . Even though the special effects in the movie " Phatom from Space " are of the bargain basement variety the very interesting and imaginative story more then makes up for them . We see in the film that it's the alien thats the victim of the earth's environment not the earthlings being threatened by the alien's advance technology . The space alien didn't want to do the people of earth any harm , all he wanted to do was get back home to his planet , but it was the earth's atmosphere like in the movie " War of the Worlds " that in the end killed him .
The trouble with you is that your sobering up ! Here have another drink !	SPOILERSShocking expose of the sleazy escort business back in the 1940's and how it destroyed those who were involved in it without even knowing it ! Having nothing but the best in life young June Ashley , Margaret Marquis , didn't know that her mom Ruth , Betty Compson , was running a string of escort services , using both men as well as women , in and around L . A and its suburbs . It was when June together with her fiance Drake Hamilton , Robert Kellard , paid her mom a surprise visit that the awful truth was to come out . What Ruth and her partner in the escort business Greg Stone , Wheeler Oakman , were to soon find out is that Drake is working undercover for the the L . A district attorney , who just happens to be Drake's dad , to gets the goods on the escort racket and put it , together with sleaze-balls like Ruth & Greg , out of business ! Getting the jump on Drake in him knowing what he's planing to do Greg sets up Ruth's unsuspecting daughter June in a sting that Drake , and the D . A's office , is setting for him . Posing as a male escort-A greasy gigolo-Drake is stunned to find out that his first woman costumer is non-other then his fiance June Ashley herself ! This all leads to June to walk out on Drake feeling that he's running around with other women and Drake , who didn't know that this whole scenario was set up by the sleazy and manipulative Greg Stone , feel that June , not himself who was undercover as a gigolo , was working for Greg as one of his escort girls ! The biggest fireworks in the movie are left for last with June now dead drunk , courtesy of Greg providing her all the free booze , confronting her unsuspecting , who showed unexpectedly , mom Ruth Ashley at Grege's penthouse ! Thinking that Grege is cheating on her behind her back , until she realized that the " other woman " was her own daughter June , Ruth has it out with Greg as Drake , also unexpectedly , shows up ! What happens next is is just too shocking and mind numbing to put down on paper ! You'll have to , by getting a hold of the DVD " Escort Girl " , see it , if you can keep yourself from cracking up from laughing , for yourself !
Deranged	SPOILERS Interesting film about the life times and crimes of one of America's most notorious serial killers Albert Fish , Patrick Bauchau . Fish not only murdered his victims he cannibalized them as well which made him a perfect candidate , when he stood trial , for an insanity defense that would have saved him a one way trip to the Sing Sing electric chair . Being that Fish was actually looking froward to get strapped into the chair , he was reported to say it would be the biggest thrill in his life , he made little if any attempt to defend himself in trying to convince the jury that he was , which was very possible , insane and ended up getting his wish . Fish at age 65 was executed in Sing Sing prison on the morning of January 16 , 1936 being one of the oldest persons to be executed in New York State history . For all the crimes that Fish was reported to have committed , that included some half dozen murders , he was tried convicted and executed for the kidnap murder of 12 year-old Grace Budd , Lexi Ainwsorth . It was Fish himself who by sending an anonymous letter to Grace's parents admitting his crime that lead the police to track him down and finally put an end to his reign of terror . The film " The Gray Man " goes deep into Albert Fish's sick mind in showing how he as a young boy became fascinated with pain , that was inflicted on him at the orphanage he spent his early years in , and how that fascination , that lead to his purposely torturing himself , shaped his entire adult life . Fish also became some kind of religious fanatic who explained away his horrendous crimes in saving his victims , all young children , the pains of either being raped or corrupted in the future ! Like most serial killer Fish , in him being in his 50's and 60's when he committed his crimes , came across as a both sweet and kindly old man to his intended victims , and their family members , that masked the real intentions that he had in store for them . It was Fish's own sense of invincibility , by getting away with his crimes for so long , that in the end did him in . It also took the efforts of New York City Police Detective Will King , Jack Conley , to track Fish down and finally bring him to justice . Det . King never gave up in trying to find little Grace Budd's murderer when everyone else did . Suffering a serious mental breakdown that landed him in the hospital for weeks Det . King still worked on the Grace Budd murder case , from his hospital bed , until he got the brake that he so long , for some six years , had waited for . And ironically that brake came from Albert Fish himself !
The bison is a bit salty and the potatoes overcooked	SPOILERS Experimenting with organ transplants at the top secret Olaris Corp . Dr . Andera Hewlitt , Justine Bateman , has been able to successfully preform an eye transplant from a wolf to a baboon . It's when Dr , Hewlitt comes across a blinded security guard Aaron Scates , Cory Monteith , who was badly injured at a explosion at the plant he worked at that she used the eyes of a gray wolf to restore Aaron sight . It turns out that the wolf was brought to a local animal hospital by half French half American Indian Lydia , Tinsal Korey , who expected the injured animal to be treated for it's wounds not used in an laboratory experiment . Going to Olris Corp . to give Dr , Hewlitt a piece of her mind , on what she did to the injured wolf , Lydia is escorted out by security guards and told to stay within 50 feet of the place or else she'll be arrested for trespassing . It doesn't take that long for Aaron to realize that he not only has a new , and in good working order , pair of eyes but also a new sense of direction in life : That of a big and powerful Alpha Wolf ! Aaron not only sees like a wolf but both smells and hears , and fights , like one as well . Aaron soon starts to get restless , hearing the call of the wild , and escapes from his hospital room running , bear-foot and with only his hospital pajamas on , into Lydia . Lydia upset at how she was treated at Olaris Corp . is driving home to her good friend and spiritual adviser Indian Shaman Claud Robertson , Gordon Tootoosis . Claud is the person who in the end would not only give the confused Aaron a reason for living , to reunite with his former wolf pack in the wild , but will save his life from the power-hungry military man Mobley , Will Woytowich . Mobley is trying to shut Aaron up about the secret experiments he was put under at Olaris Corp . If this all comes out Mobley and his both stooges and superiors will have to answer to congress and the American people in what their doing ! Not in saving lives but , Mobley's real reasons for the wolf to human transplants , creating an super secret corps of mindless and vicious " wolfmen " , who can see in the dark without the use of inferred goggles , to be incorporated into US military . The movie " Hybrid " doesn't get moving until Aaron completely abandons whatever human feeling he still has left and becomes a full fledged Alpha Wolf in the wild . After trying to rustle up a wolf pack in the civilized city all Aaron could get to follow him is a bunch of stray dogs . It's when Claud gets Aaron to understand his noble mission in life , with a whiff of ancient Native Amerian Indian wisdom , that he realizes that as much he likes his former life as a human being he's now and forever a child of the wild , and night . A wiser and enlighten Aaron now does according to what and where his animal instincts lead him . Aaron goes on to leading the wolf pack like he did in his previous life as the big gray wolf who's eyes he's now seeing with .
Once they were " Men " now their " Sand Crabs " !	( There Are Spoilers ) After a number of thermonuclear tests in the South and Central Pacific things started to get a bit strange in the effective areas around the explosions . Sending out McLean and a team of scientists to investigate these alarming developments they mysteriously disappear ! This happens after a deadly typhoon hit's the atoll that they were at searching to find unusually high amounts of radiation . The McLean party were also to ascertain if any of the radiation from the tests effected the plant as well as sea life in and around the atoll . It doesn't take long that , what's now called , the McLean rescue party finds out that not only was McLean and his crew killed but also eaten by a bunch of radio active crabs who've grown to be the size of Sherman Tanks ! The crabs at first keep themselves hidden from view by using their ability to absorb their victims brain tissue as well as his , or her , memory or consciences by mimicking them . This gives the crabs the advantage to fool the search & rescue party lead by biologist Pete Drewer , Richard Garland , into thinking that members of their team who've been attacked and devoured by the crab monsters are still alive . It's not that much later when Drewer comes up with a way to finally cook fry or boil , he eventually decided to electrocute , the attacking and man-eating crustaceans that the Crab Monsters come out of hiding , from their many sea caves under the atoll , and decided to slug it out . The movie due to it's shoe-string budget had a lot of difficulty in having the Crab Monster , it looked like there was only one in the movie , or monsters get that much exposer even though he , she or they , were really the big stars in the film . The movie then has the crabs create a number of earthquakes and tidal waves , how they do it it's never explained , that just about submerges the entire atoll . Drewer together with the last two remaining members of his expedition his fellow biologist the shapely Martha Hunter , Pamela Duncan , and electronic expert Hank Chapman , Russell Johnson , are left to either take out the rampaging crabs or end up dead , with their minds becoming part of the crabs mental makeup , trying . Like many movies made in the 1950's " Attack of the Crab Monsters " had to really do with man screwing up the environment by testing atomic and hydrogen bombs both in the atmosphere as well as underground . These nuclear explosions altered the DNA of thousands of sea as well as land animal species causing them to mutate and grow to enormous sizes . The Crab Monsters would have probably ended up on the menu of a seafood restaurant if it wasn't for all that nuclear testing in the Pacific on the part of the US Military . Because of all those nuclear tests the crabs , as well as many other effected sea and plant life species , instead of being food for both thought and stomach for the human race became a present and future danger to all of Mankind !
No doubt about it , those boys sure could paint	SPOILERS Having helped expose a number of forgeries by the Nazis during WWII former US Army Captain George Steel , Pat O'Brian , got involved in the museum that he was working as a lecturer in the finer points of art . Even though the head curator Mr . Barton , Erskine Sanfod , was a bit taken back by his unsophisticated and earthy manner of how he lectured his audience . Where at time it almost lead to fists flying in his direction . It's when Steel cracked up and made a spectacle of himself one night breaking into the museum belting a policemen and almost getting crushed by a falling statue that things started really getting weird . With the opinion by Dr . Lowell , a member of the museum staff , that Steel lost his mind and needs to be institutionalized he's told to take a long vacation . With Steel calming to have survived a train wreck the night of his crack-up it becomes rather obvious , to both the police and Dr . Lowell , that the poor and confused man is either hallucinating of suffering workers burn-out . Steel doesn't take all this lying down by again going through the same motions that he did the night before . Getting on the same train and taking the same ride , to a town called Marlin . Then finding out that he indeed was not making up the story about his mental crack-up . Only that the train wreck , which he found out didn't happen , was somehow for some reason implanted into his brain ! but why and by who ? We later learn from a secretly on loan to the museum lawman named Traybin ( Herbert Marshall ) , a Scotland Yard inspector of art forgeries , that things aren't exactly kosher with the art exhibits . Later Steel himself gets this cryptic phone call from his friend the museum's co-curator Stevenson , Damian O'Flynn , about a number of switch's of original masterpieces being copied and then purposely destroyed in suspicious fires . One of them is a painting titled Gainsborough , the originals ended up in the private collection of the person responsible for the destroyed copy . Going to see Stevenson at the museum Steel finds him murdered as he's spotted at the scene of the crime , by Mr . Barton , and becomes the chief suspect in Stevenson's murder . Realizing that this scheme of copying original works . At the same time having the copies destroyed in order , for whoever does it , to steal the original without anyone knowing about it . This has Steel going down to the docks where the painting that was the big hit at the museum " The Adoration of the Kings " is being shipped back to England . With Steel feeling that it's going to suffer the same fate that " Gainsborough " did some time before . With a fire suspiciously set in the storehouse , like Steel suspected , on the ship Steel saves the painting and takes it back to the museum . With the help of his friend reporter Terry Cordell , Claire Trevor , and museum technician Mary Ware , playing herself , Steel finds out through X-rays that the painting is indeed a forgery . Leading to the person responsible , an off-the-wall psycho art lover , of having Steel knocked out and then , along with Terry , kidnapped . The kidnapper has Steel shot up with truth serum to make him talk talk about who else knows about his , the creepy and murderous lover of arts , diabolical plan . So he can have them done in like he's planing to do in both Steel & Terry . This has to be the only movie where the hero sleeps through the big slam bang final with Steel completely out of it , on the truth serum that put him on snooze control . The police and inspector Traybin come to Steel's and Terry's rescue with Steel later waking up , when all the fighting and shooting is over , and wildly throwing punches at the very people who saved his life , Inspector Traybin and police Capt . Cochrean , Wallace Ford . Yet being so drugged out of is head that he almost ends up falling on his head and breaking it .
For a man of your intelligence that's a bad decision	SPOILERS On the run from the Mexican police hungry exhausted and wounded , after getting his right arm entangled in barbwire during his escape , Lin Vanner , Lew Ayres , finds his way to Father Gomez's , Victor Jory , house in the Mexican desert . After having his arm bandaged Lin tells the man of God his tale of woe a tale that goes back over a year ago when Vanner was involved with a posse tracking down Sam Tevlin , Edwin Rand , a wanted payroll robber and murderer . Forced by his fiance Luana , Jackie White , to join the chase after the fleeing Tevlin Lin having him cornered ends up shooting the wounded man who , like Lin has now , had a wounded right arm . It was the fact that Tevlin couldn't raise his right arm up in the air that Lin , thinking that he was about to take a shot at him , ended up blasting him . It was later when Tevlin died from his wounds that Lin started to get guilty feeling about what he did and after he refused to pick up the $2 , 000 . 00 reward that was awarded to him in getting Tevlin that Luana , disgusted with her future husbands feeling sorry for himself , walked out of on him . The movie " The Capture " then takes a different turn with Lin traveling to Tevlin's , who an American , home in Los Santos Mexico meeting his widow Ellen , Teresa Wright , and ten year old son Mike , Jimmy Hunt . Keeping his true identity from Ellen Lin tells her that he's looking for a job at her ranch as a ranch-hand using the phony name of Lindley Brown . It doesn't take that long for Ellen to find out , checking out Brown's room , that Mr . Brown is actually Lin Vanner her husbands killer . Instead of the outraged Ellen letting Lin have it , about killing her husband Sam , she instead works the guy almost into the ground with him having no idea why she's doing that . Finally realizing why Ellen is so down on him by finding that she broke into his room , and found a newspaper clipping about Lin gunning down her husband , that Lin finally let the cat out of the bag . It turns out that Sam was not only a wife beater and drunk , how did Lin know all this ? , but that he spent most of his time away from Ellen and Mike hanging out and drinking the night away with the senoritas at the local bars in town . Incredibly Ellen , within minuets after he told her the truth about himself , falls heads over heels in love with Lin and in what seems like the next day get married to him ! You would have thought that the movie " The Capture " would end there and then instead it continued with Lin going back to the states to find the real reason for Sam Tevlin being framed in the payroll robbery and murder of those armed guards who were delivering the cash ! Lin feels that he was , without his knowledge , set up as the hit-man to do in Tevlin by the person who wasSPOILER ALERT the real robber and killer the VP of the company that was held up Big Earl Mahoney , Barry Kelly . You soon got lost in the film when Lin suddenly decides to become a private eye and then does his gumshoe act that was totally unconvincing as well as making the movie look ridiculous . Lin has the surviving guard of the robbery Juan Valdez , Felipe Turich , end up committing suicide by hanging himself on the church bell-tower . This happened after Lin badgered Valdez almost to death , threatening to have the disabled mans pension taken away from him , in trying to get him to open up about who really shot him and his fellow security guards ! Lin who should have felt just as guilty , if not more , for his driving the innocent Veldez to kill himself like he felt guilty in shooting Sam Tevlin didn't as much as shed a tear for the poor man ! Acting totally out of character Lin then crashes Big Earl's place and after showing Big Earl that he's got the goods on him , in him not Sam being the one who robbed the payroll truck , gets into a fight with Big Earl , who's twice as big as Lin , killing him by smashing a whiskey bottle over his head ! It's then that the film gets back to the present with Lin holed up in Fathet Gomez's home with the Mexican police , together with Ellen trying to talk Lin into giving himself up , giving Lin just minutes to either surrender or they'll blast away . The only thing about the ending of " The Capture " is that besides being totally predictable , just by reading the movies title , is that a miracle happened for the wounded and suicidal Linn who was responsible for the death of three persons in the movie ! A miracle that for some strange reason didn't happen for Sam Tevlin who didn't kill anyone ! Go figure that out !
Why should I kill her ? She showed me pleasures that I never knew existed !	( Some Spoilers ) Police drama set in 1953 L . A that goes far beyond the routine murder cases that the LAPD is used to handling . Finding beautiful party girl Allison Pond , Jennifer Connelly , dead at a construction site in an L . A suburb with not only most of her bones broken but having been exposed to large doses of nuclear radiation has LAPD Let . Max Hoover , Nick Nolte , and his " Elite Team " put on the case . Hoover recognizes Allison right away as a woman he had a six month fling with behind the back of his wife Katherine , Melanie Griffith . Later in Hoover's mail at the police precinct he gets a roll of film that has Allison having an affair with US Army General and top honcho of the Atomic Energy Commission Thomas Timms , John Malkovich . Thing really get spicy when Katherine gets at her home another roll of film but this time it's with Allison having a romp in bed with her husband Max in the same hotel room that she had her sexual tryst with Gen . Timms . By sending Max's wife the incriminating film of his infidelity with Allsion it thus totally destroyed the blackmail element that could have been used against him . It also has Max go full-tilt to solve Allison's murder that leads straight to the US Military . Max meets the person who sent him the film Jimmy Fields , Andrew McCarthy , at his beach house and is told by Jimmy that his life is in danger for knowing about the affair between Allison and Gen . Timms . the General is in charge of a top secret military base outside L . A in the California Desert that tests atomic bombs . It was on Gen Timms ' orders , Jimmy tells Max , that Allison was murdered to keep her quite and not to embarrass the US military and the Atomic Energy Commision . The police in the " Mulholland Falls " come across far worse then the criminals in the movie . Led by Let . Max Hoover and his band of fellow cops Ellory Coolidge Eddie Hall & Arthur Relyea , Chazz Palminteri Michael Medsen & Chris Penn . The cops in the movie look as if their physically connected to each other like Siemese quintuplets . They for some strange reason never as much as change positions in most of the scenes that their in ! We first see these " lawmen " in action as they swagger into a swank L . A restaurant and after brutalizing a number of diners , including the head waiter , they grab Chicago gangster Jack Flynn , William L Petersen , who was just found innocent in a court of law and who's minding his own business having dinner with friends . Beating up Flynn and his party and then after practically kidnapping him , in front of something like a hundred witnesses including Flynn's lawyer , the policemen take Flynn to Mulholland Falls . It's there that they drop him some 200 feet leaving him for dead at the bottom of the falls . Hoover then smugly and arrogantly tells the dying Flynn that " Theres no Organized Crime in L . A " ; Only the organized and sanctioned crime of the LAPD . Even fellow law enforcers warn't exempt from Hoover and his men in brutalizing them . With Hoover brutally beating up , to the point of him being hospitalized , FBI Agent MaCafferty , Daniel Baldwin , for doing his job . And later we have Hoover & Co . assaulting a number of US military M . P's at an army base , where Hoover as a L . A policeman has no jurisdiction at all , for just doing their jobs as well . No one seems to be able to control the out-of-control Let . Hoover and his merry men not the LAPD not the FBI not even the US Military no one at all ? Just with Hoover's brutal attack on FBI Agent MacAfferty , a US government law enforcement agent , that in itself should have put him behind bars for something like 20 years in a Federal Pen . We instead see Hoover in the next scene calmly talking with his obviously whacked out police boss , played by Bruce Dern , who's also in complete agreement with his actions . In his friendly conversation with Boss Dearn , describing how he and his fellow cops work people over , it seems as if the brutal and sadistic LA cop Max Hoover doesn't seem to have a single care or worry in the world ! Later the overbearing and obnoxious Hoover forces himself into Gen . Timms house , right in the center of a US military base which Gen . Timms commands , and brutally brow beats the poor sick old man , who dying of cancer , to the point where he almost gets a nervous breakdown or heart-attack or both ! It's then that we find out why Allison Pond was murdered and it was on the orders of those under Gen . Timms , not the general himself , in order to shut her up about the sexual exploits she was having with him . Totally unbelievable story with Hoover his crazy boss and his men doing more damage to the security of the United States then Osama Bin-Laden .
Dun Dun Dun Dum . . Dun Dun Dun Dum . . Dun Dun Dun Dum . . Dun Dun Dun Dum . . Da Da Daaa !	SPOILERS Four part anthology of the TV series Twilight Zone with the first , which seems to be an original and not from the TV series , by far the best of the lot . There's these two kooks , Dan Aykroyd & Albert Brooks , driving down a dark and almost deserted highway playing a game of chicken when Aykroyd , who seemed to be the normal of the duo , pulls off a surprise sending himself and his terrified friend Brooks off the beaten path , or highway , and into the Twilight Zone . We then come to this bar where we're introduced to Bill Conners , Vic Morrow , an angry sort of fellow who's feels that life gave him a losing hand of cards by being who he is , a bigoted racist . Being passed over for a promotion for his fellow worker , who just happens to be Jewish , Conners lets it all out in such a wild and outrageous monologue about how Jews Blacks and Orienals are screwing up the country that he almost has himself and his two friends with him Larry & Ray , Doug McGrath & Charles Hallahan , thrown out of the bar for inciting a race riot ! Mad as hell and not going to take it , being second banana to Jews Blacks and Orientals , anymore Conner storms out of the bar and enters into the Twilight Zone . Conner also enters places with persons where and and with whom he should have found himself very comfortable with : Nazi Germany a KKK lynching and a firefight between stoned out GI's and Vietcong . It's there that Conner is to become in each of those areas in the Twilght Zone the very people that he hates most in life : a Jew a Black and an Oriental ! At the old aged home the persons there have just about gave up on life and are just waiting to die until old Man Bloom , Scatman Crothers , shows up and gives them a reason for living , by making them kids again . Old Man Bloom shows the old folks that it's far better to be young at heart then young in body . Since they have both the experience of living to a ripe old age and at the same time having a clear and healthy mind , and body , to still enjoy it . Bloom does all this for the oldsters with the kid game of " kick he can " . Teacher Helen Foley , Kathleen Quinlan , accidentally backs up her car and hit's young Anthony , Jeremy Licht , on his bike . Taking Anthony , who seemed to be unhurt , home Helen finds that the cute and likable little boy is really a monster in disguise . Using his will power Anthony had put his family into a sate of terror with her being his newest victim . Anthony later starts feeling that his mind control powers are driving him insane , as well as those he uses them on . Finally trying to rid himself of them Anthony uses those same destructive powers to destroy themselves by just wishing them away . As the episode ends we find Anthony and Helen , the only person who's able to get through to him , now free and on the open road . Driving away from the madness that he's been living through all his life and traveling into a world of peace hope and serenity ; in " The Twilight Zone " . On a passenger flight computer expert John Valentine , John Lithgow , is having trouble keeping down his dinner as he locked himself into the john refusing to come out . Finally pulling himself together John trying to calm down his nerves glances out the plane window only to get a bigger shock then any case of air turbulence or strike by lighting by . John sees this gargoyle-like creature on the planes wing trying to disable it's engines ! John going completely off-the-wall , and head-first out of the plane , almost causes the aircraft to crash until he's , shot up with enough tranquilizers that would have put to sleep an entire hoard of cape buffalo's . Strapped into a ambulance John is now at peace and in never never land as he's being driven to the hospital for a much needed period of both rest and recreation . We see that things aren't going to turn out right for John with his ambulance driver being non-other then the wild and crazy Dan Aykroyd . Whom we already saw doing his thing at the beginning of the movie to Albert Brooks . Now he's going to do it again to the sedated and unsuspecting wreck of a man John Valentine !
All you have to do is whistle	SPOILERS The film is mostly known for being the first Lew Ayres-less entry in the Doctor Kildare series with Ayers unceremoniously dumped by the studio for refusing to take up arms , by declaring himself a conscious objector , against the German and Japanese in WWII . The fact that Mr . Ayres served his country risking his life as a combat medic and ambulance driver didn't seem to impress anyone in gong-ho and super patriotic Hollywood . In the movie Ayres is replaced by Dr . John Gerniede , Philip Dorn , who's a refugee from his native Holland after the German overran and occupied it . It's when clean cut collage graduate Roy Todwell , Phil Brown , was diagnosed by both Doctors Lenoard " Lenny " Gillespie and Ward Kenwood , Lionel Barrymore & Charles Dingle , as a dangerous psycho that he lost it all and became a homicidal maniac . It was just after the zombie-like Roy smashed his girlfriend's Marcia Bradburn's , Donna Reed , cute and lovable dog's skull in that people started questioning his mental stability . With Dr . Gillespie recommending that Roy get imitated psychiatric care he , in his very disturbed mind , felt the old guy was making fun of him , by declaring Roy to be a nut-case , and decided to murder him as an act of revenge ! As he was about to be committed to the Blair General Hospital mental ward for treatment Roy took off and ended up , for reasons known only to himself , in Detroit . It's there in " Motor City " were Roy murdered two innocent persons , a car dealer and his mechanic , just to prove to himself , but not anyone else watching the movie , that he's in fact normal ! Meticulously planning to murder the person-Dr . Gillespie - he holds responsible for all his mental problems-by diagnosing them - Roy goes back to Blair General in order to do the crippled old guy in ! Roy didn't expect that the hospital staff and NYPD were on to him by Roy sending threatening-and unsigned-letters to Dr . Gillespie's office . This not only showed that Roy , after already murdering a number of people , was not only a certified homicidal fruitcake but not , despite finishing collage , all that bright either . The movie had a lot more violence then you would have expected in a Dr . Kildare film and I noticed that both actors Lionel Barrymore and Philip Dorn just didn't click that well in the scenes that they were in together . As for the sweet and caring , for her nutty boyfriend Roy , Donna Reed she came across even more ridicules then even he-Roy Todwell-did . Seeing at first hand just how both crazy and dangerous Roy was why in hell did she let him sneak into Blair General , under the noses of its security staff , knowing full well what he had in mind to do ?
Crystal Blue Persuasion	SPOILERS The movie " Blue Velvet " reached cult status soon after it's release in September 1986 with people both loving the film to death or ranking it among the worst major , excluding low budget gems like " Plan Nine from Outer Space " , motion pictures ever made . The film does in fact have a number of holes in it's storyline that you can drive an 18 wheeler rig through with room to spear . There's nothing in the movie that connects or explain , much less solves , the central or core plot involving a missing human ear and who it belongs to . Were told by the young man Jeffery Beaumont , Kyle MacLachlan , that found the ear that it's possibly the ear of singer Dorothy Vallens , Isabella Rossellini , husband . Were also given to understand that he and Dorothy's young son are being held hostage by this whacked out psycho gangster Frank Booth , Dennis Hooper . This scenario about Dorothy's young son and her husband goes on for more then half the movie where it's then almost entirely forgotten by everyone in the film , including Dorothy , until the very last scene ! It's after were introduced to the leading characters that the film gets down to business involving some drug deal that went sour with Booth and his crooked cop friend Gordon or the Yellow Man , Fred Pickler , using the town of Lumberton police to rip off the local drug dealers . Yellow Man himself is then found murdered , somehow being able to stand up on his feet with his brains blown out , by a startled Jeffery in Dorothy's apartment together with another man who's left ear is missing , is that Dorothy's husband ? It's never make clear in the film . Eariler we see Jeffery get involved with the " missing ear " case when he's informed by Sandy Williams , Laura Dern , that her dad the towns chief of detectives Det . John Williams ( George Dickerson ) , who told Jeffery to keep his nose out of the case , that the ear has something to do with singer Dorothy Vallens . Jefffery immediately plays Junior detective by using Sandy as a look out as he then breaks into Dorothy's apartment in his attempt to solve the case of the missing ear . Getting caught hiding in the closet by Dorothy the unbelievably wimpy Jeffery lets Dorothy have her way with him forcing Jeffery to undress , while holding a kitchen knife to his face , and then having him preform sadomasochistic sex on her . All this gets even weirder when Booth suddenly shows up , with Jeffery again hiding in the closet , who then really works Dorothy over with his own strange and unique brand of wild and no holds bar kinky sex . Booth works himself up into a lather by both raping and beating as well as humiliating Dorothy as he sticks , what looks like , an oxygen mask on his face to keep himself from passing out . The film has a number of scenes in it that make absolutely no sense at all with one having Jeffery being kidnapped by Booth and his hoods for daring to have anything to do with his squeeze Dorothy . Smearing his mouth with an entire lipstick stick Booth kisses and wipes his face on Jeffery's and then has him beaten almost to a pulp ? There's also Sandy who at first doesn't want to be romantically involved with Jeffery , she has a study boyfriend already , but then goes bananas when she finds out that he's having a hot and heavy affair with Dorothy ! Jeffery himself comes across so completely clueless in what's going on in the film and his actions are so bizarre that you wonder if he isn't on the stuff , hard drugs , that Booth is involved with himself . The movie ends like it started with the little town of Lumberton coming across as your average , maybe more then average , middle American community where the things that it just experienced are as far away from it as the planet Pluto . Jeffery who had survived the whole mess is now back to normal with his new girlfriend Sandy , not the sexy and hot to trot Dorothy , trying to forget what he just went through in the film . As for Dorothy she's also back to normal , with Frank Booth & Co . out of her life . And yes she's also united with her young son , wearing his favorite propeller beanie , whom she was trying to find , whom Booth held hostage , all throughout the movie .
Insane Killer returns to Terminal City !	( There are Spoilers ) Hostage drama that takes place in this bar with an on the loose psycho killer who just flew the coop from the local state hospital for the criminally insane wanting to see his shrink , psychiatrist , who got him off from being executed for the murder of a policeman three years earlier . The crazed killer Gunther Wyckoff , Marshall Tompson , didn't waste any time in making himself known to the public and police by gunning down a bus driver , John Damler , who's gun that was in full view of everyone on the bus was lifted by Gunther when everyone , including the bus driver , left the bus on a rest stop . The bus driver was not only incompetent in leaving his gun on board for Gunther to grab but later realizing that his gun was missing he didn't have enough sense to check for himself ! The bus driver confronts Gunther not only telling him to give him his gun back but actually tries to grab it off him ! You can just imagine what happened next , he got it right in the gut . Gunther wanting to see his psychiatrist Dr . John D . Faron , Sam Levene , about something in his past is frustrated to find that the doc is nowhere to be found , not in his office or apartment . Gunther going to the local bar to dry out only gets even more crazy when the bartender Chuckels , William Conrad , who's only doing his job forces him to have a drink , which he of course doesn't pay for . Within minutes Gunther completely loses it when he's spotted by Chuckels on the screen of his 3 by 4 foot remote control flat-screen projection TV set broadcasting a police bulletin with his picture , front and side , and then all hell breaks lose . Gunning down Chuckles who tried to pull a gun on him Gunther then takes center stage , and five hostages , in the movie as he calls all the shots , as well as giving them out . Gunther is determined to having a chat with Dr . Faron about his both mental state and military service . This goes on for what seems like days , it's all supposed to take place in less then a hour , as Gunther terrorizers the customers who are now his hostages . You can't help wondering why Gunther wants so badly to see Dr . Faron to the point where he already murdered two people to get an audience with him ? You know right away that this guy , Gunther Wyckoff , is not only nuts but all his talk about his glorious and macho experiences in the US Army during the war , that he talks endlessly about to his captive audience , is all a pile of horse-sht . It's Dr Faron himself who later , against police orders , makes it into the bar and finally has this important talk with the psycho . Dr . Faron brings Gunther back to reality in just how ridicules he is , he was in fact never overseas and kicked out of the Army on a section 8 , in his fantasies about his combat experiences which besides showing just how unprofessional Dr Faron is , in disturbing an already very disturbed and unstable person . Dr . Faron sets the now really off-the-wall Gunther off and jeopardizing not only his but the lives of all the people in the bar . Interesting but not at all earth-shaking movie about a mentally ill young man , Gunther Wyckoff , who just couldn't get it out of his head that he was a failure at what he loved most in being a blood & guts war hero . Gunther substituted that failed ambition in becoming a psycho killer of defenseless and innocent people . With the one person who could possibly help him , Dr . Faron , also failing to understand with just what kind of a dangerous person he was dealing with . Gunther egged on by Dr . Faron in revealing his darkest fears , that he just couldn't cut it as a combat soldier , that in the end cost both him and Gunther their lives .
Let Each Man Be Paid In Full	( Some Spoilers ) Irish writer poet and , underground , gun-runner Joe Devlin , Clive Revill , has a big deal going in getting a load of sub-machine guns , M-11's , to the IRA in Northern Ireland . Meetings his supplier Vincent Pauly , Albert Paulsen , at his Los Angeles hotel room to Devlin plans to finalized the deal . Having a drink from his favorite bottle of Irish whiskey Devlin pulls out a gun , that ironically Pauly is selling him , and blows Pauly away dead . It turned that Pauly was going to double-cross Devlin and check out with the $150 , 000 . 00 , for the illegal arms deal , to Libson that very evening and leave Devlin and his IRA cohorts out in the cold and out of their cash . Getting on the case Let . Columbo , Peter Falk , is only interested at first in finding who killed Pauly not realizing that his death , or murder , had to do with his activities as a gun runner for the Irish nationalistic IRA . It's Columbo's interviews and conversations with the witty and charming Devlin , who was a suspect to Pauly's murder , that steered him in that direction . Even though Devlin did everything to steer Let . Columbo the other way . Devlin being overly confident in his ability to get away with murder didn't realize that his bragging about himself and his exploits as a young man and a member of the IRA would draw attention to himself . Devil just couldn't keep quite about his gun-running operations that he was involved in . It was in those gun running exploits that Devlin used the pro-peace organization " American Friends for Northen Ireland " as a front to get cash contributions . The film has Devlin , now without the guns , trying to get in touch with a number of weapons suppliers to make the transaction himself without a middleman , like the late Vincent Pauly . At the same time there's the bulldog-like Let . Columbo chewing at Devlin's heels throughout the entire movie . A bit more complicated then the usual Colombo movie with loads of sub-plots to it . The film could do well without with a major part of the story having something to do with Devlin getting the guns shipped out of the USA to Southampton England to be unloaded and sent to Belfast to be grabbed by the IRA . You wondered why it was so important , for the US Coast Guard and Customs Services , to keep the ship from leaving L . A Harbor since all that had to be done was alert the British authorities . They would have confiscated the arms as soon as the ship , loaded with them , docked in England . Deviln who loved his whiskey and drank it by the bottle , not shot glass , in the movie may have had one too many , bottles . By not only leaving one of his empty Irish Whiskey bottles at the Pauly murder scene Devlin also left his mark on it . Devlin unknowing did this every time he was at a bar with let . Columbo guzzling down his favorite brew . That mark in the end not only did Davlin in but did in his front organization that was behind the buying and shipping the guns to the IRA .
Bleeding hearts and minds in and out of the courtroom	( SOME SPOILERS ) Somewhat over-plotted murder / mystery that if you stay with it you , by the time it's over , won't be disappointed . Having had a reputation of throwing the book on those who stand convicted in her courtroom " Hanging Judge " Marcia Blacwell , Sally Kellerman , had a complete turn around when she sentenced young Joey Slater to a long prison term for a car-jacking only to find out later that the person guilty had given himself up and confessed . This didn't help Joey since he killed himself in prison the week before . At a case before her Marcia after letting young Jed Brody , Tony Monch , have it in spades about him attacking a woman Mrs . Dianne Klassen , Anela Gei , at a convenience store and hurling her through a plate-glass door she suspends his sentence , of two years , and gives him five years probation . The light sentence on Brody has Dianne's husband Mr . Earnest Klassen , Ken James , throw a fit in the courtroom and threaten Marcia and her family calling for the same thing to happen to her and them that happened to his wife . In the Judge's Chambers TV reporter Joanne Kilbourn , Wendy Crewson , who's doing a special on Judge Blackwell gets the scoop from her that she's resigning from the bench immediately . What Marcia didn't tell Joanne is that she was dying from a brain tumor and by the next morning the Judge is found murdered in her estate . The suspects in Judge Blackwell murder are split between Earnest Klassen and the last person to have seen her alive an ex-con and founder of the drug-rehabilitation center in town " Daybreak House " Wade Waters , Robert Davi . It turns out that Waters has no real alibi to his whereabouts but Earnest Klassen did and is later arrested and held for Marcia's murder . There's also the fact that a number of jewelry items was traced back to Water's troubled 15 year-old nephew Eli , Rollins , Alex Campbell , one of the few persons who's life wasn't turned around with the help of Water's " Daybreak House " . Eli may very well have been in the Blackwell Home when she was murdered if not have murdered her himself . It's halfway through the film that things begin to get a bit clearer when both of Marcia's daughters Shannon and Lucy , Kristin Lehman & Reagan Pasternak , as well as Wade Waters are called into the office of Macia's lawyer Stan Fedesenko , Richard Fitzpatrick , and her will is read leaving almost her entire estate , some $8 , 000 , 000 . 00 , to Waters . It ' a short time later that Fedesenko is found murdered , with his head bashed in , in his office putting a new light on both Marcia's and her lawyer murders which now focuses on Shannon & Lucy as well as Wade Waters . Murder and blackmail as well as child abuse involving Marcia's almost comatose husband , due to an insulin overdose , Davis Blackwell , Shawn Laurence , works it way through the complicated story-line to finally get to the bottom of who murdered Judge Balckwell as well as Stan Fedesenko and what , and who , were the reasons for it . Joanne finding Eli in hiding gets the truth from him on Marcia's murder with him being an eye-witness to it but has to convince her former police partner Det . Alex Emanuel , Shawn Doyle , not to arrest Eli in order for him to come out of hiding and point out who Marcia's killer really is . Not as bad as you would think " Verdict in Blood " has a penetrating script and a number of strong performances especially that of an unusually reserved and very sensitive , that's very rare for him , Robert Davi as Wade Waters who lead a life of crime until her saw the light and dedicated his life's work to prevent others , young and old alike , from ending up like he did most of his adult life , a hardened and unrepentant criminal . It was Waters determination to be free and go straight that showed Judge Blackwell that a life behind bars is not the answer for the life of a person who was never given a chance to straightened himself , or herself , out .
Introducing Charlton Heston	( There are Spoilers ) Charlton Heston known for the Biblical epics and movies with cast of thousands that he made during his fifty or so year career in motion pictures started out in his very first movie , back in 1950 , in a little known film-noir curiosity piece playing a small-time hoodlum running a bookie joint in Chicago . Having his gambling den raided three time in just over a month by the cops , even though he was paying them off , has Dan Haley , Charlton Heston , and his three fellow bookies Barney , Ed Bagely , Augie , Jack Webb , and Soldier , Henry Morgan , wonder if they should get into a much safer business like working a bar or being a croupier in a casino . Trying to figure out where the next dollar is coming from Dan goes to the nightclub where his girlfriend Fran Garland , Lizabeth Scott , is doing a show and runs into out of town businessman Arthur Winant , Don DeFore . Seeing Winant pull out a number of big bills , including a $5 , 000 . 00 bank check , from his wallet as he paid for his drink Dan invites him for a game of cards at his now closed down bookie joint with his friends Barney Augie & Soldier . Winning $350 . 00 from the four book-makers Arthur is invited back the next evening , his last day in Chicago , for another card game with the four wanting another chance to win back their money . This time around the bookies were ready for Winant and had the cards rigged , or marked , wiping the poor guy out of everything he had including his $5 , 000 . 00 bank check , which Winant signed over to them , which didn't even belong to him . Sick depressed and heart broken Winant goes back to his hotel room and hangs himself . It turns out that Arthur Winart's older brother Sidney , Mike Mazurki , found his body and called the police but Sidney didn't wait around for them to show up , he went out looking for those who drove his brother to kill himself , Dan Barney Augie & Soldier , and pay them back in kind . Superior film-noir thriller with Sidney Winant , who spent a number of years in a mental institution for the criminally insane , out hunting down and killing those responsible for his brothers , Arthur , death and going from Chicago to Los Angeles to Las Vages to do it . Murdering Barney in Chicago and making it look like he killed himself , by hanging , Sidney has the remaining bookies on the run not even knowing What he , Sidney Winant , even looks like . Both Dan & Augie travel to Los Angeles to see the late Arthur's wife Victoria , Viveca Lindfors , to get a photo of Sidney to be able to spot him before he attacks and murders them . Dan saying that he's an insurance investigator and that Victoria and Sidney are to receive a $10 , 000 . 00 policy that Arthur made out to them can't get a photo of Sidney since Victoria burnt all the photos she had of him wanting to keep him out of her memory forever , he's a dangerous homicidal lunatic she tells Dan . Dan for his part starts to fall in love with Victoria and want's to give her back the check that her dead husband Arthur signed over to him . When Dan tell's her that he's one of the people who cheated him out of his money , that lead to his suicide , she rejected both Dan and the check . Back in his L . A motel room Dan finds that Sidney got to Augie , while he was at Victoria's house , with him hanging in the shower with a rope tied around his neck . The movie then moves to Las Vagas with Dan on the run getting a job as a card dealer at his friends Swede's , Walter Sande , casino and meeting his fellow bookie Soldier and his girlfriend from the " Windy City " Fran who both were working there . Sidney finding out that Dan is in Vegas from Victoria's young son Billy , Mark Keuning , makes his way down there from L . A . Victoria then unexpectedly calls Dan and warns him about her brother-in-law finding out where he is has the police using Dan as bait set a trap for the big gorilla , Sidney is well over six feet tall and weighs about 270 pounds . The plan almost backfires when Sidney get's to Dan before they , the police , can get there in time to save Dan's life .
Attack of the Puppet People	There are Spoilers Having this package , with no return address , left at their door both Jamie & Lisa Ashen , Ryan Kwanten & Laura Ryan , had no idea what was in it until it was opened . Inside is this devilish looking ventriloquist puppet with shifty eyes and a sinister grin that would make anyone's blood crawl when they look at it . It didn't take that long for the little devil to go into action with Lisa getting brutally murdered , with her tongue ripped out , as Jamie went down to the local Chinese restaurant for take-out . Suspected by the cop on the case Det . Lipton , Donnie Wahlberg , in his wife's murder the totally innocent Jamie in trying to get his head together shoots down to Raven Fair , to have Lisa buried , where his crippled dad an step-mom Edward & Ella Ashen , Bob Gunton & Amber Velletta , live . We soon get the story behind Lisa's murder from the local funeral director old man Henry Walker , Michael Fairman , together with his terrified wife Marion , Joan Henry . Back in 1941 this local eccentric Mary Shaw , Judith Roberts , was lynched by mob who held her responsible for the kidnap murder of little Michael Ashan , Steve Taylor . Mary got real mad at Michael for doubting her ability in being a top ventriloquist while she was doing her act on stage . This lead Mary , who was never charged in Michael's death , to put the whammy on him with Michael later being found murdered in the woods with his tongue ripped out ! Jamie who wasn't on speaking terms with his dad ever since he sent him away from Raven's Fair now realized that he did it in order for him not to end up like little Michael Ashen did ! With him now back in town the curse on the people of Raven Flair and especially any of Michael Ashen's relatives is now going to overtake him ! Like it did to some hundred people , participants and their relatives , who were part of the angry and blood thirsty mob who did Mary Shaw in ! The film is so dark , in the lighting department , that you not only have trouble following it but it causes you to put an enormous strain your eyes as well while watching it . Det . Lipton following Jamie back to Raven Fair gets an education in the paranormal and occult by seeing that his police methods don't work , just how could he arrest or shoot them , when it comes to dealing with the dead ! Both old man Walker and his wife Marion become innocent victims of Mary Shaw's wrath by getting involved in both the late Lisa Ashen , whom they were to embalm , and her live husband Jamie . SPOILER ALERTThe real big surprise in the movie , after almost all the major characters were killed off , is saved for Jamie at the very end . It's then that he finds out who the real person behind all this carnage and destruction really is ! But by then it's too late for him to do anything about it !
The airplane is coming apart ! Were being ripped in half !	SOME SPOILERS Taking off from the Seattle Airport Quest Flight # 19 to Dallas Texas is almost immediately hit by a runaway private aircraft , N9478C , that strayed off course on the runway . Having the jumbo jets guidance system damaged in the collision the plane is unable to land but is forced to gain altitude with it's nosecone unable to be steered downward by the pilot and his fiance and and co-pilot Capt . Glen " Lucky " Singer & Connie Phipps , Robert Urich & Annette O'Toole . It's now up to both Lucky and Connie together with Capt . Bouchard , John De Lancie , who's on the flight grading the flight Captain Lucky Singer to somehow get Flight # 19 safely back down to earth with it's 219 passengers and crew . It would take all the luck , as well as a number of Canadian oil riggers on-board , that Lucky has to get the plane to change course . From reaching an altitude of over 30 , 000 feet and tearing apart and exploding in mid-air , to successfully land back at the Seattle Airport more or less intact with everyone on the plane safe . What Capt . Lucky Singer would have to do to achieve this almost impossible feat is to do it with his own smarts and skills and not with the planes state-of-the-art computer system that was rendered useless by the in-air plane to plane collision . Better then you would expect TV disaster movie with most of the story concentrating around Capt . Singer and Connie as well as the USAF getting the passenger plane . To turn the plane south and land safely and keeping the usual sides stories , like the personal lives and problems of the passengers and their families , to a minimum making the very complicated effort in the film of shifting the weight of the plane via thousands of gallons of water pumped into the planes wheel section . In order to get it to turn it's nosecone down and thus be able to be landed by Captain's Singer & Boucard and co-pilot Phipps . Tension packed and heart-stopping action as Lucky Singer & Co . try to get the disabled plane to land . Where at the same time Quest's CEO Ian Pryce , Ken Pogue , and the man who's the company's top engineer Henry Gibbons , Kevin McNuttly , looking at the bottom line and relying on facts figures try to trick the common sense thinking Capt . Singer into sacrifice some 40 passengers , the old the sick and the very young , by sticking them in the back of the plane . Where the oxygen will be the scarcest . I took not Capt . Singer or his co-pilot Connie Phipps to realize what the devious Pryce & Gibbons were trying to pull and then have the unsuspecting Lucky Singer take the blame , and life-long guilt in the the purposeful death of 40 human beings . It was non-other then company man and all around butt-kisser Capt . Bouchard who got a sudden change of heart when he saw just how right Singer was . In relying on his god-given and flight experienced instincts and alerted Capt . Singer of his boss ' cold-blooded plan . Powerhouse finish as Capt . Lucky Singer threw the passenger liner into full throttle as it headed downwards towards Seattle Airport . With Lucky having the wheel-section opening up and the thousands of gallons of water gushing out giving the airplane just the right equilibrium to successfully land . While at the same time , at the split second of landing , having it's nosecone turn upward in order to prevent it from smashing head , or nose , first into the tarmac and exploding with everyone on-board .
How did you get to be a cop ? How did you get to be a human being ?	SPOILERS Gritty and realistic New York City photography and tough guy Chad McQueen's , Hawk , sensitive and protective feelings towards his kid sister Maria , Mira Sorvino . Hawk in the film is not just the only non-Hispanic member of an all-Latin street gang " The Brotherhood " but it's leader as well ! The hero in the movie Toshi , Toru Nakamura , as an undercover cop in Manhattans crime ridden East Village is so bad in trying to speak the English language that you have to wait and hear the people he's talking to answer him ! Thats about the only way you can figure out just what he's talking about . Toshi's boss Capt . Brodsky , Steve Boles , comes across as the most clueless person in the movie . Capt . Brodsky not only placing the Japanese-American cop in the mostly Hispanic East Village , where he sticks out like a sushi chef in an Italian pizzeria . Toshi goes around the poor and burnt-out neighborhood undercover in expensive designer cloths and smells , from slapping on his face , of exotic and imported colognes . After getting into a altercation with a number of " The Brotherhood " gang members Toshi ends up getting rescued by " The Brotherhood's " leader Hawk's sister Maria . After having a few words with Toshi , when he found him at Maria's place the next morning , Hawk invites him to join his organization after Toshi can show him how tough he is . Going to the local biker clubhouse to collect money that they owe Hawk Toshi catches the biker's head man in bed , getting it on with his woman , and after he tries to attack him Toshi has him bloodied and dangling from a four story window . Toshi now a respected member of the gang get's in touch with his contacts in the police department in tracking down their gun running activities for the NYC Mafia . Capt . Brodsky letting not only Toshi in on what's going down and where to be when the big shipment of guns come in he unknowingly tips the mob off with his private secretary in the NYPD Marge , Suzanne Tino , being the mob boss ' Mr . C , Tony Siverio , main squeeze . The movie " New York Cop " also has one of the most obnoxious hit-men in gangster film history with Ferrara , Andreas Katsulas . Ferrara drives around in a taxi cab , actually picking up costumers between hit's , gunning down all of Capt . Brodosky's undercover men . Hawk's second in command Tito , Manny Perez , always felt that Toshi was working undercover for the cops . After a blotched meeting and gun exchange with a local Brooklyn street gang when not only did the local homeboys try to rip off " The Brotherhood " but the police just happened to show up unannounced convinced Tito that his suspicions about Toshi were right . Hawk for some reason didn't go along with Tito wanting to whack Toshi since he earlier got mixed singles from Mr . C himself about the undercover cops . It seemed that his police secretary girlfriend Marge was out to lunch when Capt . Brodsky was on the phone with Toshi . The usual underling taking over from his brainless boss scene then follows with Tito blasting Hawk and again Toshi taking off and escaping , this time in handcuffs . Finally confronting Mr . C & Co , together with the off-the-wall hit-man Ferrara Toshi in a one man demolition squad and shoot-out puts an end to them as well as this whole unbelievable movie . " New York Cop " is nowhere as bad as you would have though it would be after watching it for the first ten minutes or so . The movie really picks up later and becomes a pretty good cop / action / thriller when you start not to try to understand what exactly Toshi is saying . The mumbling line that Toshi delivers after he blasts Ferrara away would even make Clint Eastwood's Dirty Harry blush .
For John's Sakes !	( Some Spoilers ) Feeling guilty and having an attack of the shakes with the knowledge of one-legged master criminal Johathan Small , Graham Sutten , breaking out of prison old and infirmed . Major john Sholto , Herbert Lomas , calls his two sons Thaddeus and Bartholomew , Miles Malleson & Kynaston Reeves , into his study and tells them a story about his dark past that he kept from them all these years . The Major is a both thief and murderer who killed his fellow British officer Captain Monstan , Edger Norfolk , back in India when they discover a buried treasure chest of jewels and pearls in an empty and abandoned ancient castle . Given instructions to the buried treasure by interned British solider Small Major Sholto not only murdered his partner Captain Monstan but left Small out in the cold and behind bars , whom he promised to left go free , taking all the loot for himself . Now feeling that the end is near and wanting to clear his conscience Major Sholto instructs his sons to return the treasure to the deceased Captain Monsta's daughter Mary , Isla Beuan . A florist in London's Weat End district . The end comes sooner then Major Sholto thought when Small pops up in his window which causes him to suddenly die of a heart attack . Small getting together with a gang of weirdos that he recruited out of the local circus the Tattoed and Tonga the Snake Man , Roy Emerton & Toga , plan to get Major Sholto's treasure by first finding out when he hid it from his sons Thaddeus & Bartholomew . Then get Mary to give him the pearl necklace that the deceased major mailed to her just before he died . After a close call from The Tattoed Man , who came to her store to buy flowers , Mary goes to private detective Sherlock Holmes , Arthur Wontner , for help and protection which she gets but also falls in love with his friend and assistant the dashing and dynamic Dr . Watson , Ian Hunter , as an extra bonus . Early Sherlock Holmes movie with a witty and super observant Holmes , the guy can tell if someone is missing a limb or not just by studying his handwriting , using both his brains and his boxing skills , Sherlock throws a really wicked left hook , to solve the case and save the girl from a bunch of murderous villains . The Small gang take out brother Bartholomew with a blow gun , curiosity of the Snake Man Tonga , after getting the information from him where the treasure was hidden by his late dad Major John Sholto . But Small is still not satisfied and wants the pearl necklace that's with Mary who's being protected by Sherlock Holmes and the London PD . Kidnapping Mary the trio of criminals , Small The Tattoed and Snake Man , make it to the London docks . There together with their contact to get them out of the country warehouse and speedboat driver Mordecai Smith , Moor Marriott , race up and down down the Thames ending in a free for all at Smith's warehouse . With the one-legged Small disappearing under the waves . In the end Shurlock Holmes as usual ends up solving the case and getting his man , or men , but it's the usually bumbling and fumbling Dr . Watson who end up getting the girl .
Please Turn On The Lights	SPOILERS Muddled and confusing haunted house movie that has to do with a number of children who have been missing since they last were seen in that house 40 years ago . Now after all that time a family , the Rau's , moves into the house in the Spanish countryside and before you know it weird things start happening to them . We later find out that the head of the household the father and husband Mark , Lain Glen , was one of the children that some forty years back went missing but was found by the police , wandering in the woods around that house , where all the other six children were never found again . It also comes out later in the film that the young boy , Mark , as well as his friends in the house were put through a number of weird occult-like rituals that in the end killed the six children who have been missing all these years but that young Mark escaped . The Rau's were encouraged to move into that long deserted home by Mark's father Albret , Giancario Giannini , who we also learn was involved in the kidnapping and murder of those children but didn't have the heart to murder his son Mark . All this happened during a total solar eclipse where darkness ruled . With everything going haywire in the house and to those living in it , Mark his wife Maria , Lena Olin , and two children Anna and Paul , Regina Paguin and Stephan Enquist , Anna gets contacted by this stranger Villalobos , Fermin Reixach . Villalobos lets Anna in on what happened in that house and whats going to happen to her and her family if they don't leave immediately in the next few days . There's going to be a total solar eclipse just like the one that caused the six children to disappear , or be murdered , some forty years ago . Anna together with her boyfriend Carlos , Fele Martinez , get to the bottom of whats happening at the hunted house that she and her family is living in from following up the leads that Villalobos gave them . When she tried to tell her mom that it's fatal to live there it seemed to have been too late for mother was already possessed , like her sick husband Mark , by the horrors that the house had hidden in it's walls all these years . Very heard to follow movie about ghosts and haunting mostly because the explanation that was given for the occurrences in the house was a jumble of occult-like mumbo jumbo , about the dark and what powers it possesses , by both Villalobos and Grandpa Albert , that was just too discombobulated to really understand . And just what the heck did that pet snake that Grandpa Albert had , in what looked like a glass fish tank , have anything to do with what was happening in the movie ? We also never got an explanation for what happened to young Paul in how he received those awful bruises on his face and body , as well as how he got the idea of drawing the six children who were lost or murdered in the house ? Paul also had the drawing assembled in a strange circle as if to conjure up their sprites or ghosts , but we never really got any explanation for that either ? " Darkness " has a very confusing ending where you don't really know if Regina Paul and Carlos escaped from the evil house or were caught up by it as the screen turns black with the ending credits . The soundtrack in the film " Darkness " was really annoying with the people in the movie either screaming at the top of their lungs where at one point I had to turn the sound down in order not to have my neighbors call the police on me . At the same time a lot of the scenes in the movie had the sound of the people in the movie speaking so low that I needed a stethoscope to put on the speaker of my TV to hear just what they were saying .
Ed Wood's answer to " Rebel Without a Cause "	SPOILERS After a string of original and hard hitting cinematic classics about transvestites " Glen or Glenda " crime " Jail Bate " and nuclear destruction " Bride of the Monster " legendary bad movie director Ed Wood Jr decided to tackle one of the most pressing social problems that was traumatizing the country since the end of WWII juvenile delinquency . Wood then came up with the unforgettable , to anyone who ever saw it , troubled youth film " The Violent Years " . Paula is a nice girl who has everything in life that an 18 year old girl could want but the love of her parents Mr . & Mrs . Parkins who are just too busy to spend any time with her in their work as a newspaper editor and society fund raiser and party goer . Getting in with the wrong crowd Paula becomes the head of a violent girl gang who , just for kicks , run up a string of 17 holdup of stores and gas stations with the last having the gas station attendant pistol whipped to the point that he was put into a week long coma . The girls later holding up this teenage couple , necking in a local lovers lane , and after tying up the girl take her terrified boyfriend into the woods where the four man hungry and very well endowed and buxom robbers strip him naked , all this off camera , and take turns raping him as the poor and helpless man pleads and cries for help . This crime is so horrific and gut wrenching , I wouldn't wish it even on my worst enemy , and as far as I know for the first time thanks to the very imaginative mind of Ed Wood Jr it was ever put into a motion picture . Going to their fence Shelia to pawn off a number of jewelery items that they took off their victims the girls are told that there's big money in them trashing the local school which Paula and her friends feel would be a piece of cake . Th school trashing ends up in a violent shoot-out with the police with a policeman as well as Phyllis & Geraldin being shot dead . On the run with a trip to the death house awaiting them if their caught both Paula and Georgia go back to Shelia for help . Seilia instead of helping them threaten to turn Paula & Georgia in , in order to save her own neck , to the police . Not being too bright to begin with Sheila didn't seem to notice that Paula had a gun pointed right at her and in no time at all blew away the double-crossing moll . Paula with her money , together with Georgia , goes down to the nearest used car dealer to buy a car in order to flee the country . Paula and Georgia's freedom from justice was short lived with the cops giving chase and Paula losing control of her car and smashing into a store front window killing her partner in crime Georgia and ending up with a cracked skull in the prison hospital facing a first degree murder charge . It was tragic to find out that Paula turned out to be pregnant , by one of the many man that she made out with , at the time of her arrest and tragically died giving birth to a baby boy . Ed Wood Jr has Judge Clara give the grieving parents of Paula a lesson in child rearing by telling them , in the movies epilogue , that if they only took the time to show Paula that they loved her and attended to her growing up problems she wouldn't have ended up the way she did . Judge Clara also had Paula's baby taken away from her parents to be given to a more sensitive and understanding couple to raise . A no holds bared and hard hitting movie about Americas troubled youth of the early 1950's , thats on par with the classic " Rebel Without a Cause " released a year earlier , that only the great Ed Wood Jr could come up with . The film shows , like in " Rebel " , that when young people aren't given any love or direction from their parents and guardians they , like weeds in a garden , end up growing wild and destroy everything beautiful that they come in contact with including , like Paula and her girl gang members , themselves .
A quite weekend in the country ?	( There are spoilers ) Breaking into the mansion of famous mystery writer Janet Frobisher , Bette Davis , for a prearranged meeting with her husband Preston bank robber George Bates , Garry Merrill , is shocked to find out that his partner in crime had been murdered by his estranged wife . Janet who's been having an affair with her secretary Chris ' , Barbara Murry , boyfriend Larry , Anthony Steel , had been surprised to find her old man , Preston , getting into the mix by using her home as a safe house to later , when the heats off , take off on a steam ship out of the country with his fellow bank robber Bates . Janet gave the fugitive a drink laced with a strong sedative that was prescribed by local veterinarian Dr . Hnderson , Emlyn Williams , for her horse Fury that put Preston to sleep forever . With one of the bank guards shot and seriously wounded during the robbery by Preston Bates want's to save his neck from the hangman's rope , if the guard dies and he's caught by the police , to have Preston admit he was the one who shot him and even has Preston's gun and the fingerprints that go along with it to prove it . Bates efforts are now all moot since he's , Preston , no longer around to face justice . We now have this very complicated scenario in the film where Bates , after he and Janet deep six Preston's body in a nearby lake , impersonates Preston as his now wife Janet secretly connives to also murder him in order to keep Bates from implicating her in her husbands murder . It's never really explained why Janet murdered Preston in the first place all we know is that she did the guy in just because he may have gotten in the way of her affair with Larry but why kill the man since he was separated from Janet for some three years and couldn't care less if she was having a love affair with Larry or anyone else ? All Preston wanted was to get away from the police and check out of the country . For all her smarts Janet is outsmarted by Bates , who's on to her back-stabbing tactics , at almost every turn with him surviving a near-fatal car crash , that she secretly arraigned for him , and then for some reason not at all fully explained , in fact as Bates ' was about to tell her just before he suddenly fell ill from a poisoned drink that Janet gave him , why he killed her prized horse Fury . Bates claiming that the horse broke it's leg , a bald face lie on Bates ' part , and that he was forced to shoot it gets Janet to lose her composure and almost spill the beans on herself to who really Bates ' is and why he's impersonating her husband , because she murdered him and got rid of the body . While all this is going on both Larry and Chris drop in at the Frobisher Estate for a stay over the weekend which makes things even more confusing with Larry finding out that his secret love , Janet , is now back with her husband ! At the same time Chris begins to realize that he's , Larry , dropping her for not only her boss , Janet , but for a much older , Janet is 43 and Chris is 22 , woman to boot ! The big break in the case comes from non other then the friendly and somewhat overbearing Dr . Hernderson who it later turns out knows a lot more about both Bates and Preston that he's been letting on , which is total ignorance , and is himself playing some kind of mind game , like a junior Sherlock Holmes , on his own to trap both Janet and Bates and bring the two scoundrels to justice . Dr . Henderson is beaten to the punch by both Janet & Bates at the end of the movie by the two playing an even bigger , and deadlier , game or trick on each other . Not one of Bette Davis ' better films but her interaction with Garry Merrill , her husband at the time , is really worth watching as the two try to one-up each other in trying to pull off the perfect crime at the others expense with both ending up on the losing side .
Tale of the Cab	SPOILERS Compared to the movie " Blue Velvet " but more like " Taxi Driver " the psychological thriller " The Darkside " has to do with this Toronto taxi driver Tony Russo , Tony Galati , who got involved with things other then picking up fares . It was Tony who becomes obsessed with this woman Laura , Cynthia Peterson , who he saved from being murdered by this creepy looking guy named Sully , John Tench , who was chasing her through the dark streets of Toronto wearing a white dinner jacket . We soon learn that Sully is working for this snuff film producer named Roscoe , Peter Read , who had Laura doing S & M as well as snuff movies in which she was , by still being alive , not the main character . Laura had taken a video tape of a movie she was featured in that had both Roscoe & Sully as supporting players in what seemed to be a snuff film . This tape if it made it's way to the Toronto PD could well put the two behind bars for the rest of their lives . Tony , in who's cab Laura hid the video tape , who in fact was totally unaware of what was going on ends up at the short end of the stick in being kidnapped raped , with an electric device , and almost killed ! That's when Tony's tricked by Laura's former coke sniffing boyfriend Chuckie , David Hewlett , to crash a Toronto whorehouse-frequented by Hell's Angel type bikers-where he was told that the missing Laura was . Tony wasn't that bright in that he let himself be snookered by everyone , including Laura , in the movie that out him into one jam after another . The fact that he survived to see the ending credits was the most unrealistic part , in a movie that lacked realism , of the entire film . It was in fact Tony's friend and fellow taxi driver Lou , Charles Loriot , who gave him sound and honest advice all throughout the film but the love sick , for Laura , Tony was just too blind to notice it . SPOILERLou who later saved Tony's life was in the end done in when , in a brief moment of deep reflection , he took his eye off his eventual killer who he thought he left for dead : by running him down with his car . The big showdown between Tony and Roscoe at his studio , an empty wear-house , didn't quite live up to the big buildup that preceded it . The what seemed like omnipresent and always in control Roscoe turned out to be a first class dud in overestimating himself and underestimating the always getting himself out of danger Tony ! But it was Tony's confrontation with the back from the dead Sully that made the film worth while as well as giving it the lighting effect that was so lacking in it , with it being filmed mostly at night , up until then . P . S Actor Peter Read hadn't made a movie for some 15 years until he got the part of the sleazy snuff producer Roscoe . His last , and only , film up until then was that of the suicidal husband John Haloran in the 1963 cult horror classic " Dementia 13 " . With Read's amazing and electrifying performance in " The Dark Side " you wondered why nobody bothered to cast him in any movie for that long period of time ! That's unless Read couldn't find a script worthy enough of his great talents until " The Darkside " came his way !
John Carradine is the clean shaven Bluebeard in this movie as the lady killer of Paris	SPOILERS Dark and creepy film set in the city of lights , Paris France , in the 19th century that had become dark with fear as night time approached . Women of that city are locked in their homes in fear of a psycho killer . John Carradine looking like a very handsome and young Abraham Lincoln is the clean-shaven lady-killer Gaston Morrell known only as Bluebeard to the police and people of the city . Gaston was a promising Parisian artist who had a very bad experience as a young and upcoming painter that had him quit that profession . The experience lead Gaston to the murder of the beautiful women who modeled for his paintings . Times were tough for Gastone and his puppet act that he supported himself with in bringing in the bacon that he needed to pay the rent and put food on the table . With his landlords Gean Lamarte , Ludwig Stossel , insistence Gaston went back to painting so that he can have Lamarte sell his painting for money to pay his bills . The trouble is that whoever Gaston painted , always beautiful models , he ended up murdering because in Gaston's eyes they weren't perfect and like a bad painting he discarded them . Told by Gaston to only sell his paintings , which were anonymous , to private dealers the greedy Lamarte sold one of them to an owner of a art gallery that was immediately recognized by the Paris Police as one of Bluebeard's victims ! The police wanted to know from Lamarte just who was the person who painted that woman before she was murdered ? Gaston had fallen in love with Lucille , Jean Parker , who he found to be the perfect woman that was not in need of being killed by him like the other models . The Paris Police had Lucille's sister Francine , Teala Loring , go undercover and pose as a model to find out who the painter of Bluebeard's victim . The police plan to match the paintings breaststrokes and flesh tones with the dead woman's painting . That decision by the Paris Police and Francine would prove fatal for her . In the end even Lucille , the love of his life , would turn against Gaston for murdering her sister . The police coming to her rescue broke into Gaston's studio before he could murder Lucille . Gastone chased across the rooftops of the city falls into the Seine River and drown . The only negative opinion I have to say about the movie is that the DVD of the film " Bluebeard " has some of the worse sound I ever heard in a movie . At the same time no sub-titles of the English dialog were in it . I had to see the the movie again to get a grip of what the actors and actresses were saying .
You'd better get someone over to Ray Parkins place , she's getting ripe	SPOILERS San Francisco's Police Inspector Dirty Harry Callahan , Clint Eastwood , got a bit too enthusiastic in stamping out crime , offing some dozen bad guys within the first half hour of the movie . Harry is then given a forced vacation to San Paulo where he get's involved in another series of killings involving a revenge-seeking artist Jennifer Spencer , Sandra Locke . Jennifer is out to do in those who brutally raped her and her younger sister Lisa , Lisa Bratt , who ended up in a mental institution from the ordeal . After killing George Wilburn , one of those who rape her and her sister , in San Francisco Jennifer goes down south to San Paulo where George comes from and where the rest of his gang , of rapists , live . It just happens that Harry is put on the Wilburn murder case and also sent to San Paulo to check out a number of leads which in effect leads him to getting involved not only with George's friends but Jennifer as well . Jennifer doesn't waste time in knocking off another one of her rapists , Kruger , which has the same MO , mode of operation , as the Wilburn killing . It doesn't take long for Harry to piece things together and realize that there's a serial killer on the loose . Harry has no idea that the person is the girl next door whom he's been getting very friendly with . Jennifer goes about in killing her and Lisa's rapists in such an effortless way that you wonder if they just want to be put out of their misery , resulting from their guilty conscience . It's that they seem to make no attempt to save themselves or fight back . All they seem to do is just stand , or sit , in what looks like either a paralyzed or hypnotic trance when she first confronts and then blows them away . After finishing off another one of her rapists , this time a woman , Ray Parkins Jennifer runs into the psycho of the bunch Mick who acts more normal , by at least having a sense of self-preservation , then the rest of the motley and cowardly bunch . Getting a couple of fishermen who worked for the late Kruger to help him out Mick first takes care of Harry , by now we almost forgot about him , by having the cop beaten unconscious and dumped into San Paulo Bay . Then Mick goes to the San Paulo chief of police Janning where he knows that he'll find Jennifer ; the chief's son was one of those who raped her and Lisa . When Jennifer get's to the chief's place she finds that his boy is completely brain dead , from a self-induced car accident , with chief Janning popping up with a gun pointed at her head . Instead of arresting or shooting Jennifer , which he had every reason to do , who's pointing a handgun at him . Janning instead gives her a long and boring sob story about his boy and how sorry he was in what he did to her and Lisa and how he was the one responsible in not only letting his son get off Scott-free but the rest of those who raped her as well . As chief Janning is caught up , this is his big scene in the movie , with him spilling his guts out he gives crazy Mick and the fishermen all the time that they need to show up and blast this self-pitying and sorry excuse for a lawman away . You would think that Mick would kill Jeniffer who , unlike Janning , he knew was out to kill him but instead takes her hostage , for what ? This leads Jennifer to escape only to get caught again and give Harry who had miraculously recovered , almost without a scratch , from the savage beating he got from Mick and the fishermen to come to her rescue . Wild final shootout at the sea-side carnival with Harry blasting away with his super . 44 magnum , that makes his old . 44 cannon look like a cap-pistol . Harry puts a quick end to the fishermen and then pulverizing Mick , with Jennifer getting away just before he got it , who ends up on the carousel on one of it's horses , a unicorn , horn stuck through his body . With all the mindless killings and violence in the movie the ending of " Sudden Impact " did have it's share of redeeming qualities . Which had to do with HarrySPOILERSfeeling that Jennifer did the right thing , in killing some half dozen rapists . In the end Harry not just let her walk away but put the blame , of those that she killed , on the dead Mick's head . Mick being close to being insane , if not there already , is blamed for killing for no reason whats so ever all of his friends which makes no sense at all even if he did have Jennifer's gun , the murder weapon , on him . By now Clint Eastwood , at 53 years of age , looked a bit worn out from his " Dirty Harry " roles but still gave it his best and didn't look foolish in the many action scenes he was in but you can see that his " Dirty Harry " days on the screen were just about over . Eastwood still managed to squeeze out another Dirty Harry film " The Dead Pool " five years later in 1988 which was his swan song as the famous movie cop . Eastwood has since gone on to play more realistic parts acting his age as well as going more into directing which earned him his one and only Academy Award in the 1992 western classics " The Unforgiven " in which he also stared .
Gone with the Wind	SPOILERS Washing out , due to contracting tuberculosis , as a top test pilot for the Japanese Air Force Mizuno suffered a nervous breakdown that landed him into a Tokyo sanitarium . It was at the sanitarium that Mizuno met and fell in love with fellow inmate the famous and equally destroyed , mentally , Fujichiyo who at one time was Japans greatest dancer . Declared by the sanitarium doctors as being fully recovered and Let out in the outside world Mizuno ends up working as a librarian . In his work in the library Mizuno is approached by a Dr . Sano who's been a great fan of his when he was flying planes for the air force . Dr . Sano telling Mizuno that he can get him back into shape to fly planes has Mizuno agree to him being experimented on by the doc . Dr . Sano ends up putting Mizuno into this state of suspended animation for 10 days . when he comes out of it he's told by a scared and nervous Dr . Sano , who seemed surprised that he survived that it , the experiment was a total failure . Finding out from Dr . Sano that there has been other experiments by him , where all those involved died , and with him now being the only survivor an outrage Mizuno suddenly turns into a cloud of gas and attacks Dr . Sano engulfing and suffocating him to death . Mizuno realizing that he has achieved , due to the late Dr . Sano's experiments , super powers goes on a crime spree vaporizing into a fine mist and then robbing Toyko banks and killing a number of bank employees and police by asphyxiating them . Mizuno then makes his escape by fading away into thin air . Mizuno's , who's later dubbed by the police and newspapers as the Vapor Man , crimes are not for his own greed and misguided revenge against the world but to get enough money to have his love dancer Fujichiyo be able to get back to dancing by having a public recital of her talents . Mizuno wants Fujichiyo to become Japans premier dancer and the crazed Mizumo doesn't care how many banks he'll rob and people kill , with his new found powers , in order to do it . A really strange and at the same time touching love story , if you can excuse or overlook the bank robberies and killings involved , of a man , Mizuno , gone insane with love for the woman , Fujichiyo , he loves . Who's a sweet caring and conscientious person not having the heart to betray and turn him in to the police . For the crimes that he committed for her which she had no knowledge of . Arrested and thrown in jail Fujichiyo refuses to tell the police who her lover , who's committing all these vapor crimes , is . It's Mizuro himself who comes forward to tell the shocked public that he's the notorious Vapor Man and vaporizes himself going on to both rob a bank and kill a bank guard to prove it . The police are helpless to stop the Vapor Man and finally have to release Fujichiyo . That leads to her , and the Vapor Man , renting out a Tokyo theater to give her dance recital like the Vapor Man always demanded . At the recital a bunch of drunken yahoos crash the place thinking that it's some kind of strip show . This has the attending Mizuno , whom these jerks don't realize , the Vapor Man tell them to get the hell out of the theater and get their money back at ticket counter . This makes the theater crashers even more rowdy and in return Mizuno vaporizes attacking them and driving the entire bunch out in panic . The Tokyo police in a last desperate move , when the theater is emptied out with only Mizuno and Fujichiyo being in it , pump gas into the place in oder to knock out the Vapor Man and take him captive . Fujichiyo realizing what's happening and wanting to stop once and for all the death and destruction of her lover Mizuno pulls out a lighter . As she and Mizuno embrace , after her very successful dance number , Fujichiyo flicks her bic and blows the entire theater up killing herself in the process . Mizuno unfortunately survives and now has to live the rest of his life , which is forever , with the guilt of not only the many people he killed and victimized as the Vapor Man . He also has to live with the fact that he drove his one and only love Fujichiyo to kill herself because of the crimes that he committed for her .
Nicole . . . You've got to be Kidding	SPOILERS Picking up a stranger on a row boat , from what looks like a deserted black schooner , off the Australian coast a couple of vacationers Rae & John Ingrem , Niclole Kidder & Sam Neill , give him water and a place to stay until they can sail to shore on their yacht . The stranger Hughie Warriner , Billy Zane , tells the Ingrem's this story about him being the only survivor of the " Orpheus " with the other four people on the ship with him dying from food poisoning . Later when Hughie is asleep below deck in a bunk-room John decides to row out to the " Orpheus " by himself and see if there's anyone else on the ship and if Hughie's story checks out . On the ship John finds that the four people on the boat where women who were murdered during the making of some porno flick with Hughie being the cameraman . John from first finding the bodies locked up in some storage room and seeing some footage from a video tape that Hughie took during the trip that the woman were on has John convinced that Hughie murdered them . John now terrified that he left Rae alone on the yacht with only their little dog Benji to protect her from a dangerous mass murderer begins to feel panic setting in . Rowing back as fast as he could and with Hughie getting on deck and attacking Rae John tries to jump onto the Yacht but misses and ends up injuring his shoulder on the yachts propellers . With John getting back to the row boat the yacht then takes off into the open sea with Rae alone and at the mercy of " Crazy Hughie " . John rows back to the " Orpheus " and tries to fix the radio so he could get help while on the yacht there's a deadly cat and mouse game being played between Rae and Hughie in the middle of nowhere in the vast Pacific Ocean . The film started with John , an officer in the Australian Navy , coming home for the Christmas holidays only to find out that both Rae and his 4 year-old son Danny were in a car accident , the the boy died on impact and Rae ended up in a coma . Rae needing a lot of medical treatment and rest later decided , together with John , to take a sea cruise on their yacht the " Saracen " that in the end almost coast them both their lives . Some of the scenes in the movie were very hard to believe with Rae always seeming to get away and having the upper hand when it came to fighting off the dangerous Hughie . Yet she never manages , or wants , to kill him even though Hughie is a mass murderer who would think nothing of killing her . " Dead Clam " has more then it's share of suspense and the brilliant photography in the way that director , Philip Noyce , uses colors in the movie is so striking that at some point in the film you stop caring what the story is all about and just sit back and watch the scenery . Billy Zane was very hard to gage as the psycho killer Hughie Warriner because he came across more clownish then anything else , even the Ingrem's pet dog Benji liked him . " Dead Clam " has more then it's share of heavy breathing too with both the actions of Rae and Hughie on the yacht and with John on the " Orpheus " when he was trying to keep from drowning in a below deck compartment . To keep from going under John sucks on an underwater pipe to get air . Even the movie's theme song at the end had heavy breathing in it mixed with the music . The ending was a bit too much with the movie making Hughie into someone like Michael Myers of Halloween where no matter what you did to him you couldn't kill him ! Hughie finally get his by exploding , from being shot by a flair gun , like he was a Roman Candle shot out of a rocket launcher on July 4th .
Bang your dead !	( There are Spoilers ) Christmas Eve sets off a number of incidents in L . A that goes through the states of Arizona and Oklahoma and finally leads to the mountains outside of Boulder Colorado , at the Shelby Ranch . It's there where we have a confrontation between the local police the FBI and L . A homicide policeman Jerry Beck , Don Johnson , on a Neo-Nazi concentration camp-like , minus inmates , headquarters . Guning down a black convenience store manager , who survived , and an L . A cop Gary Kimbel , who didn't , has LAPD officer track down the killer by checking all the parolees in and around L . A . Looking for a Bobby Burns who fit the description of the killer LA detective Jerry Beck checks out this biker place only to find Bobby Burns younger brother John who's not very helpful in the murder investigation . With Jerry trying to get John to talk about his brothers whereabouts out of nowhere this guy jumps out of the window , Jerry runs him down it what seemed like the length of the Boston Marathon . Jerry after running down tackling and cuffing the fugitive seems to uncontrollably , like it wasn't in the script but a sudden bodily function on his part , vomits not once but twice all over the poor mans shirt . It also turned out to Jerry's embarrassment that the person Jimmy Ellis wasn't the guy , Bobby Burns , that he was after . Jerry's on pins and needles with his marriage on the rocks and his estranged wife Karen not letting him see his two kids as well as him being told to have a psychiatric examination by an LAPD assigned shrink to see if he's fit for duty . Christmas night Jerry attends a policeman single's party and meets and spends the night at his pad with Linda who he later finds out to his surprise and shock was the wife , estranged but still married to , of Officer Gary Kimble who was shot just the day before ! how much can one man take without going off his rocker ! It seemed that the person involved with the shootings in LA went west to Cottonwood Arizona and , together with his friends , shot up a bar robbing and killing everyone in it . That incident has Jerry put back on the case and sent to Arizona to help , the Cottonwood police , in finding the killers . With the help of the local Cottonwood sheriff Jerry tracks down the killers to this farm and after a violent shootout the trio get away . Checking the farm house Jerry finds that the three fugitives left behind a map and letters about a big Neo-Nazi meeting to be held at a place called the Shelby Ranch in Colorado where the three are headed for . As you would expect nobody takes Jerry seriously since he's such a flake even though he has the evidence , the map and the letters , right in his hands . Even the local FBI man Arthur Kressler assigned to the murder case , since the murders crossed state lines , treats Jerry like he was a conspiracy nut , in him saying that the Neo-Nazis were planing to overthrow the US government , gone out of control . It takes a kidnapping , by Bobby Burns , and almost murder of Jerry Beck to finally convinces the FBI that Jerry may be on to something . Together with Boulder Sheriff Dixon's men Jerry and FBI agent Kressler storm the Shelby Ranch . Jerry & Co . not only find out the truth about what the persons there lead by the " Right Reverend " Ghbhardt , the Neo-Nazi religious Fuhuer , were planing for the future of America ! Even more important it's found out who was behind the LA and Cottonwood Arizona murders , in which Officer Kimble was a victim , and what were the real and sick reasons behind them . Interesting but a bit complicated police thriller that mixes Neo-Nazis street thugs and a lot of emotional and mental instability , on both sides of the law , together in making a fairly good story . It was interesting to see a young William Forsythe as the FBI man Arthur Kressler being so goody two shoes , like a combination boy scout and altar boy , who became so upset with LAPD's Jerry Beck for as much as using off-color language to the point of almost coming to blows with him ! In almost all of his movies after " Dead Bang " Forsythe , in films like " Stone Cold " and " Out for Justice " , was anything but the stuck-up and self-righteous FBI agent Kressler that he played in the movie .
Deadly Obsession	SPOILERS With Dr . Philip Benesh's , Powers Boothe , marriage in trouble when his wife Ellen , Pam Dawber , found a love note addressed to Dr . Sheila Prosser ( Rosalind Chao ) , a fellow psychiatrist , he promises her that he'll never as much as flirt with another woman again and that his affair with Sheila was the only time he cheated on her . Back in the courthouse as a police forensic psychiatrist Philip meets pretty court stenographer Corrie Calvin , Lisa Collins , who's assigned on a case that he's called as a state witness and she falls obsessively and dangerously in love with the tall dark and handsome shrink . Knowing what is hanging in the balance , his marriage and two daughters , Philip tries to distances himself from the aggressive Corrie to the point where he tells her if she keeps bothering him and his family he'll get a restraining order against her . Corrie has been calling his home at all hours day and night and even shows up at a birthday party at Philips home dressed as a pink bunny . Not taking no for an answer Corrie devises a plan to get back at Philip for rejecting her and that plan has to do with her being murdered and pining that murder on Dr . Philip Benesh . A bit convoluted but still interesting movie about madness and obsession and a poor slob who ends up at the receiving end of justice that can possibly strap him in the San Quinten gas chamber . Corrie in her vindictive attempt to frame Philip for her death made the evidence almost air-tight but lefts clues to the police that ended up exonerating him . Wanting to destroy his marriage more then anything else Corrie forced Philip , or Phlip's psychiatrist Dr , Mike Dann ( Jarion Monroe ) , to admit in court that he cheated on his wife not once but three times during their 12 year marriage . Even the evidence that could exonerate Philip wasn't used in court because the person Dr . Clarke , Victor Talmadge , a forensic psychiatrist in Vancouver Canada who Corrie tried to destroy , like she's doing to Philip , refused to testify fearing it would end his marriage , yes he had an affair with Corrie back in Canada , like it did Philip's . The movie ends with Philip going to Corrie's apartment and after ransacking it finds the piece of evidence that proves that he's innocent of her murder and in fact proves that she killed herself like he always said . It took Philip to go and break the law , by breaking into Corrie's apartment , but it in the end saved his freedom or life but his marriage was already over due to what the trial brought out about his secret love life .
A Cat's Tail	SPOILERS Confusing Gothic horror movie that has to do with the dead wife of Verden Fell , Vincent Price , coming back from the dead to haunt him and those whom he's associated with including his newly wed wife Rowena , Elizabeth Shephard . Fell's first wife Lady Ligeia , also played by Elizabeth Shephard , seems to have run afoul with the church and is forbidden , as we see in the opening sequence , to be buried in hollowed church ground . Like many of the things in the film were never told what the late Ligeia exactly did to receive that dishonor but Fell has her buried in hollowed grounds anyway despite the church's objections . The movie then has Lady Rowena participating in a fox hunt where her horse strays into the abbey cemetery and throws her off head first and on top of Ligeia's grave ! It's then that we see a new and whacked out Verden Fell pop up with what looks like a pair of combination sun glasses and horse blinkers almost scaring Lady Rowena to death . Even though Fell had no trouble seeing in the daytime earlier in the film were told , by Fell , that he screwed himself up in a experiment he was conducting at his laboratory that caused him to become ultra sensitive to sunlight ! This like many other things in the film is never explained and left to the viewers imagination to figure out ! Even though Fell is anything but loving toward Rowena she soon marries him leaving her previous lover Christopher Gough , John Westbrook , showing no sign of being two timed , even though he has his suspicions about Fell's sanity , and is even invited to the wedding ! During this whole scenario we keep seeing this sinister black cat popping up all over Fell's castle and causing so much havoc to the point where Fell instructs his butler Kenrick , Oliver Johnston , to trap and kill the darn thing . This thing with the black cat and Fell greatly had me confused in the fact that the cat was actually , again the movie never really comes out with it , Ligeia who's controlling Fell's mind ! Why in hell would he want to kill the very thing , his late wife , that he was so obsessively in love with ! In love with to the point where he would keep her dead body secretly hidden in his castle and spend more time with it that his live wife Rowena ? The film like Verden Fell staggers to it's confusing conclusion as Fell gets nuttier and nuttier by the minute with the black cat driving both him and his by now just as nutty wife Rowena to the edge of madness and beyond . It's when Ligeia's body is discovered by Rowena that she finally realizes that her husband is in need of immediate medical help but by now it's too late . The black cat or Ligeia has by now completely taken over his both mind and body . The conclusion of the movie has Rowena give up her life in order to break the spell that Ligeia has put on her hopelessly insane husband Verden only to have him go even crazier ! It's then when Fell tries to kill the already dead Ligeia he mistakenly strangles Rowena having her die for the second time in the movie ! Having it out with the what seems like the indestructible black cat Fell , whom the cat scratched his eyes out , unwittingly sets the entire castle on fire perishing together with the black cat in the flames . It's then when you think that you've seen everything that's to be seen in the movie Rowena suddenly comes back to life again as she ride off with her former lover and now rescuer from this mess the handsome and at least normal , unlike her husband Verden Fell , Christopher Gough . Beautifully photographed and well acted the film " The Tomb Ligeia " suffered from what looked like a very bad case of film editing that left so many loose ends that by the time that it was over you were more confused to what it was all about then you were when the movie started .
A lonely island in the heart of the city	( There are spoilers ) Sweet Daisy Mea Walker looking to make something of herself leaves her family and hometown sweetheart Dumbar Hamilton taking a train , out of the little Texas town of Perryville , for the Big Apple New York City . Dasie Mea plans to strike it big as a singer of Gospel Music in an all-black New York Baptist Church . Getting to NYC Daisy Mea learns right away that it's not the wonderful town that she thought it was back in little Perryville Texas when she's saved from ending up working for a local Harlem madam Mamie , as one of her call-girls , by kindly and caring taxi driver Joe Phillips . This happened when Daisy Mea naively goes to the address of a friend of her parents who had long moved out . Joe getting Daisy Mea a room , room 20 , at a local hotel has her fall in with the troupe of entertainers , Moody and his dancing partners Jones and Clementine , who are so impressed with Daisy's beautiful and angelic voice that she's asked by Moody to join their act at the Congo Club . Seeing her chance to make the big time Daisy Mea quickly accepts and becomes an immediate sensation as the troupe's lead singer . With Daisy Mea not knowing any better she's approached by Arnold Richardson who tells her that as her manager he'll open up doors for her in show business that will make her a top hit not only in the world of Black Gospel Music but will get her a contract with a major record company that will expose her and her music all over the country to millions of people , black and white . What Richardson really wants is to get Daisy Mea into his and his Harlem madam's Mamie stable of call girls . Richardson who tries to make Daisy Mea think that he's in love with her is , unknown to Daisy , married and has been cheating on his old lady who if she ever finds that out would kill him . Joe finding out about Richardson's plans for Daisy Mea in a local newspaper , and knowing that he's married , call's Daisy's sweetheart back in Perryville Texas asking him to come to NYC as soon as possible before his girl , Daisy Mea , ends up in both Richerdson's and Mamie's evil clutches . Mrs . Richardson finds out about her husband's infidelity at the beauty boutique when she over hears two women talking about Richarson's love life , reported in a neighborhood newspaper gossip column , and goes to his office looking to put a bullet between his eyes but Dunbar and Joe get there first . Richardson all alone with Daisy Mea tries to force himself on her but Dunbar comes to her rescue . In the middle of a knock-down and drag-out brawl an outraged Mrs . Richardson pops in , catching the creep with another women , and takes a shot at the dirty two-timing rat . Mr . Richardson being the bad shot that she is misses her husband but hits Daisy Mea instead with Richardson running for his life and disappearing out of sight never to be seen again in the movie . Getting the full support from Dunbar Joe and her friends the Moody Troupe and Daisy Meais nursed back to health . Fully recovered Daisy Mea is just about to sign a long term contract , together with the Moody dancers , when Dunbar get's a telegram telling him the amazing news that oil was struck under his grocery store and he's now a millionaire . Taking Daisy Mea back home to Perryville to get married Dunbar also invites Moody Jones and Clementine to move back home with him and Daisy Mea and live , rent free , happily ever after ; You can just guess what Moody & Co , who were always broke and on the verge of getting evicted from their hotel room , answer was .
Devil or Angel	SPOILERS Somewhat confusing psychological thriller set in and around Laguna Beach California . With the voluptuous and beautiful Anita Ekberg as the haunted and troubled Virginia Wilson AKA Yolanda the exotic dancer . Virgina was committed to the Highland Sanitarium due to the shock and trauma that she suffered after she was attacked in a Laguna Beach out-door shower by and escaped knife-wielding maniac who was shot and killed by her step-brother Charlie , Romney Brent . Virginia's psychiatrist at the sanitarium Dr . Greenwood , Harry Townes , realized that she was hopelessly insane but at the same time fell madly in love with her . Dr . Greenwood did his best to get Virginia out into the free world by faking a death certificate with her name on it . Outside and with a new name " Yolanda " and working at the El Madhouse nightclub run by Joann " Gypsy " , Gypsy Rose Lee , she was the biggest and hottest hit in town . Doing a dance number with a skimpy outfit on that was nothing more then a display of her God-given natural attributes filled the place to capacity every night that Yolanda was on the stage . One night going home Yolanda was attacked by a slasher who cut her in the side but was chased away by her pet dog " Devil " a giant Great Dame . It turned that the slasher who attacked Yolanda struck a month before killing a co-worker of Yolanda's at the El Madhouse nightclub dancer Lola Lane . Also found at the crime scene where Yolanda was slashed was a statue of a woman called " The Screaming Mimi " . Dr . Greenwood now calling himself Mr . Green is very concerned about Yolanda and feels that she may become a mental case again and need to be institutionalized . Even though she was not supposed to be out of the Highland Sanitarium in the first place . Mr . Green sees what a mistake he made to get Yolanda out and as much as he tries to get her help on his own and as much he cares and loves her in the end it would cost Mr . Green his life for that fatal misjudgment on his part . News reporter Bill Sweeney , Philip Carey , who's put on the story of the " Night Slasher " also falls in love with Yolanda but soon sees that there's something wrong with her and that statue " The Screaming Mimi " was also found at the site of the murder of dancer Lola Lane . Swenney tracks down what that statue is all about it leads him straight to Laguna Beach . It's there where he finds out that it was non other then Yolanda who posed for the sculpture who made " The Screaming Mimi " and he was Yolanda's step-brother Charlie . Pre Psycho-like thriller that has it's good and bad points with the best thing going for it is it's star Anita Ekberg . Miss . Ekberg with her goddess-like body and eye popping measurements or vital statistics of 39-22-36 made it impossible to keep your eyes off the screen even for a second whenever she was on it . It's really hard to judge Anita Ekberg's acting in the movie since her acting is the last thing your interested in . With reporter Sweeney finding the out secret of " The Screaming Mimi " it's only a matter of time for the truth to come out about Yolanda as well as her lover and the former Dr . Greenwood AKA Mr . Green . It's that truth about Yolanda that will give the movie it's surprising and shocking ending . The movie was a bit contrived but the acting was more the adequate with excellent black and white film-Noir photography . But by far it was Anita Ekberg that really made " The Screaming Mimi " well worth your time , as well as your libido , watching the film .
Movie about a 1950's youth going wrong for all the right reasons	SPOILERS 1950's youth movie about murder revenge and double-crossing that's a few steps above the average 1950's or 60's " Hollywood youth " films with an undercover bit by Frank Simmons / Minor , John Brinkley . Who's goes out to break open the Hendricks mob by getting it caught red-handed by the police in the commission of a crime . This all starts after Frank's father , a night watchman , was murdered in the robbery of the warehouse that he was guarding , with the police knowing that it was the Hendricks mob who committed the murder but not having any evidence to arrest or convict them . Frank going all over town trying to find and join the Hendricks mob runs into to it and it's leader Alex Hendricks , Edwin Nelson . That happened when he gets into a fight in a bar after breaking the concentration of a bar patron playing a pinball like bowling game . Impressed by Frank's ability to use his fists Hendricks offers him to join his mob . Even after Frank joined he was set up in a failed robbery of a gas station to see how he'll react under pressure , Frank passed with flying colors . Hendricks seems out of place with these 1950's teenage or early 20's greasers who he was using to do jobs for him all over town by breaking into warehouses and homes , even with those who lived there asleep , and stealing everything that wasn't tied or nailed down . Raymond , Tony Miller , Hendricks # 2 man who did all the dirty for the gang and who killed Frank's father was getting very jealous of Frank because his boss Hendricks was getting to like the up and coming young hoodlum . Raymond felt that he'll be replaced as the # 2 man in the Hendrick mob by Frank . This jealousy on Raymond's part had unknowingly uncovered the fact that Frank was working undercover for the police . Frank , knowing this , is very careful in tipping off the cops when the Hendricks mob was going to pull a new job and found a way to do it without Hendricks and Raymond knowing about it by leaving massages on matchbooks . With the police setting up a trap for the Hendricks mob at a warehouse after they were tipped off by Frank the entire Hendricks mobs gets arrested but Hendricks and Raymond and Frank get away in Hendricks white T-bird . With Frank's cover blown during the robbery the three are now back to the Hendricks bar hideout . With Frank tied up and Hendricks thinking that Raymond is outside looking out for the police he tells Frank that after Raymond knocks him off he'll have him turned over to the police in order to save the one and only one worth saving in this whole movie as well as the world HIM . Raymond who just happened to come into the bar and hearing that Hendricks is going to double-cross and sell him out to the cops goes wacko and beats Hendricks to death with a pool stick that he plunges right through his body . Running out of the bar Raymond is shot and killed by the cops as he pulls a knife on them . Even though the movie " The T-Bird Gang " has a very predictable story and the acting is adequate it did have it's moments and some scenes where very , if not original , innovative . I especially liked Hendricks girlfriend Marla , Pat George , who at first came across as a typical dumb blond but as the movie went on you realized that she was the smartest person in the film . Marla read classical novels like they were comic books and beat the smart and obviously very educated Hendricks in chess every time she played him .
A mother a daughter and an obsession	SPOILERS You see right away in the movie " Secret " , or its French title " Si J'Etais Toi " , that something just doesn't jive with what's going on the screen . Both mother and daughter Hannah & Sam Marriss , Lili Taylor & Olivia Thirlby , are in the hospital , after surviving a serious traffic accident , with the husband and father Dr . Ben Marriss , David Duchovny , hanging out in the emergency ward , where he would be restricted from being , as the doctors and nurses desperately try to save what's left of his family . I got the impression that Ben had somehow , with superhuman powers , materialized himself into the ward where he was invisible to those working there . The film gets even more bizarre with Hannah looking as if she survived the accident suddenly reaches out and grabs her daughter , who looks like she's dead , Sam's hand and transfers her life-forces into her body . All this with an almost non concerned Ben , whom no one in the emergency ward seems to notice , looking on ! It's later in the movie that we , as well as Ben , see what all this goings on back at the hospital was really all about . Hannah had become her daughter Sam in the flesh while Sam , or Sam's soul , was floating around in the " Astral World " , the world between life and death , for all eternity ! Or until she replaces Hannah's soul who somehow took over her body ! The complications of this supernatural transfer are enormous in that Ben knowing that his daughter is really his wife has trouble being a husband , which Sam or really Hannah desperately wants , to her ! It's later that we see the real reason for this galactic body change and it all had to do with showing Ben , who over the years spoiled her , what a rotten kid his sweet and cuddly daughter Sam really was ! All this new information about Sam blows Ben's mind in that he now realizes that he by him not taking control her life Sam had become a pot smoking and coke sniffing addict and promiscuous , Sam actually had her boyfriend's name Justin tattooed on her pretty behind , to boot ! SPOILERS It's later that Sam , or her soul , takes back what's so rightfully her's , her mind & body , and as they say in regards to Union / Management negotiated contracts she became " whole " again . Now with his daughter back home and alive Ben shows Sam a little something that her deceased mother left to her from the world beyond . The surprise package , in fact a camcorder recording , that Hannah left Sam was very touching indeed but how she could possibly have done it , being that she was dead and buried when the tape was obviously made , stretched creditability , even in a movie about the supernatural , to the absolute , or outer , limits ! P . S The film " Secret " is actually a remake , or Americanized vision , of the 1999 Japanese supernatural / spiritual movie " Himhus " . It incidentally also has in its credits Hiroshi Saito who wrote the screenplay to both , in English and Japanese , films .
Luck or his animal instinct always kept him one step ahead of me	SPOILERS Having his mother raped by a vampire that resulted in his birth half human half vampire James Eastman , William Smith , grew up with a burning sense of revenge for his vampire father . That finally brought him as a collage student to prof . Crydons , Michael Pataki , classroom . It turned that Crydon was in an earlier incarnation the notorious 1930's New England serial murderer Caleb Croft who was killed in Boston , as he tried to run from the police , by stepping a a third rail . Living off the life blood of unsuspecting victims Caleb Croft was in reality a vampire and soon after his death rose from his grave attacking a teenage couple who were making out in the graveyard . Murdering the the young man Paul , Jay Scott , and then attacking and dragging into an open grave and raping the young woman Leslie , Kelly Vallachen . Leslie becoming pregnant seemed to feel that the father of her unborn child wasn't Paul but in fact he was the electrocuted serial murder Caleb Croft . Leslie's child like Croft turned out to be a vampire not like Paul , who's son she thought he was , who was a human being . Growing up to adulthood and knowing that he'll never be normal James only goal in life was to track down his father and make him pay for what he did to both him and his mother . Meanwhile Croydon not knowing that he has a son and that his son is out looking for him , in order to drive a wooden stake through his heart , is trying to contact his long lost vampire wife Sara who was burned at the stake in New England back in 1846 . It turned out that one of Croydon students Ann Arthur , Lyn Peters , is the person who is somehow connected to the late Sara's spirit and through her being involved in a sance Sara can come back to life by taking over Anne's body ! It also turned out that James Croydon long lost son is in love with Anne . Suspenseful and shocking final as Croydon and his long lost son duke it out in the middle of a sance as the other participants , with the exception of Anne who's life is saved by James , ending up murdered by the craze vampire . Not realizing at first that James is a Vampire like himself Croydon underestimates his ability to be able to stand up to him resulting in an almost unbelievable slug fest that last a full ten minutes ! James finally puts and end to Croydon's madness by pile-driving a wooden table leg through his chest . James now freed from his life long search to find and kill his rapist father has become a full-blooded vampire himself and instead of finding peace has become enslaved by his own savagery . No longer being able to control himself James must now go on living on the blood of innocent people becoming the monster that he for so long tried , and succeeded , to slay .
Tanga Roahs wrath	( Spoilers ) " She Gods of Sharks Reef " is one of , if not the first , movie that Roger Corman made thats in color in the 1950's and that helps a lot in the very scenic scenes shot on land and under water in the film . Shot on location on the Hawaiian island of Kaga'l the movie is about two brothers Chris & Lee Johnston , Bill Cord & Don Durant , who get swept away in a violent typhoon in the South China Sea and end up some 300 miles off course at the all women island of Rara Tu . Chris was trying to save his criminal brother Lee from the authorities for a murder he committed in trying to raid an armory and steal a large amount of weapons . Taken on shore by the women of the island the two are given clothes food and water as well as the hospitably and company of the natives there . Told that a ship from the outside world will arrive in a few days to pick them up and bring them back home Chris & Lee realize that they'll be arrested and have to stand trial back on the mainland : Lee for murder and Chris for helping to escape and harboring a murderer . Finding a small ship on the island the two hide it in the under brush and plan to make their getaway but soon something happens that complicates their planes . The native God Tanga Roah who the people of the island feel is angry at them by having so much bad weather hit their island . To placate Tanga Roah over the last few weeks the natives have a number of young maidens sacrificed by taking them out to sea and then throwing them into the ocean to be eaten by sharks . Chris seeing this swims out and saves one of the maidens Maniah , Lisa Montell , to the bitter hostility of the Queen of island Queen Pua , ( Jeanne Gerson ) who feels that this would make Tanga Roah's anger even more ferocious . Back on land Mahia falls in love with Chris and plans to escape with him and Lee from the island since all thats waiting for her there is certain death as to being a sacrificial lamb for the angry God Tanga Roah . The criminally minded brother Lee has other ideas on not just escaping from the island but taking the many valuable pearls , hidden in the islands main building , thats been gathered up from the sea by the sea diving maidens and that in the end will lead to disaster for him . Not much of a story but the scenic color photography and the many underwater sequences , all original and not stock footage like you would have expected in a low budget movie like this , make it more then interesting and the beautiful , as well as courageous , young Mahia didn't hurt the film either .
Out of the Fog	( There are Spoilers ) Stuck in the fogged in Heathrow Airport in London a number of very important people , V . I . P . s , are confronted with a major crisis in that if they don't leave Great Britian by midnight their lives will never be the same again . The movie centers mostly on British mega millionaire and ruthless businessman Paul Andros , Richard Burton , who achieved everything that he started out in life to do but is unknowingly throwing away the only thing that's really worth anything to him his beautiful and frustrated wife Frances , Elizabeth Taylor . Giving Frances everything in money and jewelry Paul has neglected to give her any true affection and love treating her like she's one of his prized possessions which lead Frances to secretly have an affair with that international jet-setting gigolo and all around moocher , of the rich and famous , Marc Champsella , Louis Jourdan . Frances and Marc are planing to elope to New York and get married but their plans goes a bit sour when the flight their to take is fogged in and the note that Frances , a dear Paul letter , left at her and Paul's home to be opened when she and Marc were airborne and on their way to New York is discovered by Paul , while the two are still at Heathrow Airport . Paul then comes running , as well as to his senses , to the airport to confront Frances in her leaving him for the smooth talking and conniving con-artist Marc . For the first time in his life Paul is left a broken and defeated man when Frances tells him in so many words to get lost . Later Paul does , mostly out of self-pity for himself , the most chartable things he ever did in his mostly selfish life . Paul writs out a blank check , that eventually amounted to 153 , 000 pound sterling , to a total stranger Australian tractor manufacture Les Mangrum , Rod Taylor , in order to save his company from being gobbled up in a corporate takeover . This act of charity not only changed Mangrum's life for the better but , not knowing this at the time , Pauls as well . Paul was at the airport bar drowning his sorrows and slowly getting smashed when Mangrum's Girl Friday his private secretary Miss Mead , Maggy Smith , who recognized him as the big kahuna that he is approached Paul and begged him to save her boss from going bankrupt or even to jail , for passing a phony check . This act of kindness , which money wise was only a drop in the bucket for him , was something that Paul would have never done before he found that Frances left him . In the end it was this new understanding of his own short-comings , in his not being a kind feeling and giving human being , is what brought a tearful and forgiving Frances running back to him . There's also the story in the film of the Dutchess of Brighton , Margaret Rutherford , at the airport booked for a flight to Miami Florida . The Dutchess has , at her very advanced age , to go back to work as a hostess at a Miami hotel in order to earn enough money to pay for the taxes and upkeep of her family Brighton home . It just happened that also at the airport is world famous schlock director Max Buda , Orsen Wells , who has to leave the country by midnight or else the money that he made last year in Britain , over one million pound sterling , will be taxed at over 85 % . Thus leaving him , with his expensive dining and drinking habits , almost penniless . With the expert advice of his financial whiz and adviser Doctor Schartzbacher , Martin Miller , Buda marries his favorite actress , who's in all his art films , the dizzy and star struck Gloria Gritt , Elsa Martinelli , which in effect by him putting all his earnings in her name . That exempts Buda from paying the brutal British taxes . At the same time have him make a deal with the Duchess to film his next movie at her castle or ancestral home in Brighton paying her as much as 3 , 000 pound sterling per day , for six weeks . That will more then get the cash-strapped Dutchess out of the hole in losing her beloved and precious country estate . Really an all-around feel-good movie more then anything else where everyone ends up on the winning side except that sneaky heel and low-life chiseling gigolo Marc Champselle who's left holding the bag . Thats when Frances finally realizes what a phony creep he is , like her husband Paul warned her , and what a fine and wonderful man even though sometimes a bit too serious about himself , and his status in the whole scheme of things , her Paul Andros is .
You should have hanged him when you had the chance !	SPOILERS Slow moving but still interesting western that has the local Sheriff Morton besieged on all sides for the crimes committed by an old schoolmate of his escaped bank robber Gary Wells . Sheriff Morton who took Wells into custody after a failed bank robbery attempt some six years ago couldn't get the local jury to convict him of murder in the shooting death of a deputy sheriff . Wells getting off with only a life sentence , and not being sentenced to be hung , was because the gun used to kill the lawman belonged to Wells ' partner , who was killed in the shootout , Courtland Brady . Now with Wells on the loose and determined to take revenge against Sheriff Morton and the people in town who sent him away for life all hell breaks loose with Sheriff Morton getting the wost of it . A poor man's version of " High Noon " the movie " Gun Street " has a mostly uninformed citizenry , unlike the totally gutless one in " High Noon " , blaming the innocent Sheriff Morton for Wells , with him not being given the death penalty , being able to escape and threaten them and their loved one's . And in the case of Dr . & Mrs Knudsan , Wells former wife , even their pets ! Morton and his deputy Sam Freed are also hand-strung with the fact that the town-folks are so terrified of Wells that they would rather let them , Morton & Freed , do all the work in both tracking and , if possible , gunning the extremely dangerous Wells down . You can see the both frustration and outrage in Sheriff Morton's face in having to be the whipping boy for all the mistakes that the ungrateful and absent-minded townspeople did , in finding Wells innocent of murder , in now having Wells breath down their necks . In the end Sheriff Morton finally got the townspeople to get off their behinds and out of their locked homes to give him a hand in both tracking down and arresting , if at all possible , Gary Wells . Keeping up his killing spree Wells not only murdered both a local miner and town snitch , who turned him into Sheriff Morton , Jeff Baxley but slit the throat of Dr . Kundsan pet dog ! SPOILER ALERT Trapped with no place to go Wells suffering for a fatal gunshot wound in his escape from prison slowly bled to death in the high country as Sheriff Morton Deputy Freeman and a posse of some 20 men were combing the area looking for him . You can say in the end Gary Wells did in fact not only escape from prison but justice as well . It was Sheriff Morton who did the right thing in walking away from the thankless job that he had for some twenty years . Being blamed for something he had nothing to do with in Wells escaping the hangman's noose , in the towns jury finding him innocent of murder , Morton retired as sheriff of the county giving his badge to his deputy Sam Freed . This unlike Gary Cooper throwing his badge away at the end of the movie " High Noon " .
I keel You !	SPOILERS Outdoors adventure flick in the Yukon / Klondike territory involving Rin Tin Tin Jr , Rinnie , getting a second chance in redeeming himself after he fell down on the job in letting the thieving French Canadian trapper Pepite La Jolie steal his master's , the ruggedly handsome Brule Conway , furs . Using a female dog Annette to distract Rinnie form doing his job and thus letting his guard down Pepite & Co , Black Wolf and Donovan , grabbed Brule furs leaving him high and dry . Brule having his dog Rinnie track down the fur thieves later ends up trapping Pepite in the very traps that he set for him . It wasn't that easy for Rinnie to finally track down Pepite in that he not only was constantly shot at by the fleeing fur thieve but was almost drowned in his attacking Peite on his boat as he tried to batter the courageous German Shepard with one of the boat ores . The dangerous cat and mouse , or dog and human , game ended with Pepite after trying to trap Rinnie ended up getting mauled and bear trapped as Rinnie , literally coming back from the dead , ambushed him in the cold and snowy north woods . In the end Brule with the help of Rinnie got his furs back together with the very valuable and rare blue fox pelt that his girl Beth McVey wanted so badly . The same fur which Pepite heisted from Brule and wanted to use to get Beth romantically involved with him . Rinnie also ended up getting the girl , Annette , but only after he turned the tables on those , Peptie & Co , who used her for their own greedy and selfish purposes .
Canadian Police Drama	Contains Spoiler ! ! ! Just to see Paul Williams , Julius Kurtz , playing a big time city pimp should make " Stone Cold Dead " worth watching . With the always reliable Richard Crenna , Sgt . Boyd as the Toronto cop with an obsession for putting Kurtz away and off the streets to make the city safe . Some deranged sniper has been offing prostitutes and at the same time photographing them and sending the photos to the police to taunt them and make them feel helpless in catching him . Sgt . Boyd thinks that it's Kurtz that's the killer and is out to get the goods on him . You would wonder why Kurtz would kill his own employees and hurt his prostitution business ? Does Boyd know something ? Fairly good whodunit with a surprising performance on the part of Paul Williams as the cool pimp with a heart of gold when it comes to taking good care of his " ladies " even though he can be rough some times but as everyone watching the movie knows Julie doesn't really mean it . A very effective and sympathetic scene in the film is when Kurtz is at a funeral of one of his murdered " ladies " and Sgt . Boyd arrives uninvited hassling him . Kurtz then quietly tell him " Can't you see that I'm here to pay my respects " . It just made me wonder who was the good guy and who was the bad guy in the movie . Sgt . Boyd gets really involved in the murder case when one of the hookers murdered by the sniper turns out to be a woman undercover detective who's also a good friend of his and it all becomes very personal with him . The ending of the movie is made to shock and surprise and it does very convincingly with the audience not seeing it coming . " Stone Cold Dead " has that rough and gritty look to it more because of it's small budget then it's filmmakers artistic talents in movie realism with better then average acting from it's supporting cast of Linda Sorenson , Monica Page , and Alberta Watson , Olivia Page , then you would usually see in a B-Movie .
He Stinks !	( Some Spoilers ) What seems like a hastily made Hollywood propaganda movie about the Japaneses entrance into WWII against the USA , via the attack on Pearl Harbor . If you noticed the time sequence there was no war between the US and Japan but only the war between Rick Leland , Humphrey Bogart , and a gang of Japanese spies and houseboys , who were really Japanese soldiers in disguise , with the attack on Pearl Harbor never even mentioned . In fact the movie seems to have ended in the early morning hours of December 7 , 1941 Panama time something like eight hours before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor actually happened . Capt . Richard " Rick " Leland is drummed out of the US Army at the beginning of the film " Across the Pacific " for larceny and after being rejected in joining the Canadean military . Rick takes a Japanese freighter , the Gena Mara , to the US controlled Panama Canal Zone where he just happened to have been stationed at for four years . It doesn't take much to figure out that Rick is actually a spy for the USA using his current situation , of being a disgruntled ex-US Army officer , in the US military to throw off the sneaky Jap's into thinking he's ready to sell out his country that he served all these years . It's when the Genoa Maru docks at New York Harbor that we get the lowdown to Rick's real objective but it was very obvious to us well before that . What's really a mystery in " Across the Pacific " is just who passenger Alberta Marlow , Mary Astor , is working with , if anyone at all , on the boat the US or the Japanese ? The big guy who's a fanatical supporter of the Japanese and their plans for expansion in the Pacafic is non other then the " Fat Man " himself Dr . Lorenz , Sydney Geenstreet . Rick having saved Dr . Lorenz from being killed by a Filipino assassin got the doc to become very friendly with him and let him in on what he , and his Japanese cohorts , are planing ; to bomb and bottle up the Panama Canal Zone thus keeping the US Atlantic Fleet from reinforcing the Pacific Fleet in the event of a war between America and Japan . Rick goes from a spy to an action hero in the end of the film by shooting it out with the Jap's and preventing the Japanese torpedo plane , that was secretly assembled in Panama by the undercover Japanese houseboys . This is all done by Rick in order to prevent the Japanese from bombing the locks in the Panama Canal . To Rick's surprise , and relief , Alberta had nothing to do with the Japanese saboteurs and it turned that her dad the dead drunk Dan Morton ( Monte Blue ) , who the Jap's were using his plantation to get their personnel into Panama . Dan wired Alberta to come to his aid since he was sinking , in a bottle of rum , fast and no longer able to run his place effectively . Besides Dr . Lorenz one of the top Jap spies was a two generation Japanese-America the well-spoken , in English , and collegiate looking Joe Tolsuiiko , Sen Young , which by watching the movie now gives you the impression that there were many Japanese-Americans living in the US involved in spying on the US and working for their " fatherland " against their adopted county which was anything but the truth . It seemed that all the action in the movie was going on when both Japan and the United States were technically at peace , before Sunday 7AM December 7 , 1941 Hawaii time . All this made the film a bit odd by realizing that the war-like action was happening before the first Japanese bombs , and torpedoes , struck the Pacific Fleet docked at Pearl Harbor .
Tales from the Dark Side	( There are Spoilers ) Unbelievably dark an depressing film about a York City cop , Harvey Keitel , who's going under from the sheer weight of problems that he made for himself over he years . Lieutenant , for a better name since he doesn't have one in the films credits , Keitel's life has been spiraling out of control since he's become addicted to both crack and cocaine . Sniffing coke in his car and smoking crack at his girlfriend's , a crack dealer , Zoe ( Zoe Lund ) apartment had just about burned Keitel out . As he's slowly losing control of his life Keitel decides to pull off a major coup on he mobs bookie racket by betting that the L . A Dodgers , who are down three games to none , are going to come back from the dead and beat the NY Mets in the post-season playoffs . Getting some of his fellow cops to bet with him Keitel ends up parlaying his bets where by the time the seventh game comes around he's $120 , 000 . 00 in the hole with the mob wanting it's money or else it will not only do in Kietel but his family as well . Kietel for his part seems oblivious to what he put himself and his family into with his mindless betting as well as drug use feeling that because he's a cop he's immune to mob retaliation . That impression on Kietel's part is about as realistic as him being a cop makes him immune to becoming addicted on crack ! It's later when reality enters his thick skull that Kietel looks for answers to solve the mess that he made for himself and that comes with the brutal attack and rape of a nun , Frankie Thorn , in a church in Spanish Harlem . With the church putting up a $50 , 000 . 00 reward for information to who the nun's rapists are and having them face justice Kietel feels that by solving the case he's have all he cash he needs to pay off the bookies that he's so much in debt to . The only problem that Kietel has is that the nun , who can identify her assailants , refuses to press charges or reveal their identities ! A truly remarkable performance by actor Harvey Kietel that has you riveted to the screen every time he's appears . Kietel's unbelievable scene at the church where he's confronted by Jesus , Paul Hipp , while what seem like in a drug induced stupor is as good if not better then Marlon Brando's performance at the funeral home , where his wife is lying in state , in " Last Tango in Paris " . Showing at first a deep resentment toward Jesus for his own lot in life Kietel suddenly realizes what a crumb he's been all his life and then falls on his knees begging for both salvation and forgiveness from the very person whom he just lambasted . That stunning ten or so minute sequence is worth the price of admission alone ! In the end Kietel realizes that the only way he can redeem himself is to do what the raped nun want's and that is to forgive , like Jesus would have done , those who viciously assaulted her . Tracking down , with the help of a church member , the nuns assailants who were found less then two blocks from the scene of their crime Kietel has them check out of town with his stash of drug money , $30 , 000 . 00 , never to come back to NYC again . This with the entire NYPD out on the streets looking for them many more then willing to exact street justice on the rapists . I's just too bad that the mob wasn't as kind forgiving and understanding to Kietel as he was to the two rapists . In the end Kietel not paying off on his bet , with the Dodgers losing the seventh game in the playoffs , himself gets a taste of street justice in front of the New York City Port Authority Bus Terminal . The very place that he just put the two rapists on an out of town bus and out of harms way ! The motto of the movie is that Jesus forgives but the Mob doesn't .
It leaves you breathless	SPOILERS Slow and exhausting film-noir suspense drama that has Ann Sutton , Gene Tierney , the wife of successful psychoanalyst Dr . William Sutton , Richard Conte , being manipulated by a quack hypnotist and lady-killer David Korvo , Jose Ferrer , who's using her to cover up , by taking the blame for it , the murder of one of his victims Terry Randolph , Barbara O'Neil . We never really get to know who this David Korvo really is or where he comes from since he just pops in right at the start of the film getting Ann out of a fix when she's arrested for stealing at a local department store . Korvo helps Ann out of her troubles by having the piece of jewelry that she stole paid for off her expense account . It's hen that Korvo starts to take advantage of Ann's guilt-feelings in regard to her husband who , as Korvo brings out through his hypnosis , she associated with her late father who was responsible for her becoming a kleptomaniac . Having all the money in the world as a young girl Ann's dad had it put in trust keeping her from spending it so she was subconsciously driven to steal whatever she wanted . Getting married to William she continued on her road to a life of shoplifting when he was just a poor medical student and didn't have the money to give Ann all the material needs that she wanted . It also seemed that before or during her marriage to William Ann had already depleted her trust fund . By now it seemed that Ann , despite Williams success as a top of the line psychoanalyst , can't control her kleptomaniac impulses regardless of how much money she has available to her and this is where the maniacal and sleazy Korvo stepped in . You have to give Korvo credit in that he did help cure , through hypnosis , Ann of her insomnia but used her guilt feelings as a kleptomaniac to get Ann , by hypnotizing her , to steal a number of recording that her husband made of one of his patient's Mrs . Randolph . In those recordings Mrs . Randolph implicated Kovro in a scheme to embezzle her daughter out of a $60 , 000 . 00 inheritance . Korvo also covered all his bases by setting Ann up , in a number of clever and sneaky maneuvers , to implicate herself and take he rap in Mrs . Randolph murder . Kovro makes it look like a crime of passion on Ann's part in a fight with Mrs . Randolph over the affections of the suave and debonair Kovro . All that would give Kovro the perfect alibi in Mrs . Randolph's murder by checking himself into the hospital for a a gall bladder operation at the time that the murder happened ; as he has Ann , again under hypnosis , placed at the scene of Mrs . Raldolph's murder ! All this maneuvering and scheming on Kovros part is done after he hypnotized himself to be able to withstand the pain from his operation and sneak out of the hospital and murder Mrs . Randolph ! Early Hollywood attempt at explaining the mysteries and working of the subconscious mind through it's own brand of pseudo psychiatry . The movie has Dr . William Sutton getting to the bottom of what's behind his wife Ann's strange behavior . Where at the same time having her controller David Korvo really screw himself up by strangely accommodating , obviously in order to give the film a happy ending , him and Det . Colton , Charles Brickford , in his own demise thus proving Ann's innocence . You try to follow the movie but it's just too mind-bending in it's constantly going into different directions with sub-plot after sub-plot until you just give up and go into automatic pilot hoping you finally make it to the end without , like Ann , dozing off and missing the somewhat unsurprising surprise ending .
Termination of Partnership	SPOILERS Having been the brains behind the popular Mrs . Melville Mystery Series and dreaming up and writing most of the material Jim Ferris , Martin Milner , has decided to go his separate way to write an expose about organized crime . Or so that's what his long time writing partner Ken Fraklin , Jack Cassidy , would want everyone , especially the police , to think . Living high of the hog for years Franklin has run up enormous debts that if Ferris leaves him on his own , without Franklin taking half of the credit and cash for the Mrs . Melville Mysterys , he'll have to give up his playboy and partying lifestyle . A lifestyle that includes two houses and a study stream of cash-flow to keep them afloat . Desprate Franklin devises a plan , after having Ferris heavily insured with him being the sole beneficiary . Franklin also plans to trick Ferris into going with him to his country cabin outside of San Diego Franklin plans not only to bump him off but make it look like he wasn't there at all but back in his office in L . A . Everything goes according to plan as the two writers travel outside the city and get to Franklin's cabin . It's at he cabin where Franklin talks Ferris into calling his wife Joanna , Rosmery Forsyth , to tell her that he'll be late due to some pressing work he has to finish at the office , in L , A . Ferris on the phone with Joanna is suddenly surprised to see Franklin point a gun at him and then without a word blow his head off ! Joanna in a state of shock thinks that her husband was shot at his office , not Frnklin's cabin , calls the police as well as Franklin for help ! It's later found that Farris ' office was ransacked with him gone ! Ferris ' body is later found in front of Franklin's house and made to look , by Franklin , like it was a mob hit . The very clever and diabolic Franklin played his cards real well but he made one big mistake , due to his own arrogance and feeling of self-importance , and that was when he stopped over at the LaSanka General Store to get some supplies for his cabin . Franklin remembered that he had promised the owner Lily , Barbara Colby , to give her a signed copy of the latest Mrs . Mellvile Murder Mystery " Perscription Murder " ; not realizing that Lily would see that he was not alone but with his partner Ferris , sitting in his car ! The same Jim Ferris that was supposed to be miles away at the time back at his office in L , A ! Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , wasn't exactly at the top of his game in this episode , or TV movie . Bumbling and fumbling more then usual Columbo didn't show the intuitive skills as a hardened and aggressive police detective that were so used to seeing in most of his movies . Not really uncovering or solving the murder of Jim Ferris Lt . Columbo almost by accident gets a big break in solving Franklins murder when Lily LaSanka ends up six feet underwater with her head bashed in . It was Lily who was trying to blackmail Franklin , who at first paid her off , that got her smashed on champaign and murdered her . Lily LaSanka fatal accident , or murder as it was later reviled by Lt . Columbo , was out of Lt . Columbo's jurisdiction so he really had no reason at all to even be on the case ! Ken Franklin gave Lt . Columbo all the rope he needed to hang him on a murder , or double-murder , rap with his snooty and obnoxious attitude . Franklin's thinking so high of himself in a way almost inspired the L . A . cop to harass and torment him into submission . Columbo pounding the man unmercifully with a barrage of annoying questioning without letup that in the end Franklin was almost glad to be put behind bars , even for life if necessary just to be free of him !
Waterlogged	SPOILERS Film Noir type movie set in Savannah Georgia that tries hard to stay afloat but it's waterlogged plot sinks it in the last fifteen minutes . " The Gingerbread Man " is not at all a boring or bad movie it really holds your attention and you want it to deliver the goods via a surprise and film noir like ending . The movie like " Hurricane Geraldo " that lashes the Georgian coast during the entire film instead just sinks under it's wind swept waves . " Gingerbread Man " has all the right ingredients for a film noir classic . It's directed by legendary director Robert Altman but it's story gets so muddled and confused that by the end instead of packing a wallop it just fizzles out like a balloon with a hole in it . The chance meeting and later relationship between Rick Magruder , Kenneth Branagh , and Mallory Doss , Embeth Davidtz , at the start of the film is incredibly unconvincing and contrived that you can easily sense that Rick is being set up to be used for some unknown purpose . You can see Mallory constantly staring and trying to get close to Rick at the party before they meet outside in the rain . Mollary's crazy and religious father Dixon Doss , Robert Duvall , who is being manipulated to be the villain in the film also doesn't seem at all that convincing of a being a heavy . If anything Dixon seems to be more normal then most of the people in the movie , like he so perfectly made clear to the court at his sanity hearing . And it doesn't surprise anyone that he like Rick is being set up for some reason known only by the villain or villains in the film . Kenneth Branagh is very good as the person who's being used to unwittingly do the dirty work to clear the way for a 10-15 million dollar grab of fifteen acres of valuable black walnut trees . So is Robert Duvall as the person who they belong to and are the main reason for the crimes being committed in the film . Besides the top stars in the movie there are also very good performances by Tom Berenger , Pete Randel , as Mallory's ex-husband and Famke Janssen , Leeanne , as Rick's ex-wife as well as Daryl Hannah , Louis Harlan , as Rick's law partner . Robert Downey Jr . , Clyde Pell , sparkles is a small but important role as the detective that works for Rick's law office . Stil the illogical and contrived ending in the movie as well as some of the sub-plots that lead to it wastes their efforts and spoils what could have been a very good crime / mystery film .
Hell on Wheels	As Lucy , Joan Collins , is giving birth at the beginning of the movie to her son Nicholas Dr . Finch , Donald Pleasence , who is handling the delivery turns to one of the nurses and says in astonishment " He doesn't want to be born ! " . But since he was you just know that all hell is going to break loose in the movie . Little Nicky turns out to be a very bad boy killing four people , staring with his nanny Jill , Janet Key , before he was even old enough to buy a drink ! just were did Lucy go wrong ? We see in flashback that when Lucy was working as a showgirl at Tommy's Strip Club that on the last show that she did before she was going away to Italy with her future husband Gino , Ralph Bates . Hercules , George Claydon , a midget who works with Lucy got a little too friendly with her who in turn rejected his advances . Later as Lucy was leaving the now hurt and furious Hercules confronted her and put the whammy on her saying that her baby will be " Big as I am small and possessed by the Devil " . It seemed that Hercules had something there since baby Nick was very big and strong for his age and also had a very bad disposition to anyone who came close to him . Pretty good Exorcist / Rosemary's Baby clone with a much better cast then you would expect in a movie like this . I don't know if it was supposed to be some kind of in-joke by those making the movie or that she just couldn't pronounce the words correctly but it was really hilarious to hear Eileen Atkins , Sister Albana , who was Lucie's sister-in-law as well as the heroine in the film pronounce the words devil and baby sounding like davel and bibbie .
People's of Earth UNITE . . . Danger is at hand	Aliens , from the planet Paila , and Earthlings work together to prevent the Earth from being destroyed by a runaway planet , Planet R , from another galaxy in this early Japanese Sci-Fi movie released in 1956 with the American title " Warning from Space " . The Pairans who's planet Paila is on the other side of the sun and undetected from the eyes of earth's astronomers sends a fleet of space ships to earth to get the people of that planet to join with them to prevent the rogue planet R from slamming into earth and destroying not only earth but the entire solar system including the planet Paila . The Pairans looking like star fish with an eyeball on their stomachs have one of them Ginko , Toyomi Karita , morphs into the popular Japanese singer Hikari Aozora , and make contact with the earthlings on the dangers they they as well as the Pairans are facing . At first the leaders of earth don't , as usual , take Ginko's warnings seriously . But when the planet begins to get closer to earth they finally do and muster all the nuclear weapons that the earth's superpowers have together to shoot into space and blast the streaking planet off course . The attempt fails miserably and as Planet R gets closer to earth it causes death and destruction by unleashing giant tidal waves and great changes in the weather . All seems lost until Ginko tells the earthlings that only Prof . Kamura can save them with his formula for the destructive super-nuclear element Duriun . Which earlier in the movie Ginko took from Prof . Kamura and destroyed because it was too dangerous for anyone , much less those on earth , to have . Ginko tells the people of earth that with getting the formula for Duriun from Prof . Kamura and together with the Pairans advanced technology to militarize and deliver it to the Planet R in order to knock it off it's course it will save the solar system but there's just one hitch , were is Prof . Kamura ? You have to forgive the cheap special effects since the movie was made almost fifty years ago before the invention of computer enhanced photography but the story and the acting in the movie " Warning from Space " is much better then you would have expected . It's also interesting to note that the movie was made in Japan the only country that was ever nuked and the story was about using nuclear weapons for survival instead of destruction .
Death is not always as final as we think it is	SPOILERS After Kathy McFarland's husband Jermey was killed , when he drunkenly ran his car into a telephone pole , her life and finances took a turn for the worse . Not that Jeremy was a perfect husband but he was the bread-winner of the family and the one who Kathy's three children , Maggie Fiona and especially Frank , needed at this very critical time in their lives . Going to work at Into a Chemical as a lab technician Kathy runs into Dora a very strange and interesting woman named Dora who seems to know a lot more about her life then she would want to talk to her about . Later Kathy rents out the cottage attached to her home to Mark , a French engineer who's working for a US firm . Soon Kathy starts to get these phone calls at precisely 12 : 15 A . M at night she also starts to see the number " 8 " everywhere she looks . She even sees " 8 " with a microscope looking at one-cell organisms forming at the bottom of a petri dish where she works at the lab ; " 8 " was Jermeys favorite number . Talking with Dora at work and later at a party she gave in her homes Kathy is told that Jeremy is somehow trying to get in contact with her . At first Kathy doesn't at all believe Dora and thinks she's some kind of a kook . Later when she runs into Furgus O'Brian who's life Jermey saved from house fire at the Moon River Hotel . Furgus tells Kathy the same thing that Dora told her earlier before ; Jeremy is trying to get in touch with her . Thing start to really get weird when Kathy , with the help of Mark , finds the number of who's been calling her every night at 12 : 15 ; It's from the " Moon River " hotel where Furgus works . Kathy also finds out from Jeremys death certificate that he died from his injuries in the car accident at exactly 12 : 15 A . M ! Going to the " Moon River " hotel to confront Furgus about him harassing her Kathy finds out that he never worked there ! Later going to the O'Brian home Kathy sees Furgus and after letting him have it about his annoying phone calls he seems undeterred and tells her that it was Jeremy who told him to call her ! Jeremy reason for trying to get in touch with her is that he wan't her forgiveness for all the trouble he caused Kathy and the kids when he was alive . Seeing Mrs . O'Brian , Furgus ' mother , later at the house Kathy is stunned to find out that her son Furgus has been dead for six months ! Then who was Kathy talking to just a minute ago ? Furgus's Ghost ? So / So ghost movie thats a bit confusing in it's ending and leaves you up in the air to who just both Dora and Mark are . Are they real people or some kind of disembodied spirits like Fergus . Is this their attempt to get Kathy back together with Jeremy and forgive him in order to free his soul from the torment he's suffering , due to his treatment of Kathy when he was alive . The ending of the movie tries to straighten out a lot of the uneven and confusing sub-plots in the movie with Kathy and Mark back together after she almost got killed in a traffic accident and Jeremy finally having his actions forgiven by Kathy and being able to " move on " , like those of us watching the movie , to better things .
Heads Will Roll	( Some Spoilers ) After the amazing success of " Halloween " in 1978 a slew of slasher / killer films immediately followed with " Terror Train " being one of the most successful " Halloween " clones . Jamie Lee Curtis playing a role , more or less , like the one she played in " Holloween " as the one that not only got away from the slasher but was involved in taking him out with the help of the train conductor Crane , Ben Johnson , gives her usual " Screem Queen " performance as collage student Alanda Maxwell . We know already from the start who the killer is since we see him being driven mad by a collage prank engineered by collage prankster Doc Manly , Hart Bachner , some three years earlier with an unsuspecting Alanda being part of Doc's sick joke . Now back for revenge the killer is out to get all those that did that to him , who are all on board a locomotive . During the movie he does his ghastly work in a number of disguises , like in a Groucho Marx's mask , that keep those on the train unaware to whats happening until almost three quarters of the movie is over . Like in all these slasher films the killer in " Terror Train " seems not only to have superhuman strength but also superhuman endurance . Even though he's seems to be a really thin young man who can't be more then five and a half feet tall and weigh no more the 120 pounds dripping wet . The killer get stabbed battered slammed even thrown out of the rushing train twice , the second time he doesn't come back . Yet still after taking all that of a licking comes back strong and ticking taking out almost the entire student body . The slasher also doesn't have a mark on him when we finally she him at the end of the film with his hair so neat it looks like it's was just immaculately cut and trimmed at the barber shop . Crane the conductor tried to keep a lid on the killings in order not to panic those on the train but as the killings get out of hand he has the train stop and everyone checked to see if the killer , who's always in some kind of disguise , is among the passengers . Which not only doesn't expose him but terrorizes the crew and passengers even more . Not being within , what seems like , hours to the nearest train station with nowhere else to go in the almost uninhabited countryside Crane also doesn't have any way to communicate with the outside world for help . The train doesn't even have a two-way radio . David Copperfield who's a magician in real life plays Ken who's , of all things , is a magician in the movie ; now thats what I call type-casting !
Blind Alley	SPOILERS Underground tabloid reporter Frank Nitzche , Aidan Quinn , has been working on the Kirstie Hammond murder / kidnap case for over a year corresponding with the person convicted of that heinous crime death row inmate Charlotte Cory , Connie Nielsen . With her execution scheduled in ten days Frank is requested to be the last person besides her lawyer Susan Kennan , Kelly Preston , to be granted an interview by Charlotte . Very impressed with his letters Charlotte feels that Frank will understand what happened that evening some eight years ago . It was then on Thanksgiving Eve when one year-old Kirstie Hammond was kidnapped and eventually murdered . As Frank hears Charlotte out he becomes very disturbed in what he's doing in trying to trick her into spilling her heart out just to get the exclusive story in the biggest kidnap case since the Baby Lindbergh kidnapping back in 1932 . The case of Hall of Fame L . A Dodger baseball player Joe Hammond , Randy Calton , infant daughter's kidnapping and murder . Frank , in talking with her , soon realizes that Charlotte is holding something back that may exonerate her of the crime and that has to do with her sister Stella , Sara-Marie Maltha . Stella who had completely disappeared from sight since Charlotte's arrest may be the key to why Charlotte's so meek , even eager , to meet her fate in the Oklahoma's McAllister State Prison's execution chamber ! Is Charlotte somehow covering up Stella's involvement in the crime ? Slow in getting to the meat of the story the movie " Convicted " has sensation reporter and former defense attorney Frank Nitzche stick his neck out , and almost getting it broken , in not getting the big story by getting Charlotte to confess her crime to him but uncovering the real reasons behind it . Reasons that Charlotte had kept hidden from the police and the Hammond Family that are so shocking that if brought out would not only exonerate her but reveal just where the kidnapped and missing Kirstie final resting place really is ! The film goes into a race against time scenario with Frank now not caring about the big story , worth as much as $800 , 000 . 00 to his publishers , but trying to find Charlotte's missing sister Stella . Stella who's been blind since surviving a car accident that she holds Charlotte responsible for is eventually tracked down by Frank at the Oklahoma School for the Blind where shes'a a teacher using the name Julie Smith . SPOILER ALERT It's in his talking to Stella and later seeing a number of home video tapes , that Charlotte left to him , that Frank slowly puts all the pieces together in what really happened to Kirstie Hammond . The pressing problem that Frank is now facing in saving Charlott's life is two fold . Will he be able to get Stella to reveal the truth behind Kirstie's kidnapping ! And even more disturbing can Frank get Charlotte to stop trying to be a martyr in taking the truth with her about Stella's , and what turned out to be her boyfriend , involvement in the crime to her grave !
The Witches Sabbath	SPOILERS Interesting little film about a Satanic takeover of the little town of Hillsboro California by using the children of the townspeople in the most evil and ungodly ways . This coven of witches are now about to meet their master Satan in the world beyond in that they've reached the age where their no longer needed in his service . The last act of evil left for these witches and warlocks is to have them transfer their souls , if in fact they have any , into the children of Hillsboro and thus continue a new cycle of evil . It's both Ben and Nicki , Charles Bateman & Ahna Capri , together with their adopted six year old daughter K . T , Geri Reischi , who have the misfortune to drive through Hillsboro and become part of this evil plan conjured up by the local and undercover Satanists who are actually in control of the town . With 26 of the town citizens killed in a series of unexplained accidents over the last 72 hours the town's very concerned Sheriff Pete , L , Q Jones , is besides himself in just what's behind their brutal deaths . It's also noted by Sheriff Pete and retired town doctor Doc Duncan , Stother Martin , that those person's , who were killed , children had mysteriously disappeared ! It's later in the movie that little K . T ends up missing together with the rest of the towns 12 other children who seemed to have vanished from off the face of the earth ! It's the town's man of the cloth Priest Jack , Charles Robinson , who uncovers the reason why all these strange and unexplained event are really happening . Priest Jack uncovered the secret plan hatched by the leader of the Satanic and Witches cult through old manuscripts about the inner workings of Satanism . It also later turns out that the poor Priest Jack really loses it when he witnesses one of the townspeople end up getting decapitated right before his eyes . This by a dark horseman who seemed to materialize out of thin air ! It turned out that the now headless and dead man's son joined the other children who disappeared and ended up later becoming part of the evil that's taken hold of Hillsboro ! SPOILER ALERT The films unnerving final sequence has all witches and warlocks get just what they deserve in a flaming and sword wheeling ending with even Mr . Big , the head Satanist , not escaping the carnage . It also turns out that this was the plan concocted by the leader of the cult all along ! He ended up dead but in his , and his followers , case death was not the end but only the beginning !
We may as well lay our cards on the table	SPOILERS When Cowboy Bob Crandell got word from his friend Larry Moore that he struck it rich in his Nevada silver mine " The Two Friends " he shot right down to the Bonanza Territory to get himself a piece of the action . Since it's Bob who's the # 2 Friend , after Larry Moore , that the mine is named after . After stopping a stage coach robbery on his way to Two Friends Bob finds out that the attempted crook is Molly Allen the private secretary of Bonanza Properties CEO Frank Sheridan . It takes a while for Bob to realize that Sheridan is using Bonanza Properties as a dummy front for his mining conglomerate Triangle Mines . Triangle Mines is secretly being used by Sheridan to not only grab all the gold and silver mines in the territory but murder those who have claims on them ! Like what turned out to be prospectors like Bob's murdered friend Larry Moore ! SPOILER ALERT There's of course Larry's dog Rinty , or Rin Tin Tin Jr , who after becoming homeless when his master Larry was murdered , by Sheridan's thugs , has drawn a bead on Sheridan & Co . Rinty together with undercover , as the town weirdo , US government G-Man Looney end up getting the goods on Sheridan and his criminal empire . Bob with the help of Molly Allen who it turns out is actually Molly Weilborn who's dad was a victim of Sheridan greed , in his attempt to corner the Nevada gold & silver market , ends up breaking up his sleazy and criminal operation but only with the help from both Looney & Rinty in doing it . You have to say one thing about Bob Crandell , or actor Rex Lease who plays him , in that he's very convincing riding a horse as well as putting together straight rights and left jabs when he's slugging it out with Sheridan and his gang . Despite the movies by the numbers storyline the both horse riding and fight scenes , that Lease seemed to do without the use of a double or stunt man , are as good as any you'll see in a top John Wayne or Gary Cooper Western of the period : The late 1930's . There's also the added attraction in the film , besides Rinty who was barley in it , of Bob's amazing as well as laid back singing cowboy and guitar playing brother Hank . Hank sung two tunes including his signature song " Lonesome Cowboy " but it wasn't Hank's singing , or guitar playing , that really caught the audiences eye it was his skillful and garaging like , with Listerine , yodeling . I had a very strong feeling that the great vine swinging movie ape-man Johnny Weissmuller took yodeling lessons from Hank to prefect his famous Tarzan jungle call .
Mister Sandman Give Me A Dream	SPOILERS One of Jean-Claud Van Damme's better movies in which he plays a Royal Canadian Mountie who goes undercover in a California prison to find out why a number of prisoners have been murdered at the Harrison State Prison over the last year . Being that officer Louis Burke , Jean-Claud Van Damme , is from out of the country and has worked with the LAPD before , he lost he partner while tracking down a serial-killer known as " The Sandman " ( Patrick Klipatrick ) it's felt by the prison authorities and the DA's office that no one will recognize him in the pen . Working with DA attorney Amanda Beckett , Cynthia Gibbs , who's posing as his wife on the outside Burke keeps in touch with her on whatever information he can come up with on the dead prisoners . With the help of some local convicts that he befriended in the prison including Hawkins , Robert Guillaume , Burke begins to find out that whats happening is being conducted by the very people who placed him there , DA Tom Vogler and head of prisons Ben Keane , George Dickerson & Jack Bannon . Voler & Keane are working together with the head of the prison guards and the prison doctor Sgt . DeGraf & Dr . Gottesman , Art Laflevr & Arimin Shierman , in killing healthy and non-addicted , to either drugs or alcohol , prisoners . These murders are being done in order to take out their vital organs and then sell them on the open market to the highest bidder ! In fact DA Voglar has gotten Dr . Gottesman to get him a healthy liver , from one of the murdered prisoners , for his sick wife Helen , Dorothy Dells , without even her knowing about it . Burke had been set up by the corrupt state administrators to show the higher ups in the government that they were doing all that they could to find out about the murders there . When Burke started to find out the real reason for them , the dead prisoners , he was to be terminated before he could expose Volgar & Co . and their illegal human organ racket . The action in the film was as good and as exciting as you could ever want in a movie like " Death Warrent " with Van Damme in top form taking out the bad guys with his fists and feet in a number of gut crunching fight sequences . Being a marked man with his identity , as an undercover policeman , exposed by the prison officials themselves it's a wonder why those in authority , not involved in this organ racket , didn't come to Bruke's rescue earlier then they did . Bruke's outside contact Amanda was doing everything to alert them but they seemed to be either out to lunch or on vacation . Thrilling final with Burke having it out with the almost indestructible " Sandman " giving him a hot foot as well as a one way trip to Blazeville with the prisoners , forgetting about Burke's police identity , giving him a standing ovation at the end of the film . P . S Despite two major inconsistence . # 1 . Why the non-corrupt government authorities were so late in sending state troopers and national guardsmen to Harrison State Prison in order to rescue fellow police officer Louis Burke from hundreds angry and homicidal convicts . # 2 . The fact that " The Sandman " seemed to have come back to life at the end movie after he was obviously killed by Burke , with a hail of bullets , when the movie started . The film hold together pretty well and gives you the kind of non-stop action that you would expect from it .
The road to hell is paved with good intentions	SPOILERS Not too convincing film about a hot shot and well intentioned priest who gets in over his heed in trying to saved his beloved Catholic Church from going bankrupt . The Second World War is soon to be over and the Catholic Church has suffered major financial losses because of it . American priest Father John Flaherthy , Christopher Reeve , comes up with this master plan to save the church but there's just one hitch : It involves the Mafia who's the only one who can make it happen . Getting involved with his childhood friend-from Brooklyn NY - Lodo Varese , Joseph Cartese , a master sergeant in the US Army Father John has Lodo through his Mafia and black market connections sell thousands of cartons of cigarettes from the Vatican commissary , that Father John is the administrator of , for a mark up of over 400 % . The very naive Father John thinks that his friend Lodo together with his Mafia boss Don Vito " the Apple " Appolini , Jason Miller , will be as honest about this strange arrangement that he cooked up in secretly saving the church as he is . While all this is going on Father John , using the alias of US Army Lt . Finnigen , gets involved with the not yet confirmed Catholic nun Clara Genevieve Bjold , whom he rescued from getting drenched from a sudden downpour with her fellow nuns while driving his army jeep . In a matter of days the very handsome Father John , or Lt . Finnigen , had the impressionable Clara , who thought that he was a black marketeer , have an affair with him . Thinking that she was involved with a corrupt US Army solider not a Catholic priest , or Monsignor which he was at the time , Clara flipped out when she saw Father John at a ceremony at the Vatican together with his mentor Cardinal Santoni , Fernando Rey , and the Holy Father himself the Pope played by Leonardo Cimino ! Father John not knowing what to say later , while in Church praying for forgiveness , let himself have it , by being sapped around , by an outraged Clara who accused him of ruining her , as well as his , life ! The relationship between Father John , a CPA before he entered the church , and his good friend Lodo also started to sour with Lodo taking off with some 40 million dollars of the church's money as well as losing over 600 million dollars playing the very speculative currency markets . SPOILER ALERT The mad as hell Don Vito who's money , in connection with the Catholic Church , Lodo also ripped off has a hit put out on him which a tearful Father John begs him to put off . This turned out to be about the only good thing that Father John did in the movie and even that backfired on him ! Insulting , especially to Roman Catholics , in how the movie treats members of the clothe by making them look worse then the hoods and gangsters that their shown to be working with . Christopher Reeve as the corrupt Father John is anything but sympathetic in his being so obsessed with both money and sex , as well as power , that whatever good there was in him quickly evaporated within the first ten minutes of the movie . Even though Father John's attempt to save the Catholic Church from going bankrupt was in the end successful his methods were anything but Christ-like . Which made you wonder if , in the movie , with the underhanded and sleazy tactics that Father John used to save it was in fact worth saving at all !
If you leave your cage I'll open this one !	SPOILERS Young and pretty magazine illustrator Celeste , Shannen Doherty , is stalked throughout the movie " Nightlight " by this shadowy and threatening phone caller who seems to know every move that she makes . It soon becomes obvious to Celeste that the person calling her lives across he street from her apartment building and tries to catch him in the act by spying , with a telescope , on him herself . With the help of the buildings-where the caller supposedly resides - doorman Derrek , Sean Tucker , Celeste finds in his apartment not only a telescope but a number of photos of herself , mostly scantly dressed , that the suspect David Jacobsen , Charles Edwin Powell , took of her with a telephoto lens . As it turns out David , who was arrested by the police , did have a large porno collection of DVD's and video tapes , which wasn't a crime , but swore that the photo's of Celeste found in his apartment weren't his . Later with David behind bars the caller continued to hearses Celeste proving that David , as he said all along , was innocent of the charges against him . Things got even more bizarre when Celeste's boyfriend , whom she earlier dumped , out of work actor Brent , Michal Francoeur , stating showing up around Celeste's apartment dressed in a jogging suit , with a hood , in order to protect her from her stalker . As it later turned out Brent needed Celeste , not the other way around , to not only protect him but save his life . Nothing really surprising her with both Canadian cities Montreal and Quebec subbing for New York City with Celeste's stalker , and threatening caller , being so obvious that he stuck out like a sore thumb before he even reveled himself . The movie's ending was a bit too contrived in that the so careful stalker , who had since graduated from just being an unwanted caller , completely blew his cover by coming out in the open and getting his hands on an unsuspecting Celeste . SPOILERSNot that surprising of an ending with the threatening phone caller and now kidnapper , of not only Celeste but her pet parrot Kiddy , coming out of the shadows and surprising almost no one but the very naive Celeste to who he really is . We get this big speech , in the phone calling psycho trying to explain his off-the-wall actions , from the deranged phone caller himself , in person not on the telephone . The guy goes on and on in how he's looked down upon by the rich and famous and treated like dirt by them and this , what he's doing to Celeste , is payback time ! This in his unstable and warped mind is the reason that he made Celeste's life a living hell on earth ! What I couldn't quite understand is why he picked on a working girl , who's having trouble paying her rent , like Celeste who didn't quite fit into that category ?
Hey I don't mind being a Vampire and all that sht but this just ain't hip !	( There are Spoilers ) Being what he feels short changed by his dying mom in not becoming the new leader , or Papaloa , of her Voodoo Cult in favor of his hated step-sister Lisa , Pam Grier , Voodoo practitioner Willis , Richard Lawson , flips out and swears revenge against Lisa and those who follow and support her . It's turns out that Willis gets in touch with another dethrone Voodoo chieftain who fills him in on how to conjure up a Voodooo curse and have it do his bidding in doing Lisa harm and having him replace her as his late mothers cults new Voodoo chief . Getting a bag of bones and then sprinkling the blood of a white and purple pigeon , that he just sacrificed , on it together with what looks like baby powder the bones catch fire and disintegrate . Willis says a number of abracadabra on the bones and then poof , after Wills turned his back on them , up from the abyss there emerged the notorious and utterly evil Blacula , William Marshall . Blacula wastes no time in sticking his fangs in Willis ' neck not only turning him into a Vampire but making him , as well as a number of other people during the course of the movie , into his slave . Checking out the night life Blacula pops into this party that Lisa is throwing that has to do with 17th and 18th century African Art . Calling himself Mamuwalde Blacula is such a hit at the party , with his knowledge of the Dark Continent , that he's invited back by a very impressed and in love with him Lisa . It's that Blacula notices that Lisa is an expert in the art of Voodoo that he becomes turned on to her not sexually , despite her 38-22-36 vital statistics , but that he feels that she can free him from this curse that has been tormenting him for some 300 years ; being a both member of the living dead and living on nothing but human blood . The movie takes off with Blacula turning into a Vampire Bat and flying into the moonlight and the red light district of L . A . Putting a couple of pimps who tried to mug him to sleep , together with one of Lisa's party goers , by sucking their blood out the police are alerted that some psycho is on the loose and send out a dragnet to capture , dead or alive , him . Meanwhile Blacula has become infatuated with Lisa in his belief that she can actually cure him from the Vampire curse . This all doesn't play that well with Lisa's boyfriend Justin , Don Mitchill , who's determined to keep Blacua from using Lisa for his own greedy and selfish purposes . Blacula gets down to business when he has Lisa make this Voodoo Doll of himself and together the two , especially Blacula , go into this orgasmic like chanting that causes the screen to steam up and almost catch fire . Just then when Blacula , what looks like , is about to experience some kind of emotional climax Justin and the police show up and this whole crazy plan of his falls flat on it's back . Really pied off at Justin and the entire LAPD for daring to interrupt his grand metamorphose from a walking dead man to an alive and normal human being Blacula goes completely nuts . An outraged Blacula , together with his band of walking dead Vampires , tears into the onrushing police as well as Justin whom he spears only when Lisa pleaded for his life . The ending has Blacula do a number on the LAPD and when he's about to finish Justin off Lisa , who's been screaming hysterically throughout the entire scene , sticks a wooden stake into the Voodoo Doll that she made of Blacula . Like the movie title says Blacula , after his Voodoo Doll is pierced , screams and screams sounding as if he was imitating the yodel that Johnny Weissmuler made famous in his many Tarzan movies . William Marshall undoubtedly is the glue that holds the movie " Scream Blacula Scream " together . Towering over everyone in the film , at six foot five inches , Marshall was as good as and effective a Dracula , or Blacula , as anyone who played the legendary Vampire in the past . Marshell's acting was also notches above the caliber of acting that you would have expected in the usual 1970's black-exploitation movies sounding and coming across like a black version of Gregory Peck .
Games People Play	SPOILERS Hard to gage since it has what seems like so many unnecessary sub-plots in it . " Simpatico " is basically about guilt on the part of three persons Vince Webb , Nick Nolte / Shawn Hatsoy , and Lyle & Rosie Carter , Jeff Bridges / Liam Waite & Sharon Stone / Kimberly Williams , who were involved , some twenty years ago in betting on a string of " Ringers " . A " Ringer " is a horse who's secretly entered in a race with a false and atrociously bad past performance record in order to fool the betting public . Thus winning races that he or she is not even supposed to be in by going off at astronomical odds . Were shown in a number of ill-timed and confusing flash-backs that the three track cheats were discovered by local track official Simms , Albert Finney , who was about to turn them into the authorities . Simms was set up in a blackmail scheme by both Vince and his then girlfriend Rosie . With Simms banging her in a motel room as Vince was hiding outside with a camera taking photos of the incriminating tryst . The movie starts with a drunk and homeless-looking Vince in Cucamunga Calif calling Lyle , now a major horse breeder , in Kentucky frantic that he's about to be arrested and he'll be forced to tell everything he knows to the cops . You get the impression that Vince had been blackmailing Lyle , as well as Simms , for years to keep up his lifestyle , paying for his rent and bottles of booze . As he masqueraded around town posing as a private detective an act that he uses to both impress and pick up girls . Before you can even catch you breath Lyle jets right down to Cucamunga and finds out from Vince that his girlfriend Cecilia , Catherine Keener , a local supermarket cashier is threatening to have him arrested for sexually abusing her . Which Vince says is all a pack of lies . Going to see Cicilia Lyle tries to get her to change her mind in reporting Vince to the police only to find out that she has no idea what he , or Vince , is talking about and almost throws a confused and befuddled Lyle out of her apartment . Lyle later puts two and two together and realizes that Vince tricked him into coming to Cucamunga in order to implement some weird scheme he dreamed up . All this in order to steal his car and identity , or wallet loaded with dozens of his credit cards , and go back to Kentucky to resume his relationship with Lyle's wife Rosie . Whom he once proposed marriage to and that she accepted . Lyle wakes up in Vince's cluttered pad , after drinking himself unconscious , and starts to have second thoughts about going back to his life as an ultra-rich Kentucky horse breeder and decides to live as an unemployed bum . Spending all his time sitting on the railroad tracks opening up a can of beans and watching the world go by . The movie never really gets any better after that but only more confusing with Lyle having Cicilia go , all expenses paid , to Kentucky to find Vince and get back the blackmail photos of his wife Rosie having sex with Simms . What all this has to do with Vince's bird-brain scheme doesn't make any sense at all since he has no plans to use the photos , that he seemed to have be using for twenty years , to blackmail anyone but destroy them in order to clear his guilty conscience . We also have Vince track down the disgraced Simms who now uses the name of Ryan Ames , a local blood-horse historian . Vince goes to Simms ' office to , what seemed to me , make a mea culpa about what he did to destroy his career as a racing and track official . Simms almost thanks Vince for getting him out of business of policing race-track improprieties and going into a business that he felt that he was born to do researching the bloodlines of thoroughbred horses . Rosie who seemed to have been smashed and out cold pops up with a hangover just when Vince shows up , unannounced , at her and Lyle's mansion . When Vince tearfully apologizes to Rosie about all the trouble he caused her and Lyle with the photos Rosie comes across as forgiving at first . But when Vince shows them to her she blows her stack and almost blows Vince's brains out for what she at first was totally uninterested in ! Simms later meets Cecilia who was sent by Lyle to tell him , together with a load of cash , how sorry he was about what he did to destroy his career . Instead Simms get the hots for her making the confused young women feel that she's being exploited by the two , Simm & Lyle , weirdo's . Cecilia is then put at ease when Simms invites her , this in late October , to the upcoming Kentucky Derby that's to be run the next year on the first Saturday in May ! If all this wasn't enough to already drive you nuts there's the case of Lyle's triple crown winning stallion Simpatico who was syndicated for 30 million dollars and sold off to a group of billionaire Arabian businessmen . Simpatico to the shock of Lyle Rosie and those who bought him was discovered to be impotent and unable to successfully cover and put any mares into fold at the starting price of 75 thousand dollars a pop . Rosie knowing that her beloved horse Simpatico not being able to replicate himself will end up as dog food takes him out for a last ride . It's then then that she puts the poor animal mercifully to sleep with a bullet in his brain . Vince now back with Lyle in Cucamunga takes the blackmail photos on a deserted hill , overlooking the main highway , burning them in a campfire . Thus erasing the whole sleazy episode out of their lives forever as the sun majestically sets on both them and the movie .
Just sit down here and watch Rosie	SPOILERS One of the strangest Columbo movies ever with an absent-minded Lt . Columbo being awakened from bed and showing up at a murder scene . At the same time , with his famous raincoat over his pajamas , forgetting not only to take his badge but his pad and pencil with him . During the movie we have Columbo constantly badgered by his bosses downtown to take a marksmanship qualifying test with his handgun that he hasn't taken or had in over ten years . The movie ends in a mind-blowing sequence with Lt . Columbo breaking the case wide open but letting someone else take the blame for the murder that he just solved thus letting the killer go Scott-free . Lt . Columbo knowing that a trial , that may take as much as two years , would just be a waste of taxpayers money . The killer would never live long enough to see herself on trial . Wanting to get back on the screen as America's Darling over-the-hill singer and dancer Grace Wheeler Willis , Janet Leigh , is set to do a play with her husbands retired diagnostician Dr . Henry Willis , Sam Jaffe , money . Grace is shocked to find out from Henry that he's not bankrolling her career and that his money would be better spent for her to go on an ocean cruise with him . Angry at Henry for not helping her out at her hour of need Grace concocts a plan to do the old fellow in while he's taking a nap reading before bedtime . Giving Henry a double dose of sleeping pills he's out cold when Grace sneaks into his bedroom and after planting a gun in his hand pulls the trigger blowing his brains out making it look like suicide . While all this was happening Grace was supposed to be watching one of her old movies " Walkin My Baby Back Home " downstairs in the projection room like she does every evening . This was to provide an alibi if the cops think otherwise that Henry was murdered not that he killed himself . You see right away that Grace is not too stable upstairs with her truly acting and believing as if she had nothing at all to do with Henry's death . Her former lover and dancing partner Ned Diamond , John Payne , comes to Graces ' side and starts to help Grace out in her big comeback on Broadway . Ned notices that she isn't exactly herself and has problems remembering both her lines and dancing numbers . Lt . Columbo who's put on the case starts to slowly uncover the truth and comes to the conclusion that it was Grace who killed her husband Henry . Still Columbo is stymied at the fact , from the medical information , that Grace is suffering from a deteriorating brain disease . The disease not only wipes out her present memory , the past is as clear as ball to her , but will eventually kill her in just a matter of months , two at the most . Being invited to watch one of Grace's old musicals Lt . Columbo together with Ned , who now knows that she killed Henry . Lt . Columbo is very hesitant to have Grace arrested for her husbands murder and for the fist time in his career as a cop doesn't know what to do . Ned finding out about Grace's fatal illness in an act of kindness , to keep Grace from being arrested , takes over and has Grace's already shattered memory and Lt . Columbo's troubled conscience put at ease by taking the blame for Henry's murder himself . Of course Ned isn't going to be arrested for a crime that he didn't commit but at the same time Grace won't have to be taken into custody by a very reluctant Lt . Columbo for a crime that she in fact did . Watching Grace watch herself on the screen both Ned & Lt . Columbo both know that it would have been cruel and unusual punishment for her , since she wouldn't live long enough , to face justice in a court of law . It's decided to let her spend her last days living happily in the past . A time in her life , as Hollywoods song and dance queen , that she never really was able to escape from .
Everybody goes to " Killer's " place	( There are Spoilers ) Looking out of it and like he hasn't slept for a few days Pat enters the noisy and dangerous " Killoran Tavern " or " Killer's " for short . The hang-out of the notorious Queens mobster Bobby-Fitz . With a number of fights going on and nobody noticing him Pat pulls his gun out of his jacket and points it at Bobby-Fitz who's arguing with one of his hoods . Only to have the co-owner of the place Mary Killoran step in front of him and then slowly puts it back . Mary thinking Pat is looking for a job at the bar offers him to open it up the next morning as the bartender since Teddy , who works the bar at the " Killoran Tavern " , is taking the day off . It later turns out that Pat isn't really Pat " the drifter " but NYPD Detective Desmond Flynn . Det . Flynn is on the run and on the lamb from the police and in a way himself in the brutal murder of his partner Det . Thomas Hugh by the Bobby-Fitz gang . Both Det . Flynn & Hugh were off-duty when they tried to stage a buy and bust , which is against NYPD regulations , without calling for back-up on a member of Bobby-Fitz's gang . The buy and bust backfired with Det . Hugh ending up shot dead . Desmond wanting to get the person responsible for his partner's death went to " Killers " to gun down Bobby-Fitz only to later learn that it wasn't him who was responsible for Hugh's murder ; it was Bobby-Fitz's second in command Pooka . Pooka is also planing to knock off Bobby-Fitz and take over his organization and introduce illegal drugs with the help of NYC drug kingpin Lacido distribute the drugs into the neighborhood . The movie " Killers " comes across like a TV or Broadway play not like a full length motion picture . It's that very reason that make it as interesting , and effective , as it is . All of the members of the Bobby-Fitz gang end up leaving him to his fate . But at the same time by following the deranged Pooka they as well end up dead along with him as a reward . Bobby-Fitz who has a very strong interest in taking over " Killoran's Tavern " has it owner Mary's drunk and irresponsible brother Jimmy set up in a card sting . It's there where he's taken for $10 , 000 . 00 thus having no choice but to sign over the place to Bobby-Fitz if he want's to stay out of the hospital . Desmond trying to keep Bobby-Fitz from destroying what both Jimmy and Mary worked all their lives for , and what their father left to them , blows his cover as a cop . This leads Desmond to end up badly beaten and almost shot to death , execution style , outside in a deserted Queens park . Desmond who then escaped from the Pooka mobsters goes back to his room at his friend Murf's to get his girlfriend Liz to come along with him . Desmond needs them to him help stop Pooka and his mobster friends from murdering both Mary and her sick , and now almost suicidal , brother Jimmy before it's too late . Fine acting by both Hugh O'Gorman and Kathleen Warner as Desmond Flynn and Mary Killoran as well as Ed Dennehy and Todd Cosgerove as Mary's brother Jimmy and mob boss Bobby-Fitz . Their acting gives the film " Killers " the punch that it needs to get your attention and overlook it's low-budget and almost soap opera-like look . You also have to give credit to actor Todd Cosgrove who plays the vicious Pooka . Cosgrove is so good that it's hard to believe that he's really acting but is actually the murderous psycho that he's portraying in the movie .
Does this guy ever lose ?	SPOILERIt seems that the writers of the Columbo TV movies tried to make let . Columbo human here by having him admit defeat . Then having the bad guy , after gloating to him about how smart he is , getting the Great Columbo to finally realize and admit to him , as well as the theater audience , that for once just this one time how Let . Columbo should realize that he's the lesser man . That he's , the bad guy , one of the great geniuses of all times in this great battle of wits and smarts . Then through an incredible twist in the plot , with Let . Columbo mumbling and bumbling his way through the set like he does in all of his TV movies , that can only happen on TV or in the movies . The bad guy then eagerly confess to everything that he's accused of . Including the murder of a high government official in his country , and hold out his hands and almost beg for Let . Columbo to arrest him and put him behind bars for life . I used to think that I've seen everything , on TV in the movie and in real life , until I saw this . And I still think that I was hallucinating when I saw it . Another thing about " Columbo : A case of immunity " I think it was Sal Mineo's last acting role .
Limbic Region : The part of the brain that controls emotions	SPOILERS Det . Jon Lucca , Edward James Olmos , is slowly dying from the stress of trying to find and arrest " The Scorekeeper " a serial murderer in the San Francisco area . That put him in an detox clinic for his heavy use of alcohol as well as his heavy smoking for over twenty years . " The Scorekeeper " who murdered scores of people during that time had Det . Lucca pick up the suspected murder Llyod Ward , George Dzundza , and go on a long ride with him to finally find out the truth which proved to be fatal for both persons . The story of Jon and Llyod goes back to 1974 when a series of lovers lane murders occurred in San Francisco with the killer taunting the police by sending them letters boasting of how smart he is and how they'll never catch him . Det . Lucca was put in charge of " The Scorekeeper " , the name that the murderer gave himself , murder case . Det . Lucca tracked down the killer for over two years until he came to the conclusion that he was Llyod Ward but didn't have the evidence to prove and arrest him . This made Det . Lucca harass Llyod unmercifully until a person , Jonathan Palis , calling himself " The Scorekeeper " was shot by Det . Lucca and the police at a local strip club . After Palis ' death the " Scorekeeper " murder case was closed by the police . Det . Lucca felt that the police killed the wrong man and that the " Scorekeeper Murderer " was still on the loose but the police and media were keeping the killings of " The Scorekeeper " quiet from the general public . It was that reason that Det . Lucca made his decision to meet with Llyod Ward that night to see if he was right or wrong about him . Pretty good made for TV thriller with some very good acting by it's top stars Edward James Olmos and George Dzundza . Even though the ending was a bit contrived and hard to believe the tension and terror of that ride in the night by both stars did hold up through the entire movie and more then made up for the uneven ending . I was fascinated by seeing George Dzundza playing the gun-loving and dangerous Llyod Ward . George looked so much like Michael Moore the anti-gun advocate and maker of the anti-gun documentary " Bowling for Calumbine " that every time he was on the screen I had to convince myself that I wasn't seeing things .
Were supposed to get married this afternoon and all you can think of is a hydrogen warhead !	Spoilers With the report of an unknown missile strafing the earth at 4 , 200 MPH it becomes vital for the nations on earth to stop it before it destroys all life on the planet ! But How ! Top US nuclear scientist atomic physicists and aeronautical engineer Dr . David Loring , Robert Loggia , has to postpone his wedding plans with his fiance and fellow scientist Joan Woods , Ellen Parker , at the prestigious Heavenbrook Atomic Labs outside New York City in order to stop the runaway missile from setting the world on fire ! This has the disappointed future bride drop David like a hot potato not realizing , which as a nuclear scientist Joan should have , that the preventing of the earth from being destroyed is far greater then her wedding plans . In fact if these's no earth there sure as hell won't be a wedding ! As the renegade missile sweeps across Canada jets planes , from both the US and Canada , are scrambled to either force or shoot it down . With it's fantastic speed of 4 , 200 MPH the missile generates heat of over one million degrees which knocks out and burns to a crisps any plane that comes within five miles of it ! When Dr . Loring finally comes up with a fool-proof plan to knock the unknown missile out of the sky his fellow scientist at the Havenbrook Labs Dr . Joe Freed , Philip Pine , suddenly has seconds thought about downing the damn thing ! Having found out , were never shown how , that the missile is being operated by aliens from space Dr . Freed wants to have it and its alien crew saved for future studies , in the knowledge that the aliens can provide the human race , in scientific advancements ! As if things aren't going bad enough for Dr . Loring in his attempt to stop the lost missile , with a baby nuke that he devised , from obliterating the earth he together with Joan are carjacked by these 1950's greasers , or leather jacketed teenagers , on their way to the nearest USAF missile site . The unaware teens not knowing what their dealing with by being exposed to the plutonium , from he baby nuke , in Dr . Lorings ' jeep soon end up being fatality radiated by it ! SPOILERS With time and the films ' meager budget quickly running out Dr . Loring makes it to the missile launch site with the baby nuke and knowing , by being exposed to it , that his life is kaput willfully sacrifices himself by putting the radiation emitting baby nuke into the missile's , known as Jobe , nose-comb . It's then that Jobe does its job , by knocking out the runaway missile , in saving the earth until another day or another movie like " The Lost Missile " comes around . Skillfully spliced and integrated stock footage makes " The Lost Missile " hit its mark in keeping its audience glued to the screen without the special effects , of the 1950's , that the film so obviously lacks . There's also the film debut in the movie of African / American actor Hari Rhodes , who's extensive film credits include Samuels Fullers ' " Shock Corridor " and the made for TV movie mega mini-series " Roots " , as-according to the movie credits-the Black Man at the piano .
Get this Idyot out of Here !	SPOILERS It's late November 1941 and things haven't been going too well for the Nazis as of late . Their big offensives in both Russia and North Africa have stalled and Berlin is being bombed by what looks like German Stuka dive-bombers who must have gone some 500 miles off course from the Eastern Front to do it . American newspaper correspondent Bill Roberts , Dana Andrews , is giving his usual nightly news report from Berlin back to the USA , which has been heavily censored by the Gestapo , that somehow is telling his people back home whats really happening in the war . Bill is using coded words that the Gestapo can't pick up to give the info that the Gestapo want to prevent the world from knowing . Just where is Bill getting this very vital and secret information ? Col . Karl Von Rau , Martin Kosleck , a top honcho in the German intelligence Service is having fits about this matter and is sending out agents to spy on Bill to find out who's giving him this top secret data . The agents that Von Rau sends out are about as effective as a water pistol is to stopping a five alarm fire . Getting his pretty intelligence analyst Karen Hauen , Virginia Gilmore , on Bill's tail she gets him off his guard , with Bill trying to impress her with his famous spaghetti sauce , at his hotel room . Karen finds out that Bill gets the important info from a stamp dealer in the city . It later turns out that this person is not a stamp dealer but a customer who also happens to be Karen's father Rudolph Hauen , Erwin Kaiser . Raudolf had just about had it with the Nazi regime and with his daughter working for German Intellengence . He's in the perfect spot to get top secret information about the German Armys victories and defeats and used that information to feed it to Bill Roberts and thus to the free world . But what the old geezer didn't realize is that he was putting himself and , even worse , his daughter Karen in mortal danger . Getting arrested by the Gestapo and thrown into the Grundorf Asylum , where the only way that one can come out of is in a wooden box , Karen franticly goes to Bill Roberts , who she just informed on , for help . Typical WWII propaganda movie with the American reporter having the beautiful German Fraulein fall heads over heels for him and help him not only escape from the hated Nazis but also go along with him . The " handsome " and " dashing " Col . Von Rau is done in by his private secretary Carla , Mona Maris , who feels that he's two timing her by him planning to marry Karen , this caused Clara to turn him over to the Gestapo . Lover-boy Von Rau tries to play both women to his advantage but gets burned when his diabolical plan to have Karen's lover Bill Roberts , who earlier helped her father escape Nazi Germany , escape only to have him killed , and his death covered up , by electrocuting him on the camps barb wire . Von Rau is stymied when Bill knocks out the Nazi guard who was to pull the lever and thus , Von Rau , is arrested and eventually shot for being responsible for Bill's escape . Commindeering a plane Bill & Karen take off for natural Switzerland and then finding to their surprise that the planes Nazi pilot , Henry Rowland , joined in with them in their escape . What surprised me even more was that there wasn't a single German combat plane , not to mention very effective German army anti-aircraft artillery , from the vaunted and powerful Luftwaffe around to stop them .
Trust is hard to come by	( There are Spoilers ) Psychological thriller that takes a while to unwind with young 27 year-old psychiatrist Ann Hacker , Annabella Sciorra , getting involved with one of her patients Eva Abergray , Deborah Kara Unger , lovers . We find out early in the movie that Ann herself had been under psychiatric care when she was in college by her professor and good friend Leo Green , Alan Alda , after her fathers suicide . Leo and his wife Sara , Jill Clayberg , are always around and helpful to Ann who seems to need more therapy then any of her patients in the film . Trying to help Eva overcome her wild and kinky sexual fantasies and obsessions , that tended to be very destructive and S & M-like , Ann decides to see Eva at the Tavern on the Green restaurant where she told her that she meets her lover every Wednesday . Ann is both shocked and flabbergasted to find out that he's her new boyfriend the aw shucks and boyish country boy , he originally comes from a small town in Iowa , fly-boy Doug McDowell , Jamey Sheridan . When Eva finds out that her doctor Ann Hecker , who she was very open with , was secretly having an affair with her lover Doug she blew her stack and made a scene in the lobby of the office building where Ann had her practice that left Ann & Doug feeling a bit embarrassed . The worse was yet to come when Eva is found hanged in her apartment by Ann , who came over to apologize , the very next day . The movie then goes into the whereabouts and actions of another of Ann's patients John Boy Costillo , John Leguizamo , a prime suspect in Eve's death . John Boy who after having a long record of beating up and abusing women became a well known inner city artist due to Ann's professional help in having John Boy overcome his violent nature . John Boy is taken into custody by Det . Morgenstern , Anthony LaPaglia , who works him over with Ann present , on the other side of a two-way mirror , who then leaves in disgust in what Morganstern did to her sweet and sensitive patient . John Boy , who feels that Ann betrayed him to the police , pays Ann a visit the next evening tying her up and threatening to burn Ann with cigarette butts . It not long afterword that John Boy suddenly loses it and jumps on the window ledge loudly proclaiming his innocent to Ann and the whole world in Eva murder . With the police being called to get the disturbed and hysterical John Boy off the window ledge he slips and , with Det . Morganstern trying to pull him in , falls to his death . You would think that Eva's murder was finally solved with John Boy's , the only suspect in her murder , death but it later comes out that John Boy's alibi , on where he was the day that Eva was killed , checked out ! This causes Det . Morganstern to hit the bottle and drink himself silly . But there was a major clue that the police and Ann overlooked and it had to do with a tape that was recorder by Leo Green , when he was treating Ann for depression , some seven years ago . That clue turned out to be the key to who not only killed Eva but would later murder Det . Morgenstern when he was getting too close to the truth . The movie " Whispers in the Dark " kept you guessing to who the killer was and when he finally revealed himself his actions were so eerily slow and psychotic that it took you a while , like Ann , to realize that he was at all capable of committing the sick and murderous acts that he did in the film . The ending was a bit too hard to take with Ann , who was anything but a match for this crazed and uncontrollable psycho , being able not only to outrun but also , when cornered , fight and finish him off after getting an ice pick stuck in her leg .
The right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing	SPOILERS " The Case of the Howling Dog " is the film that introduced legendary defense attorney Perry Mason , originated on the screen by Warren Williams , to millions of movie goers and some twenty years later , with Raymond Burr in the title role , TV watchers . Perry Mason , Warren Williams , is contacted by a nervous Arthur Cartwright , Gordon Westcott , claiming that his next door neighbor Clinton Foley's , Russell Hicks , German Shepard police dog Prince is driving him crazy . Prince has been howling his head off the last two nights causing Arthur to almost have a nervous breakdown . A bit taken back on what Arthur is telling him Perry is then asked to write out his will leaving everything Arthur has , and it's a lot , to Foley's wife Evelyn ! It turns out that Evelyn is not exactly married to Clinton Foley she's only living with him as a mistress in his mansion . The story get's even more complicated when later both Arthur and Evelyn , who it turns out is actually Arthur's estranged wife , disappear from sight leaving Foley to suspect that they planned this all along from the start . Perry now stuck in representing Foley's actual wife Bessie , Mary Astor , whom he dumped for Evelyn Cartwright in that legally she's the woman whom's Arthur , through Perry being his lawyer , left his estate to . Were lead through a maze of subplots in not just the connection between Arthur and the Foley's , Clinton & Bessie , but their dog Prince who's the key to what is later to happen in the film . Bessie Foley is later on the scene at the Foley's mansion where her ex-husband Clinton and his dog are shot and killed by either Bessie or someone hiding inside the house . With Foley's housemaid and what turned out to be his lover Lucy Benton , Dorothy Tree , seen by one of Perry Mason's assistants private detective George Dobbs , James P . Brutis , running from the premises to an awaiting taxi it's assumed by everyone that she may well have shot and killed both Clinton and Prince . Telling Bessie to keep her mouth shut about her being on the scene of both Clinton Foley and Prince , a dog but a murder victim never the less , murders Perry is now committed in not only defending his client but possibly , in his defending her , covering up a crime : Murder . The really out of the blue surprise ending is what makes " Case of the Howling Dog " so ahead of it's time in that it doesn't tie all the loose ends together . The surprise ending does in a very intelligent and realistic way show that the law despite being written in granite is not at all perfect and that there are times when bending it , like Perry Mason does in the film , is really the best way to get justice done . P . S The movie " The Case of the Howling Dog " is such an excellent example of Amercan , or any other free and law abiding country , jurors prudence that it was remade some 25 years later in 1959 as a Parry Mason TV crime / drama episode . The story was so ahead of it's time in depicting the pitfalls and inconsistencies of the law that even then , 25 years later , it shocked the TV audience in it's totally out of the norm , for TV and the movies , surprise ending !
The Kingdom of God is inside you	SPOILERS A bit confusing movie involving this secret Gospel that's purported to be the only words written by Jesus himself ! It's this Gospel , if ever made public , that will shake the very foundations of the Catholic Church ! Father Andrew Kierran , Gabriel Byrne , had investigated this weeping Madonna at the small Brazilian Catholic Church , in Belo Quinto , and was told by his superiors in the Vatican to drop the case even though he , a scientist by profession , thought that it was a genuine case of the paranormal or a miracle by church standers . It's later in the movie that Father Andrew is assigned to this case of " Stigmata " in of all places Pittsburgh Pa . involving this 23 year old hair dresser Frankie Paige , Patricia Arguette , who's not Catholic or even religious ! What Father Andrew finds out is that the two cases , the one in Belo Quinto and that of Frankie's , are in fact related ! Related by a string of rosary beads ! The movie " Stigmata " slowly builds up to its shocking and fiery climax when Father Andrews begins to question the actions of his superior Cardinal Houseman , Jonathan Pryce , who first authorized the investigation of Frankie Paige . Houseman is using both Father Andrew and his fellow priests to squelch what Frankie's " Stigmata " really is all about . The mysterious rosary beads originally belonged to the excommunicated and late Father Alameida , Jack Donner , of the Belo Quinto Catholic Church ! By Frankie getting possession of the beads , through a gift from her mother , she has become as much as a threat to the Cardinal and the church he represents as Father Alameida was ! Despite a number of wild and gory scenes of Frankie's hands and legs bursting out into streams of blood signifying Jesus ' suffering on the cross we , and Father Andrew , never really quite get what's going on in the movie ! That's until the also , like Father Alameida , excommunicated Father Petrocelli , Rade Serbedzija , unexpectedly shows up at almost the very end of the film . With what seems like no kind of introduction , I only got his name from checking out the movie's credits , to just who he is all Father Petrocelli shows Father Andrews to convince him that his fantastic story is legit is a well worn out old photo of himself . The photo has Petrocelli as well as Father Alameida and Father Delmonico , Dick Latessa posing in it . It's with that photo that Father Petrocelli convinces Father Andrew that his boss Cardinal Houseman isn't exactly , without really explaining why , on the up and up . Now having all the evidence to put Houseman up before a court of inquiry at the Vatican in his attempt of squelching the Gospel of Jesus Father Andrew has to prevent him from going even a step farther ! That's in stopping the Cardinal , in a phony exorcism , from silencing the one person who can expose him , Frankie Paige , by murdering her !
A crime is a crime only when your caught	SPOILERS Wild and untamed youth of the 1950's USA is the story in this movie about young Jill Winters , Norma Eberhardt , who leaves home and school for the big time in a life of petty crime . That lifestyle leads to her hooking up with a gang of mail and jewel thieves who plan to knock off the local post office of a package that contains $150 , 000 . 00 in diamonds . Jill started out rolling costumers in bars all along the California coast after getting them drunk . Jill has the customers buy her as well as themselves drinks , thinking that she'll go to bed with them , and then taking their money . In one case their car Jill ends up fencing some jewelry that she took off one of her victims and the fence tells her that she can get a job working with a gang of crooks led by Rick & Artie , Mike Connors & Troy Donahue . The two hoods specialize in stolen jewelry and electrical equipment selling the items to an eager public for a steep discount . Arti and Jill get themselves jobs as Christmas help at the local post office where they can disarm the security alarm . Rick is later to barge in at closing time to rob the place of a package of $150 , 000 . 00 in diamonds thats being sent to that facility as registered mail . Meanwhile Jill's older sister Kim , Mary Murphy , leaves her drunken dad Pop Winters , Gordon Jones , behind and goes out looking for her little sister before she ends up in the clink or even worse . Finding where Jill is with the help of a kindly and handsome truck driver Jerry , Sheridan Comerate , who earlier in the movie gave Jill a lift Kim finds her way to the town where Jill is staying at . Kim then together with Jill and Artie gets a job at the local post office for Christmas not to rob the place but to prevent her kid sister from doing it and ending up in a federal jail with a long prison sentence . Decent story about restless youth in the 1950's America with Mary Murphy really good as Kim who has to deal with an unemployed and drunken father as well as a unstable and disturbed younger sister . All his while working six days a week as a waitress to put food on the table and beer in the fridge as the only bread winner in the family . Kim also has a phobia about men since one of her dad's drunken friends tried to put his hands on her when she was a teenager . It was her experience with the kindly and feeling Jerry that cured her of that fear . At the end of the movie Jill is given a suspended sentence by the judge for the attempted robbery of the post office , which Kim prevent her as well as Rick and Artie of doing . We then see Kim and Jerry leave the courthouse hand in hand where now all three , Jill Kim & Jerry , can now new start a new life and forget about the past .
Dungeons & Dragons	SPOILERS Bela Lugosi takes center stage in this war propaganda movie about a Japanese attempt to sabotage the US war effort by having infiltrated , some years before their attack on Pearl Harbor , by the secret and powerful Japanese cult " The Order of the Black Dragons " a number of Japanese impostors posing as top US industrial leaders . Having the Black Dragon members " Americanized " through plastic surgery by the eminent German surgeon Dr . Meicher , Bela Lugosi . This sinister plan was accomplished by having six US industrialists kidnapped and murdered and then having death masks made of their faces . Dr . Meicher used the death masks to make the six Black Dragons look exactly like the the six dead industrialists . After finishing the job for his Japanese " friends " Dr . Meicher was arrested and thrown into a Tokyo dungeon to keep the secret of their plan even from their German allies , did they also have something like that in store for the Germans ? or was this in some way a ploy by Hollywood back then , in 1942 , to split up the Axis ? Sharing a cell with a prisoner who was soon to be released who also had a striking resemblance to himself Dr . Meicher takes out of his coat a surgical kit , that for some reason his Japanese captors forgot to confiscate from him , and then does a plastic surgery job on himself , which was nothing more then shaving off his beard and mustache . Tricking the Japanese into thinking that he was the other prisoner Dr . Meicher makes good his escape or release from prison . Now some ten years later in the US with a new face and identity Dr . Meicher , or as he now calls himself Monsieur Colomb , is out to get revenge against those Black Dragons members , masquerading as American industrialists , who tried to do him in . Far-fetched but interesting WWII era movie about betrayal and revenge with Monsieur Colomb , again Bela Lugosi , offing all six Black Dragons who had him jailed and tried to have him executed to keep him silent forever . Colomb killed four of the impostors and dumped then on the stairs of the Japanese embassy in Washington DC with Japanese daggers planted in their hands which meaning was , this is only my opinion , that they were back-stabbers . Colomb had another of the Black Dragon impostors killed by luring him from his DC office to the home of Dr . William Saunders , George Pembroke . Dr . Saunders who was another one of the Black Dragons that betrayed him . Finally Dr . Saunders , who Colomb used to get the other Black Dragons into his trap , was infected with a serum by Colomb that drove him not only insane but made him look like " The Phantom of the Opera " . Even though Dr . Meicher-Monsieur Colomb remained loyal to his fatherland throughout the entire movie he did the Allies a great service . By his killing of the Black Dragon members and thus keeping them from destroying America from within he unwittingly made it possible for the fall and defeat of his beloved Fatherland , Germany , in 1945 only proving that revenge , like love , is truly blind . The future " Lone Ranger " Clayton Moore , Dick Martin , is also in the movie without his famous mask on playing what seems to be a G-Man . The movie never quite makes clear to the audience just what part of law-enforcement special agent Dick Martin is in : Police , FBI , Secret Service , OSS The Boy Scouts ? Moore always introduces himself by flipping open his wallet without saying just who or what he is ? The part of the Grand Dragon , Standford Jolly , was so unintentionally funny that it spoiled the seriousness , yeah sure , of what the film was trying to tell us . Looking and acting as he was either drunk or on drugs and not looking oriental at all but more like a 90 year-old , had he lived that long , Leon Trotsky .
The House of Juliana	SPOILERS Drummed out of the agency , for taking kickbacks , former DEA Agent Quinlan , Robert Mitchum , gets back into action when he's contacted by Hong Kong drug kingpin Chung Wie , Keyes Luke . Wie want's to give Quinlin the names of those behind the Hong Kong to Amsterdam narcotic pipeline and those high in government , in both cities , who are connected with it . For that vital information Wie wants $200 , 000 . 00 a US passport and a one way plane ticket to New York's Chinatown where he can live out the remainder of his life in peace and safety . Wie's information does put a number of the Hong Kong drug cartel operations out of business but it soon backfires when rouge elements high in both the Hong Kong and Amsterdam DEA tip off the drug dealers . This leads to a number of Hong Kong policemen and DEA agents getting murdered in them being ambushed in a secret Hong Kong drug laboratory . Wie himself ends up getting murdered by the drug dealers when after taking off , from the Amsterdam safe-house provided to him by Quinlin , he's tracked down by them and drowned in his bathtub ! Quinlin together with his former undercover drug informer and good friend Jimmy Wong , George Cheung , soon uncover how the drugs are shipped to Amsterdam from Hong Kong unnoticed ; Their hidden inside flower pots where even the best drug sniffing dog can't detect them ! Knowing that he can't trust the DEA Quinlin takes on , together with Jimmy Wong , the drug cartel with it's army of imported Hong Kong hoodlums singlehanded . The films exciting final takes place at a massive greenhouse outside Amsterdam where the drugs are secretly stored . Wild shootout with an incredible bulldozed demolition run , that demolished the greenhouse and about a dozen Chinese drug dealers , has Quinlin and Wong put an end to the Hong Kong to Amsterdam drug operation together with those running it . In the process the two top men , in Hong Kong and Amsterdam , in charge of the drug pipeline are forced-like cornered rats - to come out into the open and face the music . One ending up dead when his car is riddled by Amsterdam police and DEA Agents bullets and other , when he saw he's about to be arrested , after failing to blow his brains out-he didn't have the guts - just waiting to let justice take its course .
Sent Packing	SPOILER Overly complicated made for TV movie about this new " nut " , or " psycho " , in town who has this strange habit of kidnapping five year old girls and causing them to suffocate to death while their bereaved parents and rescue workers try to find them before the oxygen runs out . Rescue dog handler Brenna Shaw , Sherilyn Fenn , first comes across this dangerous lunatic together with her dog Brie as he's in the process of dropping little Zoe Hendricks ( Alicia Ducasse ) , whom he just kidnapped , into a nearby stream . After making his escape the psycho-calling himself Gideon - now wants to get back at both Brenna & Brie for making him , who feels he's a criminal mastermind , look bad . This happens later on in the movie when Gideon , James McGowan , sets a booby trap , a bomb ladened bicycle , for Brie to sniff out in another one of his kidnappings of a five year old girl . With her rescue dog and best friend now history Brenna decides to quit the dog rescue agency that she works at feeling responsible for Brie's death . It's later when her boss ex Boston cop Chris Milos , Constas Mandylor , and FBI Agent Carol Blue , Emma Campbell , plead with Brenna to get back on the case of the " Kidnapped five year old girls " that Brenna reluctantly goes back to work . SPOILER The clues that Brenna soon comes up with , through Gideon's cryptic E-mails to her , bring out the true nature and reasons of his crimes . Gideon , actually Ivan Merrick , kidnapped and , in some cases , murdered the five year old girls as an act of personal revenge . This revenge goes back some ten years when he suffered a tragedy similar to those he's inflicting on his victims right now ! Putting all the pieces together , from his victims , both Brenna & Chris realize that this Gideon will never stop his murder and kidnap spree until he's stopped himself . There's just too many names on his hit-list for him to quit right now . Those names have to do with his own five year old daughter's death some ten years ago in a house fire in Philadelphia ! Brenna and her new rescue dog-Brie's replacement - " Feathers " track down Gideon after his latest kidnapping of five year old girl Denise Johansen , Victoria Van Ryswyk , who he plans , like he tried to do to Zoe , to drown . This time around both Brenna & Feathers were ready for the creep which cause him to experienced an unexpected " leap of faith " , with Feathers help , that finally put an end to his sick and twisted life of crime .
Fear Me Fear Me Not	SPOILERS Interesting but uneven thriller that has to do with full-time writer and author and part-time psychic detective young Cayce Bridges , Ally Sheedy , tapping in on a serial killer on the looses in L . A that the local newspaper dubbed " The Shadowman " , Pruitt Taylor Vince . At First getting strange visions at a TV talk show where she's pushing her latest book , about her psychic powers , Cayce cuts the interview short and goes to the police to prevent the killer's latest atrocity . Cayce is snickered at by Det . Webber , Stan Shaw , but when she reveals things about him and his family that only he knows . Det . Webber and his partner Det . Wu , Keone Young , go to the house , that Cayce directs them to , not only finding out that she was right but that they got there too late to save the Shadowmans latest victim . " Fear " goes one a step beyond the usual psychic detective movie when it turns out that the Shadowman is himself psychic and knows that Cayce is watching him . Besides killing his victims , which he likes to instill enormous fear into before he murders them , the Shadowman taunts Cayce to try and catch him knowing that she's able to watch him . This weird game of cat and mouse that the Shadowman plays with both Cayce and the police gets very personal when he shows Det . Webber that he not only knows where he lives but that he'll murder his entire family if he and the LAPD dare to apprehend him . Cayce for her part gets crank calls late at night from the Shadowman who by scaring her gives him a high almost as good as the one he gets from his terrifying and murdering his victims . Cayce tries to keep the Shadowman from knowing that she's watching him and when she unknowingly slips up , watching him when he's doing his laundry , he becomes very enraged . Changing from an in-control killer to an out of control psycho almost getting himself caught by he police , that Cayce tipped off on his whereabouts . As Cayce tries to leave L . A for New York City the Shadowman , now strangely hooked on her , murders her booking agent Jessica Mareau , Laura Hutton , and makes her psychically watch the whole grizzly scene threatening to kill one person an hour if she leaves . Cayce has no choice but to stay in L . A and be held hostage , like everyone else in the city , by him . The ending of the movie is it's weakest part when the Shadowman reveals himself to Cayce in a fun-house hall of mirrors , obviously copied from the 1947 Orson Wells movie " Lady from Shanghi " , with the killer ending up acting more like a scared slobbering wimp then the brutal cunning and almost omnipresent psycho that he was up until then .
He's such a Smooooth Operator	SPOILERS Eerie and hunting movie photographed in a Film-Noir black and white dream-like style that would be hard to duplicate even now with all the special effects available to todays film-makers . The film's about the spirit world and about one of it's inhabitants attempt to contact someone on the " other side " . Is this about rekindling a love long lost or is the whole story just an elaborate hoax . Concocted by an ex-con con man trying to bilk his unsuspecting victim out of her money ? On the eve of getting engaged to her boyfriend Martin Abbott , Richard Carlson , Christine Faber , Lynn Bari , begins to hear and get feelings that her long dead husband Paul is trying to contact her . Is Paul is trying have Christine break off her engagement with Martin ? Going out on the beach one evening Christine runs into this stranger Alexis , Turhan Bey , and his pet raven who seemed to pop out of nowhere . Telling Christine facts about her and Paul that only she knows and then like a puff of smoke he disappears into the evening mist with only his raven still there . All that Christine has of this mysterious stranger to prove that he was real and not a dream or hallucination was his business card : Alexis Spiritualist at Large . Christine was so taken by this man of mysteries that she went to his pad and got a reading that confirmed a lot of things about her and Paul that he , Alexis , had no why of knowing . Christine's younger sister Janet , Cathy O'Donnell , and fiance Martin get in touch with a private detective who specializes in these types of frauds and was once a magician himself Det . Hoffman , Harry B . Mandoza , to check this chap out . It turned out that Alexis served a stretch in the pen for swindling an old lady out of a load of cash in Chicago , he was then known as The Great Mister Marue . Janet later goes to Alexis to get a reading from him as well as get his fingerprints on a cigarette case to prove that he's the ex-con Mr . Marue . Janet becomes so impressed by Alexis ' supernatural powers and his charm that she instead of trying to get him arrested for fraud falls head over heels in love with him . Is this Alexis just a smooth con man trying to get all he can out of Christine's bank account and flee the coup like he did back in Chicago only to get nabbed by the police or is he , is he , the Real McCoy ? Captivating little movie that in the last twenty minutes or so turns from a more or less harmless fantasy about life after death into a dangerous murder / drama with death a very real possibility for everyone involved . A fine cast headed by the suave and mysterious Turhan Bey as Alexis The Magnificent who can charm the dress or panties off any woman or girl in the movie either alive or dead .
Dick Laurant Is Dead	( There are Spoilers ) Not really a story but a mind altering nightmare for jazz saxophone player Fred Madison , Bill Pullman . Fred goes through a life-changing experience that has him go through the film at first as a victim of a brutal crime where his wife Renee , Patricia Arquette , is murdered . Then later Fred become a participant of another murder of porno film maker Andy , Michael Massee . It's after that where he's evolved into an entirely different person altogether ! Then later back to being himself Fred Madison as he again becomes involved in yet another brutal killing in the slashing / shooting of a murderous mob boss Eddy aka Dick Laurent ! All this is with the help of this creeped-out looking Mystery Man , Robert Blake , who pops up in the movie in a number of scenes , unannounced and unexpected . The Mystery Man looking like he was made up to be an over-aged and over plastered Japanese Geisha Girl . The nightmare begins for Fred when he receives in the mail , with no forwarding or return address , a video tape of his house an later another tape of not only his house but himself and his wife Renee sleeping in bed . Going to the police Fred is told that they can really do nothing since no crime , other then voyeurism , was committed . Earlier we see Fred invited to this strange party where he's introduced to a friend of Renee named Andy who in turn introduces him to the Mystery Man . The Mystery Man tells Fred that he not only knows where he lives but that at this very moment he's in Fred and Renee's house ! Calling home on the Mystery Man's cell phone Fred is answered by the Mystery Man himself who seems to be at two places at the same time ! As both we and Fred are trying to figure what exactly is happening in this weird movie that were watching he's suddenly arrested for the murder of his wife Renee and put on death row , without the benefit of a trial and conviction , waiting execution . Freaking out to whats happening to him Fred then seems to morph into a much younger man named Peter Dayton , Balthazar Getty , in his jail cell . The warden then has no choice but to let him go free . We then learn that Peter was arrested some time ago for car theft , and given a years probation , and lives with his parents William and Candace Dayton , Gary Busey & Lucy Butler . Peter also has this hot to trot girlfriend Sheila , Natasha Gregson Wagner , who's always taking off her clothes when she's with him as both her and Peter are almost always eagerly making out with each other . If it wasn't for Fred coming back on the scene later in the movie I had the feeling that actor Bill Pullman walked off the set being disgusted in what he was offered to play in the film and was replaced by actor Balthazar Getty without the writer / director David Lynch not bothering to re-shoot the scenes with Pullman in them ! It turns out that Peter is a crack a jack car mechanic working at Arnie's , played by a wheelchair bound Richard Pryor , garage who's very well regarded by gangster Eddy aka Dick Laurent , Robert Loggia , for his mechanical abilities in fixing his car . Eddy is a hair triggered hot tempered hood who you don't mess around with . We see him in action later when he works over this tailgater on the highway , who also gave Eddy the finger , by first ramming his car and then beating and pistol whipping the guy almost within a inch of his life . Eddy is also seen at the garage with this blond bombshell of a woman Alice Wakefield who's his personal squeeze and gun moll , also played by Miss Arquette . Alice get's Peter so turned on and excited and ready to go into action that he can't seem to keep his mind on his work for even a moment . Peter is instead played by Alice like first-class sucker in having him not only risk his life and freedom but also lose his overly friendly and sexually active girlfriend Sheila . Playing around with his moll behind his back can have the loose wired Eddy put an end to Peters life with a gun stuck up so hard and far up his behind and then having his brains , like Eddy told him , blown out of his head . The manipulating Alice also wants Peter to murder her former porn movie producer Andy and then take off with her to this creepy hotel in Death Valley and from there take off to Mexico . Thats after a night of fun and games in the sack , or in the desert , with her that turns the cool night temperature of the area up some 50 degrees . Getting all that she wanted from him including murdering Andy Alice then leaves Peter with his pants , in fact all his clothes , off and takes off leaving him to his fate ; being murdered by her outraged lover Eddy . It's just then Peter turns into Fred and the Mystery Man , camcorder in hand , shows up together with a couple of cops looking into Renee's , remember her , murder and what at first seemed like a dream or better yet nightmare becomes a reality . Very strange movie that doesn't make any sense at all until the ending that gives you the impression that it was all some kind of hallucination on Fred's part . In that the entire story was the result of him being on drugs or somehow hypnotized until he finally snapped out , or the drugs wore off . It was then that he finally realized what he did ! As the mysterious saying at the start of the film " Dick Laurent Is Dead " takes on a whole new meaning when it's repeated , by Fred , just as " Lost Highway " finally , after 135 minutes , comes to an end .
Where's headquarters ? Wherever I'm standing !	SPOILERS Having saved a sled dog from being torn apart in a savage dog fight trapper Albert Johnson , Charles Bonson , get's involved in a shooting , in self-defense , that has the Royal Mounted Canadian Police sent to arrest him . The head of the Mounties in the district , the northern Yukon , Sgt . Edger Millen , Lee Marvin , is anything but interested in capturing Johnson feeling that he killed one of those trappers who were out to kill him . The group lead by Hazel , Ed Lauther , who's dog Johnson saved now were determined to track down and kill Johnson feeling that he's the notorious " Mad Trapper " that everyone in law enforcement north of the Mason Dixon line are looking for . Johnson a loner who wants nothing to do with the outside world ends up being chased up the Yukon wilderness as he tries to make it to safety in the inaccessible wilds of Alaska . It ' during the chase that were introduced to the real " Mad Trapper " who Johnson is mistaken for . This lowlife , the " Mad Trapper " , has a habit of murdering his unsuspecting victims and then pulling their gold teeth or fillings out of their mouths . Together on the hunt , for Johnson , with the no so interested Sgt . Millen is his new deputy the Dudley Do-Right-like Constable Alvin Adams , Andrew Stevens , and Millen's sidekick the former Negro League star pitcher Sundog or George Washington Lincoln Brown Played by Carl Weathers . Millen who's been cooped up in the Youkon for years has finally gotten romantically involved with an attractive American woman Vanessa McBride , Angie Dickerson , compared to the Eskimo hookers , that he calls buffalo women , that he's used to partying around with . Venessa who had come up north to pick up her dead husbands things , his watch and trapping license , fell heads over heels for the weather beaten and dog-faced Sgt . Millen who , with the exception of Constable Adams , was about the only normal and sane man in the area . That despite his constantly guzzling down bottle after bottle or rat gut moonshine and smoking notoriously smelly home made cigars . It also turned out that the frustrated Hazel , who had everything going wrong for him in the movie , looking to get some hot action for himself , in the freezing and unfriendly Yukon winter , took an enormous liking to the very cute and boyish Constable Adams . As expected Hazel ended up , after Adams cold cocked him , almost six feet under when he got a wee bit touchy feely with the young Mountie . SPOILERS With all the efforts to catch him that included a WWI vintage airplane , Johnson did make it to the safety of the Alasken border but only after knocking off almost all those in Sgt . Millen's posse who were trying to both kill and capture him for a reward of $1 , 000 . As we soon learned Johnson wasn't the ghoulish " Mad Trapper " that almost everyone accused him of being . It was both Sgt . Millen and Constable Adams who , with the help of Johnson , unwittingly tracked the " Mad Trapper " down and finally ended his reign of terror in the northern territories .
On an island with you	SPOILERS Having met her dreamboat Mitch , Kip Pardue , at a bus station pretty and well heeled , in the money department , Julianne or Julie , Tera Reid , didn't realize what an unstable character he really was until it was too late ; after she married him . It turned out that Mitch has his eye out for Julie for some time and that chance meeting wasn't a coincident at all . It turned out that he had it planned all along ! Going on their two week honeymoon at this deserted island in the middle of a lake wasn't exactly what Julie had in mind but with Mitch insisting upon it she just meekly went along with him . Mitch it turned out is a closet control freak who feels that the only way he can keep Julie is to have her a prisoner in his leaking and dilapidated cabin . At first putting up with her creepy husband Julie finally revolts against his crazy lifestyle and attempts to escape to the mainland . There's only one thing that's holding Julie back she can't swim ! The movie " Devil's Pond " has Julie slowly go into some kind of " Stockholm Syndrome " meekly putting up with all the psychical and mental abuse that crazy Mitch hurls on her . Knowing that she's a captive of an unstable and possibly homicidal , in turns out that Mitch may have murdered his dad in a faked hunting accident , lunatic Julie plays along with him just in order to stay alive . Mitch for his part gets so crazy by the hour that even by giving into all his whacked out fantasies , in him being a both survivalist and nature boy , that in an act of desperation Juie overcomes her fear of water and decides to swim to shore and safety . It turns out that Mitch had the engine of his pick-up truck fixed so that it won't work making Julie's effort to escape a losing one . It also makes Mitch now look for a reason to finally get Julie out of his hair by murdering her to keep her from exposing his dark past ; Mitch's possible murder of his dad to get control of that dinky cabin on the lake ! Very good acting by both Kip Pardue and Tara Reid keep the movie afloat despite it's very unbelievably storyline . The ending was a bit ridicules in how Julie finally got away from Mitch's clutches . Still it was kind enough , in saving the audience from putting up any more with that nut , to have Mitch's final exit in the film happening off screen so that we , as well as Julie , would be speared the agony of witnessing it .
Kenny I've Got Him ! Kenny I've Got Him !	( There are Spoilers ) Even though he's hardly on the screen for the first half hour or so Victor McLaglen as the sensitive and friendly bartender Gitlo is by far the glue that holds the film " Whistle Stop " together . McLaglen playing a part a lot like his Academy Award winning role of Gypo Nolan in the 1935 Classis " The Informer " is far more sympathetic as Gitlo a man with a dark and shady past , were never really informed what just it is . Gitmo is being blackmailed to work for the sleazy owner of the Flamingo House Lew Lentz , Tom Conway , as his bartender and sees just what a rat and lowlife , besides of what he's done to him , Lentz really is . Things really start to heat up in the little railroad town of Ashbury when the eye-popping gorgeous Mary , Ava Gardner , shows up after being away in the big city , Chicago , looking to make it big by getting hitched to someone with mucho money . The type of big bucks which no one in Ashbury but Lentz has . It seems that Mary's stay in Chicago wasn't as successful as she hoped it would be with her still single and , beside having an expensive mink coat , not having as much money to pay for a hotel room . Staying at the Veech House things get a bit strained when Kenny , George Raft , Molly Veech's ( Florence Bates ) older son pops in . Kenny is just what he was when Mary left him shiftless unemployed leaching off his friends and family members and doing absolutely nothing to improve his lot in life ; A real first-class loser if there ever was one . Kenny trying to be tough is really making a complete jerk of himself in that he's looked upon by everyone in town as someone who after you shake hands with him you check your fingers to see if any of them aren't missing ! It's that arrogance and bull handedness that in the end almost leads to Kenny losing his life as well as causing the death of his girlfriend , until Mary came to town , the sweet and hard working waitress at the Flaimigo House Fran , Jorja Curtright . At first trying to hit on Mary , who shares the same house with him , Kenny is deeply hurt in that she falls in love with his biggest rival in Ashbury the sneering smiling sarcastic and ho so sure of himself Lew Lentz . It when Kenny got involved with Gitlo that his life turned to mud in Gitlo trying to get him to knock off the hated , by both him and Kenny , Lew Lentz and steal his profits , $15 , 000 . 00 , form the annual fair he throws in Ashbury . luckily for both Kenny & Gitlo Mary catches on to their plans and derails them thus saving Lentz's life and Kenny & Gitlo from a date with the electric chair . Tragically it was also at the fair that Kenny broke up with Fran that lead , with her smashing head first through a wooden fence , to her death . A changed man Kenny finally does something with his life getting himself a job , on the railroad , and becoming a contributing and tax paying member of society . Kenny's turning over another leaf also get's Mary to leave Lentz and come back to him which has the scheming nightclub owner plan a knockout blow for the unsuspecting Kenny as he does it by using the naive , to what his plans are , Gitlo to pull it off . Almost forgotten , until it was released on DVD , gem of a movie that has everything you would want in a film noir with an outstanding performance by Victor McLaglen as well as George Raft Tom Conway and the hauntingly beautiful 23 year-old Ava Gardner . The ending which was about the only negative in the film is a bit contrived but it's McLaglen's electrifying performance in it which I feel was even better , in making up for his previous sins , then that of Gypo Nolan in " The Informer " that made it work .
Blackwoods in mind	Neat psychological thriller about a man who has a guilty past that just won't go away . Matt , Patrick Muldoon , goes on a trip to the country with his girlfriend , Dawn , Keeger Tracy , to meet her parents and realizes that the place where they live is where he killed a girl in a car accident some time ago . Matt starts to relive that event over and over until it drives him out of his mind . Good use of scenery and even better use of plot and actors by director Vwe Boll of how the minds subconscious is able to bring back events that we would like to forget . Released for video but as good as most films that have theatrical runs , with good supporting efforts by Michael Pare , Samantha Farris and of course Clint Howard as the off the wall motel clerk . The movie ends a bit confusingly but if you use your freeze or slo-mo button , of your DVD or video player , you'll see what really happened to Matt . Terrific use of and manipulating the scenes by directer Boll in which Matt is in flashback and how those scenes mesh together in the end is what makes this made for video movie as good , or even better then most psychological thrillers that you would pay as much as ten dollars to see in the movie houses .
Do you always enter someone's home without knocking ?	SPOILERS When the Selam Ma . high school graduating class of 1963 met for it's 15th reunion it was suppose to nothing more then a mundane affair . It was just by accident that the mystery of one of it's members , who hasn't been seen or heard from since then , Calef Glover-Jason Wither-was brought up in a casual conversation by one of he class members Sandy Hobbs , Megan Rawa . Sara Good , Abigail Morgan , hearing about Calef's sudden disappearance , from Sandy , started to turn the screws on her husband Jon , Marc Ardito , about Celef and what exactly happened to him . As Sara started shooting off her big mouth about Calef it reverberated among a number of his former schoolmates who were in some way responsible for his disappearance ! Among those who seemed to be hiding the truth from Sara about Calef besides her husband Jon was his former girlfriend Martha Alden , Kim Brockington , and her now boyfriend the bisexual Roger Mather , Edmund Lyndeck , as well as the town of Salem undertaker Sandy's husband Alan Hobbs , Michael Kevin Walker . One of the key pieces to the puzzle of what happened to Balef is Rebecca Lawson , Jenna Stern , whom we later find out set the stage for Balef's disappearance . It was Rebecca who was romantically involved with the now married Alen , to Sandy , who Balef had the hots for back in those days . Now involved with Jake Stabler , John Doe , another 1963 graduate Rebecca is becoming spooked by even the mention of Balef's name which the trouble making Sara constantly drops at her . SPOILER ALERT Sara not stopping at anything in her bringing up Balef and not really knowing what exactly he had to do with those now terrified in what happened to him goes a bit too far in uncovering his past . It's all this prying , into what happened to Balef , by a now obsessed Sara which leads the the shocking ending to the movie . Not to what happened to Balef but what her probing into his , and his classmates past , will eventually happen to her ! Solid mystery drama about an event that those who were involved in it , except for the nosy and somewhat unstable Sara Good , would rather want to forget . Sara in fact had her own private demons , that led her to murder and blackmail , to deal with but let them take over her both body and soul . Nowhere as obnoxious at the start of the film as she eventually became towards the end of it Sara became so disliked and hated by everyone in the movie that her sudden and very welcomed demise was by far the most uplifting part of the film !
Despite Buford Pussers untimely death his legend lives on	( Slight Spoilers ) Somewhat fictional account of the life and times of Sheriff Buford Pusser , convincingly played by Brian Dennehy . The film " A Real American Hero " Brings out both the courage combativeness as well as the sensitivity of the late and legendary sheriff of Tennessee's's McNairy County and what he was faced with both the bad guys and the law , that in most cases protected them in , fighting crime . Keeping the violence in check we get to see Buford's attempt to stamp out crime in McNairy County but soon realizing that when you take the law into your own hands you end up , instead of enforcing , breaking it . Sheriff Pusser is incensed at the deaths of two local teenage boys and the blinding of their two girlfriends , whom he caught speeding . Finding out that they were served bootleg whiskey , or rat gut hooch , at the nearby Danny's Disco . Buford goes there not for a drink or to dance but to takes the place apart . Hauled into court like a common criminal for a number of violations of the law , like destroying private property , Buford promises the judge that he'll be a good boy from now on . Going the letter of the law Buford attempts to get Danny Boy Mitchell , Ken Howard , the owner of Danny's Disco and top hood in McNairy County and put him behind bars by doing it . Danny Boy who at first felt safe from Sheriff Pusser with the law and courts being on his side soon becomes a paranoid nut-case as his enterprise , of bootlegging and being a night club disco entrepreneur , was in danger of going bankrupt . With Pusser finding the most obscure laws on the books , some over 100 years old , to fine Danny Boy he's in danger of being put him out of business . Getting desperate Danny has his hoods try to run and gun down Buford and his two kids only to get him really pied off at them and work twice as hard , in finding violations on Danny Boy's business ventures , to put Danny not only out of business but behind bars . Which leads in Danny now really losing it , after Buford worked him over in a " friendly " boxing match , and has his hoods set sheriff Pusser up for the kill , with the help of his girlfriend who works in Buford's office . This action his his part in the end spells curtains for Danny Boy not Sheriff Pusser . Nowhere as violent and brutal as the previous two " Walking Tall " or " Buford Pusser " movies but more interesting though according to the movies epilogue the story is fiction . Actor Brian Dennehy heroic as well as sensitive portrayal of the legendary sheriff made him far more human , and not being a mindless and unstoppable one man wrecking crew . Besides being a loving father and husband Buford also goes out of his way in a side plot that had really nothing to do with the movie to help beautiful ex-convict Carrie Todd played by Sherre North . With the self-righteous and stuffed up women of McNairy County wanting to run Carrie out of town Bufrord invited her to go the big dance , with him of course , in order to stick it to the overlay concerned women in town . Carrie herself won over their respect by saving the life of Eunis ' , the head of the righteous squad , daughters life when she was chocking on a chicken bone using the Heinrick maneuver . You see Carrie studied being a nurse while spending time behind bars . P . S The theme song in the movie " A True American Hero " aptly titled " Walking Tall " was sung by Don Williams .
Good versus Evil in the Deep South	SOME SPOILERS The film " Go Down Death " is based on a touching and powerful poem , thats been used mostly as a funeral sermon , by early 20th Century African-Amercan educator and civil rights activist James Weldon Johnson who died tragically , just nine days after his 67th birthday , on June 26 , 1938 in Wiscasset Maine when the car he was driving was hit by a train . Young handsome and spellbinding new Baptist Minister Reverend Jasper Rose has been packing them into his Mt . Zion Church and turning his congregation away from a life of vice and sin . This is really hurting the Red Rooster's owner Big Jim Bottoms ' bottom line . Big Jim together with one of his henchmen plans to get the goods on the righteous Rev . Jasper by getting him into a compromising positing with a number of his bar or fly girls by them getting Rev . Jasper all alone with them . The girls , Mable Minnie and May , go to the Mt . Zion Church to talk to Rev . Jasper about the words of wisdom in the New Testament and about becoming members of his church . Getting Jasper alone in Big Jim's house , to be enlighten by him and his interpretation of the holy Bible , the girls pull out a bottle of wine . Filling a number of wine glasses , hidden in their coats , the girls start drinking it as well as pulling up their dresses and showing a lot of skin , as well as kissing the shocked and startled Reverend ! Big Jim and one of his hoods pop up out of the closet and photograph the whole sleazy , and staged , scene . Totally taken by surprise Rev . Jasper is willing to resign as Mt . Zions Reverend to avoid a scandal but mother Carrie , Big Jim's step-mother , who unknowing to Big Jim saw the whole seedy performance talks him out of it saying that the Lord will vindicate him and punish those , Big Jim & Co . , who are trying to destroy his ministry and keep Rev . Jasper from saving sinners souls . Big Jim now feeling that he got the " goods " on the good Reverend Jasper later puts the developed and printed photo's away in his safe planning to release them to the Mt . Zion church goers to show what a fake and phony that their beloved Rev . Jasper really is . what Big Jim didn't count on it that someone was watching and saw what he did and that someone will see to it that he pays for his low down and sordid act and pays for it in full . Mother Carrie and her late husband Joe had brought up Big Jim since his parents were killed in a tornado when he was just four months old . Now he turned his back on her when she pleaded with him to stop his plan to destroy the Reverend Jasper as well as his fiance Mother Carrie's daughter Betty-Jane . Praying to God Mother Carrie gets an answer from her late and beloved husband Joe who comes to her as a Guardian Angel from heaven and opens up the safe where Big Jim put the incriminating photos . Big Jim getting home from partying and boozing finds the safe opened , and the photos missing , and sees Mother Carrie hiding behind a door . After struggling with Mother Carrie to get the photos back she falls on the ground cracking her skull . With Mother Carrie bedridden Big Jim begins to realizes what a rat and lowlife he really is and forgets about the photos he has to destroy Reverend Jasper's reputation . It's when Mother Carrie succumbs to her injuries that Big Jim's conscience starts to get to him driving him insane . Gulit-ridden and almost suicidal the tormented Bg Jim starts running like a madman into the wilds where , after having revealed to him his ultimate fate , dies of exposure . Earlier at the Mt . Zion church , that's filled to capacity , the right Reverend Jasper gives a heart-felt and touching sermon at Mother Carrie's funeral telling the congregation , where Big Jim was in attendance , that Mother Carrie is in good hands and to weep no more for her death but to celebrate her kind and caring life . It was Reverend Jaspers sermon that really hit home and got to Big Jim and got him to think about what he did in trying to destroy Jasper's ministry and In the end destroying Mother Carrie's life that drove him to his death .
Once was not Enough ?	A 1989 version of a 1940's like Film Noir crime / suspense movie set in the wide open spaces of the Navada and Arizona desert and American Indian Reservations . Ripping off the mob of $850 , 000 . 00 outside of Winnemucca NV . as well as killing one of it's top honchos the two desperado's Vince and his girlfriend Fay , Michael Madsen & Joanne Whailey , take off for parts unknown to wait out the storm of the mob and state police all points search for them . Stopping off at a rest stop Vince is smashed in the head by Fay , as he was answering natures call , who took off with his car and the mob's cash for Reno . The move " Kill Me Again " then switches to this local Reno Private Investagter Jack Andrews , Val Kilmer , who gets his right pinkie broken by two goons for being late on his loan of $10 , 000 . 00 that the mob advanced him . Jack told by the mobsters that if he doesn't have the money by Wendsday they themselves will donate it to him for his funeral . Not knowing what to do and with no way to come up with the cash Jack get's his prayers answered when the next day . Fay walks into his shabby and smashed-up office with a proposition that may very well save his life . Fay is willing to pay Jack $10 , 000 . 00 to forge documents to make it look like she's officially dead so her boyfriend Vince won't find her . But their's one small thing that the two didn't figure on . The $10 , 000 . 00 that Fay's to pay Jack for his services belongs to the Navada Maranot Mob who Fay and Vince riped off . Added to all that the Mob that got ripped off by Fay & Vince is who the loan sharks , who are about to do Jack in , work for ! Val Kilmer even though he has the leading role as Robert Andrews is very unconvincing as the hard boiled and down and out PI . Kilmer is far too pretty and good looking to play the part that a Humphrey Bogart and Robert Mitchum portrayed in the 1940's and 50's . Micael Madsen is near perfect as the psychopathic and sadistic Vince Miller who chilling toys with his victims , like a cat playing with a mouse , before he brutally does them it . Joanne Whailey is also near perfect as the femme fatal who manipulates those who fall under her spell , like Vince & Jack , and uses them for her own selfish and greedy needs . The ending of " Kill Me Again " is so predictable that it hits you with a strong dose of deja vu ; you more then expect something like that to happen . With those in the film , Jack Vince & Fay , reminding you of many like wise type characters you've seen in film noir movies over the years .
The " Boz " rides to the rescue	SPOILERS Far fetched movie , even by Hollywood standers , about a biker gangs assault on the state capital building in Jackson Mississippi to save a fellow biker , " Trouble " Owens , Billy Millon , from being sentenced to death for the murder of a Baptist minister after he was already sentenced to 45 years in jail for the same crime ! Doesn't this violate the constitutional right against double-jeopardy ? . To make things even more interesting the bikers plan to knock off Brent " The Whip " Whipperton , David Tress , the state DA who's running for governor . The " Whip's " platform is that that he'll , if elected , do everything in his power to break up " The Brotherhood " . The biker gang thats involved in murdering law and religious leaders who threaten their criminal activities and who pushed for the death penalty being imposed on the convicted biker leader " Trouble " . Brian " Boz " Bosworth , Joe Huff , a Mobile Alabama undercover cop who specializes in infiltrating biker gangs is recruited by the FBI to get the " goods " on " The Brotherhood's " leaders Chains , Lace Henriksen , and Ice , William Forsythe , as well as uncover their plans to spring Trouble Owens from jail . If it weren't for the final ten minutes of the movie " Stone Cold " wouldn't be worth watching with has " The Brotherhood's " explosive assault on the state capital building and " The Boz " coming to the rescue , by air , just in the nick of time before they can get away . " Stone Cold " gets muddled as soon as it starts with sub-plot after sub-plot bogging down the story and confusing the audience . But it's more then worth sitting through just to see the showdown at the end of the movie between the bikers vrs the police , FBI and the US army which will not disappoint and more then make up for the boring and confusing story up to that point . Even though he can't act a lick Brian " Boz " Bosworth is very imposing and physical in the movies incredible action scenes . It's only when he reads his lines that you can't keep from chuckling and wondering if this role that " The Boz " is playing as an undercover agent for the FBI is nothing more then a comedy shtick for a " Saturday Night Live " TV show . Henriksen and Forsythe easily steal the acting honors in the movie as the crazed and insane bikers leaders Chains and Ice . Chains even gets religious in order to get close to and take out the hated state DA Brent " The Whip " Whipperton who comes across as vicious and obnoxious as any of the crazed bikers in the movie and " The Whip " is supposed to be one of the " good guys " .
Holy Terror	SPOILERS One afternoon in NYC a sniper on top of a high-rise buildings water tower opens fire on the people milling down on the city streets . With uncanny accuracy he guns down fifteen people . Det . Peter Nicholas , Tony Lo Bianco , climbs up the water tower and tries to talk to the sniper Harold Gorman , Sammy Williams , on why he did this horrible act and also tries to get him to give himself up . Harold calmly tells Det . Nicholas that " God told me to " and then jumps to his death from the tower . Troubled over the sniping incident Det . Peter Nicholas , a very religious man , tries to rationalize why Gorman would do such a thing and at the same time try to connect God to it . Thinking that there's more to the incident then what the official police report says , that Gorman was insane . Later another man does the same thing that Gorman did . John picks up a knife and goes down to the supermarket and stabs to death a number of people before he's shot by the police . When Peter talks to him in his hospital room he tells him the same thing that Harold did : " God told me to " ! There's something very strange and mysterious behind these killings but nobody seems to know what it is ? At the eve of the Saint Patrick's Day parade the police get a phone call telling that there is going to be a shooting where five policemen will be killed and the shooter will be one of their own . Not having the time as well as being able to stop the parade sure enough a cop marching in the Saint Patrick's Day parade , Andy Kaufman , goes berserk and opens fire on his fellow policemen and kills five of them before he's shot to death himself . As he's dying the insane cop says the same thing that the other two mass murderers said " God told me to " . Det . Nicholas finally loses it when he comes upon a person who murdered his entire family and when questioned about why he did it he tells Peter that he was told by God to give him back the family that he gave him and how could he refuse ? The police connect the killers to a young man that they were seen with just before they went on their rampages . Finding out his name Bernard Phillips , Richard Lynch , and where he lives Det . Peter Nicholas feels that Bernard is somehow involved in the killings and then goes to his apartment to interview him about them . Attacked on the stairway by Bernrd's mother Mrs . Phillips who tries to stab Det . Nicholas she instead ends up stabbing herself ! Again as Mrs . Philips is dying she tells Peter that same haunting reason for her actions : " God told her to " . Det . Nicholas feels that the Phillips ' are the reason for these killings and goes to track down how this whole nightmare started ! This takes Peter back to when and were this horror originated in Cape Cod and Jersey City some twenty five years ago in October , around Halloween , 1951 . The story that Peter uncovers is a link to what happened then in 1951 to what's happening now in 1975 . Even more disturbing is that Peter has some connection , in fact blood related , to who's responsible for those horrific murders ! Tony Lo Bianco gives one of his best performances as Det . Nicholas with Deborah Raffin and Sandy Dennis , Casey Foster & Martha Nicholas , as the two women in his life . Both Casey & Martha sense during the movie that Peter's strong religious convictions were more then what he would normally have developed from his very strong Catholic upbringing . The scene with Det . Nicholas and Elizabeth Mullen , Silvia Sidney , the mystery women in the film who's the key that unlocks the door to Peter's most frightening suspicions is packed with so much power and emotion that it leaves the viewers almost out of breath and gasping for air . Finding out the truth and finishing some unfinished business in a Harlem pool hall , with a cop-killing drug dealer , the ending to the movie seems a bit confused when Peter has it out with the mysterious and elusive Bernard Phillips . The movie by then already went as far as it could by stepping on too many toes in regards to it's religious angle , without being cut or censored , and thus it's obviously contrived ending . To stop the killings Peter ended up becoming what he so strongly tried to stop : A religiously homicidal lunatic . Peters last words to the press , as he was led away in handcuffs , were what haunted him throughout the entire movie : " God told me to " . Defiantly not for everyones tastes but the movie does hold one's interest from start to finish in regards to its thought provoking subject matter . Religious fanaticism depicted in the movie may have been considered unreal and over the top back then in 1975 when " God Told Me To " was released . But with what's been happening today in the Middle East and beyond , in regards to religious inspired terrorism and murder , the movie doesn't seem that far fetched at all !
It's my house man ! I was born there !	SPOILERSBetter then average disaster flick with Tommy Lee Jones as top kick at the L . A OEM-Office of Emergency Management-Mike Roark doing what he can to save Los Angeles from being engulfed by a sea of molten rock , lava . The lava is belching out of an underground volcano some 60 miles south of the city . Taking a week off to spend some time with his teenage daughter Kelly , played by Gaby Hoffmann , Mike is unexpectedly called back to work as a number of slight but deadly tremors hit the city . When the tremors subside and it looks like the danger is over it's later determined by geologist Dr . Amy Barnes , Anne Heche , that this is just the beginning of something really big . A possible volcanic eruption that if not addressed by the city's emergency agencies could well destroy the downtown section of L . A and kill tens of thousands of the city's residents . Dr . Barnes prediction shockingly comes true the next day as a major earthquake , started by an underground volcano , erupts with it's epicenter some 60 miles south of the city in the desert town of Palmdale . As dawn approaches boiling streams of lava from the volcano moves north towards L . A bursting through the still active , after some 10 , 000 years , La Brea Tar Pits in the very heart of the city . It's now a race against time with Mike Roark and Dr . Amy Barnes risking their lives , together with thousands of L . A firemen police and California national guardsmen , to keep the onrushing and deadly lava from overwhelming the city . The lava makes its way west moving practically unchecked on its scorched earth drive towards the Pacific Ocean . In the path of the deadly lava is West L . A and it's some million inhabitants . Top rate special effects has you at the edge of your seat as we see L . A scorched and pulverized by not only the lava flow but tons of deadly rocks , ignited by the volcanic eruption , spewing out of the city's underground subway system . With the what seems like unstoppable lava flow moving dangerously close to L . A's Ceadars-Sinai Medical Center , where thousands of the injured are being treated , it's decided by Dr . Barnes that the only way to stop it is to blast a number of streets out in front of it's path . This last ditch attempt will have it , the lava , diverted to the Redline subway system that would , if everything goes right , have it flow into the Pacific without touching any residential areas along the way . Mike after , together with Dr . Barnes , cheating death over and over throughout the film is soon forced to risk his life yet again when he spots his daughter Kelly , with a four year old boy in her care , in front of a 28 story building that's about to be demolished . The buildings foundations have been ringed with dozen of dynamite charges in order to have it be brought down in order to stop the onrushing lava from breaking through and overwhelming the medical center and west side of the city . Sizzling final with the lava , that's been diverted by the explosions set off by Mike & Co , moving along the Redline Subway tracks and spilling into the Pacific setting off , with the evaporated ocean water , a major downpour . It's that monsoon like cloud burst that sweeps the million dollar plus houses along the Malibu coast into the sea . As bad as that was it was nothing compared to what would have happened if the deadly lava raced unchecked through the city . Not only homes would have been destroyed but the entire population of West L . A , some one million people , would have been destroyed along with them .
White Line Fever	SPOILERS Breaking their backs hauling fruits and veggies all along the California coast the last thing that the two brother truckers Joe & Paul Fabrini , George Raft & Humphrey Bogart , needed was their truck to have an accident and lose a wheel . That's what happens at high noon in the beginning of of the movie " They Drive by Night " which leaves the two out in the cold and without any means of transportation to bring in their haul to the fruit and vegetable terminal market in downtown L . A . Getting no help from their boss Mike Williams , Charles C . Wilson , who owes them some three weeks back pay old Mikey boy decides to rid himself of his pesky employees . Mikey gets in touch with loan-shark or legalized financial shyster Fansworth , Charles Halton , to dispossess their , Joe & Paul's , truck and at the same time get them out of his hair . what Mikey ends up getting is a punch in the mouth from the Fabrina boys and $300 . 00 , what he owes them , lighter for his sleazy and underhanded efforts . Still wanted by Fansworth who's now got the law on his side for being delinquent in their payments the two brothers decide to go it alone in the trucking business being that their on the out with their boss , Mikey Boy Williams . The brothers buy on credit a truck of their own that hits pay-dirt on their first trip , with the truck loaded with lemons , by making a $500 . 00 profit which not only get's Fansworth off their back but gets them out of debt as well . Paul who's old lady Pearl , Gale Page , had just about had it with him being away for as much as a week at a time with his job in a way get her wish come true when he's involved in an accident where he ends up losing his right arm and is finished for good in driving a truck or any other motorized vehicle . It's now up to Joe to bring in the bacon , for both him as well as Paul & Pearl , and he does it by getting himself a job at his old friends Ed Carlsen , Alan Hale , trucking company . We soon find out that Ed's wife Lana , Ida Lupino , has been after Joe , that handsome devil , since before she married his friend and now employer Ed Carlsen . Lana now sees her big chance to get Joe all for herself but doesn't realize that he's not at all that interested in her and won't cheat on his friend Ed Carlsen . But the biggest surprise of all to Lana is that Joe has himself a girlfriend the sweet and pretty waitress Cassie Hartly , Ann Sherian , whom he met and fell in love with at a local truck stop when she served him a hamburger and coffee . The movie then turns from a story about a couple of good natured and fun loving brothers trying to make a living at the hight of the Great Depression to a tale of murder and madness with the man hungry Lana Carlsen doing a Double Indemnity like number on her drunk and passed out husband Ed . Lana locks Ed up in the family garage and leaves the engine of his car on thus killing the poor and unsuspecting guy with a lethal dose of carbon monoxide poisoning . Getting control of her late husbands business as well as a nice fat life insurance settlement on his untimely death Lana thinks that she now has Joe , whom she made co-owner , wrapped around her finger . That's until he introduces her to his fiance Cassie Hartley and then everything , like Lana's mind , starts to fall apart . Lana ends up falling out of sanity and ends up institutionalized for her husbands murder . What I thought was a totally unnecessary trail of Joe Fabrini in him being unjustifiably accused by the obviously crazy Lana for her husbands Ed murder which was about the only thing that I found boring and unbelievable about the movie . But it gave actress Ida Lupino a chance to really show off her stuff in playing a psycho killer as well as a " whatever Ida wants Ida gets " type of screen actress . In fact the role help her out in the future in getting similar parts , that she did an excellent job with , that made Ida one of the biggest stars in the movie industry for the next thirty or so years .
Crazy people do crazy things	SPOILERS Lying in bed and playing with a paper-clip Jericho Mansions superintendent Leonard Gray , James Caan , tell us the story of what happen in that apartment building that put him in the place that he's in now . Leonard knows only his life as a super at that apartment building and nothing else . In his fifties he knows nothing of what he did up until he was in his late twenties . Thats when he somehow became the superintendent of that building . What he did and what kind of life he lead before that is a total blur to him . But two events happened the week before that had his past come back to him and it came back with deadly results . The landlady of the Jericho Mansions Mrs . Lily Meinick , Genevieve Bujodl , had just lost her husband of over thirty years Robert , Pierre Rioux . Shortly after Roberts funeral she got a call from her sister in France Bettina , Lenie Scoffie , via a singing telegram , that she's coming over to see Lily for the first time in thirty years . These two events set lily off in an insane way to get rid of her long-time superintendent Leonard Gray by hook or by crook . Even if it took a murder on her part to do it . You wonder why this hatred and at the same time fear of the meek shy and seemingly harmless Leonard Gray ? He never left the building in the thirty years that he worked there ! Leonard also seems to be so helpless outside that if he's fired , which Lily can't do because he belongs to a superintendents union , he my well die on the cruel and cold city streets . When in desperation trying to get Leonard arrested by the police for stealing her husbands watch it becomes obvious that Lily planted it in Leonard's room . It's then that her whole plan to rid herself of him completely begins to fall apart . Then one evening one of the tenants in the building Bill Cherry , Peter Keleghan , is found dead at the bottom of the buildings incinerator . Lily seeing her chance tries to blame his death , or murder , on Leonard ! But with no evidence at all to Leonard's guilt for the death of Bill Cherry and Lily totally unable to get rid of him she starts to lose her sanity and begins to go mad . Whats the reason for all these actions on the part of Lily anyway ? What is there about Leonard that she's been keeping hidden from him from coming out all these years ? We find out at the end of the movie that the secret that is hidden by Lily as well as hidden deep inside Leonard's subconscious mind . That secret is so terrible that we slowly begin to understand why she acted the way that she did in trying to get rid of him all through the film . It was the past that she and her husband so cleverly covered up over the last thirty years that was about to the surface . Now everything that Lily did to prevent it from coming out was as useless to stopping it as a sea-wall is in holding back the Atlantic Ocean . It's that secret was to lead to her doom .
My Son is dead , I don't know who's Son I'm raising ?	SPOILERS Better then expected re-make of the 1976 horror classic " The Omen " about the return of the Devil / Antichrist on earth in the guise of young Damien Thron , Samus-Davey Fitzpatrick , the son of Robert Thorn , Liev Schreiber , not only the US ambassador to Great Britian but the Godson of the President of the United States . Right from the start Damien was a mystery to his father Robert when in the Rome maternity ward he was told by the Catholic priest Father Spiletto , Siovannie Lombardo Radice , who had delivered him that his and his wife Kate's , Julia Stiles , newborn son died in childbirth and was replaced by another newborn who's mother died giving birth to him . Growing up in London young Damien seems to be a normal child but later when he turns five a number of strange events have his father feel that besides not really being his own Damien has a weird and almost murderous influence on those around him . At Damien's fifth birthday party two things happen that should have alerted Robert to his , secretly , adopted sons weirdness . This eerie and terrifying " Devil Dog " shows up and later becomes almost inseparable from young Damien . Damien's nanny , Amy Huck , later commits suicide by jumping off a high ledge on the Thorn house with a rope tied around her neck in an insane attempt to entertain the young boy . At the Damien birthday party is free-lance photographer Keith Jenning , David Thewlis , who after developing a number of photos that he took of the nanny finds a dark line , much like a hang rope , attached to her head . It's much later when Jenning photographs Father Brenner , Pete Postlethwait , who tried to tell Robert the truth about Damien is suddenly killed when a steel pole falls from the top of his church , during a violent thunder storm , impaling and killing him . In the photos that Jennings took of Father Brenner was a strange white line , like the pole that killed him , going straight through his body . Later at Father Brenner's apartment Robert who together with Jennings was searching the place out for clues that could explain the outlandish charges against Damien . Jennings mistakenly photographed his reflection in a mirror and sees , after he developed the film , that he like the late Father Brenner was also marked for death . Robert at first was totally against what Father Brenner told him , that his son Damien is the dreaded Antichrist of the book of Revelation . After a number of events , that the late Father Branner predicted , happened to him and Kate with Kate later mysteriously dying in her hospital room convinced him that everything about Damien that Father Brenner told him is true . Together with Jennings Robert finds the grave of Damien's true mother and Damien himself as well as a trip to the Holy Land to see the Catholic Church archaeologist Bugeohagen , Michael Gambon , which ended with Jennings tragically losing his head , like the photo of himself predicted . The truth began to dawn on Robert and that his worst fears that he kept hidden deep inside may very well be true . It was the very last doubt that Robert had about Damien's identity , being the Antichrist , the Satanicly evil birthmark 666 being somewhere on his body that finally convinced Robert with it , the mark , being discovered hidden under his hair . The 2006 horror / thriller " The Omen " follows the original almost scene by scene with a few new shocks and jolts thrown in for good measures with the only drawback , and it's a big one , being the new versions soundtrack that omits the scary and frightening Latin Satanic Chant in the 1976 movie " Hail Satan " . One really big plus in the new movie " The Omen " is Mia Farrow as the new nanny , replacing the one who killed herself , and secret and fanatical Devil worshiper Mrs . Baylock . Mia Farrow / Mrs . Baylock changes right before you eyes from a sweet and caring person into a homicidal and hysterical witch . Who's battle , together with Damien's pet Devil Dog , with Robert at the end of the movie has to be one of the most hair-raising sequences ever put into a motion picture . The new version of " The Omen " is one of the better re-makes of a previous block-buster that in some scenes , like the out of nowhere dog attack on Robert and Jenning at the cemetery , actually improves on the original .
Timeless	( There are Spoilers ) Interesting take on time travel involving this future travel agency that has its clients travel back in time to witness major disasters and at the same time not ultimately become a part , by getting killed , in them . Tabloid newspaper reporter Tom Merrick , Casper Van Dein , checking out his fellow investigative reporter's Liz Wintern's , Catherine Bell , computer finds this strange paradox in , official at the time news photos , the same person being at the scene of three different disasters , the Titanic the Hindenburg and Hurricane Hugo , within a time span of some ninety years ! And on top of all that the mystery man Murray Trevor , Julian Richings , didn't seem to age a day ! You can just imagine what Tom thought when he spotted this same Murray Trevor on his flight from Chicago to Washington D . C ! He just knew that something terrible was about to happen and , on a hunch , then prevented it from happening : A major mid-air collision that was to take the lives of over 300 people ! As he soon finds out Tom by preventing the collision from happening change the course of future event that resulted in the destruction , by someone on the plane surviving , of all of Southern California ! What's even more shocking is that Tom himself was supposed to have been killed in a major warehouse fire some time ago but it was Trevor , who was there to enjoy the action , who accidentally prevented that from happening ! The film has the head of the future time travel agency Grifasi , Martin Sheen , send two of his clean up employees or goons , in seeing that time marches on unperturbed , Cortez & Felder , Thereas Saldana & Peter Outerbridge , to make sure that Tom doesn't prevent any more major disasters from happening . The theory is , in future knowledge , if they don't happen in the past they'll sure as hell happen in the future ! The future that Crifasi Cortez and Felder are living in ! Very hard to follow at times with Tom & Co . going back and forth in time , with this device called the Santza Displacer , preventing as well as trying , in the case of Cortez & Felder , to encourage future deserters to happen all around the city of Chicago . The big pay-off is the forthcoming destruction of the Copps Sports Colosseum that was to cause the death of over 11 , 000 people . Two of them being Tom's ex-wife Jen , Deborah Odell , and nine year old son Kevin , Marc Donato ! You just got to take things as they come , and not seriously , in " Thrill Seekers " knowing that with everything out of whack , in the time space continuum , you can't expect any logic in what's happening on screen . You do get an eyeful of top flight , for a made for TV movie , action scenes as well as people getting killed and , because of the time travel aspect of the film , coming back to life which more then makes up for the films hooky storyline . You also get an eyeful of actress Catherine Bell who when she lets her hair down and takes off her glasses , as well as puts on a tight fitting sweater , rivals the fiery action scenes , which she's soon to become a part of , in the film .
I have never seen such beauty as yours , or such evil in such beauty	( There Are Spoilers ) Fictional dramatization of the notorious 1888 Whitechapel-Kensington murders attributed to the legendary and infamous " Jack the Ripper " that gives the killer a face a name and a motive . After his beloved brother , whom he loved and worshiped , died Slade , Laird Cregar , took it upon himself to rid the world of evil . The evil that Slade targeted was that of beautiful women that he held responsible for his poor brothers demise . Renting a suite of rooms from the Bartons , Robert and Ellen , ( Cedric Harwicke & Sara Allgood ) in he Whitechaple section of London Slade planned to continue his " cursade " against evil but something popped up that he never expected . The Barton's beautiful niece singer dancer Kitty Langley , Merle Oberon , who's the star attraction at the Piccadilly Theater lives in the same house . Poor and confused Slade just can't take his eyes off her which leads him to act rather suspicious as he starts to makes weird and dangerous advances towards Kitty . Both John and especially Ellen notice Slade's strange behavior and suspect of him being " Jack the Ripper " who's been out at night slicing up hookers in the neighborhood . The police are notified about the big lug's unexplained disappearances at night and his constantly burning clothes and other items , that may well have to do with his disappearances , to cover up his suspected actions as the " Ripper " . It was too bad that Slade was around Kitty all the time since she got him to blow his cover as the Whitechaple killer by becoming so obsessed with her . In his both loving Kitty and at the same time wanting to murder her that it tipped off the Barton's to just who he really was . It's obvious right from the beginning of the movie that Slade is the killer so there's no real suspense to who he , Jack the Ripper , is . It's the reasons that drove him , his brother tragic death , to become the insane killer that he is that adds a new and interesting insight to just what state of mind he's in . With the police lead by Inspector John Warwick , George Sanders , setting a trap for him at the theater where Kitty is performing Slade sneaks into her dressing room . After giving Kitty an insight into his strange philosophy of beauty and evil , as well as life and death , he makes a gab for her only to have Inspector Warwick and a squad of London Bobbies break in and come to her rescue . It takes a lot to put the big gorilla down as he takes off knocking over anybody or anything that gets in his way only to end up diving into the Thames River , to escape the London police , and never to be seen or heard from again . Laird Cregar is both creepy and charming as Slade and his massive fame , 6 foot 4 inches and 300 pounds , made him that much more scary as the " Ripper " in the movie . Cregar died soon after the movie " The Lodger " was released from a crash diet that not only took some 100 pounds off him but also took his life . George Sanders as the police inspector Warwick had a small part and did the best he could with it . Both Cedric Hardwicke and Sara Allgood were effective as the landlord and landlady of the house that Slade was staying at and provided the little humor that was in the movie . It was Merle Oberon as Kitty who just didn't come across at all convincing with her being no naive and unconscious to Slades murderous intentions , even when he was alone with her . That gave me the impression that she may have thought that she was in a musical instead of a horror / suspense movie .
High Octane Desert Action	SPOILERS Driving cross-country through the Arizona desert towards California a truck backs out of the road and almost hits the van driven by Jeff and Amy Taylor , Kurt Russell and Kathleen Quinlan . Stopping at the nearest gas station Jeff is confronted by the truck driver Earl , M . C . Gainey who calls him a rotten driver and worse . Trying to avoid any trouble with Earl Jeff takes his insults and walks away from him . Unknown to both Jeff and Amy is that their being set up to be kidnapped robbed and murdered by a ruthless gang of criminals . This gang of murderous cutthroats work the desert highways picking off unsuspected motorists with out of state license plates , Jeff's van has Massachusetts plates , who will not be missed long enough until the gang gets away with their crime . Earl unhooked the wiring of Jeff's van when he and Amy were in the gas station getting something to eat . Later as they were driving in the empty desert their van broke-down . All of a sudden a friendly trucker Red Barr , J . T . Walsh , pulls up offering to help . Red tells Jeff and Amy that the closest place where they can call for assistance is 60 miles away at the Belle's Diner . Amy decides to go with the helpful Red to the diner while Jeff choose to stay with the van until help arrived . Finding out what's wrong with the van and fixing it Jeff drives to the Belle's Diner only to find out that his wife Amy and the friendly trucker were never there ! As the befuddled Jeff start to look for Amy it seems like she just vanished off the face of the earth . Good action drama set in the middle of the Arizona / Nevada desert with a gripping performance by Kurt Russell as a man driven from being peaceful and reasonable to a desperate and no holds bar individual . Searching of his missing wife Jeff battles with the gang who kidnapped her with nobody around to help or believe him . Jeff tracking down the gang of kidnappers and finding his wife the movie then goes into high octane action that includes an incredible car chase scene with Jeff and Amy hemmed in from both sides by two cars of the kidnappers while Red is using his 18 wheeler to slam Jeff's car from behind like a battling ram . J . T Walsh steals the acting honors with his Doc . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde performance as Red Barr . We see Red go from a friendly and helpful good Samaritan into a brutal kidnap-murderer and he does it so convincingly that it's hard to believe that he's the same person in both roles . The look on Red's face that changes from family man to psycho-killer at the dinner table , when he was confronted by Jeff , was so startling as well as demonic that it made the hair on my back stand on it's ends . Tremendous ending sequence with the aforementioned car case culminating with a heart-stopping cliff or to be more accurate bridge hanging ending . Red in the end get pulverized in what would give the definition of the word " overkill " a whole new meaning .
Money is the root of all Evil	( Some Spoilers ) Washing up ashore off the Turkish Bosphorus Straits is a body identified as that of Dimitrios Makropoulos ; a crook murderer spy blackmailer assassin double-crosser and all around lowlife no good scoundrel . Taking a well earned vacation in Istanbul is famous Dutch detective writer Corelios Leyden , Peter Lorre , who's a good friend of the local police chief Col . Haki , Kurt Katch . Col . Haki invites Layden to come down to the city morgue to inspect the dead Dimitrios and see if it gives him any new ideas for writing his new and upcoming crime novel . Layden who's very squeamish at the sight of blood is fascinated not with the man's corpse but his life and crimes before he ended up as shark bait and want's to investigate it in order to write a book about him . Going to Athens Greece Layden finds out that Dimitrios Markropoulos ' real last name is really Talat , Turkish and Greek , and that he not only was a murderer and thief but also a blackmailing double-crossing swine who was responsible for the deaths of at least two people . One who ended up on the gallows for a crime that he committed and another who he drove to suicide by blackmailing a patriotic , but very gullible , Yougoslav to sell out his own country . Layden is being followed all this time by a mysterious Mr . Peters , Sydney Greenstreet , who tails him all the way to Sofia Bulgaria . In the Bulgarian capital Mr . Peters breaks into Leyden's hotel room and ransacks it as he unexpectedly shows up and has a gun pulled on him . Seeing that Layden is no threat to him Mr . Peters tells him a plan that he has to make them very rich by going back to Paris but keeps the reasons secret from Leyden . Later Leyden traveling to Geneva get's in touch with one of Peters friends , who's address he gave him , Waldislaw Grodek , Victor Francen . Grodek explains that he and Peters , or his real name Peterson , were involved with Dimitrios some ten years ago in a smuggling ring in Paris and were set up and double-crossed by him . In Paris at his hotel room Leyden meets Peters and is shown a photo by him which he immediately recognizes as the dead Dimitrios . This is all that Peters wanted to know and now tells a shocked Leyden why he's been so interested in him all this time . The photo wasn't of Dimitrios it was of a person named Constantine Gullus who for a change tried to blackmail Dimitrios . Dimitrios murdered Gullus on a passenger liner in the Bosphorus Straits and planted his identity card on him , to make it look like he was Dimitrios , and threw him overboard . Peters was at the Istambul City Morgue a day after Leyden and by then Dimirtios ' body was already disposed of so he couldn't know for sure if it was him or not . With Leyden misidentifying the photo of Gullus , thinking he was Dimitrios , it shows Peters that Dimitrios , Zachary Scott , is really alive and well in Paris . Peter then together with Leyden plans to blackmail Dimitrios for one million Francs in order to keep that information for getting to the Paris police . Good pairing of Lorre and Greenstreet as they track down that slimly rascal Dimitrios Talat ( aka Makropoulos ) and give him a taste of his own medicine . By having him for a change cough up big bucks or Francs or else end up getting everything that he so rightfully deserves and has coming to him . A very violent ending to the movie has that scheming miscreant Dimitrios try to pull off a treacherous double-cross on our hero's which ended up being the last thing he ever did in his squalid life .
The Evil Twin	( Some Spoilers ) Checking the production dates for the movie " Nazi Agent " I noticed that it was finished filming on December 16 , 1941 just five days after Germany's Fuhrer Adolph Hitler declared war on the US . That was in accordance with Hitler's Germany military alliance with Japan that bombed Pearl Harbor just four days earlier . This would make the movie " Nazi Agent " the first WWII film produced by a Hollywood studio that was released when the US was actually at war with the Nazi Regime ! Unlike the many other anti-Nazi Hollywood made films , like " Confession of a Nazi Spy " , that were released before the US was even at war with Germany . Thus making them subject , by anti-war and US isolationists groups , to accusations of being nothing more them warmongering propaganda in an effort , by Hollywood , to get the natural US into the war in Europe on the side of Great Britain and later the USSR . The film has kindly bookstore owner and stamp collector Otto Becker , Conrad Veidt , try to start a new life in the US after he was forced to flee his homeland-Germany-after the Nazi's took over . Living the American dream Otto's life is turned upside down when his brother Hugo , also played by Veidt , who's a die in the wool Nazi pops into his house . Hugo a German diplomat is working undercover to damage US shipping in the Atlantic in an effort to get Great Britain , who at the time is getting military aid from the natural US , to give up its fight against the Nazis . Playing alone with Hugo's demands who's blackmailing his brother , in having him possibly deported back to Germany if he doesn't go along with him , Otto tries to tip off the FBI in what Hugo and his fellow Nazi's in America are up to . This sham on Otto's part falls apart when Hugo confronts him in his home and pulls a gun on him in order to get him back into line . Hugo who's killed in the struggle with Otto has his brother , his identical twin , take over Hugo's identity and infiltrate the Nazi spy & sabotage ring that he was in charge of . Working on the inside Otto uses his disguise as Hugo to stymie the Nazi's in their attempt , through short-wave radio contact , to have their fleet of U-Boats in the Atlantic sink US shipping . Otto does this by secretly tipping off the authorities to what exactly the spy & sabotage ring are planning to do . Not acting like the mindless and comical buffoons as their almost always depicted in most movies made about them at the time the Nazi's that includes Otto's assistant in the German consulate Kurt Richten , Martin Koslek , realize that there's a spy in their mist and start to zero in on Otto . Caught with his hands in he cookie jar Otto tries to save himself in implicating , for what he actually did , US hoodlum-who's working for the Nazis-Joe Aiello ( Marc Lawrence ) in the stopping of the US supply ship SS Farrington from parking itself in the locks of the Panama Canal . The Nazis planned to use the explosive laden SS Farrington , with an explosive timer hidden in it , to blow the canal sky high ! Thus cutting off the US Pacific and Atlantic fleets from each other in the event of the US entering into the war . SPOILERS With his cover blown Otto could have just taken off to the Federal Authorities for protection but instead agreed to go back to Nazi Germany , and certain death , to save his lover-who works for the German consulate in New York - French fashion designer Karren De Relle , Anne Ayars . You see Karren wasn't really a Nazi but was forced , with her family back in Nazi occupied France , to go along with them in order to save both her and her families lives or , even worse , from being sent to a Nazi concentration camp . It was this quite an courageous act on Otto's part , willingly giving up his life to save the one that he loves , that sets him apart from the the usual blood and guts heroes that Hollywood depicted in it's movies in fighting WWII , at home as well as abroad , all over the globe . This act of unselfish courage made Otto the most unique and believable , as well as tragic , of all war or peace time movie heroes coming out of Hollywood .
I'm who's sent when the Chinese joint can't deliver	SPOILERS With problems at home and on the job Philadelphia correction officer Dan Cappelli , James Russo , just want's to get away from it all and start a new life where he can get his head back together . Being locked up with hardened criminals for as much as 12 hours a day has brutalized Dan to the point where he's on the verge of becoming one himself . It's after beating unconscious a crazed inmate who attacked his fellow correction officer and almost sawed his arm off that Dan was transfered to the womens section of the prison . It's at the womens section of the prison that Dan became involved with inmate Gidell Ryan , Cynda Williams , whom he started to have a secret relationship with . That spelled the end of Dan's career as a correction officer as well as him becoming a fugitive from the law that he was sworn to uphold . Powerful prison drama with Office Carpelli getting in a bit , to say the least , over his head with his prison girlfriend Gidell who's past , despite him checking up on her , was soon to become his future . Gidell being involved with her boyfriend nightclub owner and coke sniffing Angel Delgardo , Paul Calderon , had taken the rap for him in a money laundering scheme . This lead all the way up to Angel's boss Victor Kline , Victor Argo , a prominent Philadelphia politician with his eye on City Hall in him getting elected mayor . SPOILER ALERT Thinking that Gidell was really in love with him Dan went so far , after being suspended for attacking Angel , as sneaking her out of prison and then planing to go together with her down to Mexico . Dan was soon to find out that his not so well thought out plan was dead in the water just as his prison fugitive Gidell's love was for him . Dan's life was going down the drain as soon as we first saw him with him turning to both abusing prison inmates and drinking booze as the only outlet he had in keeping from completely cracking up . Dan's mother Ethel Mea , Anna Minot , was also draining his emotions in her being in a hospice for terminal patients knowing that she has no hope of recovering from her illness . About the only person who really loved Dan his next door neighbor Rose , Dierdre Lewis , was ignored by him and eventually dropped Dan when she found out , by accident , that he was having an affair with Gidell . It was either by accident or by fate that Dan's involvement with Gidell , as well as his mom passing away , turned out to free him from the pressures that he found himself in and were slowly driving him to over the edge . And in the end with him for the first time in the movie being free Dan can finally get his both act and life together .
That Girl Killed The Best Man Who Ever Lived !	( There are Spoilers ) Looking like he's a shoo-in to get elected the next governor challenger Harland Richards ' , Ken Kercheval , road to the state house is sidetracked when it's revealed by this stripper Violet Moore , Elyssa Davalos . A bald-face lie if there ever was one Richards gets in touch with his good friend defense attorney Wild Bill McKenzie , Hal Holbrook , to have him get a hold of Violet and do his best to put some sense into her head . Not willing to change her story Violet is obviously lying and both she and Wild Bill knows it but before he can get back to her Richards jumps or is thrown from his high-rise hotel balcony killing himself . We know that Richards was murdered because we saw that he was bopped over the head by some unknown assailant and then thrown straight down on to the street . Richards ' daughter and campaign manager Karen , Kim Johnson Ulrich , goes on her own to find out just who was behind her fathers death and tracks down Violet in some out of the way strip joint . Karen is told by Violet the the person behind her dad's death is someone very high up in the state government maybe even the governor Ryan Allsion , James Brolin , himself . Karen outraged that Governor Allison my have had something to do with her father's death makes so much noise that Governor Allison invites her to talk the whole tragic event over with him . When Karen shows up at the Governors mansion she finds Allison dead with a gold letter opener stuck through his heart . Taking up Karen's defense in her being charged with murder Wild Bill McKenzie with the help of private investigator Ken Malansky , William R . Moses , begin to poke holes in the prosecutions case against his client . The the cool and calculating Wild Bill completely destroys all the so-called damning evidence placing Karen at the sate house some fifteens minutes before the governor was found murdered that it's a wonder that the case against her wasn't thrown out by the presiding judge sooner . We still had to wait for the real killer of Governor Allison to be revealed in open court since there wasn't a single shred of evidence that could have possibly convicted her . Tracking down the very elusive Violet Moore at big shot mobster Johnny Steel , Tony Curtis , palatial estate it comes out that both Harlan Richards and Governor Ryan Allison were both on Johnny Steel's personal sht list . Both Richards & Allison , which ever one was elected , were committed in checking out this company , a firm called Camacol , that was getting the lion share of state construction contracts . Steel it turns out was not only the majority shareholder in Camacol but had in it as a silent partner someone who's a top member of Governor Allison's cabinet ! For once the murderer when confronted with irrefutable evidence of his crime didn't fold up and spill his guts out admitting what he did . The tied up the wheels of justice by playing it smart and saying nothing thus having Wild Bill McKenzie and the state do all the work to put him behind bars .
Mutt & Jeff goes to war	MAJOR SPOILERS Heart-pounding war action adventure with an assault on an impregnable mountain fortress by a squad of hand picked top British commandos , with a US Army Ranger thrown in for good measures . The assault is a rescue attempt of a captured US Army general who's one of the top men in Gen . Eisenhowers high command in the planning of opening up a second front in Western Europe . It turns out that the rescue team is actually infiltrated by a number of German Agents who are on to what the British / USA rescue team are up to . The German Agents turn out to be so stupid or incompetent that they help , more then hurt , the rescue operation from being exposed and taken out by an elite division , the Alpine , of hardened German SS troopers who happen to be the best mountain fighters in the world . Lead by British Major Jon Smith , Richard Burton , the commandos penetrate the impregnable Nazi fortress the Scholoss Alder , high up in the Bavarian Alps , as easily as you would go down and penetrate your local bar , by just walking through the front door , to buy yourself a drink even with more then half of the British commandos being Nazi Agents ! The non - stop action has both Smith and his US Ranger compatriot Let . Morris Schaffer played by a very confused and bewildered looking Clint Eastwood take on and wipe out almost the entire Nazi Alpine Division , as well as a squadron of the Luftawaffe . They do all this without as much as even having to get re-supplied with ammunition and explosives , which they seem to have an unlimited supply of , by an RAF / USAAF air drop . Joined by pretty British Agent Mary Elison , Mary Ure , Smith and Schaffer make a shamble of the German Army who are even more buffoonish then they were portrayed to be in the darkest days of WWII in movies released by Hollywood in order to drum up moral at home and in the war zone . If the rescue of Gen . Carnaby wasn't hard enough it turns out that Smith is involved in a number of dealings with the Nazi's where he's as much as a a triple or even quadruple agent for both the British and German governments . All that leaves his comrade Let . Smith in such a state of confusion that he at one point , out of sheer frustration , almost killed him in order to make sure that Smith won't , which he did in the movie a number of times , double-cross him . The hot and heavy action has the Germans use up thousands upon thousands of rounds of ammunition , small arms and artillery , on the three allied commandos , Smith Schaffer & Elison , and only scoring with a minor flesh wound on one of them , Smith's hand , for all their efforts . The way that the commandos dispatch the hapless and ineffective German troops actually makes the audience feel some sympathy for them in that their so outmatched that to cheer for the good guy UK / USA commandos over the bad guy Nazi German troops would be like cheering for a pit-bull to beat chihuahua in a dog fight . Taking out more Germans , or Japaneses , then John Wayne could have ever dreamed of doing in all of his WWII action movies combined the trio then make a run for it to the nearest German Luftawffe airfield . Then again as easy as shooting fish in a barrel the dynamic and indestructible trio , Dick Clint & Mary , take out the helpless German troops without as much as breaking out into a sweat as the blow up a string of Nazi fighter planes and are then rescued by the British who land and take off almost unopposed and ferry them out . It's then that we find out , with the exception of Maj Smith who was on to him from day one , SPOILER that the entire operation was sabotaged by one of the top British MI6 intelligence officers who planned it ! You have to suspend belief and logic to enjoy " Where Eagels Dare " which doesn't at all , how could it ! , seem to take itself really seriously in it's treatment of the evil Nazis . The movie has the Nazis look more like a German version of the Three , or in this case three thousand , Stooges then the ruthless and effective sht-kickers that they really were .
Sleep . . . sleep . . . sleep . . .	SPOILERS Unresponsive to any treatment after her suicide attempt , by jumping into the river in order to drown herself , Dr . Larson , Herbert Lom , takes a crack at finding out what lead young pianist Francesac " Francis " Cunningham , Ann Todd , to try to do herself in and uses hypnosis to get to the bottom of her self-destructive psychosis . Regressing Francis back in time Dr . Larson finds out that she was very sheltered in her early years with just her mother bringing her up . Francis ' dad died when she was six months old and through her shyness developed , to counterbalance it , a talent in playing the piano . Two things happened to young Francis that changed her life forever and lead to her being so screwed up all these years and that was the death of her mother and her failing her piano test , that would have gotten Francis into music school . Being given over to her court appointed guardian Uncle Nick , played a young and limping James Mason , to be brought up she's mentally beaten into a broken down and emotional cripple by his US Marine drill Sergent like methods in keeping her in line that makes her life with him feel as if she's been locked away in a Siberian Gulag . Nick , or Nicholas , in his reviewing Francis report card from school sees that she has a superior ability in music and playing the piano . Being a closet music lover Nick quickly gets to work on her making Francis sit at the piano day and night for hours at a time tickling the keys until she's as good as anyone alive , or dead , in the music business . Nick then plans to expose her talents to an unsuspecting public in her first , of many , concerts . During the time that Francis is working her butt off in becoming the greatest pianist that the worlds ever known she falls in love with this American , Francis and Nick are English , the very good natured and a bit obnoxious Peter Gray , Hugh McDermott , Garys in London playing both sweet and mean , according what song or tune he's blowing , saxophone for a local musical band . Nick objecting to Francis marrying Peter has her fall into a deep depression that almost wrecks her opening night , at the music hall , which was a smashing success even though after she finished her concert Francis , suffering from both depression and exhaustion , fell almost dead on stage as the very satisfied and sold out crowd were , before she collapsed , cheering her wildly . Dr . Larson slowly pulling away and unlocking all the veils of Francis ' subconscious mind gets to the seventh , the most difficult to unlock . That has to do with Francis ' latest lover the handsome and sensitive artist Maxwell , or Max for short , Leyden ( Albert Lieven ) who was entrusted by her Uncle Nick to do Francis ' portrait but also fell madly in love with her . Driven to elope because Nick forbid Francis to marry Max the two lovebirds drive out into the moonlight in order to find a preacher to get them legally hitched up with . Max , who's behind the wheel , paying too much attention to his lovely and future wife Francis and not keeping his eyes on the road loses control of the car and ends up in the hospital with him suffering a broken head and arm and Francis ending up with her hands badly burned . Losing interest in what kept her going all these years her both music and talent as a world renowned pianist Francis also lost her will to live . One evening she goes outside her , and Uncle Nicks , homes and attempted to end it all by jumping into the river and to her death . Dr . Larson unlocking what was the real reason for Francis ' depression in who of the three men in her life , Uncle Nick Peter Gray & Max Leyden , will be the one person who'll set her straight and put Francis back on the road to recovery with her choosing between the three men . In the end with Dr . Larson's King Solomon-like wisdom and professional guidance Francis chooses the man whom she'll spend the rest of her life with and in that cures herself from the depression and sadness that she suffered from all her life ; and just guess which one of the three men she chose !
Letting go of fear doesn't work for those around us	SPOILERS Max Kline , Jeff Bridges , not only survived a deadly plane crash that cost the lives of some 200 passengers he also saved about a dozen people from that burning inferno . Max becomes a hero in the eyes of those that he saved as well as the news media . Max for some strange reason seemed to walk away from it all as if nothing happened which to many , including the FBI , seemed weird and strange . The airline sends a trauma expert Dr . Pearlman , John Turturro , to examine Max as well as the other survivors to see if their all right and if not what treatment they would need . The movie " Fearless " concentrates on two survivors and one wife of a survivor who are in some way connected to each other . Because of the tragedy . Max's friend and architect partner Jeff Gordon , John DeLancie , was killed in the crash and left a wife Nan , Deirdre O'Connell , with two little children . Jeff greedily switched the tickets that Max gave him for the flight for cheaper ones that didn't have life insurance to cover himself . Carla Rodrigo , Rosie Perez , who also survived the crash , thanks to Max , lost her little boy when he fell out of her hands and was killed . This made Carla fall into a deep depression by holding herself responsible for his death . Max's change of life after the crash comes into conflict in dealing with the realities of both Carla and Nan as well as his wife Laura , Isabella Rosselini , in getting his life back to normal . Max soon develops a fearless attitude toward death and during the movie risks his life as if he were tempting death to see somehow that if he's really dead or not . Carla is the only one who seems to bring Max back to the real world with her depression over her sons death in the crash . That makes Max go out of his way to show her that she wasn't responsible . Having Carla her sit in his car one evening and having Carla hold a tool box , as if it were her baby boy , Max then crash the car full-force into a brick wall ! This was to show her that she couldn't have held on to her child to save him from the plane crash : a bit insane but it worked in curing Carla of her severe guilt feelings . The car crash also settled Max's not wanting to lie about Jeff's death . Jeff's lawyer Brillstein , Tom Hulce , wanted Max to lie about the circumstances of Jeff's death to get a bigger settlement . Now Max doesn't have to testify by showing that he became suicidal because of the plane crash and thus lost control of his mental faculties . It was shown in the movie , after Max survived the plane crash , that everything that Max did he seemed to be guided by some invisible force . Like the one which had Max lead those survivors of the plane crash to safety . This unseen force made those who thought that Max was a bit strange and odd see that he was in some way a changed but better person because of it . The end of the film seemed a bit confusing but thinking about everything else in the movie that lead up to it did somehow make sense . Max , with his wife present , picks up a strawberry from Nan's lawyers batch of gifts that he had and munches on it which seems to poison and kill him . It was explained early in the movie that Max had a deadly allergic reaction to strawberries since he was a child . With everyone thinking that he's dead Max miraculously comes back to life with his wife happily holding and kissing him . We've seen earlier in the movie Max eating strawberries , again tempting death , with nothing happening to him ! So why then should anything like him possibly dying from eating the strawberries happen to him now when it didn't happen before in the movie ? Was it that strange force or was it Max himself in getting him and his wife Laura back together since their strained marriage , due to Max's relationship with Carla after the plane crash , which had him and his wife on the verge of separating and divorcing ! Deep and interesting movie about how facing death in the present and surviving changes us for the better in facing life in the future .
Robert Urich excels in Hitchcock-like thriller	SPOILERS After having a spat with his girlfriend Kate , Isabella Hofmann , over a trip that they planned to go on to Antigua computer whiz and software specialist Jack Bauer's , Robert Urich , bad luck continues to follow him when he can't get to his car , because it's locked up in a local garage , and takes the subway home . Watching a woman and her daughter on the train Jack , after they both exit the subway car , spots a poster for a missing four year-old child right in back of him and it's the little girl that he just saw . Like in an Alfred Hitchcock thriller Jack Bauer becomes an innocent bystander who get's caught up with something that he at first doesn't understand and later almost costs him his life . Trying to report the missing girl to the Child Recovery Foundation , that issued the poster , Jack at first finds out that the girl Carla McKillin , Erica Dill , is no longer missing and when he goes to her mom's Laura , Megen Gallagher , apartment to return Cala's doll , that she dropped on the subway , he's attacked by the mother and her neighbors thinking that he kidnapped little Carla and was trying to get a ransom in return for her . Jack at the police station , with Laura , gets in touch with the Child Recovery Foundation and is told that Carla is indeed still missing and that her name was somehow removed from their computer . At first hesitant but then working together with Laura Jack tracks down the woman who he saw with Carla on the subway Amanda Johnson , Christine Danford , at a local bar outside the sixth street station that she got off at with Carla . On dope and terrified of what she knew about not only Carla but scores of other young children , who disappeared over the years , the same way that little Carla did Amanda is later found dead in her hotel room from an overdose that her drug supplier forced on her . As Jack starts to check out , by computer , the movements of Amanda during the time that she had Carla with her he finds out that she was being treated for drug addiction at the local St . James Hosiptal . Amanda scrawled the name St . James on a mirror with lipstick as she was dying . Putting all the evidence together Jack soon realizes that Carla was the victim of a major child and baby selling racket that was using as a front the very agency that was supposed to track down and find missing children ; non other then the Child Recovery Foundation . Though guy Robert Urich really gets a worker-over in " And Then She Was Gone " as he gets belted and beaten , what a shiner he got early in the film , at least three different times in three different scenes as he's chased and then chases the kidnapper of Carla through the subway system and the airport on a plane headed for the UK . Tense stand off on the plane as Jack and Laura force themselves on trying to rescue little Carla from her kidnapper before the aircraft goes airborne . A bit overdone ending didn't take away any of the suspense and excitement from the rest of the film and the final scene was truly uplifting with Jack and Kate reunited and back together again after she came back home from her vacation , minus Jack , in Antigua . After all the dangers thrills and excitement that Jack went through in the movie there's nothing on the trip and vacation with Kate that he passed up , and almost destroyed their relationship , that could equal what he went through back at home .
I didn't feed him that hamburger . . . . You did !	SPOILERS " The Bloody Brood " is a far better movie despite of how it's been packaged , something like " Psycho Beatnik Killers " . It's a fairly good story about a thrill killing by two unstable as well as homicidal lunatics much like the infamous case back in Chicago in 1924 of Leopold & Loeb . The two thrill killers who murdered a young 14 year-old boy for kicks as well as trying to commit and get away with the perfect crime . Nico , Peter Falk , is a small time hood who supplies drugs to clubs that are patronized by mostly Beatnik types . Nico at the same time likes to hang out in the clubs to talk wisdom and philosophy to an admiring group of Beatnik's . The Beatnik's think that Nico is not only super cool but a genius as well . Nico's sidekick Francis , Ron Hartmann , is a disgruntled director of commercials on TV who feels that the world doesn't see and appreciate his great talent as a film-maker . Francis feels that The only one who's hip enough to see his great cinematic skills is non-other then the ultra-cool and super intelligent Nico . One evening at the club " The Diggs " as Nico was talking about the world situation and how screwed up it's because men like him aren't in charge old man Diogenis collapsed and fell dead . Nico is fascinated by Diogenis ' death thinking that someone would die and then be totally forgotten like he never existed at all ? All of a sudden an idea hit Nico about getting a real kick or high . Why not kill some nobody who'll never be missed ! Later that night at a party at a friends apartment a messenger boy Roy , Bill Kowalchuk , arrives with a package and Nico sees in the messenger boy the nobody that he was looking for . Nico invites Roy into the party and gives him a hamburger to munch on thats laced with ground . Later Roy later fell ill and died of internal bleeding . There's one thing about Roy that Nico's gargantuan brain overlooked , Roy had a brother Cliff , Jack Betts , and that would turn out to be Nico's undoing . Cliff would leave no stone unturned until he found and then brought those that murdered his kid brother Roy to justice . What I liked about the movie is that it didn't put the Beatnik's in a bad light like you were led to believe by it's advertisements . Nico and his weak willed accomplice Francis were anything but Beatnik's but criminals and sick malcontents who used the unsuspecting as well as innocent Beatnik's for their own personal gains . Jack Betts was very good as Roy's big brother getting to the bottom of the matter and finding out who killed him . Barbara Lord as Ellie more then personified the kind of young people who fell into the beat generation back in the 1950's because of their alienation from their families as well as from society . Also effective in the movie was Nico's two drug suppliers Studs , Bill Bryden , and Weasel , Mitchell Zenon , who got too greedy and had to be terminated by Nico's boss Mr . Stephanex , Rolf Golstan . In the end Studs and Weasel ended up terminating Nico . But the best acting of all in the movie was that of Peter Falk . Falk at that time , 1959 , in his career looked so much like one of todays top culinary stars of the Food Network Emeril Lagasse . If Emeril Lagasse were to kill someone with a hamburger it wouldn't be because he put ground glass in it , it would be because he packed it with too much salt and spices .
Zapped Broken and Abandoned	SPOILERS As hard as they tried and are still trying UFO skeptics and debunker's have had a really tough time disproving the story of Arizona logger Travis Walton , B . D Swenney , who , it's claimed , was abducted by a UFO outside of Snowflake Arizona in the early evening of Novermber 5 , 1975 . It's not that Travis is telling the truth or not about his abduction but there were six witnesses , Travis fellow loggers , who confirm his story . Even more fantastic is that for some five days Travis was thought to have been murdered by his fellow loggers , for reasons that make no sense at all , and then like magic appeared out of nowhere , or a flying saucer , naked and starving in the rain outside a gas station miles from his home . Being based on a true story the movie " Fire in the Sky " doesn't try to explain the reasons for Travis ' abduction and what the aliens who abducted Travis had in mind for him . We get to see a fifteen minute sequence with Travis being put under hypnosis by Dr . Cayle , Julie Ariola , that's so mind blowing that it leaves those of us who see it almost as freaked out as Travis was in , if that's what really happened to him , retelling it . The movie has Travis and his best friend Mike Rogers , Robert Patrick , together with fellow loggers David Whitlock Geg Hayes Bobby Cogdill & Allen Dallis driving home after cutting down trees in the dense woods outside of Snowflake . Seeing an eerie red light emanating out of the forest the men at first think that it's the sunset even though it already set some fifteen minutes ago . Getting closer to the light it becomes obvious that it's coming from up in the sky not down in the woods and Travis as if he's drawn to it like a magnet jumps out of the truck running mindlessly towards it . It's then that Travis is zapped by this strange blue light and knocked unconscious as Mike and his fellow loggers take off in panic . Feeling guilty that he left his friend and fellow worker to die , if he wasn't dead already , Mike after leaving his fellow loggers on the road , they were in no hurry to get back , drives back to the site were Travis was last seen and discovers that he literally disappeared off the face of the earth ! The movie then turns into a missing person or murder mystery with the local police as well as the townspeople feeling that Mike & Co . somehow murdered Travis and hid , or buried , his body in the woods . The shocker comes some five days later after Mike who together with his fellow workers took and passed a polygraph test , proving that they were telling the truth about Travis disappearance , Travis alive but not all that well suddenly calls Mike from a gas station phone miles away from home pleading for help ! Going from a murder to an alien abduction case almost overnight made things a bit complicated for the sheriff Blake Davis , Noble Willingham , and his outside or out of state investigator Let . Frank Watters , James Garner . Let . Watters who always got his man or woman had a big problem here ; this time the one to get is an alien from outer space ! The film ends with Travis recovering from the trauma that he suffered that early November evening when the world , and his sense of reality , just turned upside down for not only him but everyone who was with him at the time . The Travis Walton case is one of the most convincing alien abduction cases on record since the victim was not only missing for some five days but when he appeared he hasn't drank eaten or slept over that same period of time . If this was a hoax like many UFO and UFO abduction skeptics claim how can they explain the fact that not only Travis but those loggers with him , who witnessed the event , all passed polygraphs tests on what happened to him and them ? There's many more facts about Travis Walton's abduction that seem to defy science or our understanding of the universe but the biggest plus in Travis and his eyewitness friends favor is that no evidence has come forward , now over thirty years after the event , that can disprove their story . And what's more no amount of " evidence " presented by those trying to prove that it was all a hoax or hallucination on Travis & Co . part has ever been able to disproved the fact that it wasn't !
You are entering a German hating Europe , in our hands hatred can be turned into the most potent of all weapons	SPOILERS The movie " The Master Race " was put into production just after D-Day , June 6 , 1944 , and was released in September 1944 some three months later . The movie trying to anticipate and predict the end of the Second World War in Europe which took place some eights months later in May 1945 . As the war is about to end with the German War-Machine in shambles and Germany completely destroyed there's a group of elite Germans planing the next step in their efforts to conquer the world . One of these German elitists Col . Von Beck , George Coulouris , lays out the plan for future German conquests . Telling his cohorts that Hitler and his National Socialist regime was a failure and that Hitler wasn't really his own man but was controlled by Von . Beck and his German elitists . Now that the war and the Hitler government is coming to an end in the flames that that it unleashed on the world that the allies " Shall have him " . Beck tells of a plan for the German elitists like himself to infiltrate into the European population and formant the hatred and bitterness of the peoples that their among . This will destroy the allies as well as those countries themselves and in the end that hatred will bring them the victory that Hitler and his Nazis failed to achieve . Col . Beck taking the name of Ferdinand Varin , a dead Belgium freedom fighter , goes to the Belgium town of Kolar where his , Varin's , brother Ernst lived with his wife Martha and daughter Nina . Col . Beck by black-mailing Martha about her husband being a Nazi collaborator is allowed to live in her home . Right away Beck / Varin takes a very amorous liking to young Nina and that turned out in the end to be his downfall . Trying to formant hate and resentment against both the conquering allies as well as the defeated Germans Beck / Varin plays both sides against each other . The Belgium people dislike of being occupied by the US / UK troops as well as their hatred of their former occupiers the German who are in a POW camp outside of Kolar . That hatred by the towns-people of both the allies and Germans boomerangs against them by turning the allies as well as the captured Germans on them which is just what Beck / Varin wanted . As far-fetched as the movie seems to be there was in reality a real fear among the allies about a similar and even more deadlier German sub rosa operation right up to the allied top military officer in the European theater of war , Gen . Eisenhower . It was suspected that the German were planing to start guerrilla type operations using para-military units called " Werewolves " against the US / UK / USSR troops back then in 1945 when the regular German military forces were defeated . It turned out later that Beck / Varin found out that there was a German POW pvt . Altmeier , Eric Feidary , who knew and could identify him so he had one of his un-suspecting stooges in the town of Kolar Josef Katry , Paul Guilfoyle , who he got to violently hate the Germans , blow up the German POW camp in the town so that he would kill pvt . Altmeier . Altmeier survived the explosion but in the meantime Beck / Varin's lust for pretty Nina got the best of him . Beck / Varin tried to sexually assault Nina only to have her mother Martha catch Beck / Varin in the act and then tell him that she's going to report him to the allied military authorities as a German spy which had Beck / Varin murder her to keep her from talking . Captured as he tried to make a run for it by US troops Beck / Varin is brought back to the Allied top official in the town Maj . Carson's , Stanley Ridges , headquarters . Beck / Varin then claimed that Martha was a spy for the Germans and that Katry was the one who blew up the German POW camp to save his hide . Surprise , surprise , surprise who do you think just happened to be at the allied headquarters ; a number of surviving German POW's from the explosion including pvt . Altmeier himself ! Altmeier , though badly injured and looking like a mummy , lifted himself up off the stretcher that he was lying on and identified Beck as a German officer . Just then another German POW whacked him in the throat killing him . Beck is at once arrested tried sentenced and shot as a German spy , all this before you could say Geronimo . With that we see all the people of the new and free but devastated Europe holding hands and working together to re-build that continent and make it a better place to live for future generations . Odd but interesting film made during WWII that still holds up in it's innovating ideas about man's inhumanity to man which goes far beyond Hitler and his Nazi party . Which is sadly evident after some 60 years of wars and bloodshed all over the globe , since the movie " The Master Race " was released , shows .
You measure love with a thermometer not with a calender	( Some Spoilers ) Preceptive little morality play set in what looks like the pre-WWI Austro / Hungarian Empire about a young army officer let . Willi Kasder , Ramon Noverro , who finds out that life isn't exactly the bowl of sweet cherries that he thought it was , there are a lot of rotten one's in there as well . Willi born into the cream of Vienna society rose in the rank of the elite Royal Imperial Guard to the point where he became a member of it's officer corps . Always having friends and relatives in high places to clean up after him after he royally screwed things up Willi has no idea of what being responsible was . With Willi's uncle Gen . Von Hertz , C . Aubrey Smith , in charge of the military base that he's stationed at he knew that whatever boners he pulled good old Uncle Hertz would take care of them . One thing Willi didn't expect to happen was to fall in love with someone else , besides himself , and accept the responsibility that goes alone with that . At a party with his officer friends at the Vienna night-spot " Madam Saguss " Willi spots this sweet and lovely young lady Laura Taub , Helen Chandler , who's a music teacher . Later Willi sees Laura going upstairs to a room with big spender and notorious whore-mister Herr Schnabel , Jean Hersholt . Suspecting that Schnabel was up to no good Willi goes to see if everything is all right only to hear Laura screaming inside the hotel-room as she fights off Schnabel from trying to force himself on her . Willi puts an end to Herr Schnabel's advances by punching him out . Taking the grateful Laura , who at first didn't trust him , on a night on the town Willi spends the next morning at her apartment having breakfast . After promising to see her again and kissing her good-by Willi innocently leaves a 100 Krone bank note on her dinning room table . Helen , who fell in love with Willi , by seeing the note after Willi left now feels insulted by what he did in treating her as if she were just a one night stand to him or even worse . With Helen letting Willi have it when he came to see her the next day , about what he did to her , left him both hurt and humiliated since he also fell in love with Helen . Willi's action , by leaving the money , was nothing more that a show of appreciation not a fee for her spending the night with him , which didn't include anything more serious then two or three harmless smooches and getting her a bit tipsy on a couple of glasses of French wine . Helen goes over the deep end by going back to the sleazy Herr Schnabel and becoming the kind of person that she thinks that Willi thought that she was with her drinking gambling and whoring around . Guilt-ridden by what he did to Helen in turning her into a party animal-type , from the sweet and innocent girl that she was , Willi tries to win her back from Schnabel . Challenging to go head to head with Schnabel in a no holds-bar game of Baccarat Willi feels that would win Helen back to him . In the big showdown Schnabel totally wipes out Willi leaving him 14 , 000 krone's in debt and a broken and destroyed young man . Being too proud to ask his uncle Gen . Von Hertz for the money and facing disgrace as a member of the Royal Imperial Guard Willi has only one option left open to him : a bullet to the head from his own service revolver . Decent ending that doesn't at all cop-out like you would have thought that it would with Willi redeeming himself and getting back , as well as saving her from a life of sin , the women that he loved Helen . Coming to grips with the real world Willi threw away his playboy lifestyle that he lived all his adult life . Like Willi said when he came to see Helen at the end of the film when asked , by the parents of a young boy that Helen was teaching to play the piano , why he didn't have his army uniform on he answered this way : Were both going to a masquerade and I'm going as a human being .
Gripping at times but too convoluted	SPOILERS Controversial political director Cosat-Garvas ' attempt to show the Israeli-Palestine dispute should be commended for his even-handedness in trying to explain both sides of that Middle-East conflict . Still the movie's overdone love triangle between Hanna Kaufman , Jill Claybuarg , and both her estranged husband Frenchman Victor Bonnet , Jean Yanne , her Israeli prosecutor lover Joshua Herzog , Gabriel Byrne , the father of her child David as well as the terrorist suspect Hanna defends Selim Bakri , Mohammed Bakri , made the film a bit to hard to digest . Hanna an American migr to Israel is a court appointed lawyer in the Jerusalem Judaical System . Pregnant with her lovers , Joshua , child Hanna want's an abortion . With abortions illegal in Israel she books a flight to Paris to have the procedure done there and meets her estranged husband Victor at the David Ben-Gurion Airport . Planning to leave the next day for Paris Hanna is called to the courthouse to defend a suspected terrorist who demands that she represent him and is willing to pay Hanna , $2 , 000 . 00 , for her services . It turns out that the defendant is Selim Bakri a person who Hanna successfully defended some time ago . Postponing her leaving Israel , to Victor's great displeasure , Hanna opts to defend Bakri and at the same time to go full term with Joshua's child . As Hanna takes up Selmi's case it causes friction between her and Joshua who feels that Selim is a threat to the state of Israel and should be put away for life . Salmi is anything but a dangerous terrorist but a homeless Palestinian who want's to go back home to his ancestors farm in Israel that's been bulldozed and turned into an Israeli settlement . The Israeli courts , and government , know that Selim's dispute with them will lead , if Hanna wins his case , to thousands of claims by homeless Palestinians to be repatriated back to their homes in Israel . That in the end would upset and even destroy the Jewish State by making Jews a minority in their own country . Trying to offer Selim a South African citizenship in order to legally emigrate and live in Israel the Israeli court hopes to defuse this very explosive situation that they find themselves in , Selim has documents that date back to 1876 proving his families ownership of the disputed property . Determined to see his case go to Israeli supreme court Selim wouldn't budge and is sentenced to eight months in prison for entering Israel illegally . Out of jail , after an almost fatal hunger strike , and put in the custody of Hanna until he's deported back to Jordan Selim despite his sweetness towards Hanna and her son David , whom he calls little Omar , is later suspected of a terrorist bombing of the Israeli village of Kafar Ramin . The Jewish settlement that was built over the ruins his family's farm and where he was seen , by Hanna among others , snooping around the last few days up until about an hour before the village was bombed . Hanna now not knowing what to say or do is in danger of losing her son David to Joshua , who's determined to have Selim arrested for the terrorist bombing meanwhile Selim seems to have disappeared , or run away . The movie ends with Hanna scared for her life for defending and even falling in love with the non-Jewish , and suspected Arab terrorist , Selim Bakri answering her door bell only to find a company of Israeli soldiers guns cocked and ready to fire looking for the missing Selim . We never know for sure if Selim is responsible for the terrorist attack on Kafar Ramin or if he even tried to check out of the country . Joshua who was , together with Selim , at Hanna's house when the news about the terrorist attack came on the TV news didn't even bother to arrest Selim who at first looked like he was making a run for it only to go back into the bedroom to take little David out in the kitchen for his lunch . You wondered why Selim would have run away , if that's what he did , after acting so passive and innocent during the entire movie ? There's a lot you can find wrong with Costa-Gavras ' " Hanna K " but one thing that can be said in it's favor is that the film addresses issues about the Israeli / Palestinian conflict that almost all films , that are very few in number , about the subject never dare to even touch .
If Ramar find " Tiger " Ramar friend . If Ramar not find " Tiger " Ramar no friend ; Must Die !	( Some Spoilers ) The last and probably the most popular as well as most talked about of the " Ramar of the Jungle " episodes involves two 500 pound Bengal Tigers who escaped from their cages in the port city of Durbin South Africa . The two jungle cats make their way up the East African coast as they leave a trail of death and destruction along the way . Dr . Tom Reylonds , Jon Hall , known as " Ramar " the " White Medicine Man " by the local natives is out with his friend and associate Botanist Professor Howard Ogdon , Ray Montgomery , checking for local and extremely rare Gamboa plants in the area . It's the elusive Gamboa that both Dr . Reynolds and Prof . Ogdon feel is the key to the restoration of dying and degenerating cells . If their theory is proved right the sap of the Gamboa will retard the aging process in both humans and animals . Everything is put on hold , in the future of Gamboa research , when Dr . Reynolds and Prof . Ogdon run into famous wild animal hunter and trapper Jack O'Malley , Pat Moriaity . O " Malley is on the trail of the two rampaging tigers whom he was shipping back to the states when they escaped from their cages back in Durbin . Causing a white , or striped , panic among the native population the tigers terrorize the county side attacking , among the indigenous wildlife living there , and killing a member of the local Maasai Tribe as he was out in the brush hunting game . Feeling that it's Ramar , or Dr , Reynolds , who's causing all this , as the tribe's Witch Doctor Jahuga ( Phil Thomas ) calls it , Black Magic a death Voodoo doll is sent to his jungle hospital / laboratory at the Cooper Crown trading post . Insead of Dr . Reynolds , whom it was meant for , handling the doll Prof , Ogdon does . This causes Prof . Ogdon to collapses and almost die from blood poisoning who pricked his finger on one of the Voodoo dolls poisonous thorns . With the tigers tearing up the jungle landscape Dr . Reynolds is now on the hot seat for , in Witch Doctor's Jahuga's opinion , bringing the killer cats-through Black Magic-into their homeland . Dr . Reynolds has to either kill or bring the tigers back alive to show Jahuga and his boss Chief Gonowa , Felix Nelson , that their's nothing magical supernatural or mystical about them . It turns out that the African jungle , in the wild and dangerous creatures that inhabitant it , did the job of proving the tigers to be nothing special or supernatural in doing the job , of finishing off he big cats , that Dr . Reynolds and the reluctant-who didn't want to shot and kill his prized tigers - Jack O'Malley didn't . The two amazing and heart-stopping scenes of the tigers having it out with a charging bull water buffalo and monster 30 foot reticulated python , both animals indigenous like the tigers to Asia not Africa , was filmed by the world famous animal hunter and trapper Frank Buck of " Bring back Alive " fame . In fact the tigers shown to be killed , in this " Ramar of the Jungle " episode , by the buffalo and python actually survived . The tiger taking on the water buffalo looked as if he hadn't eaten in days in him not being quite up to the task at hand . The hungry and emaciated looking big cat looked as if he only mixed it up with the buffalo out of desperation , and hunger , more then anything else . Battered and beaten the tiger slinks away into the jungle brush and out of the range of the water buffalo's deadly and almost five foot across horns before he could finish him off . As for the tiger python confrontation it was actually the big snake who called it quits after the tiger broke it's vice-like grip , twice not once , with the fight ending up in a draw . P . S You can see as the tiger python struggle for survival came to an end the big snake uncurling its deadly coils as the tiger , who at one point looked like he just about had it , bites into it's thick hide causing the python to cry uncle and make a hasty retreat !
You don't think you only take orders	SPOILERS A lot like Michael Winner's previous thriller " The Mechanic " the film " Scoripo " has to do with an aging CIA assassin who's now regarded by his superiors as being both obsolete and expendable . There's also the suspicion that he's planing to flee to Moscow and reveal all the secrets of the agency , CIA , that can be very embarrassing to both his bosses in the US Government and his contacts and undercover agents in the USSR . Cross , Burt Lancaster , has been in the dirty business of political assassinations since WWII . Now in his 50's Cross wants to retire and live out the rest of his life with his wife Sarah , Joanne Linville , in peace and quite without looking over his shoulder every time he's out on the streets . With Cross ' new boss McLoad , John Colicos , suspecting him of treason he sends out cat loving French hit-man Jean Laurier-Alain Delon-or code name Scorpio to do Cross in before , in McLoad opinion , he defects behind the Iron Curtain . It turns out that Laurier was Cross ' , who thought him every thing he knows about contract killings , protg in the assassination business as well as being a good friend of his . Laurier is also curtain that Cross is clean and this antagonism towards him by McLoad is personal not professional in that Cross , a man who likes to do things his way , doesn't toady up to him like the rest of the agents he's in charge of . Suspense filled thriller with Cross on the run as his options for staying alive dwindle down to next to zero . Laurier is very hesitant to knock off Cross in that he feels that , besides being a good friend of his , he's innocent of the charges that McLoad accuses him off . With him trapped in Vienna Cross goes to the only person who can possibly save his life long time friend and adversary Soviet Agent Zarkov , Paul Scofield . McLoad uses the Cross / Zarkov relationship to try to convince Laurier that his friend Cross is actually a double agent worthy to be gunned down from his treachery to both the USA and Laurier's own country NATO member France . The movie's both thrilling and surprise ending has Laurie find out the truth behind Cross ' actions and they have nothing at all to do with his attempted defection to the Soviet Union ! But they do in fact have something to do with those that Laurie has been closely associating with ! Someone who's a lot closer to Laurie then even he , in his wildest conspiracy paranoia , could possibly imagine ! Like in Winner's 1972 assassin thriller " The Mechanic " the film " Serpico " shows just how thankless the job of a paid assassin really is . In the end Laurier finally realizes that being in the business he's in he has no time for friend and family as well as romantic relationships . In that the only one you can really trust is yourself and , in Lauries case , the street cats that you adopt ; and worst of all the agency's retirement plan sucks !
A accident of birth	SPOILERS The legendary Hammer studios only " Werewolf " film " The Curse of the Werewolf " holds its own compared to the Hammer " Dracula " and " Frankenstein " movies that the studio had become famous for in the 1950's and early 60's . We never really get to see the werewolf until the last ten or so minutes of the movie when he come out of the dark and lets it be known , to the local townspeople , that he really means business . Even though he's involved in some dozen attacks on both man and livestock , all off camera , the werewolf finally makes himself visible , at the very end of the film , when it's all but obvious to everybody watching what his secret identity is . The result of an unholy affair , or brutal rape , between a deranged and sex starved beggar Fido , Richard Wordsworh , a name given to him by his master the sadistic and crazed Marques , Anthony Dawson , and servant girl Yvonne Romain had the poor and confused Leon Corledo , Justin Walters as a boy and Oliver Reed as an adult , turn into a murderous werewolf . Leon knew that he was different from other boys his age by his attraction to warm blood and fear of a full moon that caused him to grow hair in places where it never , like the palms of his hands , grew before . Adopted , after his mother died in childbirth , by the kindly Corledo's-Alfredo & Teresa - Leon soon became wild and unruly wherever there was a full moon in the evening sky . This lead to the local priest , John Gabriel , to advise Leon's parents to have him put , or better yet locked , away in a monastery for both his own as well as the local townspeople's safety . It was when Leon became an adult that his behavior went from bad in killing and eating goats and sheep to worse in attacking and killing human beings . This with the added burden that his love Christina Fernando , Catherine Feller , whom he was crazy about was never to be his bride . The sweet , to Leon , and pretty Christina was to be married off , by her high society parents , to the sissy-like aristocratic and so full of himself Rico Gomez , David Convile . It was that final outrage that broke the camel's , or Leon's , back and drove the love-sick young man off the deep end ! SPOILERS Leon knowing that he was doomed to live out the rest of his life howling at the full moon and going out killing people , to satisfy his uncountable blood lust , had a death wish that in the end only his adopted and loving father Alfredo Corledo , Clifford Evens , could fulfill . This had Alfredo track down his wayward and troubled son in the towns monastery's bell tower and with the help of a silver bullet , from the melted down cross of the town's bishop , he finally put an end to Leon's suffering .
Your father had his dreams he wanted you to make them come true	True story of Boston Red Sox outfielder Jimmy Piersall , Anthony Perkins , struggle with mental illness by desperately wanting to please his domineering father John , Karl Malden , to be a big league baseball player . At the same time Jimmy confronted his insecurities of not having what it takes to be one . Growing up as a boy in Waterbuary Ct . Jimmy always dreamed of playing for the Red Sox not just to play professional baseball but to be able to get out of the poverty that he and his parents were stuck in all their lives . Jimmy's father John played semi-pro ball as a young man but never had the talent to play in the big leagues and put all his effort and drive to see that Jimmy would get the chance , playing professional baseball , that he never got . Helpful at first but as John's obsession in getting Jimmy to make the grade started to take it's toll on the sensitive young man , As he finally reached his goal of making the team , fear set in on Jimmy fear that he'll fail his dad and himself . That fear lead Jimmy to have a mental breakdown during a night-game in Fenway Park after hitting an inside-the-park home run . " Fear Strikes Out " covers Jimmy Piersall's life from a 12 year old boy in Waterbuary Ct . through his being committed into a institution for treatment of his mental illness due to the his fear that he'll never be the person that his father wanted him to be . As well as the fear that he wouldn't be able to care and provide for his parents and newlywed wife Mary , Norma Moore , and their new born daughter Eileen . Being looked after by Dr . Brown , Adam Williams , at the institution it's painful to see Jimmy completely lose it and end up looking and acting like a person who's been lobotomized . Dr . Brown get's Jimmy to respond to his treatment by showing him the kindness and understanding that his father lacked for Jimmy during his formative years . That caused him to not just enjoy playing baseball but to become obsessed by it in wanting to fulfill the dreams that his dad had for him . This pressure built up over the years as Jimmy worked hard to make the majors and play along the likes of baseball greats like Ted Williams Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays . There was a terrible price to all that and that price was that no matter how hard Jimmy tried he was never good enough , or as good as he could be , in the eyes of his dad John Piersall . It turned out that it was not just Jimmy who needed mental therapy but his father as well in understanding that his son was a human being not a machine who's feeling had to be taken into account . John Piersall was relentlessly driving Jimmy to make the grade as a big league baseball player not caring , or noticing , that he was driving Jimmy straight into a nervous breakdown . Even Boston Red Sox manager Joe Cronin , Bart Burns , was more receptive to Jimmy's impending mental collapse then his father . Cronin did everything he could , through the Red Sox organization , to help Jimmy with desperately needed professional help that Jimmy's father had no idea that his son needed . The best part of the movie " Fear Strikes Out " was when John Piersall finally understood what he did to his son Jimmy in pushing him like he did . Later at the institution John was accepted by Jimmy who for a time wanted to have nothing to do with him . For once just being his father , not a hard as nails lion trainer , the two had an friendly but emotional game of catch . Jimmy did in the end recover form his personal demons and went on to be an All-Star outfielder for Boston Cleveland and the New York Mets , among outer teams he played for . Despite his fine record as a professional baseball player Jimmys overcoming the fear that almost destroyed him was by far Piersall's greatest achievement .
Would you rather have the sheriff come back for you , or ride in with us	SPOILERS Left alone in the desert with a broken leg millionaire Donald Carson , Robert Ryan , chances of survival are almost nil with his scheming employee and wife Joseph Duncen & Geraldine , Willian Lundigan & Ronda Fleming , purposely letting him die of exposer . By not reporting his whereabouts to the police and sending them on a wild goose chase some 70 in the other direction from where Carson is . Were not really told if Carson's accident was planned by Duncan & Geraldine or was a golden opportunity that they both took advantage of . Still it gave the two the excuse to have Carson put out of their lives and take over his multi-million dollar investment empire . When he's eventually found dead with them getting off Scot-free by letting the broiling and inhospitable desert do their dirty work . In the desert with little food and water Carson at first about gave up on surviving . Later as he became more and more outraged by what his wife and her lover did to him his anger drove Carson to bring himself back almost from the dead to have his revenge on them . Back home Geraldine and Duncan live it up in Carson's mansion expecting any day now to hear the news that he was found dead in the desert . But the longer they wait the more they become curious and fearful that Carson may have , just may have , survived ! That would mean 10 to 15 years behind bars not the life of luxury that they were both looking forward to . Penetrating story about crime and punishment with an amazing twist ending that turns the tables on Carson's would-be murders . With an inferno that's hotter and more deadlier then the worst desert heat wave . Robert Rayn as the millionaire businessman Donald Whitley Carson III who's always used to having things done for him is driven to do things for himself . As he tries to get back to civilization and get even with those who left him for dead in the desert . Getting help from an old desert prospector Sam Elby , Henry Hull , as Carson tracked by both Duncan and Geraline who came back to the scene of the crime to see if Carson was really dead and if not finish the job by making sure that he is . Carson attacked by Duncan in Elby's cabin , after Duncan knocked out the old man , has it out with him as the place goes up in flames from the carnage that resulted . Geraldine who tried to double-cross her lover Duncan by leaving him out in the desert , like she did to her husband Donald Carson , gets side tracked when the car she was to make her getaway hit a sharp bolder ripping up the gas-tank causing it , the liquid , to flood and damage the drive shaft immobilizing it . The movie comes full circle when Geraldine is left alone in the desert and of all people her husband Donald Carson , whom she tried to murder , came driving along the wind swept and deserted desert road , with old man Elby , to give her a lift back home for a long stretch in the State penitentiary .
Don't shoot him just let me talk to him !	SPOILERS The righteous and humble Father Michael Logan , Montgomery Cliff , literately gets his head in a noose when he keeps quite about a murder that he himself is the prime suspect of . This all happened when the church handyman German refugee Otto Keller , O . E Hasse , confessed to Father Michael in the church confession booth that he in fact killed Ottawa lawyer Villette , Ovila Legare , in a blotch robbery attempt . What makes Villette's murder even more shocking is that he-Villette-had been blackmailing Michael's former girlfriend , before he became a Catholic priest , Ruth Grandfort ( Anne Baxter ) for some five years knowing that she's married to Ottawa legislator Pierre Grandfort , Roger Dann . Knowing that he can't break the vows of the confession booth Father Michael is left out in the cold leaving it up to Keller to tell the truth about him killing Villette or else be forced to face the hangman's noose if convicted ! Ruth risking disgrace and public humiliation breaks the ice by confessing to Ottawa police Inspector Larrue , Karl Malden , her secret relationship with the then just Michael Logan , and being with him at the time of Villette's murder , before the war , WWII , broke out back in 1939 . While on the front lines Michael seeing man's inhumanity to man in both the North African and European theaters of war became very religious and decided to become a priest . Taking the vows of celibacy Michael broke off his engagement to Ruth who , without telling or writing him , already married Pierre Grardfort while he was serving his country . It was when Michael came back home to Canada in the summer of 1945 that he reunited with Ruth . Michael not knowing that Ruth's married spent a sunny summer afternoon with her in the country that was interrupted by a sudden summer downpour that had the two seek safety in a nearby gazebo . It was there that Villette spotted them and knowing that Ruth's married , which Michael didn't , later began to blackmail her . All this was done by Villette in order to get Ruth's husband Pierre to cut a deal , in the Ottawa legislator , to have the province drop a tax fraud charge against him . Getting back to the present , 1952 , Otto Keller desperate for money who's doing gardening work for Villette attempted to rip him off of $2 , 000 . 00 by breaking into his safe only , by being surprised in Villette coming home early , ending up killing him and leaving empty handed . Now with Ruth's alibi for Father Michael , in that she was with him at the time of Villette's murder , falling apart he's being put on trial for murder with his fate lying in the hands of Keller and 12 strangers , the jury , with the entire province of Ottawa demanding his blood ! Another top flight performance by Montgomery Cliff as the beleaguered Father Michael Logan who's not only in danger of being convicted of a crime that he didn't commit but of actually being in danger of committing a crime against God ! This in allowing himself to be , if convicted , executed by the state that would amount to committing suicide ! A mortal sin in the Catholic religion ! SPOILER ALERT Keller paying it cool and close to the vest depended on Father Michael's deep religious convictions in him not betraying or revealing his confession to him to the police . It was Keller's hard working and guilt ridden wife Alma , Dolly Haas , who seeing that Father Michael was being railroaded , by public opinion , who broke down and tried to tell the truth . Alma's attempt to exonerate Father Michael failed with her voice being silenced at the very last moment . But in the end it was Alma's husband Otto's guilty conscience , as well as him being tricked by a very clever Inspector Larrue , that finally did bring out the truth about who was Villette's killer .
The Last Ride	SPOILERS Robert Mitchum's most personal movie where he not only stared in but has his 17 year-old son James playing his kid brother as well as having wrote the screenplay and even the films theme song " The Balled of Thunder Road " - as well as the song " Whippoorwill " - that he himself later recored . Lucas Doolin , Robert Mitchum , is back from the Korean War and back on his beat as a moonshine transporter in and around the Appalachians and beyond . With not only the US Government after him but also Carl Kogan , Jacques Aubuchon , a big time local gangster who wants to take over the states illegal moonshine business Kogan is targeting Lucas as the first one on his list to put out of commission . With the Doolin's Being involve in processing and shipping moonshine for some four generations Lucas wants to finally put an end to this illegal activity . Lucas seeing that with the Fed's breathing down his back it's only a matter of time when he's busted , or killed . Most of all Lucas wants his car mechanic kid bother Robin , James Mitchum , to never get into this line of work and would go as far as kill anyone who would try to make Robin turn into a moonshine transporter like himself . Kogan raises the stakes when after murdering moonshine transporter Niles Penland , Jerry Hardin , he then has Lucas ' friend and fellow Moonshine runner Jed , Mitch Ryan , together with Treasury Agent Mike Williams , Dale Van Sickel , killed in a car explosion that was really meant for Lucas . Determined to get in just one last run Lucas ' car gets damaged running a police roadblock . While waiting for his car to be repaired Lucas finds out that young and inexperienced Robin had been recruited by one of Kogan's goons Stacey Googe , Peter Beck , to do his moonshine run . This was the last straw for Lucas and after preventing Robin from going on the dangerous run he telephones Kogan and tell's him that he's coming and coming hard to not only deliver the goods , a tank-full of moonshine , but to put him away and away for good . Super cool Robert Mitchum is at his anti-hero best as Lucas Doolin the best moonshine transporter this side of the Mississippi . Lucas is also a big favorite with the ladies in the film who just get's get enough of him and whatever goodies of his that he has to offer them . Lucas plays musical chairs with young and pretty Roxanne Ledbetter , Sandra Kinght , whom despite her being absolutely crazy about him Lucas treats her like she's his kid sister . There's also night-club singer Francie Wymore , Keely Smith , Lucas ' long suffering girlfriend . It's Francie whom Lucas has been driving to drink and who's at the same time is trying to keep the big lug from going out on the road and end up killing himself . Roxanna and Robin going over to the other side in talking to US Government Agent Troy Barrett , Gene Barry , to have them make a deal with Lucas to let him off the hook if he helps him get the goods on Kogan which Barrett agrees to . But the mule-headed Lucas doesn't want any part of it , being the free and independent soul that he is , and decides to make the long and dangerous moonshine run to Mamphis Tenn ; which sadly turns out to be his vary last .
Coals to Newcastle	SPOILERS On his way to the electric chair to pay the ultimate price for the shooting death of Newcastle University's popular and beloved English Professor George Kingsley , Stanley Ridges , Newcastle brain surgeon . Dr . Ernest Sovac , Boris Karloff , hands over his personal diary to reporter James Craig . Craig is one of the 12 witnesses at his execution . This was done by Dr . Sovac's for the fair and honest reporting that Craig did on his sensational murder trial so that he can get the scoop on what really happened that led to the tragic death of Pro . Kingsley . Craig had been very even-handed in his reporting and Dr . Sovac wanted him to have the real story that led to Prof . Kingsley's tragic death and to his , Dr . Sovac , upcoming execution . The whole story started some time back on a Friday , Friday the 13th , the last day of classes at Newcastle U . where Prof . Kingsley was to go on his way to New York for a interview to get a teaching job a at top Ivy League college . This bunch of hoodlums from New York City came speeding through town and shooting at each others and then ran down poor Prof . Kingsley leaving him brain dead and one of the hoods Red Cannon near death . In an effort to save his good friend George Kingsley Dr . Sovac had the brain of the dying gangster Red Cannon transplanted into the skull of the comatose Prof . Kingsley in order to save his life . Dr . Sovac later started to get ideas when he heard that Cannon had hidden some $500 , 000 . 00 back in NYC and with that tried to have the recovering Prof . Kingsley take a trip with him to the Big Apple in order to recover the money . Dr . Sovac wanted to use stolen money in advancing the cause of brain-transportation that he needed to continue his research . Taking Kingsley to Cannon's old hunts at the Midtown Hotel in NYC as well as at the Club Royal where Cannon's girlfriend singer Sunny Rogers , Anne Negel , is the top act there so that these familiar settings would reactivate the dead gangsters memory . Kingsley is induced to be Red Cannon by Dr . Sovac planting memories into his mind about Cannon's activities . this all leads Cannon's brain to take over Kingsley's body and use the fact that he's been dead and buried , as the notorious gangster Red Cannon , to go out as the meek and kind prof . Kingsley and murder those who double crossed and killed him . Taking out in short order fellow gang-members Devore Kane & Miller , Raymond Bailey Paul Fix & Edmund MacDonald , the only one left for Cannon to finish off is Eric Marnay , Bela Lugosi , who took over his place as the head of the former Red Cannon Gang . Going to Marney's apartment at the Ritz Manor Cannon is confronted by two detectives who came to see him , Marney , and after faking that he's Prof . Kingsgley murders them . Finding out that Marney grabbed the hidden $500 , 000 . 00 when he was too busy murdering both Miller Kingsley / Cannon later tracks down Marley at Sunny's pad where Marley together with Cannon's two-timing girlfriend , Sunny Rogers , planned to take-off with the loot and leave the city . Murdering Sunny and killing Marley , by locking him in a closet where he was hiding and have him suffocated to death , Cannon comes back to the Midtown Hotel with the cash . While he's asleep and out cold Dr . Sovac gets him to forget who he is and gets him to believe that he's now Prof . Kingsley ; while at the same time he takes the $500 , 000 . 00 to later finance his brain-transplant research . Back at Newcastle , as an English professor , the buried memories that are hidden in Prof . Kingsley's mind come to the surface when he hears a police siren . The mind-splitting siren activates Prof . Kingley's mind and turns him into the killer Red Cannon . Breaking into Dr . Sovac house to find the $500 , 000 . 00 that he took from him and then trying to murder his daughter Anne , Anne Gwynne , Sovac shoots Prof . Kingsley dead . Dr . Sovac kept this truth from the public while he was still alive about his killing of Prof . Kingsley to save his , Kingsley's , family any more suffering and paid for it with his life . Even though Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi are the two top stars in the movie it's really Stanley Ridge that's the star of the film " Black Friday " . Ridge's double-performance as the meek collage professor Kingsley and at the same time the ruthless killer Red Cannon is one of the best acting jobs on film that I've ever seen . Karloff and Lugosi are never seen even in the same frame much less together in the entire movie .
I'll Tell You When It's Over !	SPOILERS You see right away that their marriage is a bit strained within the first few minutes of the movie as Steven and Emily Taylor , Michael Douglas & Gwyneth Paltrow , get ready to attend a by invitation only art exhibit at the New York Museum of Art . At the museum Emily makes eye contact with young starving and soon to become famous , or so he hopes , young artist David Shaw , Viggo Mortensen . You knows right away that she and him have got something going between each other and that the cheated on husband Steven , who's nobody's fool , knows that as well . Emily and David we find are madly in love with each other but Emily finds it much too hard to tell Steven and thus have the marriage dissolved . Keeping her affair with David secret Emily goes to his loft in Greenpoint Brooklyn every chance that she has and spends the day making out with him until Steven , a bond and currency broker on Wall Street , comes back home from a hard day's work at the office . Giving David a call , he got his phone number at the exhibit , Steven invites him over to a downtown bar to talk over his art work . To David's surprise , when he and Steven go to his loft to check it out , he's hit with the fact that Steven not only knows what's going on between him and Emily but also knows that David is an impostor ! It turns out that David is on the lamb from the police for fleecing a number of rich and naive women of their life savings . Having been already convicted and sentenced to long prison terms for fraud and embezzlement the third time around would put David away for at least 15 years with no chance of parole . On top of all that Steven got the self-styled Casanova by the you know what with a photo that identifies him as the person who gypped a woman out of her savings . This information that David has , if it lead lead to a trial and conviction , would be David's third strike as well as a 15 year sentence behind bars . Just when you think that you got an idea of where the movie is going with Steven breaking up the love affair between the young artist and his wife Emily he completely surprises you by offering David $500 , 000 . 00 to not just get of of his and Emily's life but to murder her ! We soon learn that Steven is not at all that interested in whom his wife is sleeping with but in her 100 million dollar trust fund that he's to inherited if anything bad , like Emily losing her life , happens to her . Having been involved in a number of wild and very speculative trading ventures on Wall Street Steven's firm is about to go bust with him heavily leveraged in playing the currency and bond markets with the banks leaving him , the once billionaire Wall Street whiz kid , almost penniless . The plan to do in Emily that Steven devises with a very reluctant David is to make it look like she was surprised by a burglar who then killed her and took of with nothing more then the key to her and Stevens suite that he would provide for him . David who's to do all the dirty work acting as the burglar while Steven , providing a perfect alibi for himself in his wife's murder , is away playing cards with his Wall Sreet friends on the other side of town . The almost perfect plan backfires when Emily not only survives it by killing the intruder , after a life and death struggle , with a oven thermometer but , this is what really blew Steven's as well as everyone watching the movies mind , the dead man turns out not to be David Shaw ! Very well done murder drama / thriller that has the slick and crafty Steven Taylor get outmaneuvered by the person whom he tries to manipulate David Shaw . David in no time at all has all the cards to put Steven not just out of business , as a Wall Street broker , but behind bars as well for attempted murder of his wife Emily . Emily for her part is completely ignorant of what Steven had planned for her . It's not until Emily realizes with the help of Turkish / American NYPD detective in charge of the killing Mohamed Karaman , David Suchet , that the key that's on her key-chain , that Steven hastily put on it , is actually that of the dead burglars , Roland Gibbs , Washington Heights apartment . Emily and Moe or Mohamed somehow secretly bond together during the rest of the movie " A Perfect Murder " with her knowing Turkish and speaking to Moe in his native language . It takes a while for Emily to realize just what Steven is up to and by the time she finally get's it all together with the mystery of how her missing house key that the sparks and bullets really start to fly in the movies very tense and edge of your seat final sequence .
A sense of balance	The Joe Louis story is told in a long flashback that takes up almost the entire movie by Joe's , Coley Wallace , friend and sports writer Ted McGeeham , Paul Stewart . The film starts with a young Joe Louis spending his money for violin lessons that his mom Mrs . Barrows , Evelyen Ellis , gave him to sharpen his skills as a professional prize fighter at a local Detroit gym and it doesn't take long for Joe to be recognized as the champ that he eventually become . Hooking up with Jack " Chappie " Blackburn , James Edwards , as his trainer / manager Joe runs up a winning streak that has him knock out two former heavyweight champions Primo Carnera and Max Baer . Joe looking forward to take on the champ James Braddock has a tune up match with , what everybody thought at the time , washed up heavyweight and also former champ Max Schmeling on June 19 , 1936 at New Yorks Yankee Staduim . Schmeling had seen films of Joe's fights and saw that he was a sucker for a right cross , Joe dropped his left hand whenever he threw a jab . Taking advantage of Joe's momentary lapses in the ring Schmeling caught Joe flat-footed with a number of powerful straight rights , over Joe's jabs , and knocked him out in the 12th round ; that was the first time Joe Louis ever lost a professional boxing match . After the Schmeling bout Joe started taking his boxing seriously not taking for granted that he can knock out or defeat anyone that he's in with in the ring . Still Joe was given a chance to fight James Broddock for the heavyweight championship despite being beaten by Max Schmeling , who more then Joe really deserved to fight the Champ , in Chicago on June 22 , 1937 . Joe being knocked down by Braddock early in the match finished Broddock by flooring him in the eight round winning the heavyweight championship of the world . The stage was now set for the long awaited re-match with Max Schmeling that was to take place exactly a year from when Joe Louis won the championship on June 22 , 1938 at Yankee Stadium . This time around it was Schmeling not Joe that got suckered and punched silly , with both rights and lefts , being knocked out by Joe in 2 . 04 of the first round . The film skims over most of Joe Louis ' 25 defenses of his Heavyweight Championship Crown with him making a comeback in 1950 , after he retired from boxing , and getting badly beaten by the then Heavyweight Champ Ezzard Charles in a 15 round decision at Yankee Staduim . Needing money to pay off his some $500 , 000 . 00 in back taxes Joe kept on fighting long after he should have hung up his gloves and ended his career on October 26 , 1951 at Madison Square Garden . It was then that Joe was matched against the hard hitting 28 year old Brockton MA . slugger Rocky Marciano . You could see right away that the 218 pound , some 20 pounds over his normal fighting weight , Louis was vastly outmatched with Marciano bulling and manhandling him all around the ring . Joe did catch Rocky with a number of punches , including his lethal left hook and right cross , but they had absolutely no effect on the Brockton Blockbuster . In the eight round Marciano caught Joe with a leaping left hook knocking him down , and almost out , on the seat of his trunks . Taking the eight count Joe tried to survive the round only to get caught on the ropes and knocked out of the ring by a Marciano right that spelled curtains to Joe Louis ' 17 year professional boxing career . Fine performance by Coley Wallace as Joe Louis as well as both James Edwards and John Marly as Joe's trainers Chappie Blackburn and Mannie Seamon . It was Mannie Seamon who took over training Joe after Chappie Blackburn died while Joe was serving overseas in the US Army during WWII . There's also Paul Stewart as sports writer Ted McGeehan who try as he did couldn't get Joe to retire from boxing that lead to him getting his brains scrambled by the likes of Charles and Marciano . P . S even though it's said that Corley Wallace who played Joe Louis in the movie was the only boxer to defeat Rocky Marciano as an armature , Marciano was never beaten as a professional fighter , the records dispute that . Besides being beaten in a three round decision by Wallace on March 1 , 1948 Marciano had lost three times previously as an armature . Marciano lost by a DQ , disquisition , to Ted Lester on April 15 , 1946 as well as losing decisions to Joe D'Angelis on August 23 , 1946 and Bob Girand on January 17 , 1947 .
If you guys are lying to me your pushing Nick straight into the electric chair .	SPOILERS Nicholas Ray's first film that's very much like his 1955 classic " Rebel Without a Cause " which deals with a troubled youth where in " Rebel " it's star James Dean , as James Stark , was a troubled and misunderstood teenager . In the movie " Knock on any Door " the young man Nick " Pretty Boy " Romono " , John Derek , is a hardened and career criminal . Arrested after a cop was shot and killed outside the 3 . 80 Club Nick is grabbed by the police together with a score of other persons and charged with the policemen's murder . Attorney Andrew Morton , Humphrey Bogart , who handles only property and probate cases goes against his law partners wishes to take up Nick's defense pro bono . Andrew feels that he owes him at least that since he holds himself responsible for the violent life that Nick had chosen years earlier . Six years ago Andrew turned the case of Nick's dad over to his law partner Ed Elkins , Curt Conway . He felt at the time that it was an open and shut case for old man Romono being found innocent . Elkins however blotched it up and caused the old man to be sentenced to a year in prison and died after four months behind bars . With Nick suddenly becoming the family bread-winner he drifted into a life of crime and worked himself up , over those six years , from petty theft to what he's now being accused of , the murder of a law enforcement officer . Ahead of it's time , even though very dated now , " Knock on any Door " gets into the background of it's accused killer like a scalpel used by a neurosurgeon goes into the brain of his patient . The entire movie goes from Nick's trial to his past , through a series of flashbacks and shows how he got to where is is now ; on trial for his life . Handsome John Derek's first film and he does the best with the part that he has giving a three dimensional , unlike the usual cartoon-like , performance of the ruthless criminal Nick " Pretty Boy " Romono who has a heart of gold under all that barb wire that he covers himself up with . Humphrey Bogart gives his usual high quality performance as the lawyer Abdrew Morton who goes out of his way to try to save the " abused and troubled " young man from a one-way trip to the electric chair . Very emotional and powerful ending sequence where Andrew gives his closing argument not just about his client's Nick Romono tormented and troubled past , as he pleads for the jury to spare his life , but also for the future . Andrews final summery is in preventing more Nick Romono's from evolving out of the depressed and hopeless crime infested neighborhoods that they come from and grow up in .
Warning Signs	SPOILERS Decent and straightforward clone of the previous years , 2002 , Mel Gibson movie " Signs " without the heavy religious overtones of the original . We see right away that things aren't going too good at the old Vossimer farm . Crazy Joe Vossimer , Stephen Bladwin , has been under attack by these unseen , by everyone but Joe , aliens from other space that made his 40 acer cornfield their home . Even though Joe had somehow found how to battle the aliens it seems that it was still too late for the rest of humanity , as well as Crazy Joe , in that he drunkenly got himself killed by his own hand as he was partying , all by himself , the night away . It was now up to crazy Joe's close relative the just graduated electronic major Layne , A . J Buckley , and his fellow graduating student friends to be the one's to save the world together with the help of the town sheriff Bill Willingham , Billy Zane . It's not that Layne & Co . were out to save the world all they wanted to do was have a good time refurbishing the Old Vossimer home & Farm and have put it , by Layne , on sale . It was that's how things just turned out in that they were designated by fate , or a power beyond their control , to battle an alien invasion of the earth that they accidentally came upon . Not expecting to find what they eventually did the young people were just having a good time doing their thing , besides cleaning up the place , in the wilds of rural Oregon until things started to get a bit weird ! Like these strange crop circles popping up all over the cornfield like weeds in your backyard . At first thinking that the crop circles were the work of a few local sht kicking farmhands it soon became obvious , in them being both overly drunk and utterly brainless , that it was the work of some higher form of intelligence possibly from another planet . It was Layne who at first suspected something wasn't kosher when he found in the attic a number of video tapes made by Crazy Joe explaining his paranoia of aliens from outer space . It's later when one of Layne's friends Maurice , Ransford Doherty , while peeping through the keyhole of sexy Iris Doyle's , Kim Onasch , room as she was undressing that he saw , besides Iris undressed , a alien shape in her window ! Blowing his cover Maurice ended up barreling into Iris ' room exposing himself as a peeping Tom , or Maurice , but at the same time alerting his fellow students and friends that there are aliens out there and their up to no good . It still took a while for Layne and his friends to finally get the picture that they and the earth was under attack , from aliens from outer space , but when they did it was almost too late in that the aliens had already gotten the upper hand as well as done in a number of them . It's when Sheriff Willingham , who finally got off his a , came on the scene that the battle for the Vossimer Farm took a sudden and dramatic turn for the better . SPOILERS It became obvious , from what Crazy Joe left behind on the farm , that the aliens were somehow unable to fend off anything made of pure iron as well as it being electrified by connected to an electric current . It's that secret that Sheriff Willingham found out , through Crazy Joe's video's and writings , that in the end turned the tide against the invisible and materializing , from out of thin air , aliens . Making the ultimate sacrifice in preventing the aliens from taking over the Vossimer Farm as well as zapping Layne and his friends , or what was left of them , Sheriff Willingham stopped them dead , or hot , in their tracks . It was just too bad that the rest of the world , or the United State's West Coast , didn't have other men of sheriff Willingham's insight courage conviction and determination as well . As we soon find out in the movie's shocking and disturbing final moments .
The redemption of an unscrupulous shyster	SPOILERS Very penetrating study of an amoral and sleazy defense lawyer who suddenly got religious when he found out that his equally sleazy wife was cheating on him as well as the similarities he had in life with one of his clients . From the files of the honorable Judge Allan J . Brooks , Jonathan Hale , we get to see the story of Attorney Martin Strang , Milburn Stone , and the life he lead that in the end made him realize what a low down rotten swine he really was . Strang had gotten off accused murderer James Tilton , Norman Budd , on a technically the year before only to have him murder a young violinist Tony , Al Rosman , and his pet dog . Tilton murdered Tony , a crippled 11 year old boy , because was was driving him , his next door neighbor , crazy with his violin playing . Called by Tilton to be his defense attorney Strang who tried to get Tilton off on an insanity defense was stymied when the court psychiatrist Dr . James Anderson , Stanley Waxman , determined that Tilton was perfectly sane when he murdered Tony . What really struck Strang was the fact that Tilton had a brother whom he greatly disliked like he himself did . This was the same situation a young Attorney Strang found himself in with his younger brother whom he , after having him disbarred from practicing law , drove to commit suicide ! It was later when Strang secretly caught his wife Lucille , Katherine DeMill , having an affair with the court psychiatrist Dr . Anderson that he got the idea to reform himself from his life of legalized crime and repent to all those , the victims of the people he got off in court , he hurt over the years ! Planning to both cut his wife completely out of his will and set up her lover Dr . Anderson in a future murder that he so meticulously orchestrated Strang was going to right all the wrongs he committed , in getting murderers off , over the years . SPOILER ALERT The plan that Strang put into motion ended up working to perfection with the biggest surprise , to everyone involved including the movie audience , being in him , attorney Strang , ending up as the murder victim ! Very complicated story about one's redemption at the price of his own life . Strange's shoddy past had finally caught up with him in both the murder of Tony by a client of his , James Tilton , whom he got off on a previous murder charge and his sanctimonious wife cheating on him . But what I feel was the real tipping point in Strang's sudden conversion was his kid brother that he drove to kill himself years before . It was Strang's brothers tragic death coupled with the fact of him realizing how many lives he destroyed in his sleazy tactics in court that finally made him see the light ! P . S In a last act of contrition Strang left his entire estate , valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars , to the families of the victims of the defendants he so skillfully and dishonestly got off .
Buckpasser	( Some Spoilers ) Updated version of " Rebel Without a Cause " with a teenage looking Melissa Gilbert as doctor / psychiatrist Lisa DaVito playing the James Dean part . There's also a moody and manic depressive Fernando Lopez as the troubled youth , Freddy Zomora . Freddy is headed for destruction in the part very similar to that of Sal Mineo in that classic about America's troubled youth in the 1950's . Young Freddy has been going downhill ever since his mother died three years ago and has become not only a danger to those around him but also to himself . After attacking his cousin for using his after shave lotion Freddy is brought , in a straitjacket , to the Elmira Mental hospital for evaluation and treatment for his wild and uncontrollable outbursts . At the hospital Dr . DaVio is assigned to Freddy and sees that his mental problems can be straightened out if he gets the right treatment and medication . But the hospital's director Dr . Butler , Lane Smith , pressures Dr . DaVito to declare Freddy fit to be out in society . It's that Freddy not having medical insurance was a financial burden and Dr . Butler wanted to save the hospital money by not giving him the medical attention , that he so desperately needed . Back out on the street Freddy at first tries to get a job , any job , to be able to support himself . But he slowly descends back into the depressive state that he was in before he was put under Dr . DaVito's care . Not taking his medication an unstable Freddy is later confronted by Dr . DaVito who tries to get him to re-admit himself back into Elmaria Hospital but by then he's too long gone for any help from her or anyone ease . Working at a diner washing dishes Freddy gets into a fight with the owner and runs him through with a kitchen knife killing him . Now a fugitive from the law and wanted for murder Freddy's actions falls right on the head of Dr . Davito for being responsible for signing his release . Getting in touch with her friend at Elmira and hospital attorney Charlie Long , Woodly Harrelson , to find Freddy before he ends up being killed Dr . DaVito goes to see Elmira ' director Dr . Butler . Dr . DiVeto is shocked to find out that he put her on suspension for doing what he pressured her to do : sign Freddy's release papers . Like all persons in high places Dr . Butler passes the buck on to poor Dr . DaVito who's feeling sick over what Freddy's done and what may happen to him , when the police catch up with Freddy , What Dr . DiVeto so desperately tried to prevent . Freddy seeing on the TV at a local diner Dr . Butler put the blame on his friend and psychiatrist Dr . DaVto for what happened realizes that he has to put thing right in exonerating her for his actions . The movie ends with Freddy doing just that but at a terrible cost . Better then average made for TV movie with a hell of a performance by newcomer Freanando Lopez as the troubled and doomed Freddy Zomora who ended up being another victim , together with those he victimized . Freddy who was turned away from the help that he needed ended up a casualty , one of thousands , to a society who's indifferent to those it's supposed to look after helped spawn many like himself .
Bring Him to Me !	SPOILERS With the Fascist Franco forces overrunning Spain , in March 1939 , this orphanage run by a group of loyal Spanish Republicans is in danger of being taken over with it's staff shot for supporting the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War . The couple running the orphanage Casares and Carmen , who lost her right leg in the war , are secretly buying the Republican Forces arms with a large stash of gold bars and now plan to leave the country before Franco takes over . It's there in the orphanage that young Carlos is sent to be looked after . It's also there where he's contacted by one of the orphans who disappeared when the orphanage was bombed by Fascist war planes about a year ago . It turns out that Carlos is given the same bed , # 12 , that Santi slept in before he disappeared from the orphanage . That get's Jamie , a orphan who was a friend of Santi , very mad at him . It turns out that the night that Santi disappeared a huge bomb , dropped from a plane , borrowed itself into the grounds of the orphanage as if to remind everyone about Santi's fate . We also later learn that Jamie was at the scene that night and saw what happened to his friend Santi and kept it a secret all this time until Carlos arrived . Carlos starts to see an aberration at the orphanage the first evening he's there that turns out to be Santi's ghost . Santi seems to be trying to contact and tell Carlos what happened to him , it's by now obvious that he's dead , and even more important just who killed him . Wanting to have his killer brought to justice Santi guides Carlos to a former orphan , and now janitor of the orphanage , Jicinto who it turns out was robbing the safe where Carman kept the gold bars . One evening Santi caught him in the act and that lead to Jicinto accidentally , by slamming his head against a brick wall , killing him . Unknown to Jicinto Santi's friend Jamie was also at he scene and saw the whole thing . Jicinto hid Santi's body in a pool inside the orphanage but now the soul , or ghost , of Satni was breaking loose and getting in touch with Carlos . Jicinto for the time being is having a affair with Carmen behind Casares ' back and is planning , with a number of his cohorts , to win over her confidence . This in order for him to get the key to rob her of the gold bars she has locked up in her safe . Everything comes together in the movie when the Fascists begin to consolidate their gains and are about to drive the Republican Forces out of Spain . Casares going into town sees that the Fascists have taken it over and one of his fellow Republicans , Ayala , had been captured and is about to be executed . This gets Casares to think that the Fascists have gotten the truth out of Ayala about his orphanage being a front for getting arms to the Republican Forces . Getting back Casares warn Carman that she , and him , will have to leave the country right away before the Fascists come over and put them both against a wall and shoot them . It's then , during all this confusion , when Jicinto tries to get the key to the safe where Carmen keeps the gold only to have her tell him to get lost . Carmen had already figured Jicinto , who stole the gold bars , out for the back-stabbing swine that he is . Casares kicks Jicinto out of the orphanage , at gun point , only to have him sneak back in and blow the entire place up killing a number of people including Carman . Jicinto's fiance , a teacher at the orphanage , Conchita who also didn't realize what a swine he was also ends up being killed by him when she doesn't want to go along with him and his friends in getting the gold bars . Jicinto back at the now burnt out and battered orphanage to get the gold bars find that their gone , Carmen hid them in her wooden leg , and with his fellow cooks gone , they also had enough of him , and Casares dying from his wounds , that he receives in Jicinto blowing up the orphanage , Jicinto's left all by himself . Not knowing that all this was arraigned by Santi , from the great beyond , to get him into a trap that he set for him . Jicinto finds the gold bars but he's also found by the dead Santi who together with the remaining orphans , including Carlos & Jamie , have him pay for what he did , not only to Santi but to everyone else at the orphanage .
The Devil in the Woods	SPOILERS Pink Gresham , Bill Smitrovich , wasn't exactly a model citizen or loving husband he was a down-right lowlife scoundrel . Abusing and flaunting his infidelities in front of his long-suffering wife Maggie , Kathy Baker , and his two children as well as ripping off those who worked at the Parrish Mill , where Pink was the manager , of their hard-earned pay the fact that he ended up hacked to death hanging upside down at the smoke-shed on his property was no surprise to anyone . The surprise was how under the circumstances and who committed it , Pink's murder ! even more sinister the real reason behind it . A movie that takes you to places thats , as far as I know , never gone before in a horror movie and ends up with the unleashing of the dogs of hell that put a gory end to the devil incarnate who was responsible of the murderous acts in the film . Maggie finding her husband Pink murdered is in a panic as she runs to her only neighbor Vinia , Rhetta Hughes , on the almost deserted island in W . Virginia that she lives on for help . Only to be told that there's nothing she , Vinia , could do with a pack of vicious dogs running loose on the island that already killed one of her children . Back at the house Maggie is startled to find a stranger knocking on her door looking for her husband to get work at the Parrish Mill . The stranger Baston Morris , Peter Weller , comes across as a strange and somewhat innocent person at first . But before Maggie can compose herself from the shock of Pinks death he , Baston , lets out the fact that he indeed murdered her husband . Terrified of the creepy Baston and what he can do to her Maggie is trapped with nowhere to go for help and a prisoner in her own home . Then something happens that is so startling , by what Baston told her about Pink that it turns Maggie's fear and panic of him into sympathy and even has her falling in love with him ! To where when her Brother Sheb , John Glover , a local preacher came with the sheriff , to see if everything was all right with her and Pink She hides Baston in her bedroom . Protecting him for being arrested by the local police for her husbands murder ! little did Maggie know what the truth was about Baston and that truth instead of setting Maggie free was going to free her of her life and the lives of her two children in what Baston's sick mind had in store for her and them . Very good debut by director David Saperstein who gives the movie a very professional look . But it's the eerie and rural Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde performance of actor Peter Weller as Baston Morris that really pushes the movie " A Killing Affair " to the front of the line . Makng it one of the most scary and effective , as well as unknown , horror films of the 1980's . Weller in his portrayal of the dangerous as well as at the same time almost likable Baston shows that evil can come to us in almost any kind of package or appearance .
Fly Fly Fly Away	( Some Spoilers ) Even though " The Curse of the Fly " is the third installment of " The Fly " " The Fly " doesn't at all appear in the film , except for a photo of the original " Fly " . Henri Delambre , Brian Donlevy , and grandsons Martin & Albert , George Baker & Michael Graham , are in the movie continuing his fathers work in perfecting the tele-transporter to be used in the future for the benefit of mankind . Even though Pop , Henri is as crazy and fanatical as can be in his pursuits to develop the tele-transporter his two boy's , Martin & Albert , are a bit turned off with his mad dreams that has taken a great toll on his health . Since it was making their lives a total wreck but still go alone with his research . Henri's experiments have taken a number of lives and horribly deformed some of the people that they were tried on , by putting them in that contraption , including Martin's wife Judith , Mary Manson and Martin and Henri themselves . Martin driving one evening sees this young women running down the road dressed only in her bra and panties and takes her to the hotel that he's staying at in Montreal Canada . Learning that her name is Pat , Carole Stanly , Martin in no time at all fall in love with her and the two are married within a week . Back at the Delmbra Mansion Martin continues his experiments with the tele-transporter with the help of his two live-in helpers the butler and maid Tie & Wan , Burt Kwouk & Yette Rees , with Pat blissfully ignorant of what happening in the house . When Martin's father Henri , back in London finds out that he did , got married he almost blows a fuse . Later finding out that Pat is an escapee from a local mental institution when Henri is tele-transported back to Montreal he realizes that now the police and hospital authorities will be snooping around the mansion . Henri gets Martin to show the police his marriage license with Pat to keep them off the premises , in order not for them to find out what he and Martin are doing there . There's another hitch in the plot when the police learn that Martin is still married to Judith , who mysteriously disappeared due to Martin's experiments on her , making his marriage to Pat illegal . Even though both Martin and Pat agreed not to ask each others about their past Pat is suspicious about what Martin is doing behind her back . One night Pat find Judith playing the piano , Pat herself is a pianist , and is terrified at her deformed appearance . Later Pat to her horror finds a number of the persons that Martin used in his experiments locked up outside the mansion . Now Martin himself , his conscience got the best of him , comes clean with her telling Pat what he's been doing at the mansion all these years . Not as good as the original " The Fly " but much better the " The Return of the Fly " with the emphasis on the tele-transporter and how in the end it destroys the Delambre's dream of perfecting it . Henri disappears when he's transported back to London with the receiving tele-transporter destroyed by his , also conscience stricken , son Albert . This has Henri turning into a bunch of loose and dismembered cells atoms and molecules floating in the nothingness of inner space forever .
Ridicules over-the-top WWII propaganda movie	1944 WWII propaganda movie about the fliers who were captured after the Doolittle Raid on Tokyo Japan on April 18 , 1942 . Of the 80 US fliers involved 71 including Gen . Doolittle made it to safety and of the eight that were captured by the Japanese ; three not all eight like in the movie " The Purple Heart " were executed . Ridiculously played out in a Shang-Hai courtroom with the captured US fliers having the run of the courtroom . Breaking out with bombastic and patriotic laden speeches as the almost befuddled Japanese justices and military men stand open-mouth and stunned . Making it look like that they were so impressed by the Americans eloquent oratory that they were left completely speechless . I doubt that this was in real life but in the movie the American fliers represent almost every nationality , with the exception of a black and Hispanic , that you can find . Understandingly back in 1944 the movie had to overdo the goodness of the captured US fliers and at the same time dehumanize the evil and treacherous " Japs " , but was so outrageous that watching it now the movie almost made the " Japs " look good at the expense of the captured and heroic Americans . There was also a scene in the movie where it supported the killing of one's father by a son in favor of strangers , the Americans , who testified against them . This was like the movies made in the 1950's like " My Son John " were it was encouraged for parents to turn over their sons and daughters to the police or FBI if they suspected that they were communists . Even if they were not a threat to the countries security but only talked about how great it , communism , was . One scene that seemed to be completely overlooked in the movie that the film makers put in trying to show how insane the Japanese were and how normal and feeling the Americans were was the comparison between Japanese Gen . Mitsubi , Richard Loo , and the US . Gen . MacAthur . Gen . Mitsubi shoots himself when he can't get the US fliers to admit that they came from the aircraft carrier Hornet , which they did , because he felt that he fell down on his job . This without getting anybody under his command killed or wounded . All Gen . Mitsubi wanted was to make a point and the general is made in the movie to look like a crazed lunatic . Earlier in the movie when it's reported that Corrigador fell to the Japanese and that Gen . MacAthur fled and left his troops behind the captured US fliers acted as if Gen . MacAthur did a great and heroic act . As pilot Capt . Ross , Dana Andrews , remarked : " The General did what he had to do and we'll do what we have to do " which was saying nothing to their Japanese captors about where they came from , the Hornet , and getting executed ! Now that's whats meant by rank has it's privileges . The Japanese judges tried very hard to prove that the Americans bombed Japanese civilian targets , and as far as I know about the Doolittle Raid they didn't , to make the US look bad to the world and trumped up evidence to make it look that way . In reality when we look back at the massive B29 fire-bombing attacks on Japan it should have been an open and shut case for them without making up the facts . Hundreds of thousands of innocent Japanese were killed in fire bombing of Japanese cities that had nothing to do with the Japanese war effort but everything to do with terrorizing the Japanese population . An action that was condemned by the Nuremberg War Crime Tribune as a major war crime and had hundreds of German and Japanese officials who were convicted of it executed or jailed for life . Also the atomic attacks on Japan in August 1945 with the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagagsaki are now believed to have been totally uncalled for . Since we know now that Japan was secretly trying to surrender to the allies at the time and that even Gen . MacAthur and Gen . Eisenhower were against using them on Japan . It now turns out that the dropping of the atomic bombs was a political not military decision , to impress USSR dictator Joseph Stalin , by the then US President Harry S . Truman .
Be a good warrior and never think Heinie , you pay a penalty for thinking	SPOILERS Even though the German U-Boat crew are the enemy in the movie " The Enemy Below " it's hard to dislike them . Since they together with their courageous and understanding , for the Americans as well as his own German sailors , Capt . Von Stolberg , Curt Jurgens , are anything but villains in the film . About the only negative person that I could find in the entire movie is the gong-ho German sailor Kunz , Arthur La Ral , who's a bit too much of a company man , to the annoyance of of the very down to earth Capt . Von Stolberg . With his Prussian-like attitude toward rules and authority and in one scene in the movie Kunz is even seen reading Hitler's " Mein Kampf " but that's about as " bad " as Kunz's gets . Out on he high seas of the South Atlantic the US destroyer-escort Haines runs into a German sub , through it's radar-detection , that is on it's way for a rendezvous with the German Raider M battle cruiser . After that the sub is to sail for home to a U-Boat port in German occupied France . The escort-destroyer USS Hines Captain Murrell , Robert Mitchum , knowing that the U-Boat is not interested in any combat with his war-ship tricks Capt . Von Stolberg into attacking him by making his destroyer a very inviting target , practically getting right in middle of the periscope sights of Von Stolberg submarine . Von Stolberg by exposing his position in attacking the Hines , and missing it with two well placed torpedo's , has the rest of the movie turned into a deadly cat and mouse game between Murrell's destroyer and Von Stolberg's U-boat . That in the end causes both to go under the waves with the two captains gaining enormous respect for each other for their courageous skills . Most of all the chivalry that they displayed in their one on one battle at sea . Like in a boxing match with the two opponents feeling each other out to find an opening , for a right-cross or left-hook , Von Stolberg senses that when the Hines goes into attack-mode it suddenly turns and goes on the same parallel course , for about 500 yards , to his U-boat . Making it a sitting duck for a torpedo attack where he doesn't even have to surface , to periscope depth , but just let go of his torpedo's without even having to look to hit his target . Capt . Murrell falling right into Capt . Von Stolberg's trap form a direct torpedo hit does what he can to evacuate his crew and almost singled-handedly steers the sinking USS Haines right into the disabled , from getting hit by Capt . Murrel's destroyers gun-batteries , U-boat ! Causing both the destroyer and submarine to go under the waves in the ship graveyard of the battle strewn South Atlantic . There's a final touch in the film of how men at war becomes brothers in peace-time , no matter who's side that their on , when in the last few minutes of the movie Capt . Von Solberg risks his life to recover his friend and second in command the badly injured Heinie Schwaffer , Theodore Bikel , from the sinking sub . Capt Murrell who was responsible for ramming and sinking the U-boat also risked his life in saving both Stolberg & Schwaffer , who died later , who were his deadly enemies just moments before ! " The Enemy Below " is a war movie where war is something thats both a short and unnecessary evil and friendship , on both sides of the battle-line , is a life long commitment . That's so strong and binding that even the violent and mindless ravages of war could never destroy .
What do you want to do ! Find out the truth after Artie is executed !	SPOILERS Hard hitting movie about the mob or " Syndicates " attempted takeover of the biggest union in Chicago the Workers National Brotherhood , or WNB for short . This devious plan is cooked up by disbarred lawyer and former Al Capone gang member Alan Dixon , Garvin Gordon , who plans to turn the WNB into a front for the Syndicates illegal activities ; loansharking gambling and prostitution . The man running for president of the WNB the beloved and respected , by all the union members , Arthur " Artie " Blaine , Dick Foran , is about to get a boost from his friend the accountant of the union Mickey Partos , John Morley , who's to turn over the crooked and mobbed up president Ken Harrison , Douglas Kennedy , cooked books to Chicago's districts attorney Jim Fremont , Brian Keith . It just happens that Mickey is kidnapped and murdered by Harrisons hood's who plant evidence , the murder weapon , at the scene of the crime implicating the innocent Artie Blaine . Harrison and his boss the behind the scenes Alan Dixon are now ready to pull off a " Hat Trick " in their planned takeover of the WNB union . Get rid of of Mickey Partos , which they did , frame Artie Blaine for his murder and then , with Artie's reputation as an incorruptible union leader go straight down the toilet , pave the way for the mob-controlled Harrison to get re-elected unanimously , with no one running against him , by the hapless and disgruntled union members . There's was just one thing that both Dixon & Harrison didn't plan on a drunken rummy , and former WNB union member , Candymouth Duggan , Elisha Cook Jr , who staggered on the scene and found the gun that killed Mickey Partos ; the gun that his best friend Artie was supposed to have killed him with ! Despite Harrison screwing up it didn't take long for him and his boys to get Candymouth to change his story telling the D . A , Jim Fremont , that he found the gun in Partos ' car , which was at the bottom of Lake Michigan at the time Candymouth came on the scene , tying Artie to Partos ' murder . Harrison also had a key witness , Artie's next door neighbor , Sylvia Clarkson , Beverly Tyler , change her testimony which at first cleared Artie of the crime . With all the evidence pointing at him Artie is convinced of first degree murder and slated to have a date with the state of Illinois ' electric chair . Feeling that he's now on a roll D . A Fremont is a shoe-in to be elected the next governor by having Artie Blaine sent to the death house . Still Artie's girlfriend Laura Burton , Beverly Garland , refuses to give up on Artie's innocence and it's her bulldog like determination to get the truth out that in the end saves Artie's life and puts Harrison & Co . either in the city morgue or behind bars in the state penitentiary . Documentary-style crime flick has all the ingredients of a great film noir classic but gets a bit carried away with the violence which makes it just another crime shoot-him-up movie . It's hard to believe that the Chicago D . A Jim Fremont would go out on his own risking both his and his wife's Helen , Phillis Coates , lives in tackling the " Chcago Syndicate " almost single handed . This without using the entire Chicago Police Force as well as , with Harrison & Dixon also involved in tax fraud , the FBI which were easily at his disposal ! Fremont does in the end get the job done and has Artie Blaine freed and restored back to being the president of the WNB Union but he could have done it a lot easier if he only let the Chicago Police and US Justice Departmet do the job themselves . Not by trying to be a hero and go solo and very possibly end up together with the late Mickey Partos sleeping with the fishes . But then the movie wouldn't have been as exciting as it turned out to be . P / S Besides Phillis Coates who played Lois Lane in the Adventures of Superman TV series there's also in the movie " Chicago Confidential " John Hamilton playing Artie's defense attorney Emory Morgan . Hamilton was also a member of the Superman TV cast as the city of Metropolis ' newspaper The Daily Planet's editor Perry " Great Caesars ' Ghost " White .
Just walk slow and stick with the crowd	( There are Spoilers ) Petty L . A hold-up man Rick Robey , John Garfield , just knew that this wasn't going to be his day . waking up at his mother's apartment in a cold sweat Rick had a dream , or premonition , of things to come and it wasn't good . Nervously meeting his friend and fellow hood out on the street Al Nolin , Norman Llyod , Rick want's to call off the planned hold-up of the Union Pacific payroll but Al insists that this is the one job that they'll finally hit the jackpot and retire from their life of crime . Rick , a bit hesitatingly , goes alone with Al's plan ; Nick should have followed his first instincts and stayed home . By the time the day was over Nick was on the run , like in his dream , for his life from the police wanted for a payroll robbery that resulted in the payroll courier , A . Cameron Grant , being in the hospital with a cracked skull . Nick's friend and fellow robber Al Nolin ends up clinging on to life on a thread with a bullet in his stomach and police officer Newcomb , Dale Van Sickel , in the morgue with a bullet in his chest from Rick's gun . Hiding out at a local L . A public swimming pool Rick with the $10 , 000 . 00 in payroll money strikes up a conversation with Peg Dobbs ( Shelly Winters ) , who he teaches how to swim . Nick later uses his new found girlfriend and her family's apartment to stay undercover and on the lamb from the police dragnet out to find and possibly shoot and kill the fugitive cop-killer . In his last movie John Garfield gives one of his most riveting and at the same time sensitive performances as the anti-hero Nick Robey . It was after Garfield made " He Ran All the Way " his career came to a screeching halt due to the pressure put on him by the HUAC to name names , of fellow friends and members , which he refused even though he openly admitted that he was a member of a number of Communist front organizations . Garfield's troubles with the HUAC cause the stress that lead to his death on May 21 , 1952 at the age of 39 . Nick seemed to know instinctively that he was doomed , like his dream revealed to him , even though he tried to make his escape with the help of a reluctant but love sick Peg Dobbs who went against both her fathers and mothers , Wallace Ford & Selena Royle , wishes . There was an eerie sense of fatality in Nick's face that showed throughout the entire film . Just look at at the scene where Peg is having a talk with her father about not going off with Nick and he's some ten feet away , with his head , right between the two . The look on his face tells you that he knows that Mr . Dobbs is right ; he's a born loser in life and a dead one at that . Powerful ending sequence as Nick left alone and abandoned by Peg , due to his death wish-like paranoia , staggers and finally falls dead on the rain soaked street , from a bullet from Mr . Dobbs ' gun , right in front of Peg and the car that she got for him to make his getaway .
Their raking the whole line ! Will be next !	( Some Spoilers ) The movie " The Fighting 69th " follows that mostly Irish 165th infantry combat unit , also known as the Fighting 69th , from Camp Mills in New York State to the bloody fighting in the final and climatic battle of WWI in the Argonne-Meus Forest in France . It was in the battle of the Argonne Forest that the US Expeditionary Force suffered its greatest losses in all of WWI : 130 , 000 casualties with some 27 , 000 killed or missing . The film centers around the beloved Chaplin of the Fighting 69th Father Francis J . Duffy , Pat O'Brien , and the arrogant and at the same time yellow-bellied Pvt . Jerry Plunkett , James Cagney , who despite his quick with his fists reputation was totally gutless when it came to put up or shut up under enemy fire . Plunkett earned the disrespect of everyone in his unit with his big mouth about he'll come home after the war with a chest full of battle ribbons and combat medals . It was when Plunkett and the men of the Fighting 69th came under fire by the Germans that he froze and tired to wimp himself out of fighting by putting on a act , which wasn't that hard for him to do , of cowardice that in fact cost the lives of over a dozen of his comrades . It was Father Duffy's faith in Pluckett's ability in being a soldier that kept him from being transfered out of the unit for good as well as , which Pluckett always wanted , far behind the battle-lines . Despite Plunkett's miserable record as a combat soldier Father Duffy got his commanding officer Major " Wild Bill " Donovan , George Brant , to give Plunkett another chance only to have him screw up again costing the lives of another half dozen of his men . Court-martial-led and sentenced to be shot at sunrise Plunkett is given a second , or is it his third or forth , chance to redeem himself when the Germans open up on the American forces with a deadly artillery and mortar barrage . This gives Plunkett the chance to escape and make his way back home , to Brooklyn New York , during all the confusion . Making it to the local church Plunkett sees Father Duffy conducting services for the man of the Fighting 69th there and something clicks in the terribly confused Pvt . Plunkett's head . It's then with the encouragement of Father Duffy that Plunkett turns over a new leaf and heads straight to the front lines not to show how brave he is but to make up far all the damage he caused in his cowedly actions up until then . With the help of his former combat company sergeant " Big Mike " Wynn , Alan Hale , Plunkett holds off a determined German offensive blasting a hole through the Germans lines and at the same time saving Sgt . Wynn's , who up until then had no use for Plunkett at all , life ! Excellent men of war type of movie that shows that bravery and cowardice are motivated by one and same emotion : Fear . Pvt . Plunkett's bravado back in Brooklyn was short-circuited in the battle fields in France in that the worst that could happen to him back there , Brooklyn , was a bloody nose or a black eye . In France Plunkett not only was risking his life but the lives of his fellow soldiers in whatever , good or bad , actions he took . It took a lot of soul searching on Plunkett's part as well as Father Duffy's faith in him that brought Plunkett around and made a soldier as well as hero out of him . Something that Pvt . Plunkett never thought that he had in him until that one brief fleeting , as well as magical , moment in church that turned his entire life around .
Inside Hollywood	A truly memorable film with tough and rugged , but hardly handsome , Jack Palance as Charlie Castle playing of all people an actor who's always playing matine Idols and great lovers . As Charlie's boss and studio owner Stanley Hoff , Rod Steiger , says of him throughout the film : " He makes all the women of America heart's swoon " . " The Big Knife " is worth the price of admission just to see how and if director Robert Aldrich can pull it off and make the film both entertaining and believable . You see Charlie is getting tired of playing all those roles over the years as a heart throb to the women of America and wants to get out of his contract with the Hoff Studios and go independent ; That was a big thing for actors back in the 1950's . Charlie wan't to do films that are worthy of his extraordinary talents as a serious and Shakespearian actor . It's that Charlie's off the wall and possessive boss Stanley Hoff , the Big Knife , doesn't want his meal ticket to leave and take his fans with him ! So Stanley rolls out the heavy artillery and plays his trump card . It seems that Charlie has a dark secret that the studio has been covering up for years and if Charlie leaves that secret won't be a secret any more ! Get It Charlie ! The film " The Big Knife " can really be described as one of the most multi storied soap operas ever put on film with the audience needing score cards just to keep up with the story and even then they'll get lost . Whoever coined the phrase " Seeing is believing " must have based it the the incredible performance of Rod Steiger's Stanley Hoff which goes from a Saturday Night Live impersonation shtick of a big Hollywood producer to an Oscar winning interpretation of Hamlet all at the same time ! It's really incredible to watch and believe what your seeing in Steiger's over the top performance . And Jack Palance , determined not to be shown up his co-star , really did pull it off in him Playing a role so out of character and yet evoking real sympathy from the audience ! As the tortured soul with a dark past who only wanted to do Art Films and get away from playing debonair and charming movie parts that make women go ape over him . In the end of the film when Palance went all out , or was it underwater , in the final few minutes of the movie he was so convincing that I just couldn't keep the tears from rolling down my cheeks . No matter how much people criticize Robert Aldrich's " The Big Knife " , and with good justification , this is one movie where you can really say that the acting actually overwhelmed the script !
Getting away from it all	Devastating documentary on what three years of compulsory military service does to many young Israelis who live through it . Being burnt out and mentally fatigued in serving in places like the dangerous West Bank and Gaza as well as , when the film was made , the 2006 Israeli Lebanese war these men and women are given some 15 , 000 shekels , or $4 , 300 . 00 in US currency , to get their head back together . Many , as much as 20 , 000 , of these former IDF-Israeli Defense Force - members choose to travel to India and in the tranquil setting of the Himalayan Mountains and hot sun drenched forests they chill out on drugs that they have an unlimited supply of . It's in these strange surrounding far from home that as many as 2 , 000 ex-Israeli servicemen and women flip out and end up with severe psychological problems because of their non stop drug use . The movie " Flipping Out " goes into detail on this phenomenon that's causing far more damage to the IDF then the casualties it suffers in combat . We seen in the documentary how the rigors of war and occupation has caused many Israeli soldiers to turn to drugs to make then overcome what they experienced in preforming their duties as members of the IDF . Going to India to get help only leads many Israelis to get addicted to dangerous drugs which they for the most part uses as much as 14 hours a day ! There's of course a number of self help programs in India sponsored by the Israeli Government as well as the local Jewish fundamentalist Chabd Houses that do their best to get these soldiers back on the right track as drug-free and productive Israeli citizens . But without the soldiers willing to get help all they can do is get those hopelessly addicted back to Israel to get expert psychological care and drug rehabilitation treatment . What the movie " Flipping Out " brings out is how war can effect a person's mental health if he or she's not ready to face the horrors that it exposes them to . In the case of the mostly strung out Israeli soldiers living and partying , on drugs , on the Indian sub-Continent that even trying to escape from their past , as man and women in combat , is anything but an easy solution . The one good thing going for these unfortunate lost souls in the windiness is that their government accepts and takes full responsibility for the mental and psychical , in sending then to war , suffering that their going through . These soldiers are given all the help-free of charge - that they could get in order to put their shattered lives back together again . Which is a lot more then the help that's given to returning veterans from similar conflicts in far off lands by the governments who so willingly and readily sent them to fight and die there .
It's 12 noon . Do you know where your child is ?	SPOILERS At first it's nothing but a missing person case for inspector Newhouse , Laurence Olivier . Inspt . Newhouse considering the daily case load that he handles this case of someone getting lost in London is a bit low on his agenda . It's when Inspt . Newhouse investigates little four year old Bunny Lake's strange disappearance that he slowly begins to suspect that Bunny may never have existed at all in the first place ! Bunny's hysterical American single mother Ann , Carol Lynley , can't produce a single scrap of evidence , a birth certificate inoculation papers passport , of her daughter in fact being with her on the long trip across the Atlantic . Even Bunny's school , The Little Peoples Nursery , that's she supposed to attend here in England has no record of her being there ! Later when Ann's hot headed brother Stephen , Keir Dllea , an American magazine writer comes on the scene that it becomes apparent that whatever happened to Bunny , real or imaginary , is a lot more serious then a child gone missing or even kidnapped . Both Stephen and Ann act as if Bunny is not the real reason for their concern but what Bunny , in the flesh or in their imagination , represents to them , something or someone from the dark and forbidden past , is ! Trying to get to the bottom of this , what turned out to be , strange and mind boggling case Inspt . Newhouse checks out all the places where Ann and her missing daughter were before Bunny disappeared and comes up with zilch absolutely nothing ! No one in all of London who where where Ann went with Bunny , on buses stores or just on the street , can remember ever seeing her . Even the teachers at the school that she's supposed to be attending , The Little Peoples Nursery , haven't seen hide or hair of Bunny that morning at kindergarten classes much less remember seeing her there at all ! Director Otto Preminger goes to great lengths in trying to keep his audience guessing to what exactly happened to Bunny Lake . Were at first given to understand , like Inspt . Newhouse , that Bunny is just a figment of her " mothers " Ann's maternal imagination in that she longs to have a child but , for some medical reason , can't . Ann's brother Stephen is in some ways even stranger , or weirder , then his hysterical sister Ann in his unnatural overprotection of her . Stephen is so wrapped up in Ann's problems , her missing daughter Bunny , that you start to feel that he , not Ann , may be the one who needs help in locating , if she in fact exists , Bunny . The movie starts to jell together when Ann gets the first bit of real and concrete evidence of her daughter Bunny being not just real but alive in a ticket that she found around her , and Stephens , new apartment . A ticket to pick up at a Piccadilly toy store a damaged doll belonging to Bunny . This strange ticket opened the door not only to the toy or doll store owners , Finally Currie , shop but the door to the sick and disturbed mind of the person behind Bunny Lake's mysterious disappearance as well !
Your so cool you'll buy anything	SPOILERS Despite its very uneven storyline " Exit in Red " is one of the best film noir movies to come out of Hollywood since " Chinatown " back in 1974 . Facing disbarment for having an affair with a woman client of his back in New York City psychiatrist Ed Altman , Mickey Rourke , ends up doing the exact same thing when he moves out west to reopen his practice in sunny Palm Springs Calif . Getting right back from where he left off Ed in no time at all develops a romantic relationship with his very first client the leggy and smoldering Ally Mercer , Annabel Schofield . Things turn , to say the least , a bit sour for Ed when Ally's husband Nick , Anthony Michael Hall , shows up at his office seeking his help . Nick tells Ed that Ally is having an affair with another man and that's causing him to not be able to preform his duties as a husband with her in bed ! Of course Ed being no one's , but is own , fool can see that he's the other man in this three way affair ! Ed soon decides to play it cool in trying to keep Nick from finding out that he's in fact the one causing him all these material dysfunctions . It later turns out that Nick is fully on to Ed's and his wife's cheating behind his back when he shows up at Ed's office with a very reluctant Ally in hand ! Thinking at first that he's being blackmailed by the two Ed is later told by his lawyer , handling his disbarment case , Kate Harris , Carre Otis , that Ally & Nick are snookering him in some kind of elaborate shake-down attempt that has nothing really to do with money . SPOILER ALERT FROM POINT ON Still not quite getting it , in what Ally and Nick have planned for him , Ed gets set up in a murder that he ends up being framed for . The murder happens to be of his lover Ally's husband Nick . The biggest surprise in all this , which Ed finds out at the local police station , is that Ally's at first unidentifiable murdered husband , who had his face blown off , happens not to be Nick ! Ending up holding the bag in a murder that he didn't commit Ed ends up a confused and wanted man on the run from the law . Ed's only way of evening things up is for him to track down the two double-crossing creeps who set him up Ally and her boyfriend Nick and make them pay for what they both did to him : Destroyed his both professional and personal life with him now facing life behind bars or a one way trip to the San Quentin death chamber . The way Ed goes about in getting Ally and Nick to pay for what they did to him shows that he himself is in need of immediate psychiatric help ! The guy gets himself deeper and deeper into trouble , which Kate warned him against , with the law then he already is . The ending , like in most film noir movies , is about as depressing as you would expect it to be . Ed gets his revenge all right but instead of clearing his name he ends up with a number of other major criminal charges on his rap sheet that in effect clears both Ally and Nick of the murder that they pinned on him !
Bela's last real movie role and he made it count	SPOILERS Strange things have been happening around the Old Willow's place where a number of people have disappeared with the local police baffled about what happened to them . Janet Lawton , Loretta King , a local reporter has been writing stories about the disappearances and blaming them on what she calls " The Monster of Lake Marsh " which is getting people in the area very apprehensive and scared and making the police look helpless . It turns out very early in the movie we're shown that a Dr . Eric Vornoff , Bela Lugosi , with the help of his hulking assistant Lobo , Tor Johnson , have been kidnapping people in the woods around Lake Marsh and using them in experiments . The trouble is that Dr . Vornoff's experiments haven't been working out like he planned them to with those who he's experimenting on ending up dead . One afternoon at the local police station a prof . Strowski , George Becwar , shows up claiming that he's an expert on undiscovered monsters and thinks that whoever solve the mystery about the " Monster of Lake Marsh " . Telling police Captain Robbins , Harvey B . Dunn , and his second in command Lt . Dick Craig , Tony McCoy , to meet him the next morning and go out in the Lake Marsh area looking for the monster Strowski for some mysterious reason never shows up ! Strowski instead checks out the Old Willow's Place where he comes face to face with Dr . Vornoff . It turns out that both Dr . Vornoff and prof . Strowski worked in , for some strange reason the country is never mentioned in the movie , the Soviet Union Back in the USSR Dr . Vornoff came up with a plan to create beings out of atomic energy that would be indestructible and use them to conquer the world for the USSR . The Soviet Government feeling that Dr . Vornoff was mad and ran him out of the country . Now it seems that they realized that Dr . Vornoff was on to something big and they want him back so they sent Strowski to the USA to fetch him and bring him " home " . Dr . Vornoff feeling insulted and condescended too instead tells Strowski to get lost that his plans for an army of atomic supermen is for his own purposes not for any country much less the Soviet Union who threw him out and stripped him of all his honors and accomplishments . It's then when Strowski pulls out a gun and tells Vornoff that his government ordered him to bring him back . Lobo sneaks up on Strowski and grabs him from behind then throws him into a water tank where he's killed by a giant octopus . Meanwhile Janet , who's Lt . Craig's girlfriend is also snooping around the Old Willow's place looking to break the big story about the monster . Being attacked by a python Lobo comes to Janet's rescue and takes her back to Dr . Vornoff . Dr . Vornoff sees in Janet a new subject for him to try out his atomic experiments with but is interrupted when Lt . Craig , who went out looking for Strowski at the Old Willow's Place , bursts in before Dr . Vornoff can do his dirty work . Lt . Craig like it was with Strowski is grabbed from behind by Lobo who subdues him . With Lt . Craig chained to the wall Dr . Vornoff goes on with his experiments on Janet . Lobo who has taken a liking to Janet then attacks Vornoff and stops him from pulling the switch . Strapping Vornoff to the operating table Lobo turns the juice on him but unlike the other times when the experiment failed and the persons died this time it worked ! Vornoff turns into an atomic superman and clobbers Lobo and takes off with Janet in the woods with the whole police force hot on his heels . Vornoff after being forced to releases Janet , after Lt . Craig rolled a bolder on him , falls into a pound where he's attacked by the octopus that killed Strowski . While Vornoff and the the octopus are engaged in a life and death struggle their hit by a lighting bolt ! With what seems like the whole movie set goes up in a nuclear explosion with Captain Robbins , who was in charge of the police , ends the film by saying what has now become folk lore in movie history : " He Tampered in God's Domain " . " Bride of the Monster " was Bela Lugosi's last staring role and Bela gave it all that he had with the Mad Scientist bit which has to rank right up there with the best films that he made over his long movie career including " Dracula " and " Son of Frankenstein " as well as " Ninotchka " . Bela's " I Have'a no Home " speech that he gave to prof . Strowski was as good as anything that you would hear in an Academy Award winning film or top flight Shakesperaean production . Tor Johnson was also very effective as Lobo , even though he never uttered a word in the movie , by showing pain and affection for Janet who he tried to save from Dr . Vornoff's evil clutches and both Tony McCoy and Loretta King did have chemistry in the scenes that they were in together . George Becwar was more then adequate as the cagey and obsessed prof . Strowski trying to get Dr . Vornoff back home , to the USSR , to help in their nuclear research . You can say that the movie was awful only because director Ed Wood didn't have the money to make it more extravagant . Ed had to relay on cheap sets and props and in some places in the film add in stock footage . Yet I wounder how many top directors in the film business today or in 1955 when " Bride of the Monster " was made would have done better then Wood did with what he had . People should think of that before they put Ed Wood's " Bride of the Monster " down .
You Have No Idea What A Man Of Power Can Do !	SPOILERS Power politics at it deadliest has Navy Lt . Cmdr Tom Farrell , Kevin Costner , get caught up in a murder that leads to the the door of the powerful and very outspoken US Secretary of Defense himself David Brice , Gene Hackman . Farrell's troubles actually started at the Inauguration Ball when he met sexy party girl Susan Atwell , Sean Young , and got involved in a hot and heavy love affair with her . Being recommended for a job in Brice's office by his chief of staff Scott Pritchard , Will Patton , as his man in between the Defense Department and the intelligence services Farrell had no idea that at that very time he was involved with his boss ' , Secretary Brice , mistress Susan Atwell . The affair between Farrell and Atwell is also kept hidden but some truth comes out when Brice finds out that Susan has been seeing another man over the holiday weekend and goes ape sht over it . Confronting Susan in her Georgetown townhouse Brice gets carried away and , in a wild and drunken confrontation , knocks her down the second floor balcony cracking Susan's skull killing her . Panic stricken Brice is about to report Susan's accident to the D . C police but Pritchard coming to his boss ' , the man he says that he would gladly lay down his life for , aid comes up with this strange scenario . According to Pritchards reasonings Susan was killed by the imaginary Yuri , a Soviet spy , who the CIA believes was planted insides the Pentagon by the KBG . It turns out that Farrell was on the scene when Brice showed up at Susan's townhouse and knows that he murdered her and even more striking a golden jewelry box given to Secretary Brice as a present by the Foreign Minister of Morocco was found among Susan's belongings . This box can link the Secretary of Defense to him if not as her murderer but her lover that could destroy his career in D . C politics . Tense filled thriller as Lt . Cmdr . Farrell is on the run throughout the some 17 miles of offices and corridors in the massive Pentagon as he , or the person concocted by Brice & Pritchard Yuri , is hunted down by the both military and local police in Susan Atwell's murder . Knowing that it's just a matter of time before his picture , a Polaroid proof negative print that he foolishly left at Susan's home , is reconstructed by state-of-the-art photography Farrell admits to his friend , and CIA photo analyst , Sam Hesselman , George Dzundza , with Sam doing his best to keep the photo from being cleaned up and developed . In a fit of guilt Sam later confides to the psychotic , and overly protective , Pritchard about what Farrell told him about his boss David Brice having murdered Susan . This lead to Sam being blown away by a crazed Pritchard in the Pentagons empty gymnasium . Jaw-dropping ending that will leave you speechless as we get to find out what was really behind Farrell's involvement with both Susan and the Defense Department , via Secretary of Defense Brice . With an almost unbelievable scene in Secretary Brice's office in the very heart of the Pentagon as Brice tries to frame his loyal and faithful , as well as loving , assistant Scott Pritchard in Susan's murder , and how the by then almost completely out of his skull Pritchard reacted to it !
Nazis on Main Street	SPOILERS Beautifully photographed period piece , New York City circa 1951 , about a young women asst . photo editor Emily Crane , Kelly McGillis , who's let go by her employer Life Magazine for refusing to give or name names to the House Un-American Activities Committee . Getting a job as a reader for an old women Miss . Venable , Jessica Tandy , Emily one afternoon notices this young man Alan , Jonathan Hogan , across the way in the house on Carroll Street through the window talking to Ray Salwen , Mandy Patinkin , the man who interrogated her at the HUAC hearings . Becoming obsessed with the young man Emily follows him on the subway to Rockaway Queens and finds that he spends his time going to mostly Jewish cemeteries taking down the names of those recently departed ? Not knowing what she's getting into Emily uncovers a secret plan to smuggle ex-Nazi scientist's into the US , giving them Jewish name and identities as a cover ! These ex-Nazis are to be use by the US Government in their expertise in the fight against the Red Menace , or International Communism . This secret government operation is headed by the aforementioned anti-Communist fanatic and borderline psycho HUAC investigator Ray Salwen . It was Salwen who later shows how unstable he is by pouring an entire bottle of ketchup , his way of emphasizing the Red Manace , over a clean white table-cloth in order to impress and show a shocked Emily in how the menace of Communisum has spread over the globe ! Emily feels guilty when Alan , who put his trust in her , is murdered before he can talk to G-Man Cochran , Jeff Daniels , who became romantically involved with her . Salwen who's involved with the Nazis being smuggled into the country has his goons try to murder Emily . This before she let's the cat out of the bag about the US Government being allied with high ranking members of the defunct Adolf Hitler's Germany . Salwen ends up on the losing end when he makes a fatal miss-step on the roof of Grand Central Station and takes the fall for what his superiors have been doing since the end of WWII : secretly aiding ex-Nazis in the war against Commnisum . P . S the movie " The House on Carroll Street " is not as far fetched as one might think with President Turman passing the secret order Project , or Operation , Paper-Clip in September 1946 having the US Immigration Department allow hundreds of ex-Nazi scientists , which many of Truman's supporters and admirers say that he didn't know about , into the US . This was done in order to help in developing rockets and other military hardware in fighting the Communists Menace overseas in far away places like Korea and Vietnam .
When a Dillon acts polite lock the hen-house and pull out a pitchfork !	SPOILER ALERT The bad blood between Kentucky thoroughbred horse-breeders the Goodwins and Dillons date back to the early days of the Civil War . That's when the Dillons decided to join the Union against the Confederate South that the Goodwins fought and died for . In fact it was Thad Goodwin Sr . , Russell Hicks , who was gunned down by Capt . John Dillon Sr , Douglas Dumbrille , a then officer in the Union Army as he , under order from President Lincoln , had Goodwin's prized thoroughbred horses forcibly taken away from him . Now some seventy five years later , in 1938 , the feud was reignited when banker and horse breeder John Dillon Jr , Moroni Olsen , turned down a loan to Thad Goodwin Jr , Charles Wladron , who desperately needed the cash to saved his beloved Elmtree Farm . It's at Elmtree where Goodwin bred his champion , over the years , thoroughbreds . The loan was turned down after Goodwin won a gentleman's bet , rolling dice , over Dillon to have a choice to pick any three year old colt at the Dillion Whistle Ranch Farm . To make thing even more complicated Goodwin playing the commodities market heavily invested in cotton futures , hedging his bets , that crashed ! This caused him to literally drop dead on the sidewalk from a massive heart-attack . It's when Dillon's son John , Richard Greene came back from England after studying to be a banker , like his dad , that things started to heat up in the Blue Grass of Kentucky . John wanting to be a horse trainer instead of a banker also got romantically involved with the late Thad Goodwin's daughter Sally , Loretta Young , whom he kept his identity , of being a Dillon , from to win her over . Using the name Mr . Bossman Jack talks Sally and her Uncle Peter Goodwin , Walter Brennan , into letting him stay at their horse farm and train their only racehorse Bessy's Boy to run in the upcoming Kentucky Derby . It turned out that Bessy's Boy broke down when Sally rode him , after her car broke down , to get help for her dying mom Grace , Leona Roberts , leaving the Goodwin's with no horses for Jack to train . Finding the note that Old Man Goodwin got from John Dillon , on their bet , about getting one of his prize Three Year Olds Sally together with her Uncle Peter picked up this jet black colt at the Dillon Farm whom they named Bluegrass ; And the rest is movie horse-racing history . Great horse racing action sequences coupled with beautiful Technicolor photography makes " Kentucky " a stand out of a movie despite it's schmaltzy and predictable storyline . Jack's cover , as Mr . Bossman , is blown when Sally finds out he's actually a hated Dillon from the racing secretary as she tried to talk to him before the big race that Bluegress was entered in . It's when Bluegress won , on a foul , that Sally began to realize that Jack , despite being a Dillon , was on the up and up not like , in her mind , his greedy father who , which was a real stretch on Sally's part , drove her dad to his death . MAJOR SPOILER With the big race-the Kentucky Derby-next Jack who had by then confessed to Sally who he really is , a Dillon , tells her not to have Blurgrass hit by his jockey during the race . It will only have him quit and end up the track by the time the race is over . Going against her Uncle Peter's orders , who wanted Bluegrass whipped in the stretch run , both Bluegrass his jockey and Sally ended up in the Churchill Downs Winners Circle . But ironically the old frail , and having a bad ticker on top of all that , Uncle Peter who all his life dreamed in owning a Derby winner wasn't there with them ! Uncle Peter left the scene , or this plane of existence , just as the big race ended with his heart , the excitement was just too much , giving out on him . Superior horse racing movie not only because of the great racing in it but because the acting of Academy Award winning Walter Brennan as Uncle Peter Goodwin as well as the rest of it's top flight cast . There ' also the added attraction of having guest appearances in the film of such greats of the American Turf as Man O ' War and his 1937 Triple Crown son the speedy War Admiral . There's also making a guest appearance in " Kentucky " the 1935 Triple Crown winner Omaha the only offspring of a Triple Crown winner in horse-racing history who's sire was 1930 Triple Crown winner Gallant Fox who's incidentally also in the movie ! P . S At the start of " Kentucky " we see Uncle Peter asleep on his easy chair with the newspaper , that's covering his face , headline Seabiscuit , who also makes a guest appearance in the film , to face War Admiral at New York's Belmont Park in $100 , 000 . 00 Match Race . The Match Race between he two champion horses actually took place at Pimlico , known as Old Hilltop , outside of Baltimore Maryland not in New York's Belmont Park .
Welcome back to the family	SPOILERS Traveling back to Old Mother Russia American film-maker Marie Jones , Anastasia Hille , has some important business in regards to the family home that belonged to her deceased parents . It was some forty years ago that Marie's father Kolya Kaldavosky lost his mind and brutally murdered her mother leaving her and her twin brother Nicolai , Karel Rodan , orphaned at the tender age of two . Now just two days short of her 42th birthday Marie want's to finally close the deal to her parents home by taking control of it . Seeing local real estate agent Andrei Misharin , Valentine Ganev , at his office Marie finalized the papers putting her late parents house in her name . It's when Marie is driven to the dilapidated and abandoned Kaldavosky Estate that she realizes why the people in and around the place are so terrified of it ! The place is haunted by the deranged psycho who once owned it Marie's father Kolya Kaldavosky ! And furthermore he's somehow trying to get both Marie and her estrange twin brother Nicolai to spend the evening there ! That on the very day where exactly 40 years ago that he went berserk and committed acts of such barbaric violence , besides murdering her and Nicolai's mom , that are too shocking for any normal human being to even imagine ! Modern " Slavic Horror " story involving ghosts from the past who somehow are reunited with each other in the present . Both Marie and Nicolai survived their crazed father's butchery back in 1966 only to come face to face with it forty years later . Marie despite her better judgment went along with real-estate agent's Misharin insistence in her going to the old Kaldavosky House knowing deep gown in her gut what was withing there for her . The same can't be said of Marie's twin brother Nicolai who had no doubts in what he and Marie were in for when they got there . In fact Nicolai was already there waiting for his sister , who hadn't seen him in forty years , before she even arrived there ! What both Marie and Nicolai's father failed to finish back in 1966 he was determined , even by coming back from the dead , to finish now ! It was his sick way of bringing his family back together again to be with him forever in the world of the dead ! SPOILER There was a scene at the very beginning of the film with Marie going to see Andrei Misharian at his realty office that was more then just a quick cut in the editing room . The same scene was repeated again , in a flashback , as the movie " The Abandoned " was about to end which was in fact a subtle warning of thing to come for her and the movie audience . It's too bad that Marie didn't heed the warning , from beyond the grave , that she was given and stayed away from her parents house by the lake . It would have saved her lots of future headaches and possibly even her life !
Strip him of everything we can use wrap him in a blanket bury him and mark him .	SPOILERS Storming across the frozen Yalu River in Manchuria a force of some 300 , 000 Red Chinese troops cut to ribbons the UN / US forces fighting in North Korea . By the end of November 1950 there's nothing left for the allies to do but bug out and move south with their battered divisions across the 38th Parallel into South Korea in order to avoid being encircled and annihilated by the Red Chinese and their North Korean allies . With the Red Chinese putting up road blocks and having sniper teams take up the high ground around the escape routes the US Army and Marines are left to fight their way to safety across the Ch'ongch'on River in order for them to survive the Chinese brutal winter offensive . Using a US infantry platoon of 48 men for cover it's decided that they trick the advancing Chinese Reds into thinking that their of regiment strength , some 1 , 500 men , so the rest of their US infantry division can cross the Ch'ongch'on before their massacred by the Red Chinese Army . The US Army platoon lead by Lt . Gibbs , Craig Hill , has its work cut out for them but incredibility is able to hold the Chinese off due to them thinking that their up against a much more superior force . This has the confused and cautious Chinese hold back their armor , tanks , in reserve for the big break-out . It's when the Red Chinese sniper teams start to pick off the defending GI's that they realize just how weak and undermanned they really are . It's then that the Chinese Reds start to bring in the armor and heavy artillery and that's when things really start getting deadly serious for the US platoon . With the battle hardened Sgt . Rock , Gene Evens , rallying his men on they desperately hold off the Chinese as they try to give the rest of their division time to get across the frozen Ch'ongch'on River . With both Lt . Gibbs and Sgt . Longren , Michael O'Shea , killed in the fighting the meek and conciseness , in shooting anyone , Cpl . Denno , Richard Basehart , is now a heartbeat away from taking charge of the platoon . This in Cpl . Denno's mind is the last thing he wants and knowing that Sgt . Rock's luck was running out , in all the chances he's been taking , it was what Cpl . Danno eventually ended up getting . The second of director Samuell Fuller Korean War movies made in 1951 , at the hight of the war , with Gene Evens again as the tough and pragmatic squad leader Sgt . Rock very much like the role he played as Sgt . Zack in Fuller's unforgettable war classic " The Steel Helmet " released earlier that year . Even with a limited budget Fuller was able to make the battle scenes far more effective then in much more bigger budget war movies released at that time . The GI's who are holding up in a cave almost completely surrounded by Chinese troops try to make a dash for it , thinking that the rest of their division had made it to safely , across the Ch , ongch'on before their cut off and cut to pieces . With Cpl . Danno now in charge , Sgt . Rock was killed by a sniper bullet , he loses his phobia of not being able to fend for himself by gunning down at point-blank range a Red Chinses scout leading an infantry , with a tank in the lead , squad to the GI's cave hideout . With all hell breaking loose the remnants of the decimated platoon make a run for it to the frozen Ch'ongch'on River not knowing if the rest of their infantry division or the Red Chinese Communist made it there first ! Superior war film that shows what war is really all about by not trying to glamorize it with false and Hollywood-like heroics but with hard cold reality . At no point do we get the impression that anyone in the US Army platoon is anything but a GI trying to make it through the war in one piece . No one not even the fearless and I don't give a sht Sgt . Rock tries to be a hero by risking his life recklessly in order to prove his manhood or courage . The meekest man in the platoon Cpl . Danno ends up being the real hero of the movie but only because of circumstances beyond his control not because he wanted to be one . P . S The film " Fixed Bayonets " is also the very first movie that actor James Dean appeared in . We get to see a 20 year-old and hooded James Dean at the very end of the movie as he's seen coming out of the woods and linking up with his fellow GI's on the banks of the Ch'ongch'on River . Exhausted and frost bitten Dean excitedly tells them , in regard to the retreating members of his combat division , " I think I hear them coming " .
You look like a Marine to me	SPOILERS Beautifully photographed slice of life home-front WWII love story with Norman Rockwell paintings in the beginning and end of the movie about how a " war hero " is not just someone who kills for his country but is also someone who thinks for himself and isn't corrupted by the war propaganda that's constantly drummed into his head . Washing out of the Marine Corps Marion " Hedg " Hedgepeth , Jan Michael-Vincent , is kicked out of boot-camp , after five weeks , and forced to put on a Baby Blue Marine uniform that shows that he just didn't have it to make the Corps . Humilitated and scorned wherever he went as he's going home to St . Louis and terrified what his family , whom his dad was in the Marine Corps in WWI , would think of him in that he couldn't " Cut the Mustard " as a US Marine . Hedg stopping in a bar and finds sitting next to him is a Marine member of the fearless and deadly Marine Raiders Richard Gere whom a admiring Hedge buys a beer . Making conversation with Richard Hedge is shocked to find out that not only is he being sent back to the Pacific Theater after all the battles he fought in , and combat medals he got , but the totally gray hair and mid-thirty looking Richard is going to be 21 next month ! That's what being in the Marine Corps and WWII did to him ! Buying Hedge a number of drinks Richard takes the drunk Baby Blue outside and knocks him out taking his Baby Blues and leaves his impressive US Marine uniform with some money in it for Hedge to ware . As soon as Hedge puts on Richard's uniform , that fits him perfectly , he's confronted by this big drunken US paratrooper who calls himself Cement-Head wanting to have a fist fight with the Marine Raider . Hedge doing everything he can to avoid trouble is forced by Cement-Head to belt him , after he himself cracked two beer bottle over his cement-head , to get himself warmed up for the big bout between Marine , Hedge , and Paratrooper , Cement-Head . Hedge incredibly floors the big cement headed buffoon knocking him out cold with one punch ! " I guess the trick is not hitting him in on top of his head " a stunned Hedge tell his , Cement-Heads , fellow G . I's . Hitch-hiking to this small town of Bidwell Hedge notices this US Military internment camp for Japanese-Americans who are there because their considered a threat to US security . It's later in the movie that Hedge shows everyone what a real hero he is , not who the people in the town think he is , by risking his life to save one of the hated " Japs " who mindlessly together with two of his friends escaped from the interment camp , where the hell did they think they were going anyway ? Hedge risked his life by saving the scared to death Japanese-American from drowning in the dangerous rapids outside the town . Hedge in his actions taught the people of Bidwell that not all " Japs " , even those who are American citizens , are bad and treacherous banzai screaming suicidal kamikazes like they were thought by the newspapers magazines and movies at the time to think that they were . Hedge strikes up a conversation with the very cute and pretty waitress at the local diner Rose Hudkins , Glynnis O'Connor , who's just crazy about him that even Hedge at first thinks that it's his uniform not him that impressed her . Later when Hedge admits to Rose that he's not what she and her parents think , A US Marine Raider , that he is Rose had by then gotten to know the sweet and caring washed-out marine so well that it didn't matter to her at all what he was supposed to be , a Marine a Paratrooper or a Post Office worker , it was what was inside his heart that really counted . The film has a number of touching and beautiful scenes in it between Hedge and Rose that shows how movies used to be made years ago without all the sex and profanity that we see and hear in movies today that involved two people in love with each other . The way the film accurately , not phony baloney , shows the true feelings of average Americans , back then in 1943 , about the war in general and Japanese in particular couldn't have been done in more authentic and accurate as well as good taste . " Baby Blur Marine " does it's best not to be too politically correct in not showing the hero's or leading actors and actresses in the film having the same feelings and ideas back then during WWII as most people have now , which would have come across as phony as a three dollar bill , to those people watching the film who lived during those historic and momentous times when the film was to take place .
Please stop me before I kill again !	( There are Spoilers ) Having a deep psychological fear as well as hatred of women since he was a little boy Eddie Miller , Arthur Franz , grew up to become a serial abuser and later murderer of women . We get a little insight in what makes Eddie tick when we first see him as he walks alone one evening on the streets of San Francisco . Everywhere he looks he sees women , young and old , as his enemies which leads him to lose it and decide to do them before they do him in . The movie does have Eddie involved with women like his boss at the Alpine Cleaners & Dryers and his elderly landlady where he seems to act normal with them . It's when he tries to make it with night-club piano player Jean Darr , Marie Windsor , who's dress he , as a diver for Alpine cleaners & Dryers , was delivering and the way she treats him as if he were just a little boy instead of a man that has Eddie finally freak out and go psycho . To the point of murdering some half dozen people , with Jean as his first victim , and sending the people , mostly women , of San Francisco into a total state of panic where they didn't feel safe on the streets or in their homes anytime of the day and night . The movie seems to be based on the string of murders in Chicago back in 1946 by 17 year-old William Heirens who had the same kind of hangups that the fictitious Eddie Miller had . In that Heirens had an uncontrollable hatred of women and murdered three of them , one of his victims was a 7 year-old girl , until he was finally caught by the police . Heirens like Eddie Miller knew that he was sick and desperately wanted to get help . But back then people like himself weren't treated for their mental illness , by being put away and treated in a mental institution , but for their criminal actions by locking them up in prison . Where they would get no help and later when , if they didn't murder anyone , after being let out continue their life of crime . The movie has in it a prison psychiatrist Dr . Kent , Richard Kiley , giving a speech to a number of city officials , including the mayor , about how people like the at large sniper , Eddie Miller , in the movie is the victim of an uncaring society in not recognizing his illness and not having him treated for it that makes him as much of a victim as those that he victimizes . Eddie himself knows that he's a sick man , he spent time in a prison psycho ward for assault , and tries to get help by going as far as burning his right hand on a stove in order to get admitted into a local hospital . Only to end up getting his hand bandaged and released within an hour . One of the first films to address mental illness and does it with a man who's not only sick but murderous as well . Which makes it very very difficult to have any kind of sympathy for him but at the same time realize that his actions are that of a man who can't control them , they control him . The film " The Sniper " has as the cop in charge of the sniper killings an almost unrecognizable , with out his famous mustache , Adolphe Menjou as SFPD detective Let . Kafka , was there a hidden meaning in that ? . Let . Kafkas assistant and sidekick is the tough Humphrey Bogart look-alike , but looking some 15 years younger , Gerald Mohr as Sgt . Joe Ferris . The two track the killer down in his rooming house in the films very tense and nerve wracking final with almost the entire population of San Francisco looking on .
As for today I'm going fishing	SPOILERS Coming over to the Frame home in rural USA to be taken in as a member of the family young Emil Buckner , Skip Homeier , is anything but your typical American boy in fact he was brought up in Nazi Germany and brainwashed to grow up and become a future Aryan Superman in the Hitler Youth . That fact that Emil's dad who was thrown into a Nazi concentration camp where he eventually died for speaking out against the Fuhrer , Adolph Hitler , made Emil look suspicious to his Nazi overseers who felt that he may well become like his dad , normal , when he grows up . The Nazis decided that he didn't have what it takes to become a good and loyal member of the Nazi Party and sent packing to the US to stay with his old man's brother-in-law Mike Frame , Fredic March , and his future wife Leona Richards , Betty Fields . Not getting the hint that he was a total wash out , in him not having what it takes to be a good Nazi , from his beloved Nazi Germany Emil , because of him being brainwashed since he could barley walk , still thinks that he's a full fledged Nazi Superman and goes so far as to parade around the house , this in 1944 when the US was at war with Nazi Germany , with his Nazi or Hitler Youth uniform . Emil makes a complete jerk of himself in him trying to be a spy for the Fatherland and at the same time blowing his cover , by bragging about it , and not realizing that the Fatherland , wanting nothing at all to do with this nut , had him unceremoniously kicked out ! Acting like a Nazified version of " Dennis the Menace " Emil is all over the house and even at school trying to prove to everyone , including himself , what a great Nazi Superman he really is . For a while Emil does get his classmates to go along with his crazy antics that he picked up back in Germany while in the Hitler Youth . Emil has his classmates take night marches into enemy territory and staging roadside ambushes , all in fun of course , while being disguised in camouflage so that the enemy , whoever he is , can't see them as well as familiarizing themselves with all kinds of arms and ammunitions , German of course . Emil goes a bit too far when he first comes to deal with Leona , his Uncle Mike's fiance , being Jewish as well as his determination to steal Mike's mail that he gets from the War Department . Mike is one of the country's top chemist and is working on a top secret project for the US military , the Atomic Bomb ? , and Emil wants to get his hands on what he's doing by stealing his private notes and mail and send it back to the Fatherland . In the case of his future aunt Leona the fact that she's Jewish is enough to drive Emil batty in thinking that he'll be forced to live under the same roof as she is when she marries his Uncle Mike : a fate worse then death itself for the cute but somewhat not all there in the head little Nazi . Two things happen that turn Emil around in his mission , or what he thinks it is , in serving his Fatherland . Confronting Leona about her being Jewish , in the most vulgar of ways , she slaps Emil across the face that shocks the very self-assured and arrogant young man in him , , an Aryan Superman , not only being whacked by a lowly woman but a Jewish one at that ! The second incident that brings Emil back to reality has to do with his getting into a fight with fellow student Stanley Dumbowski , Rudy Wissle . Stanley being a Polish / American whom Emil felt to be inferior to him was able to take him on and give him a bloody nose and even later force Emil , with their teacher Miss . Richards looking on , to apologies to him in front of all his classmates ; What An Insult ! With all his arrogance about being a good Nazi now in question the only thing that can bring back Emil to his fantasy world of serving Fuhrer and Fatherland is to get his hands on Uncle Mike's secret papers and send them back to Germany , by US airmail ? , to show everyone back home what a good German , or Aryan , he really is . Emil is stymied in his plan to serve the Fatherland when he's caught red-handed , with his hands in Uncle Mike's drawer , by his young cousin Pattie , Joan Carroll , who just bought him a birthday present , a illuminated watch which he always wanted for his crazy nighttime war maneuvers . All at once Emil graduated from just being just a pesky and uncontrollable but somewhat harmless young boy to a possibly up and coming psycho killer the very type of person that would make those back in the Fatherland , the Nazis , very proud of him . Intriguing movie about how a young man can be so seriously brainwashed that he goes against his best interests to serve a country and ideology , Nazi Germany , that did nothing but harm him and his family . Where at the same time having him try to destroy , in his own childless way , the country and its people that did nothing but help him in every way it and they could despite his dislike of both of them . Emil does see the light at the end the movie , or tunnel , in how he was treated by his Uncle Mike and especially Leona , a Jew who in his mind is the eternal enemy of his beloved Third Reich , as well as his victim of violence Pattie in the kindness and understanding as well as love that they all showed to him . This kindness and understanding is something that he never would have gotten , if he did what he did here back there , in Nazi Germany .
The Scream of the Butterfly	SPOILERS The movie " Butterfly Effect " starts off like a deep psychological drama and then slowly turns into and finally in the last half of the film becomes a Sci-Fi adventure about time travel . Young Evan Treborn , Ashton Kutcher , has been suffering severe black-outs all his life , a condition that put his father Jason , Callum Keith , in a mental institution . Being examined at the hospital for his black-outs the doctor suggests that Evan keep a journal , which is central to the story , about what happened every day to him in order to jog back his memory . As Edan grows up and leaves for college the black-outs stop and for once in his life Edan becomes normal like everyone else . Involved in a college project about memory retention Evan dusts off his journals that he hasn't read for years and when he does read them the black-outs of his childhood begin to be filled in . Excited over this discovery Edan goes to see a childhood friend Larry , Elden Henson , who he hasn't seen for years to confirm if his new memories of the past are true or just imagined . To Edan's surprise from what he gets from Larry his visions are true but Larry unlike Edan wants to forgets about them . Edan's bringing them up depresses Larry so much that his mother tells Edan never to see or call Larry again . Edan then goes back to the town where he lived as a little boy to see Kayley , Amy Smart , who is at first glad to see him but when Edan brings up the story about her and himself being forced to have sex and being taped by her sick and pedophile father George , Eric Stoltz , she becomes very upset . It may be new to Evan but Kayley had been trying to put that terrible event out of her mind for years and didn't want it brought up again . Still Edan is so obsessed about what Kayley's father did to her and himself that he doesn't notice or realize how it's hurting Kayley and later he finds out from her outraged brother Tommy , Willie Lee Scott , that Kayley killed herself . After that movie turns from a drama about remembering past events to going back in time to change them . It's never fully explained , all Edan does is just look dates in his journal , just how but Edan somehow manages to go back in time and try to change events , that happened to him and his friends , for the better but instead they only become worse . Edan goes back in time four times and in all those times that he changes the past the future is even bleaker that it was without the changes . Edan ends up killing Tommy and then put in jail where he's beaten and brutalized . He's responsible for having Larry kill Tommy which has Larry put away in a mental ward for the rest of his life and Keyley becomes a hooker and drug addict from the shock of seeing her brother Tommy killed as a young girl . Edan loses both his arms in an explosion that leads his mother Andrea , Melona Waiters , who never touched tobacco , starts to chain-smoke and eventually dies of lung cancer at an early age . And on his last trip back in time Edan accidentally kills Kayley , by trying to stop her father from molesting her , when he's seven years-old and spends the rest of his life in a mental hospital . Even though Edan's father has the same illness as Edan has we never see him go back in time . The end of the movie is a bit of a letdown with Edan putting Kayley out of his life forever when they both were seven years-old and thus not try to go back in time to correct the damage that her father , as well as himself by bringing it up , did to Kayley that led to her suicide . As far as we know time travel may very well be possible in the future but the ability to change past events isn't . Changing the past for the better , if at all possible , is like a game of poker , you never know what hand you'll be dealt . If your able to change past events you can't know how those changes will effect the future and those effect can make the future far worse then it already is . Which is what Edan so sadly found out in the movie " The Butterfly Effect " .
A stake before dying	SPOILER ALERT Obnoxious and so full of himself yuppie literary agent Peter Lowe , Nicolas Cage , gets all that's coming to him in this both hilarious and tragic back comedy about vampires and abusive and manic depressive personality's in New York City circa 1989 . Not being wrapped too tight to begin with Peter after standing up his girlfriend Jackie , Kasi Lemmons , lets his both hair and guard down when he goes out to dance the night away at a Manhattan disco club . It just happens that Peter meets this really hot and sexy chick Rachel , Jennifer Beals , who before he can evaluate the situation , in why Rachel is so hung up on him , the two end up in bed together in his East 19th Street , what's known as Yuppieville , Manhattan bachelor pad . During a night of hot and heavy action Rachel puts the hurt , or bite , on an unsuspecting Peter that would later drive the confused young man to the brink of insanity and beyond . Peter soon starts to feel that he's been turned into a blood-sucking vampire by Rachael and starts to act accordingly . It's also during that time in Peter's work as a literary agent that he starts to take his fears and frustrations out at his loyal and hard working secretary Alva , Maria Conchita Alonso . Being the arrogant and uncouth lout that he is Peter drives the poor secretary almost to a nervous breakdown in finding this obscure short story title " Rattlesnake Hills " . The missing and very " important " short story is in fact of no importance to anyone ! Even the person , or client , whom a very concerned Peter claims so desperately wants it . Peter uses it all throughout the movie to harass and browbeat Alva to the point where she can't come to work anymore ! As Peter becomes more and more erratic he seeks help from his psychiatrist Dr . Glaser , Elizabeth Ashley , who in thinking that he's just oversexed and suffering from burn out completely overlooks the danger signs that he's giving off . Without help Peter disintegrates into his own personal hell mimicking a real life , or fictional , vampire . Peter goes so far as both eating live roaches and pigeons as well as murdering a women who foolishly at first lets him fondle her and then rejects his advances . It's Peter's abuse of poor Alva that in fact leads to his end with her car mechanic brother Emilio , Bob Lujan , coming to her aid . By then Peter was so screwed up and suicidal that a shocked Emilio , in seeing the total dump that Peter lived in , didn't need to do that much to do him it . In fact it was Peter himself who more then aided Emilio in putting himself out of his own misery . One of Nicolas Cage's best and at the same time most underrated performance . Despite the movies black comedy theme Peter was a man suffering from real and severe mental problems that drove him to both murder and suicide . It was really cruel and very unprofessional , as she liked to claim that she is , for Peter's psychiatrist Dr . Glaser to break up and laugh at his pressing problems that in fact tipped Peter over the edge . Dr . Glaser was the only hope , or life line , that Peter had left ad she failed him with flying colors .
But Doctor Gillespie ! We've been waiting three years for a case of tularemia to show up in the city !	SPOILERS Finally agreeing to tie the knot , after a seven year courtship , the by now not so young Doctor Kildare , Lew Ayres , and the love of his life Nurse Mary Lamont , Larrine Day , have nothing but blue birds singing and blue and sunny skies ahead of them with absolutely no rain or dark clouds in sight . Preparing for her forthcoming marriage , that's to take place the very next day , Mary walking down the street at night with her mind on her future husband Jimmy Kildare instead of the traffic steps off the curb and is run down by a truck fatally injuring her . Showing up at the hospital for a stag or bachelor party before he's hitched , to Mary Lamont , Dr . Kildare is devastated to find that Mary is near death from injuries suffered in a traffic accident . Even though the dying Mary , as well as his mentor Dr . Gillespie , Lionel Barrymore , told Jimmy Kildare to continue his work as a man of medicine he completely loses his interest in being a doctor and just slinks away into oblivion where no one not even his parents Dr . Stephen and Martha Kildare , Samuel H . Hinds & Emma Dunn , can find him . It takes a lot of effort on the part of Dr . Gillespie to get Jimmy Kildare to forget his grief and get back to the business of helping people . It also takes , with Jimmy Kildare's insistence , the stubborn and bull headed Dr . Gillespie to agree to take time off from work and check into a sanitarium for the treatment of a possible cancerous tumor which his friend , and the administrate of the sanitarium , Dr . Lockerg ( miles Mander ) wanted him to do . The tumor luckily for Dr . Gillespie turns out to be benign . After feeling that he just doesn't have it anymore Jimmy Kildare's life is turned around when he's given the task of curing famous and world renowned musical conductor Constanzo Lbardi , Nils Asther , from his tone deftness that is slowly driving the man , who lives only for his music , insane . Kildare reluctantly takes up Labardi's case and before you know it his ability to cure people comes back with , for lack of a better word , a vengeance . It's too much spaghetti on the part of Labardi's diet that's causing his problem and with him cutting down on pasta , that he loves almost as much as music . Being put on a strict vitamin B1 treatment regiment Labardi's hearing is restored and so is the the talent that he has in putting so much joy into the hearts and lies of millions of his fans and music lovers . In the end Jimmy , now again Doctor , Kildare finds himself and realizes what Mary Lamont told him on her death bed to continue his work in saving and making peoples lives , like conductor Labardi , easier and more bearable to live . Mary is gone forever from the grief-stricken Dr . Kildare's life but the way to remember her is not to feel sorry but to go on with his work . The work that Mary Lamont when she was alive saw as Jimmy Kildare's greatest gift . A gift what more then anything else had her fall in love with him .
A Subliminal Cut ! You used a Subliminal Cut !	( There are Spoilers ) Lt . Columbo , Peter Falk , is far more in charge and less bumbling and fumbling in this movie then he usually is . The L . A detective comes straight out and confronts the murderer of an ad agency president Victor Norris , Robert Middleton , without his usual bumbling and fumbling act . Columbo has no trouble at all confronting Well known motivation expert Dr . Bart Keppel , Robert Culp , and telling him that he knows that he's the killer but at the same time doesn't have the evidence to arrest or have Dr . Keppel convicted in a court of law . Dr . Keppel uses underhanded tactics to blackmail people , who he feels are a threat to him , plants the false story that Victor Norris is having an affair with an employee of his the very attractive Tanya Baker , Arlene Martel . Dr Keppel is caught red-handed by Norris in an effort to blackmail him by trying to get is wife Mrs . Norris , Louise Lathan , to think that Tanya and Victor are fooling around with each other . Norris confronts Dr . Keppel at a movie house playing Dr . Keppel's motivation film to a number of potential clients . Told by Norris he'll report him to the police the doctor , unknown to Norris , had already set him up for the kill . Having the very rotund Norris stuff himself with globs and globs of very tasty but highly salted caviar and then sublimity splicing into the movie a cold drink against a dry and hot desert scene was all that Dr . Keppel needed to get Norris to walk out into the lobby . I's there that Dr . Kepple blew him away as he was taking a cold cold drink from the water fountain . while all this was happening Dr . Keppel was , or made like he was , back in the theater narrating the movie that gave him a perfect alibi in Norris ' murder . Let . Columbo put on the case is baffled to why anyone would murder Norris under the conditions that he was done in . Leaving the theater for just a moment to take a drink . Let . Columbo feels that Norris ' killer had to be someone at the theater who did it since he must have known that Norris would be alone at the very moment that he murdered him but who ? Talking with the projectionist Roger White , Chuck McCann , Columbo finds out that there's a TV / Video monitor in the lobby that could have well recorded the killing but was mysterious turned off at the time . White is smart enough to realize that Dr . Keppel may well have murdered Norris because he caught him fiddling around with the TV monitor just moments before he was murdered . White is a bit on the dim-witted side in trying to blackmail , which is Dr . Keppel's specialty , Keppel into giving him $50 , 000 . 00 to have him keep his mouth shut . All this leads to White being shot and killed by Dr . Keppel who tries , for some strange reason , tries to make it look like he was killed by Mrs . Norris at his moon-lighting job at the Magnolia Theater . The scheming Dr . Kepple tricked White into believing that he'll come up with the 50 grand only to have him put his guard down and end up with a bullet up his chest . What Dr . Keppel didn't know is that White told Det . Columbo a little trick of his that he uses on the reels of film to alert White when to change them , with a nickel , that in the end helped cooked the not so clever Dr . Keppel's goose . Columbo on to that Keppel is a double murder , of Middleton & White , is still out in the cold in getting evidence to arrest him . During the rest of the movie Let . Columbo harasses the doctor to the point of even interrupting him in a very important game of golf , that so unnerves him , causing Dr . Keppel to miss a number of critical shots . Columbo in the end uses the very tactics that Dr . Keppel used to set up and murder Norris , a subliminal cut in a movie , to trap him . This flash on the screen , subliminal cut , gets Dr . Keppel himself to lead Columbo to the evidence that would finally convict him and Lt . Columbo does it with his usual pizazz .
Silent Scream	Strightfoward and at the same time painful made for TV movie involving a severely autistic seven year old boy Michael , Bradley Pierce . Michael was well on his way to be cured of his autism when he's molested , by one of the persons who's supposed to look after him , and not able to tell his parents and therapist what happen . Karen , Mellisa Gilbert , has her hands full with her young son Michael . We see early in the movie " A Cry from the Heart " Michael wondering away from her as she's on the phone with her husband Roger , Marcus Flanagan , and almost getting himself run over by a car in the street . Trying to get Michael help for his autism Karen gets him enrolled in this special school and dormitory outside town that specialized in troubled children like himself . Working with Michael is Terry , Patty Duke , who the boy takes an immediate liking too and within days responds to her therapy . This at first impresses his mom , Karen , but later makes her feel as if she let him down all these years growing up autistic , by not being able to do for him then what Terry is now doing now . The movie has Karen develop a very strange hostility toward Terry even though she's doing everything that Karen would have hoped for her son , cure him of his autism . There's also the fact that both Karen and her husband Roger are separated and she feels that may be a factor it young Michael's autism , and his not being able to overcome it . There's also Karen's suspicions of Michael's autism being genetic on her part . In fact Michael strangely tells his mom , by typing it out on a computer , that he feels that his father left him and Karen because he once broke his car window . With Michael getting better every day in his ability to communicate and respond to both Terry and his mom all of a sudden he falls back into the world of non-communication that he was in before he entered the school . It's that what brings both Terry and Karen together and takes away their differences , or at least Karen's , with each other . In finding out what was it that destroyed all the progress that was achieved in by them in getting Michael out of the helpless autistic state that he was in . It later turns out that Michael was molested by someone near and dear to him and that person may well have molested many other boys like himself who he's in charge of . The last half of " Cries from the Heart " is very gripping by changing course with Michael together with Terry having to go on trial to testify against his counselor Jeff , Peter Spears , for sexually abusing him . It would be really hard for young Michael to testify , this by tapping out his answers on a computer keyboard , with Jeff and his parents , in the courtroom . State D . A Ms . Tolbert , Lisa Banes , has doubts if Michael could go through with being able to not only testify against Jeff but have a jury believe him . With the entire state case against Jeff dependent on Michael's testimony it forces D . A Tolbert to put him on the stand and have him relive all the horrors that he went through again . Michael goes on to prove that he can handle that , as well as his autism , much better then even those who have faith in him ever thought possible .
Twlight Time	SPOILERS Psychology professor Richard Wanley played by Edward G . Robibson , who seems to be sleepwalking throughout the entire movie , gets a lot more then he expected when he becomes infatuated with a portrait of a woman Alice Reed , Joan Bennett , in a art display window as she suddenly comes out of the shadows and into his life . Taking Alice out for a drink at a local night club Richard is invited to her apartment to more or less chit chat , Richard is married with children , and nothing else . After getting to know each other a little better all of a sudden this wild man bursts into Alice's apartment and almost like a robot , the guy looked like he was under hypnosis , attacks Richard ringing his neck . Alice coming to Richard's rescue hands him a pair of scissors where he ends up stabbing the unhinged and crazy guy to death . It turns out that the dead man is a Frank Howard , Arthur Loft , who's been having an affair with Alice and lost it when he found her alone in her apartment with another man . An open and shut case of self defense Richard together with Alice instead of calling the police choose to practically implicate themselves in a murder that they really didn't commit . The two decide to transport Howard's body by automobile to the wilds of upstate New York and dump it there where it would , hopefully for them , be found days if not weeks later decomposed and unorganizable . Things don't go exactly as planned for Richard and Alice with Frank Howard turning out to be Wall Street financier Claude Mazard with the police having an all points bulletin looking to find him within 24 hours of his disappearance . Richard also messed up in his disposing of Mazard's body by both inuring himself , Richard cut his hand on a barbwire fence , and leaving his both shoe and tire prints at the scene . There's also the fact that Mazard's body was found in tact and identifiable the very next day by former " Little Rascal " and now eagle scout Spanky McFarland with all the evidence of Richard being there in tact as well . Despite all the facts pointing towards Richard and him subconsciously blurting out facts about Mazard's killing that would have him at least arrested for questioning by the police his friend District Attorney Frank Lolar , Raymond Massey , doesn't seem to catch on and gives him a more or less free pass in Mazard's death . It's when this blackmailing sleaze-ball and Mazard's former bodyguard Heidt , Dan Duryea , pops up that things really get hot for Richard & Alice . Heidt wants a cool $5 , 000 . 00 from Alice , he's not really sure who her accomplice his , for him to keep his mouth shut about her involvement in Mazard's death , somehow Heidt put two and two together , or else he'll rat her out to the police . Alice and Richard in turn plan to do Heidt in by having him invited to Alice's place for the evening and then spiking his drink with a lethal dose of sleeping pills . Like everything Richard and Alice planned in their " perfect crime " this also backfires as well with Heidt getting the drop on what Alice was up to and taking off with the full $5 , 000 . 00 , she offered him $2 , 900 . 00 , after slapping her around for trying to hoodwink as well as kill him . On top of all that Heitd wants another $5 , 000 . 00 or else he'll rat her , and eventually Richard , out to the police where they both can very well end up in the Sing Sing electric chair . Richard getting the news from Alice that everything is now kaput and that he'll together with her will soon be arrested goes home and downs a bottle of crushed sleeping pills , in his wine , waiting for the or his end to come . It's when everything looks like it's going down hill for Richard and Alice that Heidt ends up getting shot and killed by the police for what seemed like him running a red light ! You now wonder if the news , with Alice being on he scene of Heidt's shooting , will get to Richard before he ends up killing himself ! It's then when the movie finally starts to make sense as we watch Richard out cold , from downing his toxic drink , as Alice frantically tries to get in touch with him by phone with the good news of Heidt's sudden departure . It's then that you suddenly begin to wonder if the movie is at all real or something out of the ordinary ; like something straight out of an episode of the " Twilight Zone " or " One Step Beyond " !
Everything is always clear after it happens	SPOILER ALERT A bit talky and at times confusing the film " Mine Own Executioner " is still way ahead of its time , when it was made in 1947 , about the complexities of the human mind and how to go about , if at all possible , curing them . Psychoanalyst Felix Milne , Burgess Meredith , resents being called doctor in that he's not qualified , by not having a medical degree , in being one . It's for that very reason that Mrs . Molly Lucian , Barbara White , contacts him in order to help her very unstable husband Adam , Kieron Moore , who from previous experiences hates doctors with a passion . Told by Molly that Adam had attempted to strangle her Felix has Adam visit him at his office to see what he can do for him . It's when Felix sees the very weird looking Adam , who also turned out to be a kleptomaniac , outside his house he realizes that his problems , besides being somewhat homicidal , are far greater then he ever imagined ! Having been captured by the Japenses during the war Adam was brutally tortured by them in a Japanese , in Burma , prison camp . Making his escape from his Japaneses captors Adam ended up killing one of them , a prison guard , by cracking his skull open with a bamboo pole . It's when Adam saw his wife in their darkened apartment that he mistook her for his Japanese captors and thus tried to murder her ! As Felix tried to cure his patient's severe mental problems he's also having an affair with family friend Barbara Edge , Christine Norden , behind his wife Pat's , Dulcie Gray , back . This leads him to neglect Adam which in the end leads to disastrous results for everyone , including his wife Moll , involved with him . Far better then most movies made about the subject , psychology and mental illness , at that time without the usual quick fix in neatly solving things by the time the film is finally over . SPOILERS Felix Milne did what he could to help his troubled patient but in the end the problems that Adam had were far too great , and complicated , for him or medical science to handle . The fact that Felix failed despite his best efforts to help Adam Lucian shows how honest the movie - " Mine Own Executioner " - was . Psychology-like Felix kept saying in the movie - is not an exact science but far from it . It was that realization on Felix's part that had him change his mind , when he wanted to quit his practice , when he was confronted with another patient of his , who was being abused by his father for actions he had no control of , who desperately needed Felix's help : The sad and frightened little Charlie Oakes , Malcolm Dalmayne .
I know , cause I'm the Whistler !	( There are Spoilers ) In an almost empty bar on the city docks businessman Earl C . Conrad , Richard Dix , has a prearranged meeting with this stranger who's to get a " job " done for him . The stranger a local hoodlum named Lefty Vigran , Don Costello , is to set up a hit on someone that Conrad want's iced by no later that Friday . What Lefty doesn't know , since everything between the two is done on a no name basis , is that the person that Conrad want's to be hit is non other then himself ! Dark creepy and unnerving suspense drama that has a man wanting to commit suicide but not having the guts to do it himself . Hiring a hit-man to do him in Conrad's contact Lefty , who it turns out is a fugitive cop killer , ends up getting gunned down by the police resisting arrest moments after he leaves Conrad drinking away his troubles in the bar . Lefty having his runner the deft mute , who reads only Superman comic books , William Benedict get the message , with the $5 , 000 . 00 fee , to the hit man's , J . Carrol Naish , hotel room put everything into motion to get Earl C . Conrad the wish that he's been hoping for . A death wish Conrad had since he , in his confused and disturbed mind , left his wife Claire to drown in a boating accident in the Pacific Ocean . It's later that a shocked Conrad gets the " good news " from his secretary , who's secretly in love with him , Alice Walker ( Gloria Stuart ) that the Red Cross had found that his wife in fact survived and is interned in a Japanese internment camp ; the film takes place during WWII . Conrad now not waning to have his life snuffed is in a dilemma in not being able to contact Lefty , who's dead , and not knowing who the hit-man , J . Carrol Naish , is ! This all leaves Conrad , if he wasn't already , to become a paranoid individual suspecting anyone he runs into to be the man who's out to take his life ! The man that he in fact paid to do it ! Excellent performance by former silent film and cowboy star Richard Dix as a man , Earl C . Conrad , who screwed himself by overreacting to a tragedy that he in fact had nothing to do with . In fact Conrad heroically saved a number of passengers from the sinking cruise ship that he and Claire were on but had her slip out of his hands at the last moment . The insane hit that Conrad arranged on himself was in fact far worse that any conceived notion of guilt that he had about his wife's death . Arranging a mob hit , even on oneself , is murder and knowingly wanting and paying to murder someone , even himself , is far worse then even letting , which Conrad didn't , someone purposely drown ! The movie has a really good double surprise ending that , even though it's very contrived , ties all the loose ends together . The ending not only rights all the wrongs of what Conrad crazily did to himself , and those like Alice who loved him , but shows the audience that " The Whistler " was right all alone in his assertion that a curtain individual's destiny was to die tonight .
Point of Impact	SPOILERS Multi-layered action thriller involving the targeting of the President of the United States for assassination by this Morocco based terrorist group known as the Mujahideen Brigade . Within the first five minutes of the film we get to see US President Ashton , William Hurt , about to address an overflow crowd at the Spanish city of Salamanca's main square and get shot twice before even making an opening statement . In the pandemonium that follows with a deafening explosion that kills and injures scores of people Spanish undercover-cop Enrique Countearon , Eduardo Noriaga , who was tackled by top secret services man Thomas Barnes , Dennis Quaid , as a suspect in President Ashton's assassination makes his escape . Even though Officer Countearon had every reason to do what he did in trying to protect Salamanca's mayor De Soto , Jose Carlos Rodriguez , from sharing the same fate as President Ashton he in fact ends up a fugitive from the law chased by both secret service men and fellow Salamanca policemen . It's then that the movie " Vantage Point " goes into rewind and we see the assassination attempt on President Ashton from some five different perspectives including that of the president himself ! Reconstructing the five or so different vantage points of President Ashton's assassination attempt we can then piece together the course of events that lead to this tragic incident . The attack on President Ashton was obviously an inside job that was planned and rehearsed in advance dozens of times before it was finally put into action . SPOILER ALERT What turned out to be the assassins undoing wasn't that their plan wasn't perfect but a number of unexpected incidents came into play including their own distrust of themselves . This in the end had the assassins turn on each other which exposed their entire operation making it easy from the secret service and local police to do their job by the assassins doing it for them . It takes a while to fully absorb what's going on in the movie with it's constantly moving back and forth in time . By the time all the different viewpoints and angles of Pesident Ashton's assassination has been presented the movie then turns into a Bullitt-like chase sequence . We have secret serviceman Barnes tearing up the whole town in a hair raising car-chase in order to get those who were responsible in the assassination attempt . That chase sequence was by far , compared to the constant rewinding of the film , the best part of " Vantage Point " . There's also Forrest Whitaker as American tourist Howard Lewis who unwittingly films , with his camcorder , the assassin . At first trying to cooperated with the secret service in finding who took a pot shot at their boss , President Ashton , Howard ends up being the hero in the film . Not by him catching those responsible for shooting the president but by saving little Anna , Alicia Zapien , who he befriended after she accidentally soiled his shirt with an ice-cream cone she was eating . It was Anna together with Howard who , by getting in their way , put a final end to the assassins devious plans by , believe it or not , bringing the very best human qualities out of them which at the time seemed to be an almost impossible task .
With a good lawyer you may get lucky and just end up with life	Spoilers Railroaded into prison for life in a payroll robbery that resulted in the shooting death of a security guard US Marine combat veteran Rocky Mulloy , Dick Powell , is given a break after serving five years of a life sentence . When disable veteran and fellow Marine Delong , Richard Erdman , later came up with an alibi for him . Delong tells the D . A that Rocky was with him in a bar at the time of the robbery , it was a lie . Not that Rocky was guilty , he wasn't . Delong desperate for cash felt that Rocky knew where the payroll money that was never recovered , some $100 , 000 . 00 , was stashed and wanted a part of it . Out on the street Rocky is now more then ever interested in finding out who set him and his friend Danny Morgan up in the crime , that he and Danny were sent up the river for . Rocky goes to see the person who was behind and planned the robbery . A small time hood named Louis Castro , William Conrad . Going to Castro's office on the top floor of a bar in order to beat the truth out of him Rocky get's Castro , who knows that Rocky is a man of his word , to placate the angry Rocky Mulloy . Castro gives Rocky $500 . 00 and a tip on a race that afternoon ; put it all on a horse named " Draganfly " they already got his winning photo developed Castro tells him . Rocky going to Castro's bookie , a guy named Hy , and plunking down the $500 . 00 ends up collecting , with " Draganfly " winning at odds of 8 to 1 by a nose , a cool $4 , 000 . 00 ! Taking out Danny's wife Nancy , Ronda Fleming , together with Delong and his kleptomaniac girlfriend Darlene LaVonne , Jean Porter , to celebrate Rocky is shocked to find out from Det . Gus Cobb , Regis Toomey , that Castro and his bookie Hy paid him off in hot money ! In fact the very money that was taken in the payroll heist / murder that he was sent to the state pen for ! Better then your average film-noir crime drama with not as much darkness like in William Powell's earlier film-noir flicks . The movie " Cry Danger " has all the ingredients for success and puts them all together with style . we have the down and out pasty , Rocky Mulloy , being manipulated by those that he trusts . In a crime that he had nothing to do with but was conned or made to take the rap for . There's a very surprising ending when we realize that not only was Rocky innocent his friend Danny was involved with Castro in the robbery ! In short Rocky was not only set up by the sleazy hood Castro but his best friend !
Taking care of Business	SPOILERS Somewhat Average movie , with an above average performance by Richard Pryor , about a war veteran coming back home to find that his life turned upside down since he went away . Caught by the North Veitnamese with his pants down Cpl . Eddie Keller , Ricard Pryor , ends up in a communist Vietnamese POW camp for five years . With nothing to eat but rice and roaches and having a pet rat as a cell-mate things pick up a bit for Eddie when he had another US POW Vinnie Diangelo , Ray Sharkey , as company but even that turned out to be a tragedy for Eddie with Vinnie dying , and without any medical care , he signed a statement saying that the US was committing war crimes in Vietnam in order to get Vinnie help . All that did for Eddie , Vinnie seemed to have died anyway , was brand him a traitor , Eddie was later cleared of that accusation , and indefinitely holds up his severance pay for spending five years behind bamboo bars for his country . Back home things got even worse for Eddie by him first finding out that his wife Lisa , Lyne Moody , was living with another man , who together with Lisa blew all of Eddie's savings , and has a young six year old daughter who doesn't even know that he's her father and on top of all that his mom Jesse Keller , Olivia Cole , is in a nursing home that she's about to be thrown out of because there's no money to pay her bills . With no money in his wallet and no money coming in from the US Army Eddie in an act of desperation tries to become a stick-up artiest only to fail miserably ; at one point Eddie was so scared trying to rob a bank that he embarrassingly wet himself to the shock and outrage of the bank teller that he tried to rob . Eddie finally hits it big by following two security men Tank and Mickey , Martin Azarow & Matt Clark , who work for the Fidelity Western Bank into an office building with two suitcases loaded with some $250 , 000 . 00 in cash and securities . Catching one of the security men , Tank , in the mens room with his , not Eddie's , pants down and robbing him at " toy gun " point then taking off with the suitcase loaded with the securities , not cash , Eddie now has to find someone to convert them for him and the only one's who can do that are those who work for the mob . Richard Pryor in his second , the 1978 movie " Blue Collar " was his first , non all comedy role is both touching and courageous as Cpl . Eddie Keller who tries to make things better for himself and his mom but ends up being the real , not the made up , hero in the eyes of his friends in and out of the army . Nice supporting roles in the movie by both Margot Kidder and Ronny Cox as high-priced hooker Toni Donovan and Eddie's fellow GI Col . Powers who tries to ease Eddie back into civilian life . Feel-good ending with Eddie chased by the mob who tried to rip off , not convert , his stolen government bonds and then attempted to murder him . Eddie turns the tables on the mobsters and at the conclusion of the movie ends up , like the song says , taking care of business with everyone the bank the army and the nursing home that his mom is in , including himself and Toni , ending up much better off for it .
Nothing in my life has prepared me for this .	SPOILERS Breaking out of a Florida prison Jimmy and Digby , Colin Ferguson & Phillip Jerrett , hook up with their outside contact Lester , Michael A . Miranda . After knocking off two gun runners and taking a load of guns and ammunition from them make their way up north to lake George New York , Jimmy's home town . In jail for a slew of crimes all over the eastern seaboard , including the murder of the Lake George Sheriff John Dolan's ( Eugene Robert Glazer ) brother , Jimmy has been planing to rob the Lake George Hayworth Savings Bank all the time that he was incarcerated in Florida . The bank owned and run by Emily Hayworth , Lynda Carter , is to have a shipment of some 4 million dollars taken out the afternoon Jimmy & Co . arrived in town and even more so he knows and lived with Emily's family before he ended up behind bars . Lynda Carter sheds her glamorous image for the Quaker matriarch Emily Hayworth who's faith in her fellow man as well as deep belief in a forgiving and loving God is the glue that holds the movie " A Prayer in the Dark " together despite it's somewhat unconvincing ending . Breaking into the Hayworth's home the three hoods hold Emily and her husband Marcus , Karl Pruner , as well as her daughter Janet , Teri Polo , and two close friends David and Deborah , Matthew Bennett & Lindsey Connell , hostage . Forcing Emily and David to go to her bank and steal the 4 million in cash and threatening to murder her husband and friends if she didn't come back with the money by noon Emily decides not to go along with Jimmy's plan . Knowing that he'll kill them all no matter what she does for him , that's just how crazy and homicidal he is . Cutting off the electricity , with the help of her Quaker friends , to her house where the hostages are kept Emily thus has the Jimmy gang in total confusion to what's happening in the outside world and unable to kill the hostages in order not to alert the police if they heard the gunshots . Emily's real reason for her actions was to prevent anyone in and out of the house from being killed ; that's just how much she felt for the value of human life . Emily turned out to be right about Jimmy in his plans to blow up the house with the hostages and well as his fellow hoodlums inside and then make his getaway with a motorboat and have the money all to himself almost impossible . There's also a side plot in the movie between Emily's young daughter Janet and Jimmy who it turns out were lovers when he lived at the Hayworth home five years ago . Jimmy was thrown out of his house by his drunken father and accepted with no questions asked by the kind hearted Hayworth family before he turned bad and became a hardened criminal . For a moment you get the impression that Jimmy and Janet were really together on this because Janet just happened to arrive home the day Jimmy escaped from jail . Moving and heartfelt ending , even though it takes a lot of faith to accept it , with Emily showing that love and goodness is more powerful and beats guns and explosives every time .
Parallax : Change of an object due to a shift in an observed position	( SOME SPOILERS ) Early conspiracy film that goes to great lengths to show it's audience how a assassination of a political figure is set up like a magic show where the observers eyes are made to follow the wrong person , with help from fellow conspirators planted at the scene , while the real killer or killers get away Scot-free . At the Seattle Space-Needle restaurant Sen . Charles Carroll , who's running for president , is gunned down by waiter Thomas Richard Linder who fell to his death as he struggled with members of the senator's security staff . A commission of inquiry later comes to the conclusion that Linder was the lone assassin of Sen . Carroll and closes the book on that case . A few years later one of the person's on the scene of Carroll's assassination TV reporter Lee Carter contacts her friend and investigative reporter Joseph Frady telling him that someone wants her dead . Telling Joseph that six persons who were at the scene of the senator's murder have mysteriously died over the last three years and Lee feels that she'll be next . Joseph shrugging off Lee's fears , he was also at the Space-Needle at the time of the senator's assassination , and tells her that there's no facts to back up her claims . It's a few days later when Lee's found dead at her home , from a overdose of drugs and alcohol , that make's Joesph change his mind about there being no conspiracies involved in her's and the others witnesses deaths . Going undercover Joseph goes to the town of Salmon Tail where the latest person , before Lee , who was at the Space-Needle restaurant that fateful day three years ago , Judge Arthur Bridges , mysteriously died . Getting into a fight with the sheriff's drunk and obnoxious deputy " Red " who was angry at Joseph for having his favorite waitress at the bar , Gale , flirt with him . Joseph knocking Red unconscious has his boss Sheriff Wicker so impress with him that he offers to take Joseph to the site where Bridges drowned . It then turned out that Sheriff Wicker himself was involved in Bridges death because he set up Joseph to die the same way that he did , by drowning . A quick thinking Joseph turned the tables on him and the sheriff , not Joseph , ended up drowned under the waves . Going to the dead Sheriff Wicker's home Joesph finds that he had a bank account with $107 , 000 . 00 in it and also was involved with this mysterious firm called the Parallax Corp . With the help of his friend former FBI man Will and his editor , at the newspaper that he works for , Bill Rintels Joseph with a new identity , Richard Paley , applies to get a job at Parallax Corp . in order to find out just what it's involved in . Being contacted by this shadowy figure a Mr . Jack Younger Joseph is surprised to find out that Younger knows that he's using a false name and at the same time , being ready for an event like that , gives him another or back up name Jack Parton a convicted sex offender . Parton did indeed check out and Younger explains the reason for that is Joseph being too embarrassed to give Jack his real name thus ironing out the reason for the false name Joseph came up with . Joseph now Jack Parton is given a job in L . A to be part of the security unite protecting Sen John Hammond who , like the late Sen . Carroll , is running for President of the United States . At the L . A Convention Hall the afternoon before Sen . Hammond is to give his acceptance speech for his nomination for president all the players are in place in the stands and the band as well as on the catwalks honeycombing the entire area . The Parallax Corp . which is involved in the senators security sets the scene for his assassination like it did back in Seattle three years ago with Sen . Carroll and Joseph is to play the part of the victim and the fall guy . All this time the Parallax Corp . has painstakingly groomed Joseph for and which he was totally unaware of being ; the pasty to take the fall for Sen . Hammond's murder . Even more disturbing is that Joseph was put in a position to make sure that he like Thomas Richard Linder would not live to tell the world about it .
We must each learn to live with ourselves	SPOILERS Third remake of the 1912 novel about the notorious Jack the Ripper who terrorized the Whitechaple / Kensington districts of London in the late 1880's . In this updated version were , like in the previous two , kept in the dark to just who the Ripper really is . Even though it doesn't take a Sherlock Holmes to spot his identity within the first few minutes of the movie ! Thats even before he , in his secret identity , even comes on the scene ! Looking for a place to stay Slade , Jack Palance , finds his home away from home , the local city morgue , at the Harley house . Having the use of the attic Slade can conduct his secret experiments without anybody bothering or spying on him . While Slade , who works night at the morgue , is doing his day-work in the attic for what he explains to the Harleys is the benefit of future generations , in the field of pathology , the mysterious Jack the Ripper is out murdering young women in the neighborhood . It doesn't take long for Slad's landlady Mrs . Helen Harley , Frances Bavier , to suspect him of being the Ripper . It's Helen's husband Willliam , Rhys Williams , who's always making excuses for Slade in his secretive and suspicious behavior that has Slade from either being thrown out of the Harley home or even being reported to the police as a suspect in the Ripper murders ! The most unusual and at the same time naive character in this whole scenario is the Harley's niece the beautiful showgirl girl Lilly Bonner , Constance Smith . Lily who despite Slade's weird and even threatening behavior in her presents is somehow in love with the neurotic mortician . Not really knowing if Slade is the Ripper or not his very actions should have warned Lily to stay at least at arms , or knifes , length away from the nut-case ! But being both fascinated and in love with the eye popping and what seems like religiously fanatical wacko Lily instead takes him into both her confidence as well as her dressing room ! That's as she's undressing , in prudish and Victorian England no less , right in front of the sweating and goggling mental case . Jack Palance is at his sinister best as the mysterious Slade the Lodger who lifts the movie a few notches above what it would have been without him being in it . Having a good idea of who the Ripper is I was far more interested , as well as entertained , by Plalance's over the top performance then anything else , in having to do with the movie's plot , in the film . SPOILER ALERT The ending is much like the 1944 movie version - " The Lodger " with Laird Creger-with the Ripper disappearing into the night , or the Thames River , never to be seen or heard from again ! That's until Hollywood , or a foreign or independent film studio , decide to make a new and updated movie version of Jack the Ripper and his criminal adventures .
What's he auditing for , a job at Benihana's ?	SPOIERS Atlanta crime auctioneer with Burt Reynolds , Sgt . Sharky , and his tough and well oiled " Sharky's Machine " Let . Frisco , Charles Durning , and officers Papa & Arch , Brian Keith & Berney Casey , breaking up the Atlanta crime Syndicate who's on the verge of putting " Their Man " in the Geroria Governor's State House . Busted after messing up a major drug police sting operation , with the drug dealer and a number of innocent pedestrians shot and killed , Sgt . Sharky was transfered into vice . Busting hookers johns and perverts Sgt . Sharky finds a list of call girls in the wallet of a top Atlanta pimp and after bugging one of the call girls apartment it turns out that she's having Don Hotchkins , Earl Holliman , a candidate for governor as a regular costumer . As Sharky starts to investigate this strange arraignment he finds out that the good family man , married with five children , Hotchkins is also on the payroll of Vittorio " Victor " Gassman the mob " Godfather " of Atlanta . The high-price call-girl Dominoe , Rachel Ward , who's involved with Hotchkins is tired of being a hooker and want's to leave Victor's stable of call-girls and live with Hotchkins as his live-in mistress after he gets elected governor of Georgia , which is already a forgone conclusion , but their's only one slight hitch ; will Victor let go of her . Tangling with the Gassman Syndicate the corrupt Atlanta police and city officials , as well as the local Chinese mob , Sgt . Sharky ends up losing most of his men , including two of his fingers , as he brings down the Gassman Mafia in a final shoot-out with the his Mobsters at the famous Atlanta Peachtree Plaza Hotel's . Statueques and beautiful Rachel Ward as Dominoe is thought to have been murdered by Gassman's drugged-out hit-man Billy Score , Henry Silva , who blew her face off with a shot gun but in reality it turned out that he really killed Dominoe's call-girl room-mate Tiffany , Aarika Wells , with Dominoe away in the country . Sharky , who was in love with Dominoe from afar , found out the truth about her being alive and to the surprise and shock of mob kingpin Victor Gassman is going to use her , by getting Dominoe to testify against him , to put Gassman and his mob away for good but the cunning and vicious Victor wasn't going to go willingly and let Sharky know it sooner then he thought . Blood spattering shootout at the Peachtree Plaza Hotel in the films final sequence with Shark'y Machine having it out with the almost indestructible junkie hit-man Billy Score . Shooting it out on the hotel stairway both Billy Score and Sharky's machine member Arch come face to face with Billy's drug induced invincibility clashing with Arch's Zen reality alerting philosophy in what can best be said to be a battle of two cultures : West and East .
Jungle Justice : Favors None But Equals All	SPOILERS Interesting little movie about crime and justice , despite it's misleading title , that plays like a morality play about how one can't escape his crimes even in the dark and uncivilized jungle . The jungle where justice seems at first non-existent is in reality more prevalent there then in a big modern city courthouse where it can be twisted and manipulated by both the power and money of the person who stands accused . Van Gelder Manor deep in the Amazon jungle is a rubber plantation run by the ruthless and scheming Barney Chavez , Raymond Burr . Barney feels that he can get away with anything because he's above the laws of man that he has nothing but contempt for . Smart and conniving Barney gets the owners Klass Van Gelder's , Paul Cavanagh , beautiful wife Dina , Barbara Payton , to fall in love with him thus breaking the heart of his native girlfriend Larina , Carol Varga , who Barney was stringing along until he found someone better , Dina . Knowing that Klass had a weak heart Barney provoked him into a fight one evening in the garden outside the plantation . Barney belted Klass knocking him to the ground as he let him get bitten by a poisonous snake which killed him . Breaking Larina's heart and taking Klass Van Gelder's life , as well as his wife Dina , Barney seems to have gotten away with his crimes . Feeling he can now sell the plantation and move with Diana back to civilization and live the good and rich life which he worked so hard to get , or so Barney thought . Unknown to Barney's his crimes did not go unnoticed . The old woman who lived at the plantation Al-Long , Gisela Werbisek , saw what Barney did to both Klass and Larina and invoked , through her knowledge of the Black Arts , the jungle to bring him to justice . Obscure little movie that has a lot more to it then you would think at first about crime justice and revenge and makes you think about it too . More penetrating and thought-provoking then many of the big budgeted films about courts and law that in many cases the criminal gets away with his or her crimes due to a technicality or a smart and skillful lawyer . There are no technicalities or lawyers in the jungle . Good script and acting especially by Lon Cheney Jr . in a supporting role as the native police commissioner Taro . Taro's education in schooling and law books in the outside world was nothing compared to his education in what he learned from living in the jungle during the first 20 or so years of his life ; the jungle that in the end did his work for him .
Murder Most Foul	+ Mild Spoilers + Crime mystery with a very young Ginger Rogers , playing a reporter , Pat Morgan , going after the big story by going undercover as a live-in maid at the penthouse of big time city philanthropist Adam Harker . Pat's on a story to connect Harker to racketeer Joe Martini , Maurice Black , who happens to live in the same building gets more then she bargained for with Harker flying out of his apartment window to his death . Later on the floor under him a Mrs . Coby is found murdered and her husband is later found floating in the river an apparent suicide . Police inspector Russell , Purnell Pratt , finds evidence that Harker was actually in the Coby's apartment when he fell or jumped to his death and deduces that it was Mr . Coby who found Harker and Mrs . Coby together , and in a jealous rage , killed both of them then and later committed suicide . Of course as we know from seeing the obvious in movies like this the truth about Harker and the Coby's death is far more stranger then at first thought . Pretty good movie that has it share of comedy in it to get the audience a bit relaxed until the final few minutes . When it's found out who really is responsible for the murders with Pat almost burned to a cinder by the killer in the buildings basement incinerator . What's a bit odd about the movie is that the killer was really trying to avenge his innocent brothers execution as both Harker and Martini had him set up and railroaded to take the rap for a murder , that they committed a number of years ago . The killer got a little too carried away by killing the Coby's , who had nothing to do with his brothers death , by trying to throw off the police from suspecting him . Worth watching because unlike many movies made back then in the early 1930's it has the feel of a film made much later with the sound and photography and most of all the actors acting more natural . Not acting like their on the stage and having to throw their voices and enunciate every word to make sure that everyone in the theater hears exactly what their saying . Like in most films made in the early years of talkies .
Can't you think of anything but killing !	SPOILERS After her master game warden Francis Graham died on the way to the little Yukon town of Topek his loyal dog the collie Firefly just about gave up on life . Firefly spent hours at a time never leaving her master's graveside until she came in contact with the mix breed , half wolf half dog , alpha wolf Swift Lightning . It was during the cold and bitter winter of 1937-38 that Swift Lightining lead his pack of hungry wolves in and around Topek killing off and eating all the available game , a herd of caribou , making it impossible for the local native and Canadian and American trappers to survive there . With everyone in town going up north to the town and city of Nenana and Faribanks young American writer Jean Williams opted to stay only to change her mind when the both cold and pack of wolves started to close in on her cabin . With only the American trapper Gaston Rogers , who stayed behind , to help Jean travels up north to Nenana and to civilization where the two got unexpected help from both Firefly and her now mate for life the ferocious wolf / dog Swift Lightning . At first Gaston was not at all that friendly with the two canines whom he looked at as food , when both his and Jean's rations ran out , and nothing else . It was later when the two mutts proved how valuable they were in saving both his and Jean's lives that Gaston started to have second thoughts about his fellow , in the Yukon , living creatures and four footed friends . That's when Gaston himself risked his life in returning the favor by going out in the woods during an drenching spring downpour and rescuing Swift Lightning's , who was trapped under a fallen three , life . The movie shows how in a place like the inhospitable Yukon man and animal have to cooperate with each other in order for both to survive . Both Swift Lightning and Firefly showed the more then willing to shoot them down Gaston that they are indeed man's best friend . Jean who was at first in loved with the far less macho Hugo Henderson saw in Gaston , who for a time she couldn't stand , a man willing to change his ways when confronted with the truth in that wolves , like Swift Lightning , can be as , if not more , dependable as any fellow trapper and hunter in the wild .
I shouldn't operate my own operates ?	SPOILERS Interesting little British sci-fi movie about man's attempt to create a powerful electro-magnetic energy generator that tares a hole in the fragile Iononasphere . This creates a massive bombardment of the Earth by deadly and radioactive Cosmic Rays that cause havoc on the planet and it's inhabitants , man and insect alike . Dr . Laird , Alec Mango , working with both Dr . Graham & Dupont , Forrest Tucker & Gaby Tucker , gets carried away with his work in the field of electro-magnetic energy and goes too far in his experiments to the point that a fleet of space-ships are sent from Planet X to stop Dr . Laird and save the Earth . Throwing out both Graham and Dupont from his lab Dr . Laird shoots and kills British government official Gerard Wilson , Geoffery Chater who came to talk some sense to him about what he's doing . Dr . Laird locks himself up in the bunker-like lab and continues his dangerous experiments as the whole world goes to pot . The Cosmic Rays effect people by driving them insane where they go out and commit acts of violence and murder as the insects are cause to mutate and grow to giant sizes and devour everything in their path . One of the aliens from Planet X Mr . Smith , Martin Bensen , comes to the rescue by first convincing the authorities that he's the real McCoy and then getting their permission to stop Dr . Laird , with deadly force if necessary , before he destroys the entire planet . Short in special effects but very intelligent story about the excesses that man would go to inflate his own ego at the expense of those around him , man and animal . Dr . Laird's mad attempt to develop a electro-magnetic device to satisfy his personal hubris and self-gratification , not the for advancement of science for the betterment of Mankind , almost put an end to the world as we knew it . It took an alien force who was much more advanced and wiser then us to put a stop to his , Dr . Laird , madness at the cost of his life .
There's no way a man can get drunk and not drink !	( There are Spoilers ) Strange to say the least " The Strange One " is a story about a military college in the deep south that's been more or less taken over by this swaggering and full of himself cadet Jocko DeParee , or DeParis as it's spelled in English , played by 27 year old Ben Gazerra in his motion picture debut . Jocko is in a way a lot smarter then both the cadets and military officers at the academy and uses his smarts to get people to do things for him . Jocko uses his vast knowledge of the human mind , whatever you say about this low down rat he certainly knows his stuff , to manipulate everyone he comes in contact with there . We first see Jocko in action as he sets up cadet George or Georgie Avery , Geoffrey Horne , for the big fall . Getting him involved in this off the wall plan that Jocko cooked up with the help of two freshman cadets who had no idea at all what they were in for Marquales & Simmons , George Peppard & Arthur Storch . In what at first looked like a weird initiation rite Jocko had Marquales and Simmons get involved in a game of poker with another cadet the academy's star football tackle Roger Gatt , James Olson , by having both of them serve him up drinks as Jocko cheated Roger , who by then was too drunk to even notice , out of $90 . 00 in the card game . Turning on Simmons who's deep religious belief's forbid him to drink or serve anyone else drinks Jocko really lets the confused and bewildered cadet have it by having a broom , used by both him and a very drunken Roger , whacked against his behind . This beating of Simmons didn't stop until Georgie who's in the next room charged in and tried to brake this lunacy up . With Georgie's dad the commandant of the academy Maj . Avery , Larry Gates , coming over to see what was going on he finds Jocko sound asleep as if nothing at all happened . The next morning Georgie is found , fully dressed , outside the barracks savagely beaten and his body stinking from bottles of whiskey and vodka that were lying all around him . It's obvious to everyone watching the movie that Jocko and his friends , willing or unwilling , put Georgie in the mess that he was found in but all the evidence , Jocko saw to it , pointed that he got himself juiced and fell down a flight of stairs ending up at the quadrangle with his head broken . Thrown out of the academy from drunkenness and conduct unbecoming of an officer in the US military Georgie actions bothers his dad Maj . Avery to no end . It's not only that his son ended up being a disgrace to his uniform Maj . Avery feels deep down inside , and rightly so , that Georgie was set up by Jocko as an act of revenge . Jocko besides being a master manipulator is also very sadistic as well in his dealings with his fellow cadets . Jacko takes sadistic pleasure in needling Simmons into both going out on a date with a girl and getting drunk . Simmon's deep religious beliefs forbids him to drink and his vow of celibacy forbids him to have anything to do with the opposite sex , like going out on a date and possibly getting laid that would take away his virginity that he claims that he's saving for his wedding night ; that only encourages Jocko to torment the poor guy even more . With Jocko now on a roll in having Georgie kicked out of the academy he turns his sights on Georgies dad Maj . Avery . Whom he hates even more then Georgie in that he busted him the year before for being too rough , to say the least , with the freshman cadets in his charge . As if by accident or by plan Jocko is called into Maj . Avery's office and told that he's AWOL from guard duty . It's then that the Major finds out that Jocko's been excused from guard duty by the commanding officer of the military academy . This leads to a major confrontation with with Maj . Avery with Jocko getting slapped silly for inferring that the Major was a bad influence to his boy Georgie , whom he drove to become a sloppy drunk , with everyone within earshot seeing it ! The Major himself is now in danger of being kicked out of the academy for the unprovoked , since he never raised a hand to him , attack on Jocko ! Jocko's actions get so out of hand that in the end the cadets including his roommate Harry Koble , Pat Hingle , just had all that they can take from him . Now they set him up in a mock trial for all the mischief he committed at the academy and Jocko is forced to sign a confession of his crimes . It's then that he's run out of the academy on a rail as he , when he recovers from the shock , swears to those gleeful and happy cadets who are glad that their finally rid of him that he'll be back and back with a vengeance . About the only cadet who had any liking for the sleazy Jocko DeParis was the creepy Perrin McKee , Paule E . Richards , who's also known as " The Cockroach " , because he crawled around the academy like one . Perrin ironically was the only one who could have fingered him in what he did to Georgie Avery in being an eye witness to the whole sickening act . Perrin seemed to be so in love with Jocko , going so far as writing his biography that took all of 92 chapters , that he just overlooked or was blinded by his love and admiration for Jocko in just what a lowlife creep he really was . In the end it was fitting that " The Cockroach " would end up being the only friend that Jocko has left in the entire world .
Our celebration tonight is a travesty . We're honoring murderers .	SPOILER ALERT As the seaside town of Antonio Bay revs up to celebrate it's 100 anniversary an eerie and luminous fog , going against the wind , slowly overtakes the local fishing trawler " Sea Grass " and within minutes the entire three man crew is brutally murdered . Inside this fog there's a number of badly decomposed looking zombie-like mariner who are using the deadly mist as camouflage in assisting them in committing their crimes . It's not until later that we and the towns religious leader Father Malone , Hal Holbrook , find out the reason for this Fog / Zombie alliance and it has to do with the very founding of the town of Antonio Bay . After doing a number on the " Sea Grass " and it's crew the Fog creates havoc in Antonio Bay itself causing everything electrical to go haywire . The disruptions also include local radio station KAB who's midnight to dawn music program is hosted by the sexy voiced , as well as looking , Stevie Wayne , Adrienne Barbeau . Father Malone finds at approximately 12 . 04 AM a journal hidden in the wall of his chapel written by his grandfather that puts the fear of God into him . The journal explains , or better yet confesses , the sins that Father Malone's grandfather committed , together with the five other founding fathers of Antonio Bay , that resulted in the deaths of Captain Blake , Rob Bottin , and his crew of five on the trawler " Elizabeth Dane " which happened in the early morning hours of April 21 , 1880 . April 21 is the very day that's now being celebrated by the people of Antionio Bay as the towns founding and 100 year anniversary ! The very effective and startling ghostly photography , with a minimum use of state-of-the-art special effects , more then makes up for the movies very plot-holed ridden screenplay . John Carpenters sharp and tight directions is on par , or in some cases even better , with his previous horror blockbuster " Halloween " that was released two years earlier . The movie also reunites a number of actors who were in John Carpenters " Halloween " that includes the love at first sight couple Jamie Lee Curtis and Tom Atkins as the out of town young hitchhiker Liz Solley and the local Antonio Bay fisherman Nick Castle . There's also Jamie Lee Curtis ' real life mother Jane Leigh in the movie playing Antiono Bay's beleaguered , because of the killer Fog , Mayor Kathy Williams as well as Nancy Loomis who also stared in " Halloween " as Mayor Williams ' press secretary Sandy Fadel . The Fog and it's Zombie-like mariners go on a rampage seeking out the descendants of the original Father Malone and his cohorts who were responsible for their deaths by sending them and their boat " Elizabeth Daen " to the bottom of the sea off Antiono Bay's rocky and dangerous Spivey Point . As you would have expected in a case like this it was old fashion greed that motivated Father Malone Sr and Co . to misdirect , with bonfires as navigation markers , the " Elizabeth Dane " to go off course in the dead of night and sink with it's crew as well as the some 200 pounds of gold that was on it . It was that gold that was to pay for building a leper colony for the afflicted Capt . Blake and his fellow leapers on the strip of land that was eventually to become the seaport town of Antoino Bay . In reality it in turn became Father Malone's and his fellow conspirator's's descendants both premature and permanent graves .
He sold his soul for a test tube of serum - SPOILERS	SPOILERS Updated version of Robert Louis Stevenson's " Dr . Jekyell and Mr . Hyde " in the Watts ghetto of L . A . with the understanding and gentle Dr . Henry Pride , Bernie Casey . Henry through his experimenting with a serum would cure hepatitis and regenerate liver cells . It in fact turns him into the brutal and ruthless Mr . Hyde ! A much better movie that one would guess with Casey and the supporting cast lifting the film well above the standards that one would expect from this black exploitation movie of 1976 . Henry had a lifelong dream of curing damaged liver cells and related diseases , like hepatitis , since his dear mother died of liver disease right in front of him and his sister Dr . Billie Worth , Rosalind Cash , when he was a little boy . Henry also has over the years developed a deep hatred and resentment against prostitutes whom he holds responsible for his mothers death . Henry's mother worked as a maid in a local bordello , where she and her son and daughter were given a place to live by the owner , and the night that she fell ill and died none of the " ladies " , as Henry called them , would come to her aid or call for medical help . Coming up with a serum that he thought would cure liver disease Dr . Pride needed someone to try it on but if it was ever found out that he did that , as his sister warned him , it would destroy everything that he and his sister worked for . Which is the free clinic that they founded and ran in the Watts ghetto for the poverty stricken people who lived there . Trying the serum on himself turned the sweet and kindly Henry into an albino-like monster where his hatred of prostitutes and those who employ and support them , pimps and johns , came to the surface with deadly and destructive results . Linda , Marie O'Henry , a local prostitute who Henry fell in love with , and was treating for hepatitis , once tried to use the serum on her to see if it would work but without success , Linda refused to be injected with it . Dr . Pride then tried the serum on himself where , to Linda's shock and horror , he turned into murderous Mr . Hyde ! With the body count of his victims raising at an alarming pace Linda begged Henry , while he was still normal , to turn himself over to the police so that the killing would stop and that he could get help . Henry wouldn't listen and continued with his murderous rampage until the police finally tracked him down and cornered him in the Watts Towers . After holding the police off , with Linda as a hostage , Henry doing a King Kong imitation climbed to the top of the towers and is then killed by a barrage of police bullets . As Henry fell to his death the terror that he unleashed on the ghetto of Watts , and the people that live there , came to an end . Much better then one would expect with Bernie Casey and the supporting cast rising up the movie where it's entertaining as well as thought-provoking . You really feel for Dr . Henry Pride to the point where your both sympathetic as well as outraged at what he was and what he became . With an ending that makes you see that Henry's obsession with curing liver cells and hepatitis was indeed a noble and righteous effort , for the good of all humanity . It's the way that Henry went about it and with the consequences that resulted from it destroyed , like his sister warned him , everything that he ever worked for and in the end even himself .
I Am A Reincarnate . . My Memory Is Eternal	( There are Spoilers ) Strange movie about reincarnation and the transfer of one's memory to another at the moment of death . All of this coming from the philosophy of the ancient Sakana religious cult that corporate lawyer Everet Julian , Jack Creley , belongs to . Being told by no less then three different doctors that he doesn't have long to live Julian looks up a person that he dealt with in a court case a while ago artist David Payne , Jay Reynolds , who greatly impressed him . Payne a stubborn and bull headed individual is just the free spirit that Julian wan't to transfer his memory to after he dies . Seeing Payne at his studio Julian at first is not direct about his reasons for being there , having Payne accept his proposition of brain-transportation , but tries to impress him by lauding over his works . Going so far as to later rent the prestigious Ormsby Gallery to have an exposition of his art has the some-what befuddled Payne start to listen to Julian's theories about reincarnation and mind transfers which he starting telling him about as soon as he felt that Payne was ready to except them . Payne who at first thought that Julian was some kind of rich and eccentric nut slowly starts to feel that there's something to all the BS he's been telling him . Thats when his lover Ann's , Terry Tweed , husband gets killed in a car crash making it possible or him to marry her . His suspicions are even more confirmed about Julian's theories when he suddenly comes into a large inheritance of over $200 , 000 , 00 in stocks and a 170 acre piece of real-estate outside of the city with only a church on it ! A Sakana church . What Payne doesn't know is that all this , the stocks the land the church , belonged to a professor John Louella , who got Julian involved with Sakana , who's memory was transfered to Julian years ago just after he passed away . Meanwhile Payne who had trouble producing great works of art starts knocking them out as if he were the reincarnation of Leonaro Da Vinci . As the day of his art exhibit arrived October 31 , Halloween , all of Payne's works are sold out at huge prices as he became the newest and possibly greatest genius , in the world of art , of the 20th century . That day was also the day that Julia expected to die . As the time came for Julian demise there had to be a price to be paid by Payne for everything that Julian gave him beside him receiving Julian's memory ; a young virgin Ruthie Monese , Trudy Young , was to be sacrificed at the altar of the Sakana Church with Payne being the master of ceremonies . Jay Reynolds as David Payne was by far the best and most interesting person in the movie going from a skeptic to a believer in all the stories that Juian told him about the occult . In the end Payne did everything that was expected of him even offering up as a burnt offering Ruthie to the God of Sakana . Jack Creley as Everet Julian was so clam during the entire movie that he seemed to know exactly what the outcome would be as if he saw it hundreds of times before , like he must have in all his past lives . Trudy Young as Ruthie was just a typical 1970's hippie-type teenage girl looking for a Guru to tell her what's the meaning of life and for what reason was she put on earth for , Ruthie found out soon enough . And the high priest of the Church of Sakana Stedley , Gene Tybrun , was so immersed in his practice of Sakana that if a bomb landed and exploded on top of his head he never would have noticed it . Since even though his body was here on earth his mind was in another different realm of existence . P . S Ruthie's end was not as tragic and gruesome as you , and I , would have expected it to be it actually gave her a new start in life as you see when the movie is ending .
Bloody Waters	SPOILERS Probably the most influential of Mario Bava's Giallo thrillers " Bay of Blood " set the stage form the mid 1970's and beyond for scores of slasher movies that copied many of the scenes that Brava put into that film . Wheel-chair bound Countess Donari Fedenica is suddenly grabbed by the neck by a shadowy figure and pushed off her wheelchair where she's left suspended in the air to be garroted to death ! The camera slowly moves upwards from the killers shoes to where we finally she his face who turns out to be the Contess ' husband Count Donai Filippo ! Before you can catch your breath the Count is run through from behind with a blade leaving him to bleed to death as his dead wife whom he just murdered is hanging suspended over him . This all happens in the first ten minutes of the film without a single world of dialog ! The movie continues on it's gory way that when it's finally over practically everyone in it ends up brutally murdered . The plot , if you can call it one , of " Bay of Blood " has to do with a valuable piece of land on a bay that a number of people what to convert into a vacation resort with the owner Countess Fedenica refusing to sell it to them . This is what leads to the orgy of murder in the movie with everyone trying to get a hold of the land and not at all caring just what they have to do to get it . It's hard enough to follow the conniving and killing of those involved with the lake property but we have thrown into the mix , for what just seems to be a reason to jack-up the body count , a quartet of young people going down to the lake to have some fun . The first couple Brunhida and her boyfriend Robert separate from each other with Brunhida going skinny-dipping in the lake only to run , or bump , into the squid-eaten body of the murdered Count Filippo ! Running buff naked to the cabin where the other couple , Denise & Duke , and Robert are staying Brunhida is hacked to death by an unknown killer who pops out of nowhere . Robert is then quickly chopped in half by the off-camera psycho as he opens the cabin door expecting to see Brunhilda . Later both Denise and Duke totally oblivious to what's happening , as their both in bed doing it , get run through like a shish kebab with a spear by the same unknown killer . Everyone that were introduced to in the film get's brutally murdered in some of the most grizzly scenes even put into a movie , American or foreign , up until that time . There's scenes of strangling impaling knifing slashing and decapitating that by the time the final act of murder happens , a good old fashion shot-gun massacre , your just left too numb and dazed to even react to it ! The film " Bay of Blood " is so blood-splattered and off-the-wall that there's not even a mysterious killer that the audience could try to identify and figure out who he , or she , is . In that the killer finally reveals himself , due to process of elimination , since almost everyone who were murdered in the film had earlier ended up murdering somebody else making the point of the film being a whodunit totally moot . You really have to have both a strong , as well as empty , stomach to be able to sit through and watch " Bay of Blood " . The movie that more then any other horror film opened up the door to the wave of horror / slashers and Giallo horror / thrillers like " Deep Red " and " Tenabre " in Italy and " Halloween " and " Friday the 13th " . As well as their many sequels and imitations that were soon to follow and are still with up even today .
Jeepers Creepers Where Did You Get Those Eyes	SPOILERS Circling over ground zero at the Atomic test site at Soladed Flats , to monitor radiation levels . The jet-pilot aboard flying the plane with Dr . Doug Martin , Peter Graves , loses control and crashes in the empty desert . The next day at the military base where he lives with his wife Ellen , Barbara Bestar , Doug appears in perfect health with only a loss of memory of what happened to him in that plane crash and a deep surgical scar on his chest . Put under observation Doug seems so strange that the military brass , concerned that he may be a foreign spy , send his fingerprints to the FBI offices in Washington D . C to see if he's an impostor . When they come back positive Doug is told to take some time off and stay away from the Atomic testing site which makes him very moody and upset . One morning looking at the newspaper Doug sees that an Atomic test took place the day before at the Soladed test site , where he crashed at . Later that afternoon Doug sneaks into the office and opens the safe of Dr . Kruger , Frank Gerstel , a physicist who was at the test site and steals top-secret information about the blast . Driving to the deserted test site that night when Doug is about to place a sheet of paper , with the Atomic blast information written on it , he's grabbed by a civilian security guard . After Doug belts him he takes off in the night and with the police chasing him he crashes his car . Back at the base hospital Doug is injected with Sodium Thiopertal , truth serum . After going into a deep trance Doug tells those in his hospital room what happened to him after he survived the plane crash . Doug woke up in an underground cavern with these strange looking aliens with huge bug eyes , that look like hard-boiled eggs , operating on him . Doug is told by alien leader that he was killed and that he was brought him back to life . Doug is also told that the aliens need him to get back to his army base and find out when the next Atomic test will be and return that information to them . Doug is also told that they come from a planet called Astron Delta that lost it's ability to sustain life and they are planing to take over the Earth as their next home away from home . The leader also tells Doug that the aliens are also breeding huge insects and reptiles that will devour all life on Earth . After the insects ands reptiles finish the job the aliens will destroy them , with some kind of super-high sonic rays , and use their remains to fertilize the Earth . Thats so that they can live off the vegetation thats produced by them . Told that if he does his job for the aliens Doug will be sent onto a space station and after everything is achieved by them , in wiping out the human race , he'll be brought back to Earth and live happily ever after . The last thing Doug can remember is him being told by the head alien to " Listen and obey you will obtain the data and bring it to the stone " like what he did earlier at the Atomic bomb site . When Doug awakes from his trance the military men in the room think that he's cuckoo and tell him to take a long vacation . Doug instead tells them to detonate an Atomic Bomb as soon as possible in order to overload the aliens circuits . But the military men tell him to go to back to sleep and that even if they wanted to do what he told them they don't have enough time to do it . Doug later realizes that if he only shut off the power source , the local power plant , that the aliens are tapping into to get their power for just ten seconds it would cause their resistors to short-out . This would have their whole underground base would go up in a nuclear explosion . Running out of the hospital to his car with only a robe and pajamas and slippers Doug drives to the power plant to shut off the power for just a brief while in order to save the world . Holding everyone at bay with a gun that he wrestled away from the pant attendant , Lester Door , Doug shuts off the juice and in ten seconds the entire alien base goes up in a mushroom cloud . Doug who was considered insane just a moment ago ends up saving the world as well as the whole human race . Not by following the orders of his superiors but instead the instincts of his mathematical and scientific curiosity .
Life is worth dying for	SPOILERS Sentimental little Christmas movie involving three life long friends who in trying to pep up their somewhat lonely Christmas Eve get together in roping in two young strangers who make their holiday season a lot better and far more rewarding . So much better that they just refuse to go back to their maker , and heaven , after they ended up dying in a tragic plane crash . The three old guys Irish Michael O'Brien , Charles Winninger , British Allan " Chad " Chadwick , A . Aubrey Smith , and American businessman George Melton , Harry Carey , end up bonding with their unexpected Christmas guests Texas cowboy James Huston , Richard Carlson , and children clinic volunteer Jean Lawrence , Jean Parker , who end up becoming their lifelong , and even beyond life , friends . Becoming almost inseparable both James and Jean drift apart when their three old benefactors , with Michael leaving James a cache of money to continue his fledging singing career , unexpectedly perish in a plane crash . Being stung by success , as the new American Idol , James gets hooked up with Broadway singing sensation Arlene Terry , Helen Vinson , who's just nuts about the handsome but shy Texas cowboy . This has Michael , who's stuck in the world between life and death , try to somehow show the love sick James what a mistake he made in tossing his one and only true love , on earth and beyond , Jean away for the manipulated and scheming Arlene . Both Chad and George also hang out in what seems to be the Astral World , an existence between life and death , for a short time until they finally get their bearings straight and ascend to heaver . Chad ends up going to heaven with his dead son David , William Bakewell , who was killed in the Great War or WWI . The cranky and penny pinching George finally found out , after his death , that money isn't everything if your in a place , the world in between life and death , where its not worth the paper that it's printed on and also sees the light , heaven , by the time the film is over . Only Michael gets involved with the world of the living in his attempt to save James from a fate worse then death in both losing Jean as well as his life by getting himself involved with Arlene . James in fact does see the light after he's shot and killed by Arlene's drunk and jealous ex-husband-Mr . Terry I presume-and is given a second chance to return back to earth , and life , to reunite with the girl that he left behind Jean . Nothing really new here even though the movie predates the far more popular and very similar Frank Capra Christmas Classic " It's a Wonderful Life " by some six years . The film " Beyond Tomorrow " nevertheless still packs quite a wallop in movies about life after death and what it's , our very meager existence , really all about in the grand scheme of things . There's also in the film the two Czarist Russian survivors of the Commnist Revolution Madame Tanya , Maria Ouspenskay , who's the only one in the movie who can see or sense the three dead plane crash victims and her stuffy and stoned faced butler Josef , Alex Melesh . It's Josef who at times when his face was frozen stiff looked like the newest member , even though he never was a US President , of Mount Rushmore .
Get him out of here ! This whole country's been bought and paid for !	SPOILERS Action and intrigue on four continents , North and South American Africa & Europe , with mercenary leader Jamie Shannon , Christopher Walken , getting together a group of fellow soldiers of fortune . The group of mercenaries are hired by the mysterious Mr . Endean , Hugh Millais , to overthrow an African dictator the insane maniac President Atta Kimba , Liarrio Bisi Pedro , of Zangaro . Shannon having been paid $15 , 000 . 00 by Endean to cased out Zangaro's defenses earlier , posing as a photographer for a nature magazine back in the states , was saved by the skin of his teeth from ending up before a firing squad . Arrested beaten , to within an inch of his life , Shannon was then kicked out of the country as an undesirable alien . It was only after Shannon's unceremonious exit from that country that it was found out that he killed a member of the Pres . Kimba's palace guards that resulted in the execution of nine innocent Zangoriens in his place . Back in New York City recovering from the beating he took Shannon is again contacted by Endean with another offer of big bucks , $100 , 000 . 00 , to get a bunch of fellow mercenaries together and get the person that he want's to replace Pres . Kimba . The arrogant and very highly thought of , by only himself , " Man of the people " Col . Bobi , George W . Harris . Shannon getting his friends mercenaries Drew Derek & Michel , Tom Barenger Paul Freeman & Jean Francois Stevenin , to map out an invasion plan of Pres . Kimba's palace , known as The Garrison , with a company of troops from the Zangorien army loyal to Col . Bobi . Shannon get's a bit ticked off at his boss Endean when he has Shannon's newsman friend North ( Colin Blakely ) , whom he met when he undercover was in Zangaro , run down and killed by one of his henchmen David Schofield . North was a pain in Shannon's butt following him around London , like a homeless mutt looking for someone to give him a place to stay , sniffing for a story about his secret mission in Zangaro . Sill he wasn't a threat at all to Shannon's operation and it was that killing of North that got the not too stable to begin with Shannon very angry . North's murder put ideas into Shannon's head , about screwing up Endean's plans , only if Endean tried to double-cross him which Shannon was sure he would do . Getting Schofield alone in a public mens room Shannon and Drew tried to beat a confession out of him about why he killed his good friend North . Schofield kept his mouth shut about Endean's involvement even after a piece of broken glass , how sickening , was shoved into his mouth by a vindictive Shannon , in order to loosen his tongue , and painfully took his secret with him to the grave . Getting on a freighter Shannon & Co . later meet up , off the coast of Zangaro , a boat-load of Col . Bobi loyalists . Shannon now with a well armed fighting force the group make their way onto shore , under the cover of night , to put an end via a Coup d'etat to Pres . Kimba's brutal regime . Wall to wall combat fills the movie " Dogs of War " final fifteen minutes with Shannon and his men taking on the entire Zangorien military as they fight their way into Pres . Kimba's palace . Where he's found by Shannon he puts a bullet in his chest . Pres . Kimba was at the time trying to check out of the country with the national treasury . Drew who should have known better turned his back on a Zangorien woman who , being a Kimba loyalist , shot him in the back killing him . With most of his men killed and wounded Shannon is mad as hell at both Endean and his paid off stooge Col . Bobi for failing to show up at the alloted time so that the carnage would end with Col . Bobi being installed the new president of Zangaro . Waiting for all the dust , and bullets , to clear the two cowards , Endean & Col . Bobi , waited for hours which resulted in unnecessary fighting that cost hundreds of lives ! Shannon now looking to get even with the two back-stabbers gets Dr . Okoye ( Winston Ntshona ) who was thrown in jail for daring to run for president against Pres . Kimba and makes him the new president of Zangaro over the smug and self-centered Col . Bobi . Endean and Col . Bobi reacting like spoiled brats over Shannon's actions has him then blow , with a burst of his 45mm , Col . Bobi away ! This has the very talkative Endean , now for the first time in the movie , struck speechless with all the work and efforts that he did for his bosses to get their man Col . Bobi into power . Manson is now left empty handed and not in control of Zangaro's vast natural resources that he so long wanted to get his greedy hands on .
Girl Next Door	SPOILERS Surprisingly good made for TV movie about the short life and violent death of Colleen Applegate who was known by her many fans as porno film star Shauna Grant . Born in California and later moving to the little tree-lined Minnesota town , pop 3 , 500 , of Farmingdale Colleen was a beautiful and friendly girl . It turned out that her looks and girl-next-door persona was what brought her to the life that she lead and suffered through from 1981 to 1984 ending up with a bullet in her skull . After lingering for two days on life support Colleen finally passed away on March 23 1984 just two months shy of her 21th birthday . About to graduate from high school and go out in the world for the first time just turned 18 year-old Bannon Kansas High School cheerleader Pauleen Anderson , Joanna Lee , is about as naive and unfamiliar with the world outside Bannon as she is about what going on in Jupiter or Mars . Determained to make something of herself Pauleen quickly quits a job at the local phone company that her father , Dennis Howard , a supervisor there got for her . Knowing that she's about the most beautiful girl in town and having her boyfriend Cory Parker , Kris Kamm , willing to drive her and himself out to L . A Pauleen says goodbye to Bannon and her parents Del and Sharon Anderson , Medlinda Dillon . Pauleen feels that she has all the qualities that can make her a top fashion model or even movie star and the sooner she starts the better things will be for her . After knocking around the beach and town Pauleen finally lands a job for this modeling agency , Selby , where the owner Lou Gates , Ben Frank , an ex-professional boxer sees that Pauleen has a lot of talent as a future model and quickly get her started in a series photo session at his studio . We see right away that Pauleen is not that eager to take her clothes off since her upbringing back in Bannon was anything but ultra-liberal in the sexual freedoms that were so common in places like L . A San Francisco or New York back then during the " sexual revolution " . With a little prodding by Lou Pauleen starts to get the hang of things as a nude or semi-nude model and in no time at all she's making as much as $200 . 00 a day when she's working on a photo shoot . Cory seeing the results of his girlfriend Pauleen's work , the nude photos , breaks up with her and leaves for Bannon leaving Pauleen alone in the big city with almost no one to turn to for help . Slowly getting corrupted by drugs as well as posing nude and later appearing and acting in porno flicks the truth about Pauleen's sudden descent into the dark abyss of the world of adult entertainment reaches her parents and friends back in Bannon Kansas . This shocking discovery of Pauleens not so secret life happens as she appears in a number of nude and explicate girlie magazines and XXX rated movies and videos on sale in and around Bannon . The movie " Shattered Innocence " is very realistic in the fact that not all was bad and depressing for young Paulleen . We see her having good times at high class parties with famous Hollywood producers directors and actors in attendance . Pauleen did in the brief time that she was involved in the porno business have more then her share of fame & success , earning herself a nomination as best porno actress of 1983 at the yearly Erotic Film Awards . As a top rated and much sought after Porno Queen , making as much as 30 feature films , Pauleen made more then enough money to get her out of the business and start a new life . It was Pauleens strong addicting to cocaine that she stuck up her nose almost around the clock in order to keep her weight down and give her a high that ate up all her savings , as much as $1 , 500 . 00 a day when she was shooting a movie . It was when her cocaine supplier and live-in boyfriend Mel , John Pleshette , was sent away to the big house for five years on an old drug rap that pushed Pauleen to the edge and also drove the depressed confused and abandoned young woman to kill herself . All too common a story about how the glamor and glitter of tinsel town drove many a young girl to her doom finding out only too late that the odds of making it big , no matter how gorgeous and beautiful she is , on the big or small screen is about as high as the dead coming back to life before the resurrection . Even if Pauleen , by some miracle , did make it to stardom and fame , without being addicted to drugs , in almost all cases it would last about as long as a flickering shooting star across the sky on a warm summer night ; Like the short and sad life of of the beautiful but tragic Pauleen Anderson AKA Colleen Applegate .
Who killed Maureen O'Flaherty ?	SPOILERS Behind the scenes movie to one of show business ' most shocking episode that took place on the eve of the legendary Vince Collins & Lenny Morris , Colin Firth & Kevin Bacon , Polio Telethon ; the mysterious death of 23 year old collage student and editor of her collage paper Maureen O'Flaherthy , Rachel Blanchard . Getting themselves up to finish the grueling 39 straight hour Veterans Day Polio Telethon the two comics , Morris & Collins , in their hotel suite at the Miami Versailles Hotel popped themselves up with uppers and had a whole load of hookers sent up , courtesy of hotel owner and mob boss Sally Sanmarco , Maury Chaykin , to both party and loosen up for the big shows grand finale televised live on network TV . One of the girls who stayed up in Morris & Collins room was a pretty hotel worker Maureen O'Flaheraty who ended up not only not surviving the evening but some 1 , 000 miles away the next afternoon at Sally's majestic Palace Del Sol Hotel in Atlantic City dead as a doornail and cold as a block of ice in the couples , Morris & Collins , hotel suite . The movie then goes to 1972 15 years into the future as magazine writer Karen O'Connor , Alison Lohman , is assigned by a major publishing company to write her first book the biography of Vince Collins , with Vince's help , and the story behind the O'Flaherty death and what exactly both Lenny Morris and Vince Collins had , if anything , to do with it . Since their , Lenny & Vince , breakup Vince had been going downhill with no or little work in Hollywood and the night-club circuit offered to him . Lenny on the other hand had become a bigger star then he ever was with his long time partner Vince . This made Vince , who must have thought that he was the star of the two man comedy act , very depressed and bitter over his now shattered show business career . Agreeing to take a one million dollar advance for his memories , with Karen doing most of the writing , Vince was still very shook up over what happened to Maureen back on that November evening in 1957 . The fact that Lenny was still alive and very successful the truth if revealed would just about destroy his career . Not in what Vince did to Maureen but what went on between himself and Lenny that a very sharp eyed and career-minded Maureen witnessed . The movie goes back and forth from that fateful evening in Miami and the present , 1972 , with Karen who has a connection to both Lenny & Vince that they don't realize . Karen was on stage with the two comics that night as a nine year-old " miracle girl " who survived polio thanks to the help and money that she received from the telethon that Lenny & Vince put on over the years . Karen had been getting valuable information through the mail about that night from what she at first thought was Lenny Morris . In fact she had met Lenny on a flight to New York City who thought that she was , with Karen lying to him , her best friend elementary school teacher Bonnie Trouth , Sonja Bennett . Lenny ended up having a night on the town with her and then left Karen cold in her , or Bonnie's , apartment without as much as a farewell note or goodbye kiss . We and Karen later find that it wasn't Lenny who was feeding her all this vital information but non other thenSPOILERSLenny's long time pal and gofer Reauben , David Hyman , who not only knew what Maureen was about to spill to the newspapers , unless she was paid off , but who was the person who murdered her ! Vince getting more and more depressed later checks into the very same suite at the Miami Versailles Hotel where Maureen died , or was murdered , back in 1957 . Guzzling down three bottles of expensive champagne and popping an entire bottle of uppers Vince ends up overdosing in the bathtub , fully clothed , that was filled with ice . Devastated with the news of his friend and partner's Vince Collins tragic death Lenny slams the door on Karen in not having nothing to do with her book about Vince and the night that lead to his suicide . But Karen had already deduced to who was responsible for Maureen's death , or murder . Karen also knew that the truth would kill Maureen's grieving and widowed mother Mrs . O'Flaherty , Deborah Grover , and forgoes the million dollars she would get for writing the story ; she'll have the secret of Maureen's death published only after Mrs . O'Flaherty , not Lenny Morris , death since she'll be hurt the most in knowing what was behind it .
Kiss & Tell	SPOILERS Dark and moody 1947 crime drama that has hunky and always a good guy Victor Mature playing two bit hood Nick Bianco who plays by the rules of his profession , thats written in stone , to never be a squealer and rat on your friends no matter what deal even freedom . Having been busted in a jewelry store holdup Nick is offered a sweet deal by Assistant D . A Louie DeAngelo , Brian Dunlevy The deal would get him off almost Scot-free if he rats out his two fellow robbers who , unlike Nick , got away . Sticking to his principles Nick takes the full ten to fifteen years in Sing Sing by keeping his mouth shut and relying on his mouthpiece , lawyer , Earl Howser ( Taylor Holmes ) to do the talking for him . With Howser promising Nick that he'll have him beat the rap and get parole in no time at all . While in the big house Nick got to know three time loser Johnny Udo , Richard Widmark , who became very friendly with him , they both have Howser for a lawyer . Udo tells Nick a lot of things about his life in crime including a number of murders that he committed and was never even arrested , much less convicted , for . As time goes by Nick becomes very apprehensive about whats happening back home with his wife Maria not returning his letters . Getting the news straight from the prison grapevine Nick is shocked to find out that Maria committed suicide by sticking her head in a gas oven leaving his and her two little girls Connie & Rosie orphaned . We get to see the go by the rules of the underworld Nick Bianco suddenly turn squealer to not only get his freedom but to see his little girls ; Nick should have thought of that before he choose a life of crime . The price for Nicks freedom was fingering one of his fellow hoods , Rizzo , who was involved with him in the jewelery robbery at the start of the film . Concocting a story with D . A DeAngelo Nick brings out a four years old fur warehouse robbery that both he and Rizzo were involved in and DeAngelo cleverly has Nick not Rizzo indited for it . The bells go off in lawyer Howsers head thinking that Rizzo ratted out Nick , not the other way around , and sends Udo , who turned out to be Howsers enforcer , out to get the totally innocent Rizzo . Udo going to Rizzo's apartment where he lives with his mother , Mildred Dunnock , and not finding him the now psychotic and uncountable Udo throws the wheelchair bound elderly lady , tying her to her wheelchair , down a flight stairs killing her . A lot has been said about Udo's despicable actions in throwing an old and crippled woman down a flight of stairs . But the fact that " good guys " Nick Bianco and D . A DeAngelo implicated her son , who was totally innocent , of squealing on his friends which is actually what Nick did that lead to her brutal and sickening murder by a gigging and deranged Johnny Udo . This seems to have been completely overlooked by almost everyone who commented on the movie ! Nick in order to earn his freedom also squeals on the maniacal Johnny Udo by revealing a number of murders that Udo told him in Sing Sing that he committed . Still with the help of Udo's high priced lawyer Earl Howsner a jury wouldn't convict him on the flimsy evidence that he brought out in court . Leaving Nick and his two young daughters opened to Udo's insane retaliation , the same kind of insanity that did in poor Mrs Rizzo . As much as I wanted to I just couldn't get myself to like Nick Bianco since what he did was anything but noble . In fact his actions resulted in one of the most shocking crimes , Mrs . Rizzo murder , ever put in a film-noir or any other Hollywood released motion picture . Bianco was a career criminal not an innocent bystander , who got caught up with events beyond his control , so by making him all of a sudden a good guy just to save his neck and nothing else didn't exactly move me to feel all that sorry for him . The fact that Bianco loved his daughters , Connie & Rosie , and did his squealing to get out of prison in order for them to have a father at home was also a bit disingenuous . Since he should have thought about that when was committing his numerous crimes and even rejected an offer of leniency by D . A DeAngelo at the beginning of the movie which he jumped at later . Were supposed to feel for Nick because of his wife Maria killing herself . The very fact that she did was because he got himself put behind bars for as much as 15 years by keeping his mouth shut and not ratting out his fellow hoods . Which had nothing to do with Howsers , who promised to get him off , inability to take care of Maria . Nick should have taken care of that himself by not being so bull-headed and taking the rap for the jewelry robbery by not making a deal with D . A DeAngelo in turning in those where were with him . The very contrive ending has Nick , now up front and acting heroic , confront Udo & Co . using himself as bait in getting the crazed and giggling psycho to pull a gun on him . With the cops laying in wait in order to arrest Udo a three time loser and put him being bars , if he's caught alive , for life . The film " Kiss of Death " if it showed anything to it's audience was that by choosing a life of crime the only way you can redeem yourself is by being almost as unfeeling toward your fellow criminals , by fingering and ratting them out as you were towards the innocent victims , like the jewelry shop owner that Nick & Co . ripped off , that you preyed upon .
That was the unluckiest punch I ever threw	SPOILERS Handsome , and too pretty to be a pug , Robert Taylor as boxer Tommy McCoy is quite convincing in the ring as a professional boxer as he is out of it . Where he has all the young ladies , on the screen and in the audience , going completely bananas over him including pretty Sheila Carson , Maureen O'Sullivan . The daughter of his manager Jim Cain who's really big time Wall Street honcho James W . Carson , Edward Arnold . Matched up in a bout with his good friend and boyhood hero former light Heavyweight Champ Johnny Martin , William Gargan . Tommy tries to go easy on the over-the-hill ex-champ but catches him with a solid left-hook in the second round that not only knocks Johnny out but ends up killing him . With Johnny leaving a wife and young son behind and nobody to look after them Tommy gives her his share of the purse . Instead of paying off his irresponsible dad's Brian McCoy , Frank Morgan , debt that he owes big-time-bookie Jim Cain . Tommy outraged to find out that his father sold out his contract to Cain walks out on him and boxing . Out on the streets for six months without any work Tommy comes back to Cain for a job and agrees , reluctantly , to fight for him , giving 10 % of his purse to the later Johnny Martin's Famiy , at the same time have his dad front as his manager . At the Carson Estate , where Cain told Tommy that he rented out , Tommy , after meeting Carson's daughter Sheila , realized that Carson is really Wall Street Banker James W . Carson . To his credit Tommy doesn't tell Sheila that not to hurt her by exposing her fathers double life . Cain uses Tommy in a scam to trick big-time gamblers like his fellow bookie " Pug " Walsh , Nat Pendleton , to bet against him . Telling them that Tommy a left-handed one punch palooka without a right hand . After a string of " lucky punch " victories by Tommy " Pug " starts to get suspicious about Cain playing him as a sucker . One day , together with members of his gang , Cain runs into Tommy's dad at a local bar . Drunk and talking freely about the scam being pulled by both Tommy and Cain the unaware Mr . McCoy spills the beans and ends up being kidnapped by the Walsh gang . Finding out about Cain's scheme and him having a daughter who's in love with Tommy the mobsters also kidnap Sheila . Tommy's informed through a flower-gram to throw the fight he having that night at the garden if he ever want's to see them alive again . Told to take a dive in the eight round , Pug bet $10 , 000 . 00 for that to happen , means that Tommy has to take a vicious beating for seven rounds . Tommy just about out on his feet by the time the eight round starts finds out from Sheila , who escaped from the Walsh Mob , that his dad in the end made up for all the heartbreak that he did to him and his mom through the years . In one final and unselfish act Mr . McCoy became the father to Tommy that up until then he never was ; you can just guess what happened in that faithful eight round after The battered and almost beaten Tommy McCoy heard that bit of news .
It takes just one monkey to steal the show	( Some Spoilers ) Trying to prove that environment and parenting is the key to what we become in life Sheridan Collage psychology professor Peter Boyd , Ronald Reagan , takes on a Herculean task in showing that the cute but somewhat neurotic chimp Bonzo can be straightened out in a good and loving home . Not having any male or female chimps around to adopt Bonzo Prof . Boyd decides to act as Bonzo's dad and hires 23 year-old baby-sitter Jane Linden , Diana Lynn , as the chimps surrogate mom . Prof . Boyd has himself beaten the odds by becoming an upstanding citizen and collage professor despite his dad being the legendary con artist " Silky " Boyd who spent the last twenty years of his life behind bars . To Prof . Boyd Bonzo getting over his anxieties with his and Jane's guidance would be a lead pipe cinch but it just didn't turn out the way that he expected . Together with his friend at the collage Prof . Neumann , Walter Slezak , Boyd secretly gets Bonzo to stay with him at his home but his animal instincts are far more stronger then both professors ever expected . Tearing the place apart Bonzo just does what he wants until Jane's understanding and nurturing of the wild and uncontrollable primate gets him to act about as human and responsible as most of us . While all this is happening Boyd's engagement to the head of Sheridan Collage Dean Tillinghast , Herbert Hayes , daughter Valerie , Lucille Barkley , goes downhill with her suspecting that he's involved with another woman . Boyd's spends so much time with Bonzo that he neglects Valerie to the point where she comes over to his home and finds Bonzo's governess a 23 year old blond not an elderly farm girl , or woman , who raised five children that her soon to be fiance Boyd told her . As you would expect Bonzo saves the day and Peter Boyd from serving a stretch in the pen for jewel robbery by both taking a diamond necklace and then returning it showing the police that Boyd , who had the jewels on him , wasn't the culprit . Bonzo of course had no idea that he committed a crime by breaking into the Dewitt Jewelry Store and taking the necklace thinking that it was as innocent an act as picking a stack of bananas off a banana tree . It was in fact Jane who taught Bonzo not to take what's not his and she , after running out of Boyd , came back to get Bonzo to prove Boyds innocence by returning the necklace to it's proper owner . Everything turns out all right at the end of the movie with Bonzo not only getting Peter Boyd off the hook but also being saved from ending up as an animal experiment at Yale University where Dean Tillinghast had him slated to be shipped . Peter Boyd also was saved from marrying the very stuck up Valerie , who saw that she wasn't right for him , and ending up heading to the altar with his new and true love Jane Linen . Ronald Reagan took a lot of flack about his acting in the movie were he played a second banana to the lovable and mischievous chimp Bonzo . Reagan was in fact as good as any actor could have been under the circumstances and came across both funny and dramatic in all the scenes that he was in . Chimps like Bonzo are notorious scene stealer's and have a reputation of making their human co-stars look second rate which is why so many top actors and actresses avoid doing movies with them . You'll never see an actor of the caliber of a Laurence Olivier John Barrymore or Marlon Brando in a film with a chimp knowing that they'll , more then the chimp , not only end up looking like a monkeys uncle but be made to look more like a monkey by the monkey that their co-staring with .
Riot in Cell-Block " B " !	SPOILERS A somewhat chubby but very sexy looking Linda Blair as woman prisoner Carol Henderson is run through the ringer in this classic " Women in Prison " movie where she ends up not only saving the day but losing a few pounds of baby fat that she put on since growing into adulthood . Carol for her part just wants to put her time in , 18 months , for a hit and run rap where she ended up killing a pedestrian . Not knowing what she's got herself into Carol ends up engineering a major prison riot that puts an end to a reign of terror at the prison . Warden Bacman , John Vernon , running the women's prison has been also running a drug ring and using the profits to built an elaborate penthouse for himself where he entertains the women prisoners he's in charge of . Anything goes in Warden Bacman's house of horrors with the horny male prison guards paying for sex with the shapely woman prisoners . This leads at the beginning of the movie a terrified woman prisoner Susie , Jonna Lee , being gunned down when she , with a toy gun , resisted the advances of prison guard Stone , Robert Miano . It doesn't take long for a sweet and inoffensive Carol to become a hardened convict when she's messed with by not only her fellow women prisoners but by Warden Bacman who's got his eye on her . The warden likes them , his women , young and innocent and Carol is just what he's been looking for since his former prison girlfriend Debbie , Monique Gabriell , was found murdered in the prison laundry room . Debbie besides engaging in the wardens many personal pleasures , like having himself and her video taped having sex , was snitching on her fellow prisoners . We soon learn that as Warden Bacman was enjoying himself , with women booze and drugs , his second in command Captain Taylor , Stella Stevens , has been planning a coup to overthrow him and take over the prison with her pimp boyfriend Lester , Henry Silva . Meanwhile Carol has gotten in with woman prison leaders Ericka , Sybil Danning , and The Dutchess , Tamara Dobson , who despite being bitter enemies have joined together to crash out of prison before either Warden Bacman or Captain Taylor stage an unfortunate accident for both of them . One of the best , and unintentionally funny , prison films ever made " Chained Heat " really gets going when Carol whips up the women prisoners after Captain Taylor took over the prison . That was due to Warden Bacman's " accidental " drowning in his king-size bathtub . Running the prison like a concentration camp commandant Captain Taylor has the state prison administration start to put the heat on her in why so many of her inmates are ending up either dead or in the prison infirmary . With the rioting woman prisoners on the verge of taking control of the prison Carol , knowing what will put an end to Captain Taylor's dreams of power and glory , breaks into Warden Bacman's penthouse in search of the incriminating evidence that would put Captain Taylor behind bars ! A hidden video tape of Captain Taylor and head woman guard Boots , Kendal Kaldwell , drowning the very drunk Warden Bacman while he's entertaining one of his woman prisoners in his hot-tub ! Bacman has a tape recording system hooked up in his pad , that Captain Taylor didn't now about , that recorded everything that happened there even his murder ! Without a doubt " Chained Heat " is by far the best and most hilarious womens prison movie ever made . As bad as the film is in its unbelievable story and the atrocious acting in it doesn't for a moment let its audience down . Even now , some 25 years after is initial release , " Chained Heat " has never been eclipsed , much less duplicated , in the many bad womens prison flicks that had since followed it .
White-Out	SPOILERS " Snowbeast " is another BigFoot / Yeti movie that takes place in and around a snowy Colorado Rocky Mountain ski-resort which is celebrating it's 50th anniversary . Owner and former Lodge Snow Queen Carrie Rill , Sylvia Sidney , wants everything to go all right to attract more skiers to her Nill Lodge . The last thing she or her manager and grandson Tony , Robert Logan , want is what is about to happen on the snowy ski slopes around the lodge ; A monster on the loose killing and mutilating the lodges costumers . Jennifer , Kathy Christopher , is lost in the woods after she and her friend Heidi , Annie McEnroe , were attacked by some wild beast . Looking for Jennifer Buster , Thomas Babson , one of the members of the Nill Lodges ski petrol is also missing . When Jennifer is later found in a shack dead and savagely mutilated . It's becomes obvious to Lodge manager Tony that a wild beast is on the loose in the woods and mountain slopes and that the the Nill Lodge 50th Winter festival may well have to be canceled and with it all the desperately needed revenue to keep the lodge opened for the rest of the skiing season . In the middle of all this a friend and former Olympic Skiing Gold Medal winner Gar Seberg , Bo Sevenson , and his TV reporter wife Ellen , Yette Mimieux , arrive at the lodge . Gar is is there looking for Tony to give his a job at the lodge ; little did Gar know that he couldn't have come at a better time . A few days later the Snowbeast stuck right in the heart of lodge itself killing and wounding a number of people and putting everyone at the lodge in a state of panic . With nothing left to keep the people at the lodge from knowing about the dangerous Snowbeast Tony and his friend and new employee Gar go up into the woods and mountain slopes to put an end to what's responsible for all this death and destruction . O . K movie about a not-too-friendly Bigfoot on the rampage with some very good ski and outdoor photography . There's also a nice sub-plot about Gar's fears and anxieties about being another washed-up Olympic Gold Medal winner . With nothing to look forward to in the future and of course , to those of us watching and rooting for Gar to come through in the movie , more then making up for his unfounded fears in the end . It was also good to see Clint Walker , Sheriff Paraday , the epitome of the " Strong & Silent Type " who really didn't have that much to do , or say , in the movie in that he was killed off before the big final ending scene . But when Walker did say something the movie cast , as well as the audience , would stop look and listen . There were also good performances by Yvette Mimieux as Gar's TV reporter wife and Silvia Sidney as Tony's grandmother and owner of the Nill Lodge . The Snowbeast was given very little screen time but was always on everyones mind which made it more dangerous and effective then having it over-exposed until he became an eyesore to watch . Hard sliding ending put the Snowbeast on the skids for good and saved the day for everyone still alive in the movie .
Top draw crook ! Lived with me but never caught on !	SPOILERS Trying get to the bottom of a major counterfeit ring Treasury Agents O'Brien & Genaro , Dennis O'Keefe & Alfred Ryder , are giver cover by the Treasury Department as two members , Harrigan & Galvani , of the defunct Detroit River Gange in order to infiltrate the city's notorious Vantucci Mob that's involve in a major counterfeiting printing operation . This illegal counterfeit racket is draining millions out of the US Treasury flooding the streets of Detroit and it's surroundings with millions of counterfeit 10 20 50 and 100 dollar bills . It doesn't take long for the two agents to get taken in by the mob boss Carlo Luigi Vantucci , Anton Kosta , as members of his gang in that they schooled themselves in the Detrot's Mob history and knew as much about it , and how it operates , as boss Vantucci did . Finding a L . A connection to the Vantucci's mob counterfeit operations Agent O'Brian aka hoodlum Harrigan goes to the West Coast to establish an eyes and ears infiltration of the L . A Mob connected with Vantucci headed by suave and very well dressed mobster " Shiv " Triano , John Wengaf . The key that connects both the L . A and Detroit mobs is this counterfeit expert called The Schemer , Wallace Ford , which is obviously a street , not legally given or Christened , name . The Schemer gets in a lot of hot water with his bosses back in Detroit in them being snookered into believing by Agent O'Brian and later Genero that he's going to rat them out . The Scheamers L . A Boss of Bosses Dragon-Lady Evangeline , Mary Meade , is also told that he's been shooting his mouth off in public about her , together with Triano & Vantucci , counterfeit operations while under the influence of alcohol as well as strong Chinese herbal stimulants . This of course is a lie concocted by O'Brian & Genero but it does get The Schemer to open up to them about what he knows about his higher ups that includes a secret little black book , that he has hidden in a public locker , that can hang all of them . Evangeline not taking any chances in The Schemer ratting her and her ultimate boss , the really big cheese in this whole operation , out the well known antique dealer and philanthropist Oscar Grffney has him steamed to death as he's locked in a local Turkish Bath House steam-room by her top henchman Moxie , Charles McGraw . It was in fact Evangelines overreaction to undercover agents O'Brian & Genero accusations to The Schemers loose lips that eventually had her Gaffney & Co . end up behind bars of underground , in a grave , at the end of the film . The Schemer did in fact finger Agent Genaro when he was spotted by his wife Mary , June Lockhart , as he and Agent Genero , known to The Scheamer as hoodlum Galvani , were walking through an L . A fruit and vegetable market . Agent Genero ended up getting gunned down by the " Shiv's " hoodlums only to cover his fellow agents , O'Brian , true identity and cluing him , who was forced to watch his friend and fellow Treasury Agent get murdered , in to where to find the late Schemer's little black book . It was the black book together with a raid of Evangeline's and big boss-man's Gaffney's docked freighter , where the entire underground counterfeit operation was being conduced , that finally put an end to this whole multi-state & city counterfeit ring . The raid also landed Agent O'Brian in the hospital with at least two slugs in his gut but fortunately , unlike his partner Agent Genero , he survived to live another day .
If this ever sees the light of day you'll wish you were never brought into this world !	( Major Spoilers ) Chilling haunted house movie that has a secret that dates back to the turn of the century , 1900-1909 , involving a brutal murder of a crippled nine year old boy ! A murder committed by non other the the boy's father . Music professor John Russell , George C . Scott , is trying to get over the terrible tragedy of the deaths of his wife and young daughter Jaonna & Kathy , Jean Marsh & Michelle Martin , in a traffic accident in upstate New york . Taking some time off and then moving to Seattle Washington John rents the Chessman House outside the city from the local Historical Society . Desperately needing peace and quite to both compose his music and forget his past , the deaths of Joanna & Kathy , John ends up getting neither with the house suddenly coming to life in the form of the ghost of a young boy who was murdered there some 70 years ago . At first thinking that it might be the plumbing John soon realizes that what's happening in the Chessman House is not of this , or of the living , world . John getting in touch with Seattle Historical Society curator Claire Norman , Trish Van Devere , the two find this secret room in the attic that housed a young and crippled , with his wheelchair still being there , boy . Checking out the records of the Chessman House it's found out that the house belong to the now powerful Washington State Senator Joseph Carmichael's , Melvyn Douglas , parents ! Something just doesn't check out here with the house through it's strange and unexplained noises as well as a reading from world famous medium Leah Harmon , Helen Burns , that shows whoever is making these sounds has been dead for over 50 years ! If the dead child , or ghost , in question making these strange sounds isn't Senator Carmichael , who's very much alive , then who is he ? Did the senator have a twin brother that nobody knew about ? John who at first would never believe all this ghostly and supernatural hogwash is now convinced that there was something to the story about a murder at the Chessman House and that somehow Senator Joseph Carmichael , who was just an infant when it happened , gained the most out of it . With the information that he got from the medium Leah as well as his recording of it , that picked up sounds that were inaudible to the human ear , John tracks down the remains of the murdered boy to Elizibaeth Gray , Frances Hyman , house . It's the Gray house that was once the property of Senator Carmichael's father and it's there , in a now sealed and buried well , where the young boys body was found ! Also found there is evidence that the murdered boy , also named Joseph Carmichael , not Senator Carmichael was was the elder Carmichael's son ! With this discovery on both John and Calire's part the awful truth about Senator Carmichael starts to come out and the Senator then uses all of his power and influence to keep it from seeing the light of day even if he has to resort to bribery or even murder . The movie " The Changling " takes a while to get off the ground but it has so many loose ends to tie up , before it really gets down to business , that you can't be critical of it for it's almost snail-like pacing . When the film explodes in the last ten minutes you already know what's the secret behind the house and Senator Carmichael's connection to it . John whom the Senator completely misunderstood , in what his actions were , was more the willing to put the whole thing behind him . But it was the ghost of young Joseph that wouldn't let go and it was that ghost that in the end saw to it that pure justice , as brutal and indifferent as it is , without as much as a glint of mercy was finally done and done at the Senator's expense .
Tom Berenger's fine performance in " The Substitute " makes the movie worth watching	SPOILERS " The Substitute " starts off like a solid inner city drama about violence in a high school in Miami with teacher Jane Hetzko , Diane Venora , after being threatened by one of the schools violent thugs Juan Laucas , Marc Anthony , goes to the schools principal Claude Rolle , Ernie Hudson , for help . Only to be told that there's nothing that he can do , how many times have we heard that before . After having it out again with the same Laucas and his gang as she was going home Jane is later attacked while she was jogging by the beach and was crippled with a smashed kneecap . Jane's boyfriend Shale , Tom Berenger , who happened to be an unemployed mercenary looking for work got a job at the school , in fact the very same class , that Jane worked at as a substitute teacher after a friend of his working in the Miami record office falsified a background check for Shale as a licensed teacher . Shale , calling himself Mr . James Smith , after breaking a number of fingers and wrists got the disruptive students in line in no time at all . The movie starts to take a turn when Shale / Mr . Smith notices that something just isn't right about the school with students driving around with $50 , 000 . 00 BMW's and wearing as much as $100 , 000 . 00 gold watches , including principal Rolle . That it's obvious to Shale / Mr . Smith that there's more going on in the school then just readin ' ritin ' and rithmetic . Implausible action drama that does have it's moments as Tom Berenger battles school thugs and drugs pushers . With the high school principal Rolle being the # 1 drug dealer getting his drug supply from a brutal Indian drug gang , The Glades mob . With the drugs being distributed by Rolle's personal " Deans List " the gang that runs and terrorizes the school , Columbia High , the " Kings of Destruction " or K . O . D . Tom Berenger is quite good as the Soldier of Fortune , Shale , turned concerned citizen and high school teacher , Mr . Smith , who with the help of his mercenary friends cleans up the school and smashes the K . O . D gang and Glades drug mob in the process just for good measures . Action-packed movie that looks more like a Steven Seagel or Burce Willis slam-bang action flick then a film about school violence like " Blackboard Jungle " . Unlike in most of these type of action movies with Seagal & Willis , especially Seagal , where the hero completely overpowers his opposition with very little or almost no damage to himself the hero in " the Substitute " , Mr . Smith / Shale , takes a lot more then he dishes out from his opponents . Which makes him more human and sympathetic to the movies audience who can easily identify with him . Shale / Smith is also very sweet with his girlfriend Jane and does show genuine concern for his students as well as his co-workers in the school so that even with the somewhat unbelievable plot Tom Berenger's acting does make you forget just how ridicules the movie really is . Diane Venora is effective as Berenger's girlfriend as well as Marc Anthony as Juan Laucas the K . O . D gang leader . Ernie Hudson as the corrupt school principal and former corrupt cop Rolle played it a little to much and it made you wonder how he's been getting away with his drug dealing operations . Rolle doesn't seem to be too concerned if anyone knows about them to the point where he has over a hundred kilos of coke hidden in the schools boiler room . He also uses the K . O . D to knock off anyone who's a threat to his drug operation in his high school like when he tried to knock off Shale / Mr . Smith , without success , without any fear of the local police . In regards to his drug dealing Rolle doesn't at all seem to care or be afraid of an FBI or federal investigation . The final shot-out in the school with Shale and his mercenary friends with the Glade mob & K . O . D gang was as good as anything that you would see in this type of movie . With Shale's on and off again mercenary friend and buddy Hollan , William Forsythe , as a stand out as he more then makes up for all the trouble that he caused Shale all throughout the movie .
I don't want this guy rolling through town like the Red Army	SPOILERS Filmed in Moscow USSR , the first US movie even filmed in what's now the former Soviet Union , and Chicago USA " Red Heat " is a lot more then the usual buddy / cops movies of those days . Where there were two cops totally incompatible with each other having , or being forced , to work together . The movie is more like a clash of political philosophies , Capitalism Vrs Communism , then anything else . We get to see Moscow police captain Ivan Danko , Governor Arnold Schwarzennegger , flex his bulging muscles when he goes into a bath-house looking for a gang of Georgain drug dealers . In no time at all Danko turns he entire place into a wild and crazy free for all taking out a number of muscle men , in and out of he bath-house . Danko gets the information that he was looking for on where the gang leader Victor Rosta , Ed O'Ross , is to be found ; in the Durzhba Caf in the little Georgia section of Moscow . Later Danko and his partner Yuri Ogarkov , Oleg Vidov , confronts the Georgian drug dealers and their boss Rosta where there a a wild shootout where Yuri is killed and Rosta and a number of is gang escapes . It's later when the Moscow PD gets the news that Rosta was arrested , for a minor traffic violation , in of all places Chicago that Danko is sent to the United States to expedite him back to the Soviet Union . Danko is told by his superiors not to mentions a word to the US and Chicago law enforcement officials to what Rosta is wanted for . The Soviet leaders don't want it to get out that they , like the US , have a serious and home grown drug problem . Danko looking stiff an a bit uncomfortable at the Chicago O'Hare Airport is assigned Chicago Det . Art Ridzik , James Belushi , to show him around the city until he finally gets all the papers in order to take Rosta back to the USSR . Everything goes according to plan until Rosta is rescued , with Danko almost losing his life in the shooting , by this notorious black Chicago drug gang called the Shaveheads whom Rosta was working with . The movie then really starts to pick up with Danko now not only in trouble with the Chicago PD , for his very un-Maranda-like police tactics , but also with his Soviet police superiors for letting Rosta get away . Top rate police action thriller with Danko and Ridzik turning the city of Chicago upside down in trying to find the fugitive Rosta who's involved in a major drug deal , with the Shaveheads , that's about to go down at a city bus depot . Danko shows that he's as mentally smart as he's physically powerful by him figuring out what Rosta & Co are up to by renting Rosta's former hotel room # 302 , knowing that he left evidence of his drug dealings there . Danko wisely putting down on the hotel register a wrong number # 303 to trick Rosa and his boys who later blast into room # 303 thinking that Danko was there and ending up getting wasted by him in the resulting shootout . Rosta turns out to be as ruthless and deceptive as he ever was back in the Soviet Union . Double-crossing his allies the Shaveheads by taking the money he was to give them for the drugs that they were to supply him with . Rosta even having his American wife , that he paid $10 , 000 . 00 to marry him so he can be a US citizen , part-time aerobics instructor and full-time hooker Cat Manzetti , Gina Gershon , murdered together with one of his Georgian Confederates after he felt that they were no longer of any use to him . Danko now completely out of control with Det . Ridzik now fully supporting him , Ridzik by now saw that Danko's way of doing things was far better then that of the Chicago PD , has it out with Rosta in a mad and dangerous bus chase and demolition derby game . This wild and insane action almost causes as much damage to the city of Chicago as the great fire of 1871 did with Rosta finally being put down and out in a " High Noon " western style shootout . Just as good , if not better , as most of Arnold's more popular films it's in " Red Heat " that he finally puts it all together not just in the actions sequences but in his comical interacting with his American police partner James Belushi playing Det . Ridzik . With all the shooting and destruction over and Danko about to fly back home to Moscow he , it's traditional among departing friends he tells him , hand over his very expensive-looking watch to Ridzik who gladly give him his thinking that he got the best of the bargain . It turns out that Danko had a cheap $20 . 00 East-German made watch when Ridzik in exchange gave him and expensive $1 , 000 . 00 US / Swiss made one ! The anti-capitalistic Soviet Ivan Danko learned how to be a capitalist a lot faster and better then the pro-capitalistic American Art Ridzik did .
Stay at your own risk	Spoilers The film " Vacancy " starts out as if it was already some fifteen minutes into the Alfred Hitchcock 1960 thriller " Psycho " minus the sub-plot about a $40 , 000 . 00 heist and love affair between two of its major characters . Even the credits and opening Bernard Herrmann-like musical score are almost identical to the Hitchcock classic . This couple Amy & David Fox , Kaye Beckinsale & Luke Wilson , are lost after David took a short-cut off the main highway in their trip to visit Amy's parents . We see already that Amy & David aren't a happy couple with them consistently talking about getting professional help in their failing marriage . Lost and looking for directions as well as getting their damaged car fixed , after David almost crashed it in him avoiding hitting a raccoon , in order to get back on the main highway David & Amy stop off at this deserted gas station . It's there that they run into the stations mechanic , Ethan Embry , who seems to fix their car's damaged fan belt . Ethan not asking to be paid for his services did such a good job fixing the Fox's car that it conked out after driving just about two miles outside his gas station . Having no place to stay the two weary travelers walk back to the gas station for help only to find it empty , Ethan had left for the night , and reluctantly decide to spend the evening at the nearby Pinewood Motel . That would turn out to be the biggest mistake that they'll ever make in their lives ! It soon turns out that the person who runs the Pinewood Motel is a harmlessly nerdy looking but extremely dangerous , once's you get to know him , psychotic named Mason , Frank Whaley . It also turns out that Mason is obsessed with making secret home movies , on video tape , of those foolish enough to stay at his motel . What's even more outrageous and deadly is that Mason specializes in making snuff films with those who get snuffed in his made for himself , and his sick and deranged clientle , video's are the people who ended up , like Amy & David , spending the night at Mason's house of horrors ! Staying in his roach infested and rusty and dirty , both hot & cold , running water room at the Pinewood Motel David with having nothing else to do , and having the door to his and Amy's room constantly pounded , pops in a video tape , one of dozens lying around the place , in the VCR connected to the motel TV . It's then that David , together with Amy , sees a home movie of a couple being brutally beaten and murdered by this gang of masked thugs . Thinking at first that he's watching a movie David soon realizes that he's watching a couple actually being murdered with their murder being video taped and later to be sold , for as much as $5 , 000 . 00 , to sick degenerates who go for that kind of stuff , or snuff . What's even far more shocking then the actual murder on tape that David & Amy are watching is that the murders committed are in fact being committed in the very room that their staying at ! Even though " Vacancy " is an obvious " Psycho " clone it more then hold its own against the Hitchcock slasher flick with Mason almost as creepy and at the same time , for a few brief moments , as harmless as Norman Bates ; the owner of the infamous Bates Motel . What gives the film an extra kick is that Mason is not alone , like Norman was , in his murder spree but has a lot of help in doing it . Besides the friendly-looking but murderous car mechanic , Ethan Embry , Mason also has a number of masked killers who preform in his many , which seem like thousands , of snuff movies with them doing the snuffing . MAJOR SPOILERS The film has a very ingenious ending with Amy left to take on both Mason and his band of killers single-handedly after David was almost , but not exactly , beaten to death by them . In the end Mason who was so vain about his looks didn't have to worry about them any more getting the kind of makeover that even Norman Bates ' mummified mother couldn't match !
There's your six feet of China Joe , Go Fill It Up !	SPOILERS WWII war movie about the fabled " Flying Tigers " who battled the Japanese over the skies of China as early as 1937 , four years before the attack on Pearl Harbor , and amassed a record of air-to-air combat kills against the Japanese air force of something like 40 to 1 . The story " God is my Co-Pilot " actually begins in the summer of 1942 with USAF ace Col . Scott , Dennis Morgan , depressed and heart-broken because he can't be part of a major air assault against Japanese forces in China . The movie goes into a flashback where we see how Scott got interested in flying as a young boy back in Georgia and eventually joined the USAF ending up in China as the first US military man to become a member of the " Flying Tigers " ; The Tigers were exclusively made up of foreign , mostly Americans , volunteers . As you would expect the " Flying Tigers " airmen aren't that hip to a USAF man who's well over combat age , Scott is 34 , joining up with their exclusive flying fighters squadrons . In no time at all Scott gets the hang of it and he becomes the hero , and to the battered and bloodied Japs , villain in the Chinese Theater of War . Back home in Macon Georga Scott's exploits make the front pages and his score of air-to air kills against the Japs are posted daily as if it was the score of a Championship Football or World Series Baseball game . The movie " God is my Co-Pilot " also has a Japanese villain in the person of Japanese air ace Tokyo Joe , Richard Loo , an American educated Japanese combat pilot who , by the number of USAF kill decals under the side-window of his Zero , seemed to have accounted for all the " Flying Tiger " P-40's shot down in China . Scott has a number of encounters with Tokyo Joe during the air combat in the movie and finally shoots him out of the sky by faking that he's in trouble , his engine is on fire , tricking Joe to lose his composure and overshoot his P-40 . Scott ends up putting Joe right in the middle of his cross-hairs and thus became history and yesterdays news . Scott on a mission over Japanese held Hong Kong , where he downed Tokyo Joe , loses control of his plane and crashes and is given up for dead only to show up later alive and rescued by the local Chinese peasants . Dennis Morgan is both brave and humble as Col . Robert Lee Scott and even at the hight of the fighting has second thoughts about killing people , Japanese soldiers , even in wartime . Raymond Massey is excellent as the " Flying Tiger " commanded Gen Claire L . Chennault who answers Scott prayers at the end of the movie by giving him one last chance to go into combat . this after he was rendered useless as a combat pilot because of his nerves being shattered , from the combat missions he already flew , and the tropical illnesses he contracted in China . We never really get to know how Scott's last mission turned out since the movie ends before it even begins . Watching the movie it's obvious that it was non-other then Richard Loo as the wise-cracking Japanese air ace Tokyo Joe who has the best lines , which he delivers in perfect English , and the scenes with him interacting with the USAF and " Flying Tiger " pilots , like Col . Scott , are by far the best in the movie .
Art Imitating Life ?	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " Washington Story " is about a straight as an arrow US Congressman Joseph T . Gresham , Van Johnson , who's career as a United States lawmaker is seriously jeopardized when he's accused of having been paid off by a big time ship builder and D . C lobbyist Philip Emery , Sidney Blackman , to vote for this bill that he's been pushing . At first Congressman Gresham is against the bill despite his voting base depending on it since it would have a major effect on the economy of his congressional district , ship building . This " Ship Dispersel Bill " would have all the ship building in Congressman Gresham district directed inland and thus take away thousands of jobs that are dependent on that industry . Gresham at the time is being followed around by news reporter Alice Kingley , Patricia Neal , who's doing a story on him for her newspaper . The truth is that Alice is really working for top D . C columnist and political muckraker Gilbert Nunnally , Philip Ober , who want's her to do a hit piece on the congressman and destroy his career for what he's got going against him ; a lawsuit for defamation of character on the part of Nunnally . We , as well as Alice , later learn that Congressman Gresham's change of heart in his vote for the bill had nothing to do with him getting paid off by Emery , like Nunnally wanted the public to believe . It's his concern for the national security of the United States even if that vote cost him his seat in the US Congress . There's also an important side story that really shows what a great person , as well as American , Congressman Gresham is with his selfless action to get Peter Kralik , Reinhold Schunzel , a man who lived in the USA for 28 years and is in danger of being deported his American citizenship . In the end Alice sees what a heel her boss Nunnally really is and quits working for him as a leg-women in getting the so-called dirt on Gresham and falls in love with the congressman where they then live happily ever after in D . C and his home back in Newchtester Ma . I was fascinated by the comparison between the person that Van Johnson played in the film Congressman Joeseph T . Gresham and the late and tragic President of the United States John F . Kennedy . Even though at the time that the movie " Washington Story " was made , in 1952 , JFK was a relatively unknown congressman from the state of Massachusetts . Both Congressman Greshman in the movie and Congressman Kennedy in real life were both democrats representing a congressional district in Massachustts and were elected right after WWII , 1946 , and served in the US Navy and decorated for bravery in that conflict . Even more fantastic is that Congressman Greshman met fell in love with and , obviously after the movie was over , married a woman who worked for a newspaper news reporter Alice Kingsley . At the time that the film " Washington Story " was being filmed John F . Kennedy met and later married Miss . Jacqueline Bouvier , the future Mrs . Jackie Kenndey , who also worked for a newspaper at the time as a news photographer , speaking of art imitating life !
When your dead the " Big Heat " follows	( There are Spoilers ) Having had enough of being blackmailed and controlled by the mob Sgt . Tom Duncon puts all that he knows on paper about the top Mafioso's Mike Lagana's illegal operations , and who of the city's top political and law enforcement officials are in his hip pocket , and then takes a gun and blows his brains out . Mike Lagana gets the call late at night from Duncon's now widow Bertha about her husbands sudden and unexpected death and then starts to cover all the bases with the help of his top henchman Vince Stone . Making sure that what Bertha found out from her deceased husband is kept under raps Lagana goes so far even to pay her a million dollars to keep Bertha's mouth shut . Beartha has cleverly put Tom's suicide letter , that exposed the extent of Lagana's control with a list of payoffs to city officials , in a safe-deposit box only to be opened and read in the event of her death , violent or otherwise , so it was to Langna's best interests to have her kept alive . Det . Sgt . Bannion who had filed away Duncon's death as a suicide is later contacted by this B-girl Lucy Chapman who tells him that there's a lot more to Duncon's death then what his old lady , Beartha , told him . Sgt . Bannion is told by Lucy that Bertha's husband was suffering from an incurable disease and that's the reason he offed himself . Duncon , Lucy tells Bannion , was actually living high off the hog , on the salary of a policemen , and was just about to leave Bertha for her when he was found dead from a gunshot wound . Lucy herself is later found brutally murdered and it's after that incident that Sgt . Bannion goes all out to not only find her killer but almost without any thought to himself , as well as his wife Katie and eight year old daughter Joyce safety . Bannion crashes into Big Mob Boss Lagana's mansion and brazenly intimidated both him and his family and then lays out cold Lagana's bodyguard George . All that George tried to do was peacefully escort , the now what seemed like a totally crazed , Sgt . Bannion off the premises ! Action like this on Sgt . Bannion's part called for retribution and it came swift and deadly with his wife Katie getting blown to bits when she started up the family car . That lead to Bannion himself getting kicked off the force by being a complete lunatic in verbally assaulting his boss who was nothing but totally understanding to the grief that he was suffering , in Katie's tragic death . Bannion , now a private citizen , goes on a personal and vigilante-like crusade with no one , in either the police or mayors office , lifting as much as a finger to stop him in cleaning up the town of not only Lagana's mob but the police and politicians that it controlled . Tracking down his wife's killer ( Larry Gordon ) Bannion with the help of the secretary Miss . Parker , of the owner of Slims Junk Yard , finds where Larry had Bannion's car rigged with explosives that killed Katie . Gordon gets the hell beat out of him by Bannion who has him spill , besides a pint of blood , everything that he knows about the Lagana Mob with Bannion then letting the world out to Lanana and his boys that he talked . You can only guess what happened to Larry after that . Bannion later gets involved with Debby the air-headed girlfriend of Lagana's right-hand man the vicious and sadistic Vince Stone who , like he did with Lucy , Bannion leaves out in the cold by having her spend some time at his hotel room with a jealous Vince Stone . Stone later rearranging Debby's pretty face with a glass pot of scalding hot coffee . Bannion had by now figured out that the only reason that Bertha Duncon was still alive was because of the suicide letter , that's kept in a safety-deposit box , and goes to her place with the intent of killing her so that the letter , and it's contents , would be made public . The letter would sink not only Lagana but all the crooked city officials , including Police Commissioner Higgens , along with him . Stopping just short of ringing her neck Bannion is interrupted when the cops suddenly come to Bartha's rescue . Debby who now has her face in bandages is determined to make Vince pay for what he did to her is then told by Bannion how with Bertha's death it would be curtains for Mafia Boss Langana and even more satisfying , to Debby , his top stooge Vince Stone . Debby going to Bertha's place an hour after Bannion left and after a little chit-chat with Bartha , just blows her away and with that the only thing that's keeping both her former boyfriend Vince and his boss Langa from serving a long long stretch behind bars . Debby later goes to Vince's penthouse and surprises him with a face-full of hot coffee doing to him just what Vince did to her . Mad as a hornet the crazy and deranged psycho guns Debby down only to have Bannion barge in and work him over and leave Vince to face the bar of justice instead of , like Vince begged him to , finishing him off with a bullet between the eyes . Having single-handled cleaned out the city of the mob and the corrupt officials that it had control of Bannion is back at the homicide bureau taking calls and giving orders with a precinct-load of smiling and admiring policemen including the captain looking on . You would think that Bannion would at least get a promotion for the great job that he did but as the the film ends we see on the letter-head on his desk that Sgt . Bannion , despite everything that he did , is still a sergeant !
I've got more numbers then the phone company	SPOILERS Not one of the most popular of director Fritz Lang's works still the movie " The Blue Gardenia " does pack a wallop with it's out of the blue surprise ending and also has in it's cast , the only movie that they made together , both TV's Superman and Perry Mason : George Reeves and Raymond Burr . A smooth and cunning operator when it comes to the ladies commercial artist Harry Prebble , Raymond Burr , has both been two-timing his fiance Rose Miller , Ruth Storey , and playing the filed in trying to get wise cracking telephone operator Crystal Carpenter , Anne Sothern , into his bachelor pad , and later the sack , for an evening of fun and games . Harry finally gets Anne's phone number , second hand , and give her a call trying to make a date with her . What Harry doesn't know is that Anne shares her apartment with two other phone operators Norah Larkin , Anne Baxter , and Sally Ellis , Jeff Donnell . Calling Anne at her place Harry instead gets a very distraught , her boyfriend in he US Army had just sent her a dear Jane letter , Norah who , with Harry thinking that she's Anne , agrees to go out with him for the evening at the " Blue Gardenia " nightclub . Not caring whom he's with , Anne or Norah or any other attractive young woman , Harry get Norah smashed on about a half dozen , enough to get a non-drunken sailor tipsy , Polynesian Pearl Divers and takes the barley able to stand on her feet Nora back to his pad for some wild and heavy action . It turns out that Harry got a lot more then he expected with the smashed Norah fighting off his , the guy is as big as one , grizzly bear-like advances with Harry ending up dead with his head being smashed in with a fireplace poker . It's then that the film gets a bit confusing in that Norah , who doesn't remember a thing that happened , tries to cover up Harry's murder by unknowingly implicating herself in it . With a blue gardenia , given to Norah at the nightclub , found at the murder site it's dubbed by newspaper columnist Casey Mayo , Richard Conte , " The Blue Gardenia Murder Case " . Working both on his own and with the top cop on the case Captain Sam Haynes , George Reeves , Mayo tries to play both ends against the middle . Mayo publicly tries to get Harry's killer , Norah Larkin , to turn herself into him , and get her exclusive story , and at the same time has Capt . Haynes , just by reading Mayo's columns , get the drop on Norah by having spies planted wherever Mayo goes knowing that he'll eventually run into her . As you would expect the not too on the ball Mayo does get Norah to bite at his carrot and stick act , by providing her with the best defense lawyer that his newspaper can buy , who meets him in this bar where , without Mayo's knowledge , Capt . Haynes and his task force are waiting for her . The ending is a real blow-out that will have you rewinding your VCR or DVD player to find out what really happened to the late Harry Prebble during the time that Norah was , by being almost dead drunk , completely out of it . Also in the cast beside the real life Mrs . Richard Conte , Ruth Storey , there's actor Robert Shayne as the police doctor or pathologist . Shayne later , in fact that very same year 1953 , not only was to star in that unforgettable Ed Wood-like bad movie classic " The Neanderthal Man " but was also in the cast of the very popular TV show " The Adventures of Superman " , with George Reeves playing " The Man of Steele " , as police inspector Bill Henderson . And last but not least there's also in the movie Nat " King " Cole playing himself as the " Blue Gardenia's " pianist singing the films title song that just happens to be , not all that surprisingly , " Blue Gardenia " .
Pay or Die	SPOILERS Not to be confused with the ultra-nationalistic and deadly Serbian Black Hand of the same period , the early 1900's , the " Mano Nera " , or " Black Hand " in Italian . The hoods operated in the heavily Italian immigrant neighborhoods in New York City were made up from of gang of ruthless thugs from the old country who used intimidation kidnapping and murder to extort the local population by paying them protection money . Roberto Columbo , Peter Brocco , had just about had it from the shake-downs he was subjected to and goes , secretly , to see a local police official to give evidence against the Black Hand . Unknown to Roberto the police , or who he thought are the police , are in together with the Black Hand and instead of being protected by them he ends up dead with a stiletto in his back . Eight years later Roberto's son Johnny , Gene Kelly , now 22 is back from Italy , after he and his mother fled for their lives to escape the Black Hand , seeking revenge for his fathers murder . Early organized crime Hollywood movie that actually uses the word " Mafia " in it long before it became commonplace in the American public's vocabulary . In fact the far more famous and highly acclaimed Academy Award winning movie " The Godfather " , which was released some 22 years later in 1972 , doesn't mention the word even once . Falling in love with his childhood sweetheart Isbellla Gomboli , Teresa Celli , Johnny realizes that he'll put her and her young eight year old brother Rudi , Jimmy Ragano , lives in jeopardy by trying to use violence against the shake-down artists and kidnappers of the Black Hand . With the help of an old family friend police inspector Louis Lorelli , J . Carrol Naish , Johnny opts to use the criminal Justice system to put the thugs behind bars . Getting nowhere with no one willing to testify against them and even getting worked over by the Black Hand for trying to put them out of business , and behind bars , Johnny comes up with a legal technicality that's air tight . An active criminal record , or rap sheet , of the gang members dating back to their native Italy . The Italian rap sheet would have the hoods deported back home as undesirable aliens by lying about their past convictions ! It would b enough to put the Black Hand members , who all have Italian criminal records , on a boat back to Italy and a long stretch in an Italian prison . Taking a long vacation from the New York Police Department Inspector Lorelli goes to Italy to amass information on the New York based Black Hand members and mail it back , to a secret post office box , to Johhny who's now a lawyer for the NYC Justice Department but he's murdered by local mobsters . Before he was killed Lorelli did put the important envelope in a mailbox . It's now up to Johnny to get the information that the late Inspector Lorelli sent him to the courts but the Black Hand struck first by kidnapping Isbella's young brother Rudi and holding him hostage until Johnny reveals where the post office box is and gives them the key to open it . Johnny now has to choose between Rudi's life and the end of the dreaded Black Hand who murdered his father . Slam bang final with Johnny Columbo blasting his way out of the Black Hand hideout , that he was held prisoner in , and then having it out with the Black Hand's Mr . Big himself Caesar Xavier Serpi , Marc Lawrence , as he tries to keep Serpi from destroying Inspt . Lorelli's Italian police criminal records on him and his fellow hoods . " Black Hand " is much better then most crime movies made at that time that has to do with criminal organizations like the Mafia by not having the usual formalized Hollywood plot-line . The film doesn't have everything and everyone in it being either all good or all bad but a little , or a lot , bit of both .
Midnight Knew	Spoilers Set in the picturesque little town of White Cliffs Maine the movie " Buried Secrets " is about a family tragedy that's kept buried by the surviving father Clay Roff , Tim Matherson , of what happened to his wife Ann , Shelly Cook , and his sixteen year-old daughter Mary , Erika Flores , until it erupts in an emotional explosion at the end of the film . Being too much for him to take Clay Roff leaves the house that he and his family lived in after he re-married his wife's doctor Denielle , Kelly Rutherford . Renting the house out to Laura Vellum , Melinda Culea , who together with her teenage daughter Annalisse , Tiffani Thiessen , moved into during the summer . As soon as she was in the Roff House Annalisse began to feel uneasy and spooked out by what she perceived was happening there . Seeing and hearing this young girl and then at night having dreams of a woman falling to her death off a cliff made her feel that something strange and deadly happened there . The voices become more and more pronounced and the girl becomes visible to only Annalisse as she begins to take over her mind and body in an effort to bring closure to what happened there before Annalisse and her mom moved in . The girl who's haunting the house reveals herself to Annalisse to be the missing daughter of Clay Roff , Mary , who in fact it turns out died when she took an overdose of sleeping pills and then collapsed and cracked her skull in the water filled bathtub . Mary's father kept this hidden all these years telling the local police that Mary ran away from home . Mary getting very close with Annalisse about her life in White Cliffs guides her to her former boyfriend Johnny , Channon Roe , who works in the towns car repair shop . Bit by bit the secret of both Mary and her moms death comes to the surface and it turns out that , besides Mary being dead , her mom was murdered . Better then average ghost story with the ghost , Mary Roff , not at all that mysterious as you would have expected her to be as you begin to notice that she's almost as much made of flesh and blood as those alive in the movie . Mary appears as if she were a live person instead of being a far-away and invisible entity only seen by Annalisse . The film " Buried Secrets " is also a pretty good murder / mystery with the killer of Ann Roff successfully keeping himself , or herself , hidden from view and from the police until the very end of the movie . It took Mary's strikingly handsome pet black stallion " Midnight " , who instinctively knew with his horse sense who the killer was , to track down Ann's murderer and exact final justice . At he end of the film there's a very touching scene where Annalisse / Mary is reunited with Johnny as he finally realized that she came back from beyond to be with him for the rest of her , Annalisse's , and his life . The theme of the movie should be : " Love Conqures All " , even death , in the end .
I didn't fall in love with a woman I fell in love with a patient	SPOILERS With his 15 hour tour at the San Francisco Hospital just ended Doctor Jeff Cameron , Robert Mitchum , was on his way home to get some very needed rest when he was summoned back to the emergency room to treat this unidentified young woman who was recovering from a suicide attempt . It turns out later in the movie that the young woman , who gives Dr . Cameron the name Margo , Faith Domergu , is actually related to and living with multi-millionaire Fedrick Lannigton , Cladue Rains , in his spacious estate outside the city . Getting a telegram at the hospital to meet this mysterious Margo Dr . Cameron falls head over heels from the beautiful and alluring brunette and even goes so far as taking her out at a swanky restaurant that evening . Dr . Cameron does't realize that she's setting him up for the kill or for him to murdered her , as she calls him , abusive father Fredrick . Jeff At first thinking that Fredrick is actually Margo's father , like she told him , a love-sick Cameron is about to ask for his " daughters " hand in marriage . It's when he's told by a , what looks like , very amused Mr . Lannigton about Margo's relationship to him , she's actually his wife , he completely loses interest . That's when the sparks start to fly with Cameron ending up with a fractured skull and Mr . Frederick dead after Margo started to scream , when Jeff left the estate , making him think that Fredrick was beating her . Recovering from his head injury that he received from a fireplace poker being smashed over his skull , by the late Mr . Lannigton , a very confused Dr . Cameron is persuaded by a hysterical Margo to check out of the country in order to avoid being arrested by the police for her husbands ' murder . Cameron who had checked Frederck just moments before after he knocked him out , in self defense , against the fireplace and found him to be unconscious but very much alive ! He's now shocked that he all of a sudden decide to check out , by dying , altogether . Jeff doesn't realize that Margo , who's the person who really murdered her husband , is using him to get her out of the country and into Mexico . It's there where she has a secret bank account that's untraceable to her as Mrs . Lannigton , by under her maiden name , that can put her on easy street for the rest of her life . Robert Mitchums best film-noir movie since " Out of the Past " back in 1947 has playing Mitchum against type as the law abiding and conscientious Dr . Jeff Cameron instead of some anti-hero type who feels that the world and cards of life are stacked against him . Margo herself is not only a cold-blooded murderess but is also suffering from a severe case of paranoid schizophrenia and has become so unstable that even Cameron with his head broken and slowly losing his ability , with him on the brink of suffering a fatal cerebral hemorrhage , to think correctly notices it . Cameron is just too weak and hurt to do anything to help both himself as well as Margo by not only having her apprehended by the police but getting her treated for her mental illness . It's obvious from Margo's actions that she'll eventually end up , if taken alive , in a mental hospital not a state penitentiary . Powerful ending with Cameron falling victim to Margo's insanity as he refuses to go along with her across the border into Mexico . Cameron Knows that she'll only leave him there to either rot or be arrested , by being expedited back to the USA , for a murder that he didn't commit ; that Margo , who did murder Frederick by suffocating him , set him up for .
I never could stand the stink of a crooked cop !	SOME SPOILERS Being on the scene of a murder by giving the escaped killer " Wrinkels " Fallon , Peter Brcco , a parking ticket policeman Eddie Kelvaney , Steve Forrest , has him picked out of a lineup and put in jail to be tried at a later date , What Eddie doesn't know is that " Wrinkles " got the goods on big time mobsters Beumonte and Ackerman , George Raft & Robert F . Simon , whom he's been blackmailing for over 10 years . The two hoods are now literally scared to death with what Wrinkles ' got on them that he'll make a deal with the D . A for a lighter sentence to turn states evidence on them . Beaument and Ackerman do have an ace up their sleeve in having Eddie recant his testimony and that's non-other then his big brother Det . Chis Kelvaney , Robert Taylor , who's been taking payoff from them for years . Chris Kelvaney is giving the task to keep his kid brother's mouth shut with a $15 , 000 . 00 payoff himself for doing it . It just turns out that Eddie is an incorruptible good and honest cop like his and Chris late and highly decorated father and in trying to do the right thing . The right thing ends up landing him right on a cold slab in the city morgue . Robert Taylor playing a corrupt cop is at his handsome and devilish best as Det . Kalvaney as he goes through a change of life realizing what a creep he was all these years and a disgrace to not only the police department but to brother Eddie and late hero cop dad . Kalvaney dealing with crumbs like Beaumonte & Ackerman in the end redeems himself by getting blasted and left bleeding to death in a violent shootout with them . Trying to get Eddie's girl Karen , Janet Leigh , to talk him out of testifying against Wrinkle's Det . Kelvaney blackmails her . Threatening to exposed Karen of not only being , well let's just say , both used and damaged merchandise but also being notorious Miami gangster Farnkie Nemo's # 1 moll . Karen at first outraged at Eddie's big brothers disgusting and underhanded tactics finally goes along with him only if it would save Eddie's life . Det . Kelvaney given by his bosses , Beaumonte & Ackerman , 48 hours to turn Eddie around is instead double cross . The two hoods have Eddie gunned down that evening in full sight of his terrified girl Karen even before she has a chance to get Eddie to change his mind in testifying . It's during these stressful and heart wrenching times that Det . Kelvaney finally sees what a disgrace he was to both his brother dad and finally to himself and has a complete break with his sleazy past . The rogue cop goes full out , even if it cost him his life , to get Beaumonte & Ackerman not only to clear his guilty conscience but also bring his brothers killers to justice . Also in the movie is a pre-Ben Casey Vince Edwards playing hit-man Joey Langly who's brought in from out of town to knock off Eddie . Langly later gets the living hell beaten out of him by Det . Kelvany and never gets to see the inside of a prison cell . With him being gunned down himself in a shootout between Kelvany , and unlike himself , straight laced and honest cop Det Myers , Robert Ellenstein , and gangsters Beaomonte & Ackerman . There's also a very young Anne Francis as Beaumonte's live-in moll Nancy whom he keep drunk all the time , to keep her mind off his business . Later after she got on Beaumonte's nerves by pouring a bucket of ice cubes over his head after an outraged , Det . Kelvaney worked him over and broke it , which has her being kicked out of his penthouse and into , as an act of unholy revenge , one of Beaumonte's sleazy illegal business establishments Fonzo's whorehouse . That lead Nancy to reveal , to Det . Kelvaney , just what exactly Wrinkles got on him and his partner Ackerman that the two hoodlums would go as far as murdering a policeman to keep from seeing the light of day .
Let me call you Sweetheart	SPOILERS Highly charge police drama about a serial killer loose in and around the small town of Riverside Wisconsin . Who's being tracked down by the local police using policewoman Gina Pulasky , Helen Hunt , as an undercover decoy to catch him . Nothing new in this made for TV movie that you haven't seen before but the depth of the acting and screenplay is unusually good and brings out a lot about not only the killer but the policewoman's , as well as her fellow policeman lover , state of mind . Having been put under psychiatric care after shooting an armed and unstable assailant , who attacked her partner with a rifle . Officer Palusky is given the task to go undercover to get close to murder suspect Kayle Timler , Steven Webber . After he was positively identified by the little girl Sahsa , Kim Kluznick , who saw him not far from where little Timmy Curtis was found stabbed , 18 times , to death the next day . Getting a job at the Mr . " C " Diner where Tim works Gina gets to become very friendly with him and later tells him , in order to get Tim to open up , about him possibly being the serial murderer that she once killed in a hit-and-run accident a 79 year old woman . Tim who is said to have a genius IQ doesn't seem to pick up on Gina's attempt to trap him even when he later sees her at a bowling alley with her fellow cops spending a night out . Playing some weird cat and mouse game with her Tim at one point get's Gina , at knife point , to admit that she's wired . But Gina tells him that she was forced to do it by the police to get a break and an early release from prison . Besides Tim's instability and criminal actions we find out that Gina isn't all there as well . She seems to be suffering from her being rejected by her father who left her , with a drunk and abusing mother , as a young girl that's effecting her work as an undercover policewoman . There's also the fact that Gina's lover policeman Will McCaid ( Jeff Fahey ) , who's estranged from his wife and two kids , who's also on the serial murder case is too overprotective of her . That causes Gina to almost blow her cover and that has her later being taken off her assignment . Put back on undercover duty by her boss Capt . Cheney ( Dan Conway ) , over the objections of Officer McCaid , after another young boy , 12 year-old Davy Marish , was found murdered Gina finally get's herself together and gets Tim to admit that he's the person who's responsible for the string of murders in the area . Gina does it by having a hidden tape recorder that she replaced the one that she gave to him to show how honest she is , hidden on her . The movie " In the Company of Darkness " wasn't really that exceptional but the acting by Helen Hunt Jeff Fahey and especially Steven Webber was . It was these high caliber performances that lifted the film well above the average made for TV movie were used to seeing .
A city , and the people in it , in transition	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " Atlantic City " is as much about the seaside resort town as it is about the people in it . A once picturesque city with Hollywood-like gangsters big time gamblers , when gambling was illegal , and elegant hotels is now , in 1979 , being demolished in order to built a string of flashy casinos and high-rise , mostly hotels , buildings making it look like Disneyland on the Atlantic . One of the old timers who still lives in the city and had seen it's better days is petty hoodlum and once cell-mate , or so he claims , of the notorious Busy Seagel the well dressed tall and impressive looking Lou Pascal , Burt Lancaster . Lou supplements his income of running numbers for local mobster Fred , John McCurry , by being a nursemaid and occasional lover to his shut-in neighbor Grace Pinza , Kate Reid , a former contestant in an Atlantic City Betty Grable look-like contest . Having really nothing to look forward to but being evicted because his apartment building is to soon be knocked down , and replaced with a brand new 40 stories high hotel / casino , Lou spends his free time gazing out of his window and seeing his next door neighbor Sally Matthews , Susan Sarandon , unknowingly do a strip tease act for him by dousing herself with lemon juice and perfume ; thats to get out the fishy smell she has from working as a waitress at a casino seafood and oyster bar restaurant . It's later when Sally's estranged husband and pregnant sister Dave & Chrissie , Robert Joy & Hollis McLaren , show up that things become almost unbearable for her and at the same time gives her secret admirer and next-door neighbor Lou the chance he waited for to make a play for Sally but at a very frightful and deadly price . David had heisted a kilo of coke in a Philadelphia telephone booth that was a drop for the local mob and now is trying to find someone in Atlantic City to sell it to . What David doesn't realize is that the word is out all over town that anyone , with no mob connection or references , trying to get that amount of coke on the streets is dead meat courtesy of the Philidelphia Crime Syndicate . Sally reluctantly letting her ex , David , and sister say at her apartment has David roaming the streets in order to find a dealer who can take the stolen coke off his hand for a hefty price and ends up in Fred's place a bar off the boardwalk . Unknown to David Fred is in cahoots with the crime syndicate and secretly has him set up to be hit by mobsters Felix & Vinnie , Moses Znaimer & Angus MacLnnes , who the kilo of coke that he stole back in Philadelphia belongs to . Having met Lou , who helped him out , at Fred's bar David get's the old guy to deliver the coke to Atlantic City mobster Alfie , Al Waxman , who Fred told him to contact . David thinks that Lou , in being such a good friend of local mobster Fred , is a big man with the mob he won't have any trouble doing business , unlike himself a total unknown , with it . Being told by David that he'll pay him $100 . 00 to deliver the goods or drugs to Alfie Lou desperately needing the money does just that and get's a cool $4 , 000 . 00 from a grateful Alfie for his effort . It turns out that as David is waiting to get his money from the drug sale he's spotted and attacked by Vinnie and Filex who end up plunging a knife in his chest killing him . Stuck with the $4 , 000 . 00 and the almost kilo of coke Lou is now the odd man out in this drug deal being the only person who has no connection with David and thus home free to sell the rest of the dope unhindered by the mob , who have no idea that he has it . Lou instead tries to do the right thing and use the money to help David's sister Sally who's now suspected by the Phillie mobsters to be in possession of their coke stash . Touching and sensitive drama with a May to December romance between Lou and Sally who at first gets involved in her brothers criminal activities and later the two have to count on each other to have them escape mob vengeance and retribution . Thinking that Sally has somehow hidden the stolen , by the late David , coke Vinnie and Felix ransack her apartment and finding nothing there they grab her , as she's walking on the boardwalk with Lou , and almost beat her unconscious . Lou unable to help Sally , he was knocked on his back by the two half his age hoods , starts to feel less then a man for not at least trying to come to Sally's rescue . It's that incident on the boardwalk that gets Lou into a deep depression since he was always trying to impress everyone he talked to who didn't know the truth about him , being a petty hood and gofer for the mob , in what a big shot he was back then in the good old days . Lou being unable to prevent or protect Sally from the two hoods made him feel like a coward and it was later , with him drowning his troubles with a bottle of booze , that he got a second chance to redeem himself and this time , unlike the first , Lou came through and to the rescue with flying colors . Heartwarming movie with an upbeat ending despite it's depressing subject matter , murder drug dealing betrayal and justifiable homicide , " Atlantic City " makes no pretenses about how the real world , in this case the city itself , is and how tough it is for someone to survive it like both Lou and Sally . It's sad , even though very necessary , that it took the both primitive and brutal law of the jungle for them to do it .
Your not going to bring those men back , your just gonna smash a few more lives !	SPOILERS Having found out in the local newspapers that Frank Enley , Van Haflin , is going to speak at the Memorial Day ceremony at Santa Lisa Calif . disable war vet Joe Parkson , Robert Ryan , takes off on a Grayhound bus from NYC to see him . Joe and his fellow airman Frank had been in a German POW camp in the last months of WWII and you at first would have thought that he went to see him to talk over old times in the USAAF but that was the farthest thing from Joe's mind . Joe wanted to kill Frank for informing on his fellow POW's that resulted in ten of them being gunned down in an escape attempt by the Germans camp guards with Joe ending up a cripple . Unstable war vet Joe Parkson feels that he has nothing to lose , since he felt that he lost everything in the war , as he goes on a mission of death to avenge the deaths of his fellow captured US airmen . Joe cases out the Enley home even knocking on the front door and finding that the object of his revenge , Frank , has gone away for the weekend fishing at Redwood Lake from his unsuspecting wife Edith , Janet Leigh . Renting a car and going to Redwood Lake to confront and murder Frank Joe leaves enough of a paper trail , by giving his whereabouts away , to have Frank realize that he's in Santa Lisa and out to kill him . Edith who at first is shocked at what her husband told her about his actions in the prison camp but realizes that Frank's actions , as despicable as they seemed to be , were done to prevent the airmen from ending up getting mowed down by the Germans since the escape attempt was nothing more then a suicide mission . Frank , being the senior officer and in charge of the POW's , went to the German commandant and told him what was about to transpire who promised that they , the Germens , won't shoot the escapees but capture and return them back to the prison camp , the exact opposite happened . The escaped prisoners were gunned down by the Germans who then had a number of German guard dog set on them finishing off those who survived with only the badly injured Joe Packston escaping . You would think at first that all Frank had to do was call the police who would have easily arrested Joe who wasn't doing anything to hide his intentions of murdering Frank . You soon realized that Frank held himself as guilty as Joe did by his not only turning his fellow US airmen in but also , and this really hit home with Frank , receiving and accepting food from his German captures for doing it . Afride for his wife Edith and young son Frank checks out of Santa Lisa to L . A at a contractor convention to draw Joe away from his family but the guilt that had been building up inside of him , about his actions in the prison camp , was slowly getting the best of Frank . Spotting Joe looking for him at the convention hall Frank cold-cocks him and takes off into the night ending up in a ginmill where he's approached by local barfly Pat , Mary Astor , who senses that he needs help , of the underhanded kind . Getting in touch with a couple of local shady characters that Pat knows she get the confused and befuddled Frank to agree to have Joe whacked for $20 , 000 . 00 . Told that hit-man Johnny , Barry Kroeger , has set up Joe for the kill and is going to Santa Lisa to do a job on him has Frank make a complete turnaround . Frank's now determined not to stop Joe from murdering him but Barry from murdering Joe and having that on his conscience together with the ten men who were killed by the Germans at the prison camp . Meanwhile Joe's girlfriend from back east Ann , Phyllis Thaxter , had arrived to also stop her boyfriend from killing Frank and ending up either behind bars , or in a mental institution , for the rest of his life and gets in touch with Edith to get her to have her husband Frank slip out of town to prevent Joe from killing him . Frank by now had already made up his mind and is no longer afraid of being killed , feels that his actions in the German POW camp justified Joe's feelings for him . What he now want's is for Joe not to be killed by Barry and goes out to the Santa Lisa train station where Barry had set Joe up for the hit and prevent it from happening even if by doing that it would cost him his life . Even though a bit contrived with a very predictable ending that you saw coming from ten miles away the movie still held your interests due to the fine acting of both Van Hefin and Robert Ryan who made you overlook most , if not all , of the movies faults . With the two top stars , as well as the supporting cast , overcoming the very uneven storyline and script that they had to work with .
A pact with the Devil	SPOILERS Looking completely serene without a care in the world Andrew Telfer , Willy Holt , after finishing a number of letters and sealing them in their envelopes calmly steps on top of a footstool and puts a rope , fastened to a chandelier , around his neck taking one last step beyond by kicking it away and hanging himself . This horrific and insane act on Telfer's part leaves the audience wondering what exactly was the reason to make him do this self-destructive act . You get the answer soon enough when New York rare book dealer the anything for a quick buck Dean Corso , Johnny Depp , comes on the scene within minutes after Telfers demise . For some strange and unexplained reason Telfer had sold this rare book about Satanism to rare book collector Boris Balkan , Frank Langella , who's a closet Satanist himself . Getting in touch with Corso Balkan Balkan tells the greedy and unethical book dealer that he wants him to track down the other two remaining copies of " The Ninth Gate to the Kingdom of the Shadows " , the book that Telfer sold him before his suicide . Balkan wants to find out if the copy that he has is the only one of the three that's authentic . Things starts to go downhill for Corso almost as soon as he agrees to work for Balkan when his friend rear book store owner Bernie , James Russo , whom he gave Balkan's book for safe-keeping ends up murdered . Feeling a bit strange in what he's involved with Corso also ends up getting attacked by Mrs . Telfer Liana , Lena Olin , who want's her dead husbands book back and almost ends up scratching his eyes out after trying to make like she want's to have an affair with him . Going to both Portugal & France where the two other " Devil " books are located Corso is confronted with a double murder of the two people Victor Fargas & Baroness Kessler , Jack Taylor & Barbara Jefford , who own those two ungodly manuals of the Black Arts with them being burned beyond repair . This leaves only Balkan's book being the only one of the three left and obviously the one that's the real McCoy not a cheap and powerless imitation . It turns out that Lena has been following Corso all through his travels in Europe and the first chance that she gets in finding Corso not having the book with him has it lifted from right under his nose out of his hotel fridge where it hid it . Corso soon realize that the book is what's needed to conjure up the Devil himself by this Satanic cult that Lena heads and in return have him , the Devil , gives them all his powers that are far beyond the imagination of the human mind . Corso and a mysterious girl , Emanuelle Seigner , that he met back in New York , who like Lena followed him back to Europe track down Lena & friends in this French mansion outside Paris . It's there where their having a Satanic powwow to bring their master , from hell , back here on earth . It turns out that all the chanting and praying on the part of Lena & Co , through the power of the book for Satan to come back to life , from the world of the dead , and reveal himself is all for nothing . As all this is going on Balkan crashes the party and after strangling Lena chases the Satanists who did nothing at all to stop him from murdering their leader out of the place . Balkan then takes off with the book to secretly use it himself , in an abandoned monastery , in order to give himself the evil powers that Lena couldn't give them or herself . Gut spilling ending that has a totally crazed and happily insane Balkan put , or so he thought , the puzzle of the book " The Ninth Gate of the Kingdom of the Shadows " into place . Balkan by fitting together the books nine mysterious illustrations and then by chanting out a secret Satanic prayer he feels that he'll become as powerful as Satan himself . It just couldn't have happen to a nicer guy then Balkan , who by now seemed to have completely lost his mind , as he tempted both the fates and laws of nature in trying to prove his invincibility only to show to himself , and the startled movie audience , what a first class jackass he is . Balkan in dousing himself with a can of gasoline and then setting himself on fire to show himself and Corso , who tracked him down in the monastery , just how invincible he really is . Instead Balkan end up as one of the Devils many slaves who were insane enough to think that he'll reward them with eternal life by foolishly doing his bidding . As for Dean Corso he just about had enough of the rare book business , after what he went through in the movie , and decided to do his best to forget the whole thing by getting away from it all and and going legit in opening up a bed & breakfast in out of the way Key West Florida .
There's more Evil here then I've ever encountered before !	( SOME SPOILERS ) Back in the 17th century England there was this decadent and evil man who loved to humiliate torture and even murder his servants and those of the lower classes , who couldn't fight back , named Sir . Hugo Baskerville . One evening at an all night orgy at Baskerville Hall Hugo went up to the room where his young maid was staying and in a fit of anger found her gone . Getting his fox hunting hounds together Hugo rode out into the moors to track down the maid and teach her some manners in her unpardonable act of disobeying her grand and noble master Sir . Hugo Baskerville . Chasing the girl into the ruins of a deserted abbey on the moor a terrifying howl rang out in the night . The pack of dogs with Hugo suddenly stopped in their tracks , and turned back in horror , but Hugo continued on after the maid which turned out to be the last thing he ever did . He was attacked by the mysterious hound and found dead the next morning , ripped to pieces , in the moor around the abbey . Some 150 years later the curse of the Hound of the Baskerville resurfaced as one of the two last remaining Baskerville's Sir . Charles was found in the same place where his descendant Hugo was killed dead from heart failure . Sir Charles had seen something so horrific that his heart suddenly stopped . With now only Sir . Henry Baskerville left to carry on the Baskerville name it was now up to the legendary English detective Sherlock Holmes to prevent him from ending up like the previous Baskerville ; victims of the hound from hell " The Hound of the Baskerville " . Entertaining and suspenseful mystery with a lot of surprises along the way until you find out what exactly is behind the curse of the Baskerville family . Sherlock Holmes gets suspicious almost at once when Sir . Henry is almost killed by a tarantula spider , that was hidden in his boot . Holmes deducted that there's someone in and around Baskerville hall who want's Sir . Henry , like his uncle Sir . Charles , dead and for good reason . He's to inherited the Baskerville fortune and the massive Baskerville hall and all the land around it , but who exactly is he , or she ? Holmes has to go back some 150 years to find out that Hugo's carousing and decadence lead to a rape of one of his servants that resulted in the birth of a child that was in line to inherit Baskerville Hall only if all the other Baskerville's were done away with . That nightmare , for Sir . Henry Baskerville , was about to come tragically and prophetically true . It takes a while for Holmes to find out just whom that person is . It's with an important piece of evidence being a missing painting of Hugo that reveals a defect , of his body not his mind , that would give the killer away . It was the killer who purposely stole it to keep anyone , like Sherlock Holmes , from finding that startling fact out .
He's Cut The Cord ! He Can't Come Back !	SPOILERS Made on a shoe-string budget " Countdown " is by far the movie with the best depiction of a flight to the Lunar surface then any of the previous " Flight to the Moon " films going as far back as the early 1900's . The movie went from science fiction to science fact in just under two years after it's release in early 1968 with the historic three manned Apollo 11 Moon landing on July 20 , 1969 . Trying to become the first nation to put a man on the Moon the US has NASA set a mission to the Lunar surface to beat the USSR . It's supposed to be done with the astronaut sated for that historic mission to be a civilian . Air Force fighter pilot Chiz Stewart , Robert Duvall , who was hoping to be chosen for the Moon Mission is terribly upset by being eliminated because of his military background . Stewart become very hostile towards his friend Lee Stegler , James Caan , a civilian worker for NASA for getting picked for the flight christened , or designated by NASA , Pilgrim One . Taking out his frustrations on Lee Chiz , who's in charge of training for the Moon Mission , does everything he can to have him wash out of the program . Not just because of sour grapes but because Chiz like Lee's wife Mckey , Joanna Cook Moore , feel that he's doesn't have the experience as an astronaut to handle this very dangerous assignment . On top of that Lee , being the egomaniac that he is , will end up getting himself killed on the mission because of his obsession the be the first man on the moon even if it kills him . Just days before Lee is to blast off there's news from the Soviet Union that the Russians sent a three man crew into obit and that it would land on the Moon before the USA planned Moon shot . That still doesn't have Pilgrim One suspended with those at NASA feeling that the news may very well be a rumor . To keep them form launching the Moon Mission , by the sneaky and conniving Soviets . Sent into space the next morning from Cape Kennedy in Florida Pilgrim One has major problems as it goes into the Moons trajectory because of a power loss during the take-off . With Chiz , at the controls at the NASA Space Center in Huston , walking Lee through the dangerous complexities of the space mission he makes it to within 200 miles from the surface of the Moon . On the Moon NASA had two weeks earlier landed and unmanned space shelter with a rotating red beacon that Lee is to first identify and then to land , as close as possible , next to it . At the shelter there's enough air water and food to last two months . It's then when NASA would send an Apollo manned space capsule to pick up Lee and bring him back safely home to earth . It turned out that Chiz and Mickey's worse fears were realized with Lee not wanting to have the mission aborted and sent back to earth , without being the first man on the Moon , taking his chances in landing Pilgrim One despite not really knowing if it was withing site of the NASA shelter . Which , with only two hours of air in his space suit , was almost curtain death for him . Walking through the unknown wilderness that's the Lunar surface Lee discovers that the USSR indeed landed a manned space mission on the Moon before the USA . Lee also finds out that the three man crew were killed as it crashed , instead of landed , on impact . With the air in his space suit almost exhausted Lee looking at his watch , which told him that he had only seven minutes of oxygen left , notices a bilking red flash reflecting off the glass back at him ! Looking straight ahead Lee sees the NASA space shelter , which was Lee's only chance of surviving , with it's red rotating identification lamp guiding him straight to it .
The Company She Keeps	SPOiLERS Locked in her room and asleep Rosaleen , Sarah Patterson , has a sting of dreams about " Old Wolves Tales " that culminate at the end of the movie " The Company of Wolves " in the Brothers Grimm story of " Little Red Riding Hood " . Roaleen's sequence of dreams start with her older sister Alice , Georgia Slowe , becoming trapped in the woods and attacked and killed by a wolf pack . After ALice's funeral Rosaleen goes with her Granny , Angela Lansbury , home and is told a number of wolf stories by her that shapes her mind about the evil and cunning of those wild and deadly creatures of the forest . Granny tells Rosaleen of how wolves can turn into human beings and trick young girls like herself to fall in love with them and breed new generations of wolf-men . Humans who can go from being wolves to being human and not be recognized and end up being killed by the townspeople . Told to watch out for these wolf-men by being able to spot them , their eyebrows meet , Rosaleen develops a sense of ease when in the company of wolves or persons who are wolves in human disguise . This may be the reason she was not terrified of the wolf man who eventually killed and ate granny at the end of the movie . In the dream that Rosaleen had it become evident that she herself was , or became , a wolf . The final sequence has her and a pack of wolves storm out of the woods and out of her dream as her unconscious fantasy becomes a shocking and awakened reality at the conclusion of the movie . Eerie and surrealistic film that has some of the best wolf transformation , as well as real wolves pack , sequences ever put on film . " Company of Wolves " has all the fears and horrors , many that have been proved over the years to be totally unfounded , that man has associated with those wild and mysterious animals . It's theses horror stories that lead to the extinction of the wolf in most of the places where man and wolf lived together for centuries .
How can I confess to a lie !	SPOILERS Hard hitting war drama with future President of the United States Ronald Reagan as US Army Captain Webb Sloane going undercover-as as an American POW-to get the goods on the Reds in how they brutally and inhumanly threat , against the rules of warfare , their prisoners of war in that hell that was the Korean War . In order to throw off suspicion on himself Sloane becomes a Commie stooge , or collaborator , that makes his fellow GI's in the POW camp hate his very guts . Hard as he tries to be a Commie rat-fink Sloane can't help showing his true colors-Red White & Blue-instead of the ones-deep Commie Red-he masks himself with . That fact soon comes to light in Sloane coming to aid of his fellow American POW's when the chips are down . This has Sloane saving one of of the POW's lives when he came down with a near-fatal attack of appendicitis ! In another heroic effort Sloane prevented another GI Cpl . Joe Stanton , Steve Forrest-who killed the camps brutal commissar Russian Col . Biroshilov played by Oskar Homolka-from being shot by hiding the evidence of what he did . This was after Cpl . Stanton killed Col . Biroshilov for having his cute little pet dog Eloise beaten to death , in order to make Stanton cooperate , in front of his very eyes ! SPOILER ALERTIn the end Sloane did get the evidence of what a bunch of vicious and sadistic swines the Commies were but to his surprises he wasn't sent to the Soviet Union as he planned , so he can be a mole inside the Kremlin for the US . Sloane instead was shipped , after being released from prison , straight back home in the good old USA . That dubious honor , of being sent to the USSR , went to fellow US Commie collaborator and undercover agent Pvt . ? ? ? ? who had less to lose in being that he's single and with no living family members back in the states , like Sloane has , for him to worry about . The movie shows how the rotten Commies used captured GI's , through both threats and persuasion , to confess to war crimes that they didn't commit in order to turn the free world against the USA back then in the early 1950's . It took brave and patriotic Americans like Webb Sloane , by risking their very lives , to set the record straight in who , the USA / UN forces or Red Chinese / North Korean Communists , were really committing major war crimes in the Korean War . But sadly enough , like in the movie , many many patriotic American soldiers broke under the unrelenting pressure , of Commie brainwashing or just plain old intimidation , and ended up helping the Commie cause if just only in being used for propagandist purposes . These brave but later broken US fighting men who were in many cases driven insane by the Commies around the clock brainwashing tactics have to live with what they did , in helping Americas sworn enemies , for the rest of their lives .
Leave Hope Behind Who Enters Here	SPOILERS A bit inaccurate version of the life of Dr . Samuel Mudd in regards to his knowledge of President Abraham Lincoln's assassin John Wilks Booth . It's been brought out that Dr . Mudd did know Booth before he treated his injured leg after he escaped from the Union troops , during the confusion at the Ford Theater . After he shot and killed Pres . Lincoln on the evening of April 14 , 1865 . Booth did know and met with Dr . Mudd three different times during social occasions on Nov . 13 Dec . 18 & 23 of 1864 so it wasn't , like the movie made it out to be , that Dr . Mudd met Booth only after he's escape from the Union Army after shooting Pres . Lincoln . Besides that inaccuracy the rest of the film " The Prisoner of Shark Island " honestly tells the story of the tragic saga behind Dr . Mudd's incarceration in the yellow fever and mosquito infested island prison Fort Jefferson or as it's also known as the notorious Shark Island . Taking in an injured John Wilks Booth and his fellow conspirators David Herold Dr . Mudd treats his broken leg and before you know it the two take off and travel south towards Virgina . Booth's Gunned down a few days later and anyone who had anything to do with him was quickly arrested and sentenced to be hung by a military court with the exception of Dr . Mudd . Dr . Mudd given a life sentence at the infamous Fort Jefferson of the Florida Keys where he's treated worse then the worst criminals on the island for his involvement in the Lincoln assassination which he had nothing to do with . Being a man of medicine Dr . Mudd felt it was his duty as a doctor to treat Booth even though at the time he had no knowledge of his murder of the president . At Shark Island Mudd is treated as an outcast even among his fellow prisoners and after an aborted escape attempt Mudd is thrown into solitary confinement , or the hole , that almost cause him to lose his mind and go insane . After two years at Shark Island the prison population , as well as the military personnel guarding and controlling them , is hit by a plague of Yellow fever that cause the island to be quarantined . Both the inmates and guards are struck down by the hundreds and with no medical man wanting to go on the island to help it's left up to prison inmate Dr . Samuel Mudd to do the job . In the end Dr . Mudd not only saves over 1 , 000 lives , mostly prisoners regardless of what crimes that they committed , but after four years behind bars Dr . Mudd is given a full and complete pardon from the them President of the United States , Andrew Johnson , on March 8 , 1869 . Fine performance by Warren Baxter as Dr . Samuel Mudd . There's John Carridine as the vicious Sgt . Rakin who after treating Dr . Mudd with sadistic brutality he in the end repents from what he did to the good doctor after Dr . Mudd saved his life as well as over a thousand others on the mosquito infected isle from Yellow Fever . Dr . Mudd himself got infected by what he called the " Yellow-jacket " that almost ended up killing him as well . Dr . Mudd was a real man of medicine as well as man of kindness as he showed , like in the case of John Wilkes Booth , that he didn't care what a person did even though he had no idea of Booth's actions at the time . He not only treated him but helped anyone else , to the best of his ability , regardless of what they did like the many prisoners that he save from the jaws of death on " Shark Island " .
The Cat made him do it	SPOILERS Creepy and atmospheric little horror flick , based on the writings of Edger Alan Poe , about a mysterious black cat who at first is being controlled by this whacked out professor as well as self-style medium Robert Miles to do his dirty work . Later , after Miles kills it the feline comes back from the dead to exact vengeance on him by having Miles brought to justice from what he did . As the movie starts , with the credits are rolling down the screen , we see this black cat distract a man , Foreman , behind the wheel of his car as he loses control and crashes killing himself . Miles who's the cat's master is later seen in his home playing tapes of sounds that he recorded in the local cemetery trying to contact Neil , for all we know Neil is his dead son , and we hear a number of strange and eerie sounds on the tape that sound like their from a language other then English , they sound like Greek to me . Young America photographer Jill Trevers , photographing the ancient Roman and British ruins , in and around town is at the cemetery and sees one of the crypts broken into and inside finds a recording device . That evening at the local bar in town Jill hears form a number of patrons about this nut and weirdo Prof . Miles who's known to try to communicate with the dead and hangs around at the cemetery trying to get in touch with them . Going to see Miles by using the excuse of giving him back his lost recording device Jill notices his " pet " back cat who's anything but cuddly to him but who violently attacks Miles in Jill's presence scratching him in his hand . Jill later starts to suspect that it was Miles black cat who was responsible for the death of one of the towns well known heavy drinkers , Furgerson while photographing his body for the police department after he's found dead , from a fall off a gangplank and on to a spiked fence . Jill noticed that Furgersn's hand was terribly scratched just like Miles was by his cat . We earlier saw a young couple , Stan & Maureen , lock themselves into a storehouse by the docks . As their making out the lights go out and they finds themselves locked in with the key to the door strangely missing . At first you have no idea to just what the couple have to do with the movie but later it turns out that Maureen's mother Mrs . Grayson once had an affair with Miles and broke it off , was this was Miles ' way of getting even with her ! How did Miles do it ? Did Miles have his black cat sneak into the storehouse grab to key , thus locking them in , and then turn off the air-conditioner ; causing the two lovebirds to suffocate to death ? Miles eventually get's even with Mrs . Grayson , for turning down his advances , by having his cat cause her apartment house to be set on fire by knocking over a lit kerosene lamp into the fire place and then having her , totally engulfed in flames , jump to her death from the third floor window . Miles now confidently feeling that he achieved all his goals in getting even with those in town who rubbed him the wrong way gives the back cat a meal spiked with a strong sedative knocking it out . Taking the unconscious cat , stuffed in a sack , outside in the woods Miloes brutally hangs it . Miles should have known that the black cat had nine , not one , lives and that it would soon come back to get even with him for what he did to it with a wild and ferocious fury that even he , it's former master , couldn't even in his wildest dreams imagine or comprehend . Hard to find but very effective killer cat movie with Patrick McGee in his last movie role playing the crazed Professor Robert Miles who together with Mimsy Farmer , as the American photographer Jill Trevers , have some of the most extreme and mind-boggling close ups ever put on film . The black cat itself is also very scary as it moves towards and stalks it's victims and you forget for a while that it's really a common house cat . You look at the killer feline as if it were an instrument of death and terror conjure up by the Devil himself straight out of hell . The movie " Black Cat " has a very hypnotic feel to it , maybe because of it's many unusual and almost microscopic closeups , and the ending is anything but a letdown , like you would expect from a movie like it . Miles gets just what he had coming to him with the cat , as well as the local police , having him face ultimate justice for the crimes that he committed .
Take his gun and you take away his manhood	SPOILERS All too , in real life as well as in the movies , familiar story that happens to many young men who are put in a war zone with a gun , or rifle , in their hands . The case of young and innocent , in never handling or firing a gun , Jimmy Davis , Franchot Tone , has been repeated thousands of times over the centuries when men , like Jimmy Davis , are forced to take up arms for their country . Jimmy who at first wanted to be kicked out of the US Army but was encouraged to stay , by being belted in the mouth , by his good friend Fred P . Willis , Spencer Tracy , ended up on the front lines in France . With Jimmy's unit pinned down by a German machine gun nest he single handedly put it out of commission picking off some half dozen German soldiers from the safety of a nearby church steeple . It was when Jimmy gunned down the last surviving German , who raised his arms in surrender , that an artillery shell hit the steeple seriously wounding him . Recovering from his wounds at an Army hospital Jimmy fell in love with US Army volunteer nurse Rose Duffy , Gladys George . Rose was really in love with Jimmy's good friend the happy go lucky Fred despite his obnoxious antics towards her . It's when Fred was lost during the fighting on the Western Front that Rose , thinking that he was killed , fell in love and later married Jimmy . When Fred unexpectedly showed up in the French town where Jimmy , now fully recovered from his wounds , was stationed at things got very sticky for both him and Rose who had already accepted Jimmy's proposal of marriage to her ! With WWI over and Jimmy marrying Rose left Fred , who's still in love with her , a bitter and resentful young man . It was almost by accident that Fred ran into Jimmy on the streets of New York City and discovered to his shock and surprise that he completely changed from the meek and non-violent person that he knew before he was sent to war on the European Western Front . Smug and sure of himself , and his ability to shoot a gun , Jimmy had become a top mobster in New York City's underworld ! Not only that but as Fred later found out his wife Rose had no idea what Jimmy was really involved in with Jimmy telling her that he works as a law abiding and inoffensive insurance adjuster . Jimmy's life of crime came full circle when Rose , after she found out about his secret life , ratted him out to the police to prevent him from executing a " Valentine Day " like massacre , with his gang members dressed as cops , of his rival mobsters . While on trial Jimmy came to his senses and admitted his guilt willing to face the music and then , after his three year sentence is up , get his life back together . SPOILER ALERT Hearing rumors from fellow convicts that Rose and his best friend Fred were having an affair behind his back Jimmy broke out of prison ending up a fugitive from the law . It's at Fred's circus , where he works as both manger and barker , that Jimmy in seeing that Rose as well as Fred were true to him that he , like at his trial , had a sudden change of heart . But the thought of going back to prison , with at least another ten years added on to his sentence , was just too much for Jimmy ! It was then that Jimmy decided to end it all by letting the police who by then tracked him down do the job , that he himself didn't have the heart to do , for him !
Partners gotta learn to back each others play	SPOILERS Things were going pretty good for Vinnie Glen , Peter Falk , in his management of his bookmaking racket out of his Boston gin mill - Vinnie's Bar-that he's run for some 30 years . It wasn't until Locasso , Tony Sirico , the neighborhood Mafia boss started to turn the screws on Vinnie's very liberal collections habits , in not leaning too hard on his deadbeat customers , that things started going downhill . Having his not too dependable under-link Uncle Pete , Frank Vincent , break in his coke sniffing nephew Tony Cisero , Freddie Prince Jr , as both Vinnie's partner and muscle man , debt collector , Locasso made the biggest blunder since Hitler invaded the USSR back in June 1941 . Tony thinking that he's Al Capone Jr quickly made a mess of Vinnie's bookie operation in not knowing the business of gently persuading-without having to break their arms legs or heads-his deadbeat customers to either pay up or be cut off from all the gambling action . A fate worse then death for anyone who's hooked on gambling . It was in fact Tony who got Vinnie to see the light in what he's been doing over the years in living off his many sick and compulsive degenerate gambling customers . Taking advantage of this sick sorry a of a human being the out of work and always drunk Frankie Paterson , Timothy Hutton , Tony took his $1 , 100 . 00 bet on the Dallas Cowboys , who were behind by almost 20 points at the time he took it , knowing that the poor slob was in no condition to make a bet in the first place ! Frankie had stolen his hard working wife's Marybeth , Lauren Holly , vacation money and after getting smashed , on cheap booze , staggered into Vinnie's office , with Vinnie away , and plunked Marybeth's money down on Dallas adding another $5 , 000 . 00 , that he didn't have , on top of it with Frankie taking the bet ! It's when Vinnie finds out what a mess Frankie made of not only himself but his family he tries to get Tony to smooth things over by having Marybeth pay off Frankie's debt by giving Tony , as well as himself , $200 . 00 a week that only include the vig or interest . That sound financial arrangement on Vinnie's part would take about seven months for Marybeth to pay her husband Frankie's debt , minus the vig , off . A desperate Marybeth is only able to come up with $150 . 00 a week in order to save her strung out husband Frankie-who's so drunk that he doesn't know that he lost the bet-from sleeping with the fishes . This has , in knowing a good thing when he sees one , Tony demands for Marybeth to put out , or prostitute herself , for him to make up the $50 . 00 that she came up short with ! Seeing just how things got out of hand after Tony became his partner in the bookie business Vinnie then decided to quit the racket but only after he not only cleaned out Tony's clock but his chicken livered , in his always buckling down to his Mafiso boss Locasso , Uncle Pete's as well ! Even though the ending of the movie was a bit too hard to take Peter Falk's performance as bookie Vinnie Glen was one of the best of of his long movie and TV career . Having a heart of gold in a business , taking illegal bets and loan sharking , where it's almost unheard off Vinnie got himself into a bind that he knew he'll never get out off . The both ruthless Tony and his Uncle Pete , as well as mob boss Locasso's , tactics started to turn off Vinnie to the point where he decided to sell his bar , as well as his bookie business , and move with his wife Ellen , Tyne Daly , down to sunny Florida . SPOILERS It was when Vinnie caught Tony forcing himself on a disgusted and repulsed Marybeth , in his office no less , that he just lost control of himself . It's not that Vinnie stopped Tony from having his way with Marybeth , she did that herself , he instead ended up freeing himself once in for all form this whole rotten business of taking book and shaking down and working over those sick unfortunate souls who can't or just won't pay up !
Stylish Confusion	SPOILERS Highly stylish but very confusing movie about a woman with a dark past who ends up getting married to a future US ambassador to France where she left her dark past behind . In the beginning of the film we see Rebecca Romijn Stamos , Laure-Ash-Lily , being part of an elaborate heist of some ten million dollars in jewelry at the Cannes Film Festival . Laure is then double-crossed by her boss Black Tie , Eriq Ebouaney , who's the mastermind of the heist who she in turn double-crosses and took off with the jewels . On the lam from the French Mob as well as the French police in Paris Laure is spotted by one of Black Tie's goons at a hotel . Lauras beaten in order to find out where the jewels are and then is thrown down some six floors from an indoor walkway on top of what looked like batches of rolled up padding that saved her life , what luck . Later getting a passport she takes English lessons and gets a one way ticket to the USA where she wants to leave her French past behind . Seven years later with a husband Bruce Watts , who's now the US French Ambassador Laura reluctantly goes back to the country of her birth . Trying to keep herself out of the public eye as much as she can Laura is still photographed one evening by the obnoxiously annoying photographer Nicolas Bardo , Antonio Banderas . Bardo was paid a nice mint for her photo as he made believe that he was hit by her limousine and took her photo as she opened the door to help him . Now Mrs . Watts ' face is all over the newspapers and magazines in France for her former associates whom she doubled-crossed seven years ago to see . Ridicules plot that plays like a bad " Twilight Zone " episode with the women in the movie so interchangeable that you can't tell most of the time which is which or who's who . It's seems that when the movie ended , thankfully , director De Plama decided to re-shoot the second half of the movie but seemed to have forgotten to cut out the part that was re-shoot . Thus leaving both versions in and making the film even more confusing then it already was . I've noticed that besides copying Alfred Hitchock De Palma is very appreciative of Italian director Diaro Argento . De Palma put in the movie " Famme Fatale " Argnto's famous pop-up-from-behind scene that he used in his movie Tenebre back in 1982 De Plama copied that same scene before in his movie " Raising Cain " in 1992 . The story in the movie " Famme Fatal " is just passable if not very confusing but De Palma's stylish direction in a number of scenes in the movie and the better then average acting by the cast make the film watchable .
I didn't kill anyone ! I just followed orders !	SPOILERS With the shocking news , due to investigative reporter Reid , flooding every newspaper radio and TV station in the city about police corruption the D . A's office headed by Brooklyn D . A Michael W . Norris has commandeered the just graduating class of the Police Academy and put it , and its 40 rookie cops , under his personal control . With the mob controlled bookies having almost total immunity from the law it's obvious that the cops are being paid off to look the other way by what's known as the " Syndicate " . But what isn't known is just how far and high the corruption leads to ! It may well lead straight into the Police Commissioner's or even Mayor's office ! With both rookie cops Pete Harris and is partner Jess Johnson put undercover to crack the bookie ring and the cops controlled by it Pete get's in touch with a local Brooklyn woman who's husband was driven to suicide by the " Syndicate " . Acting as if he's an old high school acquainting of her Harris get's Lil Polombo to open up about her husbands , Gus , strange death . Gus was in hock to the syndicate for $800 . 00 , in losing bets on the horses , and got worked over by Finelli's , who runs the local bookie operations , boys and told to come up with the cash or else ! Not having the money and not wanting to leave his old lady Lil out in the cold Gus got himself a double indemnity life insurance policy and immediately dove his truck off the road killing himself ! As Lil was going through a deep depression , almost drinking herself blind , both Pete and local laundry delivery man and family friend Rudi Franklin came to comfort her . Pete was serious about Lili's loss but Rudi wasn't . Rudi in fact was one of the goon's who worked , laundering the weekly illegal gambling take , for Filenni . Rudi was also one of Filenni's goons who worked Gus over which lead to him , in not wanting to end up at the bottom of the East River , to kill himself . The movie " The Case Against Brooklyn " has both Pete and Russ get stymied in trying to uncover who's the big cheese , or kingpin , behind the police corruption & bookie racket in the borough . Russ ' nerves get the best of him which ends up in him getting himself shot and killed by a fellow cop Sgt . Bonney . Bonney in fact was also working for Filenni and mistook Russ as a prowler when he caught him snooping around Filenni's bookie joint . Holding himself responsible for his partners-Russ Johnson-death Pete goes all out to get those behind his murder only to end up getting his wife Jane killed with a booby trapped telephone that was meant for him . Frustrated in how little help he's getting from his fellow cops , who for the most part are in the pay of the " Syndicate " , and the D . A's office Peter throws in his badge and quites the force in disgust . It's then that Pete goes out on his own to get Filenni and those in the department who are protecting him as well as the hoods who murdered his wife Jean . Together with a reluctant Lil's help Pete gets an unsuspecting Rudi to take him , in his laundry truck , to the big bosses hideout-the laundry factory-where the sparks and bullets start flying . That's when Pete , like so many times in the movie , blows his cover and ends up with the barrel of a . 38 police special aimed straight at his face . Based on a true story " The Case Against Brooklyn " , released in 1958 , shows that police corruption didn't start and end with both Officer Frank Serpico-who almost lost his life fighting it-and the 1970's Knapp Commission Hearings that shockingly exposed it as not being just a couple of bad apples in the department but a whole barrel full . The fact that there's honest and dedicated policemen like Pete Harris and his late partner Russ Johnson out on the street keeping criminals honest , and behind bars , is what makes the job of being an honest cop that much more easier as well as rewarding for those on the force willing to be one .
Without A Soul You Don't Have Anything	SPOILERS Very outdated in the special effects department but very up to date in the timeless debate of faith and theology versus science and technology . " Colossus of New York " brings up the questions about the human soul , for those billions of us who believe it exists , that goes well beyond modern science . Can a brain as advanced and dedicated that it is to the ending of suffering in the world and human as it was in life be the same in death ? Or in the case of being without a body and soul a brain will only think logically without feeling and without the soul's goodness and humanity . that in many cases is not logical and will only respect the law of the jungle : survival of the fittest and destruction of the lame sick and unproductive . Brilliant scientist Dr . Jaremy Spensser , Ross Martin , who just came back to New York from Stockholm after receiving the International Peace Prize for his work in growing frost resistant plants that is to provide the world with an unlimited food supply . Getting off the plane and meeting his family Jaremy is suddenly killed by a runaway truck at the airport . Jaremy's father the imminent brain surgeon Dr . William Spensser , Otto Kruger , can't accept his son's death . With the help of his other son automotive engineer Dr . Henry Spensser , John Baragary , Dr . Spensser has Jaremy's brain removed and puts it into a tropical fish tank for the time being . Henry construct a eight foot Colossus for the brain to work out of but what both William & Henry totally forgot was that for the brain to be as effective , as the good kind and feeling person that Jaremy was , in death as it was in life it would need what only God can provide for it : A SOUL . Even though Henry was hesitant in going along with it , saving Jeramy's brain , he gave into his fathers William's mad . In the end it led to him being killed by the mad Colossus . The movie has been compared to " Frankenstein " but unlike the Frankenstein monster which had the brain of a murder the Colossus in the movie had the brain of a brilliant and kind human being , Jaremy Spensser . Like in both stories they didn't have a soul and that's what made all the difference . The ending of the movie the Colossus went to the UN and killed about a dozen scientists and policemen , with some kind of killer ray , at a conference for peace in the world . Later with the Colossus , who was really Jaremy , was shut down by his son Billy , Charles Herbert , and thus being destroyed was a bit ridicules . Even the Colossus ' ability to see into the future , when he saw in a vision a sea disaster , wasn't all that convincing . Later we see both William and Henry watching the TV where they see stock footage of the sinking of the Andrea Doria after it collided with the US ship Stockholm . The Colossus calls the ship in his vision The Viking ! That seen and the Colossus ' fortune telling ability was never really explained and was totally unnecessary to be put in the story . The main plot of the movie about the human soul as well as the heart and how it makes the difference in all of us when it comes to being a good kind and understanding human beings , instead of a cold calculating and unfeeling machine , was right on target . Like the song says , with a few minor changes , " Without a Soul You Don't Have Anything " .
Very bad ending spoils what was a very good movie	SPOILERS Pretty good film about a pair of murderous lunatics , both played by John Hunsaker , on the loose in the woods . With some really good jolts and scares and with much better acting then you would expect from a low budget movie like " Just Before Dawn " . But it's the ending that left you cold and empty to what you've seen up until then and deprived it's audience of a rewarding conclusion to a really good horror film . Five young backpackers , Jonathan Warren Daniel Connie & Megan , Chris Lemmon Gregg Henry Ralph Seymore Deborah Benson & Jamie Rose , drive and hike up the mountainous woods . The hikers are tracked and later picked off by a pair of homicidal mountain men in some of the most shocking and nerve jumping assaults ever seen in a " Slasher " or any other " Horror Movie " for that matter . One of the most brutal and shocking scenes in the film is right at the beginning before were even introduced to the campers . Thats when Vachel , Charles Bartlett , is run through by one of the killers with what looks like a machete in an old and abandoned church in the woods . As his terrified partner Ty , Mike Kellin , runs for his life . Later Ty running into the hikers tells them not to go up any farther but is rebuffed by them thinking that he's drunk and out of his mind . As they drive closer to the top they run into Roy , George Kennedy , a park ranger and later a family , who lives there , the Logan's Pa Ma & Merry Cat and their young daughter , Hap Oslund Barbara & Kati Powell . Ma & Pa also tell them not to go any farther but they don't listen and still keep going up the mountain and for most of the hikers to their deaths . Scary creepy & spooky movie that is far better then most " Slasher Movies " and should rank right up there with the best of them . But due to it's very limited release in the theaters as well as on VHS & DVD's it's almost unknown to the movie going public . The scenes of the attacking killers in action is both jolting and nerve racking . They build up and explode so realistically that you don't have time to get ready for them like most horrific scenes in horror movies that set you up for them . The part when Jonathan gets dropped from the cliff into the river to drown is so quick and at the same time so realistic that for a moment you think your watching the news on TV instead instead of an Hollywood horror movie . The movie cast of mostly unknowns are very good and convincing in their roles and the veteran actors in the movie , George Kennedy & Mike Kellin , give the competent acting jobs that you would expect from them . But it's the ending of the movie that ruins what was up to then a very good outdoors horror film . Still even with the flawed and uneven ending it's well worth your time seeing it . P . S I wish that the distributors of the film can get a hold of the movie out-takes , if at all possible , and change the unconvincing ending to where it makes more sense and at the same time makes the movie far better then it is .
Missed Signals	Some SpoilersHaving lead a very organized life since she suffered a string of emotional and personal disasters in trying to establish a relationship with the opposite sex English proof reader Sarah Winston , Jennifer Beals , has built an imaginary Berlin-like wall between herself and the rest of humanity . Tuning out her emotions for those she's in contact with Sarah has became a cold and unfeeling person not only towards those she deals with but even her only companion a cute little mutt whom she named Shakespeare . The dog not being as perfect as she expects him to be , he does his business on the carpet and chews up the upholstery , is sent back to the pound to either be readopted or put to sleep . Looking out her window Sarah spots a number of people assembling to attend a local AA , Alcoholic Anonymous , meeting next door . Spotting this sensitively handsome-looking young man among those attending the meeting Sarah is immediately attracted to him . It takes a while but Sarah finally gets up enough nerve to meet her dreamboat and attends a AA meeting where she ends up sitting next to him . It turns out that the guy that Sarah is in love with , from afar , is Charlie Patterson , Peter Overbridge . Charlie is a recovering alcoholic who's there at the meeting with his teenage son Kit , Gerald Funk , who's also in the process of kicking his alcoholism . Having no trouble at all striking up a conversation with the very friendly Charlie Sarah quickly becomes part of his crowd of AA members even though , unknown to Charlie & Co . , she has no drinking problem . Concerned about her " alchoholism " Charlie as well as his son Kit , who's mom left him and Charlie when he was two , try to get Sarah off the sauce not knowing that she probably may have an even more acute illness then drinking ; Trying to strike up a relationship with Charlie and his friends by using their sickness , alcoholism , as cover in her being a fellow alcoholic . Toching and effective movie about a lost soul in the wilderness who finds her way back to society by becoming involved with people who have , for the most part , bigger problems then she has . Seeing what recovering alcoholics go through turns Sarah into the kind feeling and giving human being that she abandoned years ago . Always there for her friends when they needed her , in one case preventing a distraught AA member from blowing his brains out , Sarah's secret in not really being an alcoholic in the end became her own undoing . Charlie who fell madly in love with Sarah and wanted to help her recover is flabbergasted when he finds out the truth and is almost driven back to the bottle because of it ! It takes as much , maybe even more , courage for Sarah to stand up in front of a room full of recovering alcoholics , including her friends , as an alcoholic confronting , in public , his or her alcoholism in Sarah admitting her duplicity in using their addictions to improve her social life . In the end it , by coming clean , turned out to be the best thing that Sarah even did . It not only made her a better person with those that she came to know and love at AA but those , including her little dog Shakespeare and estranged younger sister Olivia ( Sarah Edmondson ) , that she so mistreated and was cold to before she ever go involved with Alcoholics Anonymous .
Tick . . tick . . tick . . tick . . tick .	SPOILERS Remade some 40 years later in 1987 as " No Way Out " which takes place in the endless halls and corridors of Pentagon . In that film the unjustly accused of murder US Naval Lt . Commander Tom Farrell played by Kevin Costner spent almost the entire film on the run , as he's trapped inside the Pentagon , for being a suspect in the murder of the US Defense Secretary's , Gene Hackman , secret lover , Sean Young . In " The Big Clock " newspaper columnist George Stroud , Ray Milland , is trapped and on the run in the Janoth Building for a murder he didn't commit but was framed for . The actual killer being his boss Earl Janoth , Charles Laughton , is the person pulling the strings in getting Stroud killed before he can prove his innocence and thus implicate him in the murder . Stroud doesn't help himself in the matter by him being at the scene of the crime just moments before it happened . He also didn't help himself in being seen with the murder victim fashion model Pauline York , Rita Johnson , all over town the very night of her murder ! The film gets a bit complicated with Stroud and his wife Georgette's , Maureen O'Sullivan , marital troubles in him holding off their honeymoon for some seven years . This leads to all the troubles that Stroud gets himself into by his chance meeting , at a local bar , with Pauline and later ending up smashed in her apartment before she was killed . It also didn't make any sense to me why Stroud after quiting his job to go on his long delayed honeymoon would then shoot back to New York to work for the hated Earl Janoth thus jeopardizing his already very shaky marriage with Georgette ! At the time that Janoth called on him to come back to work Stroud had no idea that Pauline was murdered ! All Janoth told Stroud was this made up cock & bull story about black or illegal arms dealings , I'm not quite sure which one , that he wanted him to investigate for his magazine " Crimeway " . So why did Stroud then so eagerly go back to work for Janoth who had just fired or drove him to quit his job ! which not only may very well wreck his marriage to his wife Georgette but have him putting his neck in the noose in what later turned out to be Pauline York's murder ? Having his head man Steve Hagen , George Macready , clean up the mess that he left at Pauline's apartment Janoth put Stroud on the case in solving it . Not knowing that Stroud was the man who was with Pauline just before he murdered her , and spotted him in him the hallway as he was leaving , this turned out to be fatal for both Janoth as well as his cleanup man , in fixing everything for him , Steve Hagen . The fine acting and directing , by John Farrow , just couldn't cover up the flimsy plot of the film that by its trying to cover up all its inconsistencies left a number of plot holes in it that you can drive a 18 wheeler truck through . The almost half dozen subplots in the film just made it that much harder to follow , if it wasn't complicated enough already , by stretching it's story-line to the limit . SPOILER ALERT Tying all the loose ends together in the last few minutes of the film didn't help either with the very determined Stroud , in his proving his innocence , ending up implicating the wrong man in Pauline's murder ! This lead to the unbelievable climax of Pauline's actual killer-Earl Janoth-losing it and not only revealing himself , by committing another cold blooded murder , but ending up at the bottom of the building's elevator shaft , in his ill fated escape attempt , courtesy of George Stroud ! P . S Late in the film a frantic George Stroud tries to get in touch with Pauline York , who he doesn't know has been murdered , and gives the operator her telephone number to get him through to her . The first three digest of Pauline's phone number are Butterfield 8 ! The very title of the famous 1960 movie based on the John O'Hara novel that Elizabeth Taylor stared in and received her first Academy Award !
Cat on Fire	SPOILERS Out on the mean streets of New York City a frisky tabby cat , who's later in the movie named General , escapes an attack from a vicious and rabid St . Bernard dog only , like from out of the frying pan into the fire , to end up getting caught by Junk , Tony Munafo , who brings the kitty to this place called Quitters Inc . Being used as an exhibit for clients to show what will happen to their loved one's if they mess and try to smoke again . The manager of the place Dr . Donatti , Alan King , turned out to be worse then even life on the streets for General . After putting reformed smoker Dick Morrison , James Woods , wife Cindy , Mary D'Arcy , on the hot seat or electrified floor because of him secretly , and foolishly , taking a drag General during all the confusion saw his chance and made his escape from Quitters making his way , by Staten Island ferry and I95 , to Atlantic City . Living and shearing eats with some of the homeless under the boardwalk . The stray and homeless feline later ends up looking for food on the street . Becoming involved in a bet between a big time gangster Cressner , Kenneth McMillian , and his moll if he can make it across a dangerous Atlantic City thoroughfare without being hit and killed . General makes it across and makes Cressner $2 , 000 . 00 richer for betting on the right cat . General again get's involved in something he'd rather have nothing to do with when he's taken up into Cressner's hotel suite . In the suite is this washed-out tennis pro Johnny Norris , Robert Hayes . Norris is having an affair with Cressner's old lady . After being worked over by Cresser's hoods and having a bag of junk planted in his car is Norris given a chance , in another bet by Cressner , to live and not be arrested for drug trafficking by successfully walking around a ledge , from 15 floors up , completely circling the Atlantic City hotel . Norris , despite being attacked by Cressner and a flock of pesky pigeons , makes it across the hotel but is then set up by the double-crossing hood , who doesn't like to lose , to be whacked by one of his hit-men . General sick and outraged by what he saw in Cressner's inhuman actions , he even had his wife's head chopped off to be given as a going away present to Norris , cut across the floor getting the hit-man to miss with Norris , grabbing the silencer . Gunning down his would-be executioner Norris then has the now terrified Cressner , again on a bet , walk the same ledge and meet the same pigeon . This time around Cressner ends up down on the street not up on he 15th floor like Norris did . Making his way to Wilmington N . C General finds who he'd been looking for since he sensed she was in trouble back in New York City little nine-year-old Amanda , Drew Barrymore . Amanda's in danger of being suffocated while she's asleep by a deadly troll hidden inside her bedroom wall . Sensing that General , whom she named the tabby , was there to protect her Amanda tries to talk her parents Hugh & Sally Ann , James Haughton and Candy Clark , into keeping him as a pet . It's later that General is thrown out of the house and then sent to the pound , to be put to sleep , for being unjustly accused of killing the pet bird Polly . General actually fought off the troll who attempted to snuff out Amanda's life as he killed Polly to keep the bird for alerting both Amanda and her parents . Now with the only thing , General , that can keep him from killing Amanda on death row at the animal shelter the troll comes out of his hiding place the next evening to do his deadly work . General having his last meal waits for the attendant at the shelter to open his cage and then makes a run for it , just like he did across a dangerous Atlantic City street . In a pouring rain General makes it back to Amanda's room to confront the deadly troll . This time he's not only going to keep him from killing Amanda and then getting getting away , like he did earlier , but show Amanda's parents that the courageous kitzel came to their home for good not bad like they at first thought . Trio of cat stories by Steven King with a really touching ending sequence between General and Amanda that at first had you expecting the worse only to have confirmed to you and Amanda that General was really the real McCoy .
She told me . . She never lies to me !	SPOILERS Even though the movie " Lipstick " was laughed and snickered at back in 1976 as a cheap exploitation flick about a serious subject by the critics back then . The movie holds up surprisingly well after some 30 years since it's release . Looking back we see that the film was far ahead of it's time from the way it told it's story without trying to sugar coat it . Even the ending was very , if not that realistic , uplifting for everyone in the movie and the audience with the exception of the unfortunate rapist . The movie makers of " Lipstick " chose to make the rape victim not that much of a sympathetic person as you normally would expect a movie about a rape victim . That was to show the audience that even a top fashion model who's used to exposing her body to the public and is anything but a Mother Teresa in her social life has as much right as a Cloister Nun to say no when she's put upon by someone and should have the same protection from the law and court system as well . Margaux Hemingway , Chris McCormick , is a top world fashion model who's little sister Kathy , Mariel Hemingway , is infatuated with her music teacher Gordon Stuart , Chris Sarandon . Kathy wants her big sister to hear a sample of Gordon's music and see what she thinks of it . Gordon meets Chris at a photo-shoot on the beach and she tells him to come to her apartment the next afternoon to hear a sample of his music . The next day when Gordon arrives he finds Chris scantily clothed , she just came out of the shower , and anything but shy about her appearance . Gordon thinking that Chris is easy and loose and from the photos in her apartment of her with a number of movie stars and other well known personalities feels that she made out with all of them so why not with him . Before you know it Gordon with very little urging on his part brutally attacks and rapes her . As Gordon has Chris tied down on her bed her sister Kathy enters the apartment and sees what's happening and gets sicken by it . Even though at the time it looked like Chris was not fighting Gordon off , she was too exhausted by then , Kathy believed her sister when she told her that he raped her . There's also the question about Gordon's music which Chris was anything but found off . I think that his music was as brutal to Chris ' ears as his raping her was brutal to her body . That negative opinion of his musical talent on Chris ' part somehow made Gordon feel insulted and set him off . Chris hurt and humiliated as well as having to have her little sister Kathy see what happened to her goes to woman advocate lawyer Caria Bondi , Anne Bancroft , to help in the state's case against the man who raped her Gordon Stuart . Caria is more then honest with Chris by telling her that if the case against Gordon is prosecuted by the state that Chris can expect to be raped all over again by Gordon's lawyer but this time in public not in private like she was raped by Gordon ; and even after all that the odds of getting Gordon convicted is 98 % against her . Chris took the case to court and Caria's prediction turns out to be sadly true . Gordon is found innocent of raping Chris . Honestly brutal movie not only about rape but what the stigma of what rape does to it's victims and just how hard it is to prosecute and convict an accused rapist in a court of law . Even though the movie has a very contrived ending when the rapist who got away with raping Chris and later also rapes her sister Kathy getting just whats coming to him . This happens when an enraged Chris blasts him to kingdom come with her trusty shotgun . Later in the movie her lawyer Claria Bondi evens thing out in court by getting Chris off for shooting him on a temporary insanity plea . The Movie " Lipstick " made it's point far better then most movies before or since about the same subject without being any more downbeat and pessimistic then it had to be .
Hitwoman With A Heart	SPOILERS Slow moving crime / drama with Daryl Hannah as CJ March looking more like a homeless bag-lady then a professional mob hit-woman who's on the hunt for a stash of 4 kilos of dope that her victim at the beginning of the movie had switched before she could get it back to her boss the flowery Vernon , Alex Rocco . The switcher Roger , Shawn Woods , is later killed by that sweet and fun-loving couple Tony & Emily , Brad Renfor & Dominque Swain who he tried to sell the dope to . CJ March is on their tail but when she's about to knock them off she hesitates when she sees that Emily is very pregnant . This brings out CJ's maternal instincts as well as her also being knocked up by someone that she picked up at one of the sleazy bars that she patronized . One night at a bar CJ meets Rick , Eric Mablus , an ex-priest whom she rebuffs . Rick turned out to be the person in the end of the movie who turned her life around by showing CJ the light and the good things in life . During the film we also see CJ in flashback as a seven year-old girl and we get an insight to why she turned out the way she did . But the movie is so disjointed that you at one point lose perspective to whats going on well before " The Job " is over . Tony & Emily are tracked down by CJ who can't bring herself to rub them out which almost cost CJ her life . Gloomy and depressing movie with Eric Mablus as the only real light in the film as the ex-priest Rick with the heart of gold who wanted to save CJ's soul but not to cohabit with her body as CJ at first thought . The one thing about " The Job " that really struck a note was how dangerous and difficult it was for both Tony & Emily to sell the ripped-off drugs to local drug dealers who wouldn't touch their stuff with a ten-foot pole . The stash was just too hot leaving the two sitting on something like $500 , 000 . 00 of drugs and not being able to do anything with it . The ending of the film tried to be up-lifting but was so contrived that it came across as phony and insincere . In light of what happened in the movie up to then .
Cult of Evil	SPOILERS Being told that her older sister Jacqueline Gibson , Jean Brooks , has gone missing in the big city of New York young Mary , Kim Hunter , leaves her school / dorm in Highcliff and travels to New York's Greenwich Village to find her . At the La Sagesse cosmetic company that Jacqueline was a part owner of Mary is told by Mrs . Rudi , Mary Norton , the co-owner that Jacqueline sold her share of the company to her and then just got lost . Getting in touch with Jacqueline's attorney Gregory Ward , Hugh Beaumont , Mary is told that he has no idea at all where her sister is and then oddly asks Mary if Jacqueline ever mentioned him to her ; it turned out later that Gregory and Jacqueline were secretly married . Getting contacted by this mysterious stranger a local private eye Irving August , Lou Lubin , Mary is told that he can help her find Jacqueline . Mary who at first rebuffs him , she didn't have the $50 . 00 retainer he wanted from her , she later takes up his offer when he told her he'll work on a pay as you go basis . August does track Jacqueline down in the very La Saesse building that Mary was at the day before and ends up getting stabbed to death for it . Mary running from the building in fear of her life goes into the subway and after riding the rails for what seems like hours sees these two men enter the subway car with what looks like a drunken friend only to realize , to her shock , that he's non other then the dead Irving August . The movie slowly reveals the truth about Jacqueline and what she got into in her stay in New York and why she was marked for death , the seventh victim of a cult who had already murdered six of it's fellow members . Jacqueline had betrayed this Devil Cult , The Paladis , that she was indoctrinated into by not only marrying Gregory Ward , a non-member , but revealing it's existence to her psychiatrist Dr . Louis Judd , Tom Conway , that had him investigate and plan to write a book about it . It was also Irving August's murder that may well have the police suspect her of being a member and thus draw attention towards to secret Devil Cult . Even though the movie has almost no violence at all in it , only Irving August is killed and that happens off screen , director Mark Robson together with film-noir horror master Val Lawton's use of shadows and sounds makes the movie far more horrifying then any special effects , back then in 1943 , could have . There's one real chilling scene in " The Seventh Victim " where Mary's taking a hot shower and is suddenly and unexpectedly approached by cult member Mrs . Redi on the other side of the shower curtain , something like the shower scene in " Psycho " , but without any blood and violence . Mrs . Redi , in shadow , looks like as if she's the Devil himself telling Mary in no uncertain terms to quit her search for Jacqueline if she want's nothing bad to happen to her as well as her sister . The ending of " The Seventh Victim " is a real shocker not that there's any kind of terror blood and violence in it but that it doesn't follow the storyline that you would have expected back then when the Hayes Commission called for an upbeat ending in depressing and unnerving films like it which I feel , like many others who like the film , is the most effective and shocking scene in it .
I want a Report ! Not a Cover-Up !	SPOILERS there's sleazy goings on in the the NYPD in " Report to the Commissioner " with policewoman Patty Butler , Susan Blakley , ending up dead with a bullet in her chest during a wild and deadly shoot-out in her boyfriends drug dealer Thomas " Stick " Henderson , Tony King , loft apartment . It turns out that Officer Butler's killer in non other the NYPD Det . Beaueguard , known as just plain Bo to his friends , Lockery , Michael Moriarty . Unknown to him Butler was given the task to track her , known to Bo only as Chicklet , down to protect her undercover status by being told that she's a teenage runaway from the suburbs . Bo a complete dud as a cop is only on the force because of the early 1970's NYC police youth recruitment drive to get the young people of the city to have something in common with the men in blue as well as Bo's dad being a former and very highly decorated New York City policeman . We soon get to see in a number of flashbacks about this whole crazy and murderous mess . The events that lead up to the shooting of policewoman Bulter started with Officer Butler herself volunteering to become Stick's women , or live in wife . This in order to get the goods on him as the city's top drug pusher and with that putting him away , and off the streets , for a long long time . It has to be said that at first Butler's boss Let . Hanson , Michael McGuire , wasn't all that crazy for one of his cops , and a woman at that , being shacked up with the dangerous " Stick " Henderson . Still with Offcer Butlers constant insistence , and her record of 283 felony arrests the year before , how could he refuse ! To give Officer Butler some kind of cover the NYPD has the totally incompetent Det . Lockery put on her tail without even giving him a photo of Butler or even her name . Det . Lockery miraculously finds her with the help of the legless , and mentally unstable , street panhandler Joey , Bob Balaban , and pimp Billy , Richard Gere ! This to the shock and disgust of Det . Lockery's boss back at the police precinct Let . Sedensticker , Vic Taybeck . Lockery tracking Butler in effect blows the whole Henderson / Stick sting operation as well as ends up blowing a hole in Officer Butler's chest killing her . Det . Lockery himself is a piece of work being totally unqualified to be a cop , much less detective . Det . Lockery is also a pain in the a to his partner the tough and street smart Det . Richard " Crunch " Blackstone , Yaphet Kotto . Det . Blackstone gets so unnerved and discombobulated , especially with Bo's annoyingly syrupy and insipid sing-song voice , with putting up with his schmuck of a partner that by the end of the movie he almost ends up drinking himself into a drunken stupor . Finding out just who this Chicklet , really Offcer Butler , is Det . Lockery , like Travis Bickel a year later in the movie " Taxi Driver " , becomes absolutely infatuated with her in trying to get Chicklet away from what he thinks is her pimp , really drug dealer . In Lockery trying to set up and bust Stick he sneaks into her and Stick's loft . With Det . Lockery seeing Chicklet , who's white , romping around nude with Stick , who's black , in his boxer shorts was just about all the abuse that he could take which soon leads to the bloody shoot-out that cost Chicklet's life . After a chase through the crowded streets of mid-town Manhattan and shootout in the elevator of Saks 5th avenue department store Stick , who was trapped in the elevator with Bo , ends up getting blown away by the NYPD . The police department , in covering it's behind , tries to pin all the blame on the clueless Det . Lockery in Officer Butlers death but has so effectively incriminated itself in being behind Officer Butlers ridicules plan that the NYPD later decided to drop the whole thing . The NYPD gives Det . Lockery another chance as a New York City policeman only to have the now emotionally crippled cop , who didn't know that he was about to be freed , put an end to it all by hanging himself in his prison cell . A sad commentary on how people totally unqualified end up wearing badges and carrying guns because of misguided policies by police departments all over the country . In them trying to be either politically correct or bending the rules and pulling strings in order to get relatives , in this case a son , into the department . All this because someone in their family was once , or still is , a police officer . Bo Lockely was about as qualified to be a cop , much less detective , as 98 pound weakling Woody Allan was qualified , back then in 1975 , to fight Mohammad Ali or George Foster for the Heavyweight Championship of the world . In Lockerys case the unconceivable , him being a policeman , became a sad reality and that reality not only lead to Officer Butlers death but his own as well .
You were going at it as if it were the Climax of a Tremendous Symphony	( Some Spoilers ) Touching 1939 tear-jerker that introduced to the movie going public here in the USA the beautiful and stalely 23 year-old Swedish actress Ingrid Bergman as Anita Hoffman . Who's the piano teacher for the young Ann Marie , Ann E . Todd , the daughter of famed concert violinist Holger Brandt , Leslie Howard . After being a smashing success in America ending his concert tour at Carnegi Hall in New York City Holger tell his star struck admirers that he's leaving for his home in Sweden together his mentor and fellow musician Thomas Stenborg , John Holliday , to be with his family and get a long and well deserved rest from his grueling string of public performances . Back home with his loving wife Margit , Edna Best , and his two beautiful children Ann Marie and Eric , Douglas Scott , everything is wonderful for the Brandt family . Thats until Holger lays his eyes on Ann Marie's piano teacher , and also Thomas ' music student , the stunning Anita Hoffman and it's love at first sight , or at first sound . Holger actually fell in love with Anita's music before he fell in love with her looks . In no time at all Holger and Anita fall in love and both leave together for Europe as a duet , him playing the violin and Anita the piano , on the concert circuit . The two musical dynamos tear up the continent with record-breaking crowds attending their performances as Margit and the children are left behind in Sweden . With the only contact from their estranged husband and father being the radio that broadcasts his and Anita's musical acts . Taking time off from their Europen tour the two lovers spend some time on the French coast where they run into Thomas who has , well both good and bad , news for them . The good news is that Anita has been awarded a scholarship to a major music academy and the bad news is that he has the divorce papers from Margit's lawyer for Holger to sign , which he doesn't . This bring a touch of reality into Holger and Anita's life where she realizes what she's done to the Brandt family by being the " Other Woman " in Holger and Margit's divorce papers . At the same time Anita tearfully leaves poor Holger all by himself by going back to Sweden to the music academy to accept her scholarship . Holger soon becomes a man without a country , or family , as he bums around Europe afraid to go back home to face his family that he so selfishly destroyed by having an affair with Anita . Getting up enough courage to bring himself to go back to Sweden to give Ann Marie a birthday present , a camera , that he promised her soon turns out to be a tragedy . The happy Ann Marie , after seeing her dad , runs across the street from the school yard only to get hit by a speeding car and left in a coma . Completely destroyed by his actions with his wife and son not even speaking to him and little Ann Marie on the brink of death or ending up crippled for life Holger , now for the first time , sees what a heel he was . Holger also sees how his love for another woman , who later left him , blinded him of all the good and wonderful things that he had in life . That he so foolishly threw away in the pursuit of his love , forbidden as it was , for Anita . The movies contrived ending is a bit far-fetched but it's just how you would want it to end . Leslie Howard is perfect as Holger the tortured soul who was torn between the beautiful piano teacher Anita and his loving wife Margit . You could understand his actions even though you wouldn't agree with them . As for Ingrid Bergman as Anita ? she was simply beautiful .
That Sinking Feeling	SPOILERS After a phenomenal career as a child and teenage star in a number of top grossing films that made him one of the biggest draws in Hollywood by the end of WWII Mickey Rooney was too old to play teenagers and had to make it as a grown up in the movies . In the movie " Quicksand " Mickey Rooney not only plays a grown up but a bad guy as well . Only in that he was only guilty by reasons of circumstances . Picking up blond bombshell Vera , Jeanne Cagney , who was a cashier at the diner that Dan Brady , Mickey Rooney , was with his co-workers having a snack Dan gets into a load of trouble that started with him stealing $20 . 00 from the till at his job as a car mechanic to take Vera out on a date . That later leads to him mugging bingo game owner Shorty , Sidney Marion , of his profits then getting blackmailed by Vera's former boss arcade owner Nick , Peter Lorre . Who had evidence that Dan mugged Shorty which leads Dan to steal a new car from his job and give it to have Nickh keep his mouth shut . Dan later is caught by his boss Mr . Mackey , Art Smith , when he suckered him into admitting that he stole the new car by telling him that he knew that he did it , which he didn't . Which Mackey told everyone else at the job and only guilt-ridden Dan was dumb and guilty enough to fall for Mackey's trick and say that he in fact did . With Vera's help Dan breaks into Nick's office and steals $3 , 600 . 00 from his weekly take only to have Vera spend half of it on a mink coat . This when he needed $3 , 000 . 00 to pay Mackey off to have him not report him to the police . Coming up with the remaining $1 , 800 . 00 wasn't enough for Mackey and as he was about to call the police on Dan he attacked him and knocked him out but thought that he murdered him . Going back to Vera's place Dan sees the cops there and hides on the fire escape only to hear that Vera is about to sell him out to save her neck . Running into his true blue girlfriend Helen , Barbara Bates , Dan then gets her into a heap of trouble by having Helen help him carjack a motorist so that they can both drive across the border into Mexico . It's then that Dan & Helen find out that their kidnap victim is a lawyer who tells Dan that he can be charged with a capital crime for what he just did by kidnapping him . Even though Dan at the time thought that he'll hang for killing Mr . Mackey who unknowing to him survived . It ' then that Dan's kidnap victim offers to help both him and Helen if he lets him go free which Dan does at the end of the movie . It's just then that Dan gets into a shootout with the police at the shipyard as he tries to escape by sea and is shot and captured . Helen ends up getting off the hook and Dan is told by his new found friend , the former kidnapped lawyer , that he can get no more then one year behind bars tops in the can since he's a first-time offender . Being the lovable Mickey Rooney in real life didn't hurt Dan's chances either . Now thats really being an adult in the movies . " Quicksand " is one of Mickey Rooney's best adult movies and it would have been much better if only the ending wasn't so contrived and unbelievable by having Dan get off practically scott free . After committing a string of crimes that would have put anyone else , if they weren't adorable Mickey Rooney , away for life if not on death row . I almost expected at the end of the film for Mickey and his girlfriend as well as his lawyer friend to break out in some song and dance act with the entire cast in the movie , including a number of chorus girls , joining in .
Hy ya Beautiful	( Slight Spoilers ) Leaving his wife and two young daughters attorney David Trask , Gary Merrill , takes a plane to L . A to run away from his family but on the flight meets three passengers who are going back to theirs . Getting to know salesman Eddie Hoke , Keenan Wynn , David is a bit taken by his overly friendly attitude and in your face antics . David as well as the two other passengers that he get's to know on the flight night-club singer Binky Carr , Shelly Winters , and physician Robert Fortness , Michael Rennie , all form a kind of support group for each other that in the end will turn David's life around . After his wife Jane , Helen Westott , admitted having an affair with another man David just couldn't live with her anymore and made the decision to leave her and start a new life on the west coast . With the plane taking off from Vaga Utah after a long delay it ended up crashing in the desert with only three of the 21 passengers surviving one of them being David Trask . Feeling guilty because he lived while other's , in David's opinion , who had much more to live for perished David took it upon himself to contact the families of the three persons who were killed , that he met on the plane , and help them in their grief . As fate would have it it was David more then the families of the crash victims that would be helped by his heart-felt feelings of sympathy for them . David get's to know the demons that were plaguing Dr . Fortness for some five years . The fact that he and his wife Claire , Betrice Straight , had kept the truth from their teen-age son Jerry , Ted Donaldson , that had led him to almost destroy his life . David also got to know the suffering that show girl Binky Carr was going through with her mother-in-law , Sallie Carr , Evelyn Varden , and how she was out to destroy Binky's marriage with her husband singer Mike Carr , Craig Stevens . Despite the very intense and nerve-wrecking problems that both Dr . Fortness and Binky Carr were going through they both were ready to get back and confront and overcome them unlike David who's running away from his . David in his own way got to get both Mrs . Fortness and her son Jerry , who was running away from home , together when he told Jerry the truth about his dad . Which his mom didn't have the heart to do . How his dad was now willing to face the music for the damage that he did but it was his tragic death that has kept that from happening . Jerry realizing the truth that was kept from him all these years now also realized that his mother was really looking after his well being , not ignoring him , and sob-fully came back home this time to stay . It was the same thing that happened when David came to see Binky's mother-in-law Sallie and her son , Binky's husband , Mike who at the time didn't know that Binky was killed in a plane crash . Unknown to Mrs . Carr Binky was very instrumental in getting Sallie a once in a lifetime role in a major Broadway play that jump started her almost non-existence show biz career . All this time Sallie thought that Binky was only after her and her son's money . The fact that she wasn't and only wanted Sallie to love her like she was her own daughter devastated both her and Mike who later found out not only what happened to Binky but what a heel he was in trying to sere divorce papers on her . It was really David's talk with Eddie Hoke's widow Marie , Bette Davis , that shown him the light and what a great hurt he was doing to both his wife Jane and his two young daughters by leaving them . Marie was a beautiful woman who was also cheating behind Eddie's back with Marty , Warren Stevens . When Marty left her after she suffered a sever diving accident , that left Marie paralyzed from the waist down , Eddie never once thought of what Marie did to but came right back to her helping Marie overcome both the psychical and mental trauma that she was going through . That last visit with Marie showed David that he was acting against his own , as well as his families , best interests . It was his being influenced by the talkative and somewhat goofy Eddie Hoke on that fateful plane ride that turned his life completely around and for the better . David gets on the phone and frantically calling a very concerned and worried Jane to tell her almost in tears that he's coming back to stay . You can see the look on Marie's face , as the movie comes to an end , knowing that her late and wonderful husband Eddie had not only saved her from a life of hurt and depression but David's as well . Eddie's jolly honest and good natured conversation together with what she told David about him saved David and his family from the same sorry fate that Marie was once facing , That made David see that there's no absolutes in life since life like the lives of him and the people that he both met and got to know on the plane is anything but perfect .
Tragic event brings out past secrets	One dark misty morning Kathryn Lyons , Christine Lahti , sadly walks down the steps of her upstairs bedroom to answer the door . Fearing the worst the man knocking Robert Heart , Campball Scott , is a member of the pilot union that her husband Jack , John Heard , belongs to . The news from Robert is bad . The plane that Jack was flying from London to Boston crashed into the sea some ten miles west off the Irish coast with all 104 passengers and crew missing and presumed dead . Kathryn now has to tell her fifteen year-old daughter Mattie , Alison Pill , the news which puts the young girl in such a state of shock that she needed medication to get her nerves and herself back together . As tragic as the accident was that killed Kathryn and Mattie's husband and father as well as the 103 others on the plane the news that started coming out about the accident from those involved in investigating it made it far more tragic . It was no accident and even at a more personal level Kathryn begins to find out that she didn't lose her husband Jack over the Atlantic Ocean that cold and misty morning she lost him some six years earlier . It was only because of what just had happened that the truth was able to finally come out . Hunting film with fine performances by all involved about how life can prove to be unbearable when you not only lose a loved one but when that loved ones love was not entirely directed at you . The leading actors in the movie Christine Lahti , the pilot's wife , Alison Pill , the pilot's daughter , John Heard , the pilot , Robert Heart , , the pilot's union representative , and Kristy Mitchell , the pilot's dark secret . The movie made what looked like an afternoon soap opera into a highly absorbing and watchable feather film .
In this courtroom I'm the only one who decides what is and what's not OK ! OK !	SPOILERS Highly fictitious account of the life and times of Alcatraz inmate and career criminal # Az244 Henri Young , Kevin Bacon , and his fight to put an end to the torturous dungeon , solitary confinement , where he spent most of his time while incarcerated on the " Rock " . We're given the impression that Young's only crime that in the end landed him on the " Rock " was a petty $5 . 00 robbery of a grocery store . This was in order to get food for him and his nine year-old sister Rosella , Amenda Borden , during the hight of the Great Depression . In fact Young was involved in a number of robberies and burglaries that ended with a robbery , and murder of the proprietor , of a bakery in Oregon and then followed by a failed bank robbery in Washington State . Sent to Alcatraz in 1935 to serve his time on January 13 , 1939 Young together with a number of fellow inmates made an unsuccessful escape attempt from the " Rock " where the leader of the group Arthur " Doc " Barker , Michael Melvin was gunned down and killed by the prison guards . Sent to the hole for punishment Young developed a festering hatred toward his fellow inmate who was involved with him in the failed escaped attempt Rufus McCain , David Michael Sterling . Young held McCain responsible , in his unfounded suspicion of him , for tipping off the guards in Young and his fellow inmates escape plan . Out off the hole and in with the local prison population Young , after an unsuccessful attempt earlier , attacked McCain in the prison tailor shop and stabbed him with a sank , home-made prison knife , killing him : Not in the mess-hall with a spoon like depicted in the movie . The most egregious misrepresentation in the film " Murder in the First " of Youngs stay in Alcatraz is that he was assigned a young lawyer , who just passed the state bar , to defend him in his trial for McCain's murder James Stamphill , Christian Slater . In fact the real James Stamphill was actually a fellow Alcatraz inmate who was involved , but didn't participate , in the January 13 , 1939 escape attempt with Young ! The attorney who actually successfully defended Young at his murder trial was San Francisco lawyer Sol Abrams . The film had Henri Young being tortured by the prison guards and assistant Warden Milton Glenn , Gary Oldman , day and night until he finally snaps . It's then , according to the movie , Young is let out of the hole where , in what seem like within minutes , he attacked and murdered McCain with a spoon in front of well over two hundred witnesses in the prison lunchroom . An open and shut case at first Young's court-appointed attorney James Stamphill turns the trial upside down . Stamphill puts the entire prison staff from warden Humson , Stefan Glerasch , on down on trial for inhuman treatment of prisoners instead of defending his client Henri Young for murdering one of them ! With young going from sane to insane during his trial Stamphill and his lady assistant attorney Mary McCasslin , Embeth Davitz , get Young off on an insanity conviction , involuntary manslaughter , where he's to serve just under 3 years behind bars . SPOILER ALERT Were given the information that Young deathly afraid of being sent back to the " Rock " in fact wanted to change his plea , which his lawyer Stamphill prevented him from doing , from not guilty due to his diminish mental capacity to guilty of first degree murder . Young was more then willing to risk his life , in the San Quentin gas chamber , in order not to be put back in the hole . The movie ends with the sad statement that Young was found dead three months later , were not given the cause of his death , with the word " Victory " scrawled in his cell . A final act of defiance on Youngs part to those in the prison system who so brutally abused and tried to break him . The fact is that Young never died or killed himself and was finally released from prison in 1972 some 30 years after his presumed death , in the movie , with 27 years added on to his light three year sentence , for involuntary manslaughter , due to his bad and unruly behavior behind bars . Young a free man after some 40 years behind bars then immediately broke his parole and was never seen or heard from again ! For all we know Henri Young is still around with us , he would by now if alive be 97 years old on June 11 2008 , since his death , natural or otherwise , was never reported or confirmed !
There's something about you that makes me want to bust you !	( Some Spoilers ) Lies deceit blackmail and finally murder it's all here in this made for TV film noir suspense / drama with Ben Gazzara as the wealthy and very secretive publishing magnet Grant Sanders a man , despite his may faults , with a consciences . Grant at a weak moment at his sons , from a previous marriage , Ross ' , Greg Evigan , birthday party met and had a one night stand with party crasher Adrianne Arness , Lisa Rinna . A few months later at his daughters from his now marriage to Elaine , Jaclyn Smith , Sarah's , Sara Rose Johnson , 10th birthday party this same Adrianne called Grant trying to reignite her affair with him . It just happened that Elaine happened to pick up the extension phone when Adrianne called and heard the whole sordid conversation ! Begging Elaine not to leave him Grant admits to his affair with Adrianne but promises her that it's over and done with . This has both Grant and Elaine put the whole thing behind them . That's until a few days later when Elaine gets these photos with Garnt and the kids Sarah & Abby , Laua Dobbin , in the streets of L . A together with Adrianne ! There's also a number of photos of Adrianne with her face worked over that's attributed , by whoever took the photos , to Grant beating her up ! Trying to keep the story of himself and Adrianne , whom he swears he never laid a hand on , from going public Grant agrees to meet Adrianne at her hotel room and pay her off with $50 , 000 . 00 to both keep her mouth shut and get her out of his and Elaine's lives . Everythnig goes like clockwork with Adrianne getting the blackmail money and now Grant feeling this whole nightmare is over except for one small insignificant event : Adrianne ended up being murdered and the money to keep her quiet gone ! The film " Lies and Kisses " does have its surprises but the ending , that should have been the movies knockout punch , is about the only thing that doesn't hold together . Up until then your really engrossed to what's going on in who are the ones who are getting both the shaft and doing the shafting . Elaine in a desperate effort to save her husband from being convicted in Adrianne's murder gets family friend and investigative reporter Sonny Vincent , Nick Mancuso , to track down the person who killed her . Sonny gets sidetracked when he falls madly in love , get a load of the move he make for her at the Gorky Restaurant , with Elaine ! Confused in getting his friend Grant off , by finding evidence exonerating him in Adrianne's murder , and at the same time having an hot and steamy affair with his wife greatly complicates matters for Sonny . Meanwhile the person , or persons , who set up Grant try to improve their already air-tight frame-up of him by planting new evidence , the missing blackmail money , at his estate ! This action on their part alerts Sonny to just who's behind both Adrianne's murder and Grant's frame up ! This all leads to the final showdown at the end of the film where we , and Sonny , get the lowdown in what exactly happened , in this murder / blackmail conspiracy , and who was behind it ! But most of all who's the weak link in this murderous and back-stabbing scheme and by cracking under the pressure cracked the whole thing wide open !
Why Didn't You Die ! Why Didn't You Die Like Your Brother Did !	( Some Spoilers ) Arriving back home from Korea highly decorated US Army Captain Ed W . Hall Jr , Paul Newman , is broken in both mind and body from the two years he spent in a brutal Communist Chinese prison camp . What Captain Hall went through in Korea in combat and in a POW prison will be nothing to what's awaiting him back in the states . It's there where he'll soon be charged with high treason in collaborating with the enemy , that may have lead to the deaths and torture of a number of his fellow GI's . For selling out his country Capt . Hill got nothing more from his communist captors then a soiled and warm blanket and hot bowl of rice soup . Highly emotional motion picture adopted from a Rod Serling TV screenplay about collaboration with the enemy during wartime that goes into the mechanics of brainwashing by the Red Chinese that was far more effective then the torture and threats , as well as carrying them out , of death on captured allied POW's by both the Germans and Japanese during the Second World War . Capt . Hall not telling anyone of what he's to be accused of has his father Col . Edward W . Hall Sr , Walter Pidgeon , get the shocking story about his boy from a friend of his Col . Dudley " Smitty " Smith , Fay Roupe , at a party thrown in Ed Jr honor after he came back from Korea . Captain Hall doesn't at all try to avoid the issue of his collaboration with the Red Chinese when he's put on trial before a military court-martial . Capt . Hill tries through his court appointed lawyer Lt . Col . Frank Wesnick , Edmond O'Brien , to explain how his mind was manipulated and destroyed by the Reds , or Chinese Commies , who played on his alienation from his strict gong-ho military father , Col . Ed Hall Sr , when he was a boy growing up in San Francisco . If the Reds tried to torture or even kill Captain Hall like they did to his friend and now bitter enemy Captain Miller , Lee Marvin , it wouldn't have worked since he , like Capt . Miller , was conditioned by the US military for that type of treatment while in enemy hands . The mind is a very delicate instrument that can be easily twisted and shaped into what a maniacal bunch of scoundrels like the Red Chinese want it to be . By playing on Capt . Hall's loneliness and feelings of being deserted by his country and unloved and unwanted by his dad coupled with the shocking news , that he got while in captivity , that both his mother passed away and younger brother Pete was killed in action in Korea that in effect got the already zombie-like Capt . Hall to play right into their hands . At his trial Capt . Hall didn't at all try to defend his actions but only tried to explain them . Even Capt . Miller , who was brutally tortured by the Reds because of Capt . Hall's collaboration with them , came to fully realize what brainwashing can do and how the person whom it's preformed on has no will or mind left to even know what he's doing . The movie " The Rack " and its star Paul Newman as the guilt-ridden and mentally tortured Capt . Ed Hall Jr is very hard to like in it making a traitor to his country look sympathetic . Yet you begin to realize at the end of the film after a heart-wrenching speech to the court , as well as movie audience , by a tearful and utterly remorseful Capt . Hall that even the strongest and bravest of us do have our weak points . That's what the Chinese Reds counted on by getting captured GI's , and there was in the war in Korea hundreds of them , like Capt . Hall to go against everything that they loved and were willing to both fight and die for . The Communist Chinese achieved all that by putting US POW's in a cold and lonely cell and then after months of brainwashing having them do their bidding like a bunch of trained seals in a aquarium .
Unlucky Number	SPOILERS Vertual reality movie where two parallel worlds exist at the same time in L . A Calif ; One in the present and the other back in 1937 with the actors in the film having two different roles in both worlds . Computer genius Hannon Fuller , Armin Muller-Stahl , had created a world of his own taking place in 1937 L . A where he can do the things that he dreamed about , go out and date beautiful young women and have love affairs with them . One day in his " Dream world " Fuller come to a startling conclusion that almost strikes him senseless . Writing down the information that he came to he gives it to bartender Jerry Ashton , Vicent D'Onofrio , to give to John Ferguson , Craig Bierko , in that world of 1937 who's really Douglas Hall in the world of reality here ; A close friend as well as colleague of Fuller in the computer company that he founded . Back in the present Fuller tries to get in touch with Douglas but is interrupted by someone who he obviously knows . When he goes outside the hotel from where he was making the phone call he's stabbed to death by that individual , what was so important that Fuller wanted to tell Douglas that cost him his life ? The movie " The 13th Floor " has Douglas going back to the world of 1937 trying to retrieve and then find out what that important letter addressed to him contained but Ashton , who later read it , was not at all cooperative with him . It took almost the entire movie for Douglas to finally find out what was so shocking that it cost Fuller his life and Ashton his sanity . There's another piece of the puzzle put into the movie that has Fuller's daughter Gean ( Gretchen Mol ) , who nobody in the film ever knew about , came on the scene to take over Fuller's computer company . It turned that Fuller left the company to her in his will just days before he was murdered . The truth that Douglas as well as Ashton found out is truly shocking and it explains why Fuller was murdered to keep it from surfacing . But there's an even bigger shock withing for both Douglas and the audience at the very end of the movie and it's absolutely mind-blowing . Not bad at all the film " The 13th Floor " does in some way make sense if you try to take it seriously . Nowhere as good at " The Matrix " , that was released the same year 1999 , in the special effects department but a notch or two above that movie when it comes to the feasibility of the story that it's telling you .
Fine Feathered Fiend	SPOILERS With the possible exception of " God Told Me To " Larry Cohen's " Q " is the strangest and most fascinating film he ever made . In that it's also a lot like " God Told me To " in it's story about century old religious fanaticism resurfacing in the 20th century . This weird and criminally insane religious fanatic Amir Aboulela has in inducing a number of , like-wise and observant , nuts to voluntarily let themselves be murdered by him . Having Aboulela cut their hearts out and then skinning them , all this without the benefit of anesthetics , which brought the ancient winged serpent Quetzalcoatl back to life . The fate of the winged serpent and petty New York criminal Jimmy Quinn , Michael Moriarty , crossed paths when he was stuck with a $77 , 000 . 00 heist of a Manahttan jewelry store with his two co-robbers Doyle & Webb , John Capodice & Tony Page , nowhere in sight . Making a run for it Quinn is hit by a cab and has the cash , in a briefcase , flying out of his hand and never to be seen again . Scared for his life , feeling that Doyle & Webb would kill him for losing the stolen cash , Quinn get's to his lawyer's , Howard Price , office at the Chrysler Building only to find that he's not there . Quinn then indistinctly goes to the very top of the towers and finds the nest of the winged serpent " Q " . Quetzalcoatl . The prehistoric bird has been attacking unsuspecting New Yorkers and using their bodies to feed it's off-springs hidden in the Chrysler Buildings deserted tower where it has it's nest . Later Quinn is spotted on the street by his fellow jewel robbers Doyle & Webb and after being worked over he takes them to the Chrysler Building telling them that's where he hid the stolen cash . Both Doyle & Webb end up being lunch for Quetzalcoatl and it's brood . Back on the streets and high rise building of NYC people as being snatched up by the serpent as well as victims of the crazed Aboulela are being found in hotel rooms and floating in the East River with their hearts cut out and their skin flayed off . Picked up by the police , for the jewelry store robbery , Quinn makes a deal with the mayor and police commissioner to give them the info to just were the serpent is and how to kill it . Not believing him at first the top city officials finally see that Quinn's on to something with him having unreported information about one of the serpents victims . It's then where Quinn takes the cops to the Chrysler Buildng and they find a number of skeletal remains , including those of Quinn's former partners in crime Doyle & Webb . The last fifteen or so minutes of the movie is a lot like that of " King Kong " with the NYPD stationed in the Chrysler Building fighting off the deadly winged serpent and suffering heavy losses in the process . Badly shot-up and suffering form an extensive loss of blood the serpent falls to it's death on the streets of mid-town Mannhattan . Quinn is now on top of the world by not only getting " Q " done in due to his information he's also guaranteed to get a one million dollar reward , tax free , and having his criminal record expunged by the court but he has just one small problem that he didn't expect . The madly insane and murderous Aboulela holds Quinn responsible for the death of his God Quetzalcoatl and needs him to be voluntarily ritually sacrificed in order to bring him back . Even though it's one of the goriest film that you'll ever see " Q " comes across almost as a tongue and cheek satire instead of a bloodcurdling horror movie thanks to Larry Cohen's writing and direction . The films ending with the wild eyed Aboulela trying to get Quinn to agree to be sacrificed by him was one of the most unbelievable scenes ever put on film . Aboulela is so completely crazed and at the same time immune to bullets that he seemed to almost burst out of his skin after Quinn told him just where he can go . Aboulela in a fit of total insanity then takes a full load of lead from Det . Shapard's , David Carradine , who came to Quinn's rescue , from his police special and still even after that seems totally unaffected by it !
I suggest you speed up clearing the runway ! My Ass Is coming in for a Landing ! ! !	SPOILERS Having accidentally witnessed the brutal murder of federal prosecutor Daniel Haynes , Scott Nicholson , by the sadistic and giggling Hawaiian crime boss Eddie Kim , Bryon Lawson , surfer Sean Jones , Nathan Phillips , is now in danger of getting rubbed out by the Kim mob to keep him from talking to the FBI and local police . After saving Sean's life back at his hotel-room from Kim's hit men Federal Agent Neville Flynn , Samuel L . Jackson , is ordered by his boss back in L . A to get Sean back safely to the states to be a witness against Kim in his upcoming murder extortion and racketeering trial . Commandeering a flight to L . A the FBI has Sean put on board with the agency's usual air-tight security . What Agent Flynn and the FBI doesn't realize is how desperate and determined Kim is to knock off the agency's star witness against him . Even if Kim has to take down the plane and its entire crew and passengers in order to do it ! Slithering terror at 30 , 000 feet above the vast Pacific Ocean as a brood of some 500 poisonous vipers cobras and rattlers are let loose on some 200 unsuspecting passengers and crew-members of flight 121 from Honolulu to L . A . This ghastly and dastardly act was accomplished by that murderous sleaze-ball Kim with the help of illegal black-market poisonous snake smuggler Kraitler , Darron Moore . Kim's gang got the deadly serpents on the plane in wooden crates who , by the snakes being old blooded , weren't picked up by the heat sensors at the airport terminal . The snakes , hopped up with pheromones , breaking out of the baggage compartment section of the plane go on a deadly rampage attacking anyone or anything that moves even the pet dogs and cats of the terrified passengers . In what turns out to be a race against time Agent Flynn and one of rock stars Three G's , Flex Alexander , bodyguards Troy , Kenan Thompson , attempt to land the plane at L . A Airport . That's before everyone on it ends up either dead from snake bites or is sucked out of the fuselage with one of the planes windows blown out . Back on the ground everything is being done to get the scores of different antidotes for the two dozen or so species of poisonous snakes , and snake bites , who attacked the plane passengers to save them from going into convulsions an dying . Could well have been called Airport 06 ' " Snakes on a Plane " is one of the better disasters movies coming out of Hollywood in the last few years just because it didn't at all , in spite of the seriousness of the story , take itself seriously . Samuel L . Jackson did his usual kick and bad ass act as Agent Flynn a man with both nerves and balls of steel . Flynn seemed to be immune to the snakes and their fangs as if he was wearing protective clothing not getting sung once despite him slugging it out with the vipers for almost an hour on the plane . A good half of the people on board weren't as lucky as Agent Flynn getting stung and in one case crushed to death as well as swallowed whole by a 25 foot non-poisonous constrictor . Some of the most terrifying scenes in the movie happened in the plane's restrooms with a horny couple getting attacked and killed by the snakes who caught them in the most intimate of circumstances and positions . there's also the poor man who was about to relive himself who has a viper attack him and grab him by his private parts as he slowly , due to the snake bite , lost consciousness and died . SPOILER ALERT One the most touching and courageous scenes in the movie has to do with senior , or head , stewardess Grace , Lin Shayn , who passed up an early retirement offer in order to take flight 121 back home to L . A . By doing that Grace unknowingly ended up becoming one of the hero's , together with Agent Flynn , on board by saving an infant from getting stung to death by a hoard of deadly vipers but at the cost of her own life .
The road least traveled	SPOILERS Strange and haunting psychological drama involving traveling salesman Jimmy Starks , Guy Pearce , who comes apart after , what at first seemed like , a harmless reading from a roadside fortuneteller . On his way home Jimmy stops off at this rest stop on the highway when his car suddenly conks out . Waiting for his car to be fixed and after a stake & eggs dinner Jimmy spots this trailer that advertises telling one's future . Seeing the proprietor Vacaro , J . K Simmions , Jimmy gets a life reading from him that will soon change not only his fortunes , that were at the time at rock bottom , but his life as well ! As it later turns out most of what Vacaro told Jimmy amazingly came to pass but the biggest mystery in his forecast didn't . Jimmy was told that the road he's traveling on will come to an abrupt end the moment the first snows fall ! Not being able to make heads or tails of Vacaro's strange prediction Jimmy assumes that he'll die , or be killed , by the time winter comes ! Becoming super paranoid Jimmy starts to suspect everyone he , as a smart a wise guy , screwed all his life . At first Jimmy suspects his fellow salesman whom he took under his wing , and later screwed out of his job , Andy Lopez played by Nick Gonzalez . Andy in fact did , by admitting , send Jimmy a threatening letter with no return address of course which had Jimmy not only slug him but also threatened to have him arrested ! It was later after Andy apologized Jimmy got the news that his former best friend Vincent McClore , Shea Whigham , had just been released , after serving six years , from prison . It was Vincent whom Jimmy screwed , like almost everyone else in the movie , years ago in a drug money laundering scheme that he ended up taking the rap for ! Being of unsound mind with a violent temper to boot it became evident to Jimmy that Vincent was the person who'd fulfill Vacaro's prediction of his own demise ! Like in the practice Voodoo it was up to Jimmy , in believing it , to make Vacaro's prediction of his strange road to nowhere to come true . Instead of forgetting about it Jimmy went out of his way to see to it that his , in Jimmy's mind , soon to be death will inevitably happen . The fact that Vacaro was very unambiguous in what was going to happen to Jimmy-he'll run out of highway at the first snow-but Jimmy seemed to take it all the wrong , and worst , way ! SPOILER ALERT As it turned out Jimmy's past , as a stool pigeon and rat-fink , did catch up with him in what he did to his then best friend and partner in crime Vincent McClore . All this , together with Vacaro's mystifying prediction , put everything into motion for the films totally unsuspected and nail-biting climax !
Spin the Barrel	SPOILERS Tense and high wire-like thriller set in the Canadian city of Vancouver about an attempted assassination of Soviet Primer Kosygin by a rouge KGB group thats in charge of his protection . With the Cold War winding down it looks like the USSR will cut it's military expenditures including those for the dreaded KGB . This has a number of KGB officers led by Col . Sergi Vostick , Bo Brundin , in a panic . Charged to protect Primer Kosygin on his visit to Vancouver Col . Vostic plans to have a CIA informer and violent anti-Communist Rudolf Heke , Val Avery , who hates the Soviet Union for what it did to him and his family in Soviet-controlled Latvia , to blow himself up and take Preimer Kosygin with him . The only thing wrong with that is that Heke doesn't know that he's going to do it . RCMP , Royal Canadian Mounted Police , cpl . Shavers , George Seagal , who's on suspension for belting his boss Inspector McDermott , Peter Donat , in contacted by the Special Branch , the Canadian CIA , commander Petepice , Denholm Elliott , to see that Heke is kept off the streets until the Kosygin visit is over . After being kidnapped and held hostage with his girlfriend Bogna , Christina Raines , who works in the Royal Mounted Police record room and gave cpl . Shavers the vital information that he needed to find out just who Henke really is , a CIA undercover informant , did he realize just who was out to get Soviet Perimer Kosygin , and it sure wasn't Rudolf Henke . By having Kosygin assassinated in a western country that borders on the USA it would re-start the Cold war and provide all the funds and manpower the KGB would ever need . As well as reinforce the iron-grip that the KGB have on that nation . The movie " Russian Roulette " builds up to an exciting final as cpl . Shavers breaks out , together with Bogna , from the rouge KGB's captors hideout and against the clock speeds down , with a borrowed 1960 car low on gas , to the Vancouver Hotel in Vancouver . Shavers then tries to prevent Col . Vostick and his thugs from possibly starting WWIII in order to hold on to their power . With the KGB's conspirators commandeering a police helicopter with Henke drugged and tied on it , together with a number of explosives attached to his body , they plan to do Premier Kosygin in before he gets to the hotel . Cpl . Shavers has the almost impossible task to first get away from Col . Vostic , who's trying to shoot him , as they both jockey for position on the roof of the 16 floor 200 foot Vancouver Hotel to either make sure , in Col . Vostick's case , that the plot to kill Preimer Kosygin succeeds or , in cpl . Shaver's case , fails . Even though the film starts off a bit slow and lumbers on with a number of confusing story lines like the Dertoit mob hit-man Raymond " Raggs " Ragulin , Richard Romanus . Why did the rouge KGB group need him to do what their experts in ! Murder and kidnapping . Still the both stirring and heart thumping ending more then made up for all that .
Dream , Dream , Dream	SPOILERS Having recurring dreams of his fathers Judge Cartwright tragic and deadly train accident every night Paul Cartwright , James Lydon , is convinced that his fathers death was no accident but a murder and the person who murdered his father is in his dream and in the shadows not being able to be recognized . Being very protective of his mother Virginia , Sally Eilers , Paul gets very agitated and concerned when she gets engaged to marry a Mr . Brett Curtis , Warren Williams . Curtis comes across as a suave and sophisticated as well as well traveled gentleman who swept Virginia right off her feet . But Paul who feels that he's just not what he is and his background it's just too perfect to be real . In his awakening state of mind Paul sees the events in his dream accruing over and over in real life which convinces him that there's something very strange and sinister about the very debonair and smooth talking Brett Curtis . Paul also has a grudging feeling that Brett is the man in the shadows in his dream who was responsible for his fathers death and also wants to keep his mother from marrying him . Early cinematic psychological study about the mind and it's deepest secrets and how they come to the surface when we least expect them to Which makes the movie " Strange illusions " a unique movie for it's time , 1945 , and as far as I know has never been duplicated since . Things in the film like Brett's strange behavior in regards to Paul whom he senses is somehow on to him and his intentions has him lose his cool from time to time and almost expose himself as the psychotic that he really is . Paul has tapped into something real and deadly through his subconscious , his dreams , but unknowing to Paul Brett is working with Professor Muhlbach , Charles Arnt , who runs the Restview Sanitarium where Paul will soon be staying at . Looking into his late fathers files , that he kept locked in his study , Paul finds out about a mysterious Mr . Claude Barrington who Paul's father was very interested in . Judge Cartwright felt that Barrington committed a string of crimes from murder and rape to embezzlement dating back to 1932 when he was married to the former miss . Cecilia Gordon who was found drowned some six months after their marriage . Barrington seemed to have vanished and then popped up and commit crimes almost at will all across the American Southwest . Barrington has a talent to disappear and resurface after each crime with a new and bogus identity and successfully avoided being fingerprinted or photographed . It was Judge Cartwright's closing in on him and being about to expose him and have him arrested , and made to pay for his crimes , that led to his unfortunate " accident " . Paul also feels that Barrington faked his own death and is now back to eliminate those who may be able to expose him as still being alive by being in the position of finding Judge Cartwright secret files ; the Judge's family . Paul is sure that the late Claude Barrington is the very alive Brett Curtis . Having to get rid of Paul but not until Brett is legally married to Virginia Brett and Professor Muhlbach plan to have Paul committed in his sanitarium and then have an " Accident " that will put his searching for the truth , about his dead father , to an end once in for all . With Brett married to Virginia he can offer her sympathy comfort and understanding for the loss of her son and his step-son until the time is right for her to have an " Accident " too . With that Brett can get his hands on the Cartwright estate , and all the evidence that the judge gathered on him , and have it destroyed with no one who can be in the position to know about it , the Judge's files , or get their hands on them . Mind twisting movie with a surprise ending that will more then just surprise .
The cradle will rock	SPOILERS Horror story in the real sense of the word in that it's very real among many child bearing women who are too afraid of having children especially their very first . The movie has to do with this young couple Frank and Julie , Lukas Hass & Emily Hampshire , who move out to the country to raise their newborn son Sam , Elisa Madeline Marks . We see right away that Julie is suffering from a severe case of postpartum depression in that she can't as much touch much less take care of her baby Sam . It's up to Frank to do all the parenting for the couples child that in effect is slowly taking a toll on his psychical and mantel health . It's one evening when Frank's finds Julie gone with Sam in his crib not breathing that he completely flips out and in desperation , by pounding on Sam's chest , bring the what looked like dead infant back to life . Later finding Julie aimlessly wandering around in the woods Frank soon realizes that she's completely unable to take care of Sam and tries to get his next door neighbor Helen ( Amada Smith ) , the only person within miles from where he and Julie live , to babysit for their infant boy . As it turns out Helen is even more unstable then Julie is in her having seen her baby sister , who was thought to have been born stillborn , buried alive by her father , Trevor Bain when she was a little girl . It's then that Frank , an the audience , begin to notice that something is seriously wrong not only with Julie and Helen but himself as well . Frank seems to be going in and out of consciousness and reality in regards to both his son Sam and wife Julie . Things happen that just can't be explained , with Julie and Sam , and in become apparent , at least to Frank , that some supernatural force is in control of events . Helen isn't any help either in her rambling about her having the touch of death at anything that he lays her hands on and is afraid if she even touch's Sam , by being his babysitter , he'll end up dead as well . SPOILER ALERT The movie then goes fast backwards to the point where Frank found Sam not breathing and Julie gone and then things suddenly start to crystallize . Like in the film " The Sixth Sense " we and Frank start to see the obvious clues that were overlooked and the shocking conclusion of those suppressed events are far more horrific then those conjured up by a now mentally unbalanced Frank ! " The Cradle " is the kind of film you have to watch at last twice to really understand what its both subconsciously and skillfully trying to tell you . Made on a shoestring budget the movie doesn't have the special effects needed to jump start and keep shocking its audience in order to keep the viewer interested , and awake , in watching it . But if you take the time to really watch and understand what its massage or story is really all about you'll be greatly , if not shockingly , rewarded in your efforts .
Love is Strange	SPOILERS Bittersweet romantic comedy that takes place in Utah with love-struck civil servant Charles , John Heard , who gets stung by the love bug and almost ends up going out of his head because of it . Charles falls literally heads over heels in love with his fellow worker the just separated from her husband Ox ( Mark Metcalf ) Laura , Mary Beth Hunt . Catching Laura on the rebound from her breakup with her estranged husband Ox , who at 6 foot three and all muscles is an ox of a man , has Charles go completely bananas over her to the point where Laura agrees to share an apartment , as well as sleep , with him . As times goes by with Laura starting to get a bit tired of Charles ' possessiveness and pandering to her she decides to leave him and go back to Ox and her stepdaughter , from Ox's previous marriage , nine year-old Rebecca , Algela Philips . It's then that Charles start to lose it with Laura out of his life and him now being pressured by his constantly threatening to kill herself mother Clara , Gloria Grahame , and unemployed live-in best friend Sam , Peter Reigert . It's Charles attempt to win Laura back that really drives him off the edge but in a harmless sort of way . Charles , together with Sam , goes so far as to used the excuse to see Laura that he goes to her home where she's living with Ox and Rebecca to have him , a carpenter , build Charles some wall panelings . It's then , to Ox's both shock and anger , that Charles risking getting his arms twisted out of place pledges his love for Laura who's , embarrassingly , there with him ! As Charles ' efforts to win over a very reluctant Laura goes nowhere he starts to turn nasty towards those at his job who try to be friendly towards him . Charles really turns off Betty , Nora Haflin , who he's been , without her knowledge , using as a go between himself and her best friend at the job who just happens to be Laura . It's out of hurt and frustration that Charles becomes down right nasty to Betty , who seemed to have fallen in love with him , in that she can't bring him and Laura back together . Charles also takes his frustration out at his very kind and accommodating boss Mr . Patterson , Jerry Hardin , who wants him to help his immature son get his head , and love life , on straight . As it turned out the person who could , and in the end did , help Charles out of his pressing problems with Laura is the blind man , Allen Joseph , who has a newspaper & candy stand in the lobby of the building that Charles works in . Always taking Allen for granted and at the same time spilling his heart out to him , about his love Laura , Charles gets the best advice about straightening out the mess that he's got himself into . And sure enough by the time the movie ends Charles finally acts on it . Charles finally gets over his obsession with Laura and at same time gets himself back to sanity . Lovely story about love and how it can drive one crazy if he , or she , can't-when it turns sour-let go of it . A very important lesson in life which took Charles almost the entire movie to figure out . SPOILERS Allen's advice did help but in the end it was Charles who had to take the first step , running what looked the hundred yard dash in less then 10 seconds , to finally have him get over his illogical and almost destructive , to himself and those close to him , love for Laura . P . S The novel " Chilly Scenes of Winter " whom the film " Heads Over Heels " is based on was written by Ann Beattie who has a cameo role in the movie as a waitress .
Fear is the Key	SPOILERS After spending two years in a Communist Chinese POW camp Korean War Vet Capt . Alan Eaton , Dana Andrews , is back home trying to pick up the pieces of his life that he left back in Korea . Not fully recovered from the brainwashing that he received at the hands of the Communist Chinese Eaton gets an even bigger shock when he finds out that his PR firm , Eaton & Baker ass . in now in the hands of Jim McGinnis , Dick Foran . Eaton also finds out , as if he needed any more surprises , that his partner Clark Baker was killed in a hit and run accident the day after he signed away the firm to McGInnis ! Trying to get a hold of himself Eaton soon realizes that what's happening at his former PR firm is a bit underhanded when he's not allowed to see how it's conducting surveys on what concerns the Amercan public . McGinnis uses those surveys to get politicians elected by pushing them on TV radio and the newspapers with reports that he purposely had slanted in their favor . Earlier Eaton got a glimpse of what's going on when he was approached on a flight to Washington D . C by a mysterious Doc . Jessup . Claiming to be a major peace activist Dr . Jessup invites Eaton to join his group and it's later that he finds that he's actually connected with Jim McGinnis and his peace group is a communist front ! It becomes very apparent that McGinnis is using the former Baker & Eaton PR firm to undermined the US government by pushing communist ideas and communist supported politicians on an unsuspecting American public . It also becomes very apparent to Eaton after talking to reporter Rodney Hillyer , Joel Marston , that his partner Clark Baker wasn't killed in a car accident but murdered by McGinnis when he refused to go along with him in making McGinnis a partner in his firm . The film's very complicated plot has Eaton get together with Sen . Walden , Roy Gordon , to expose McGinnis and his fellow travelers Hal & Vivian Loder , Kelly Thordse & Veda Ann Borg , together with Barney Bond , Mel Torme , as working for the communists and have their whole racket put out of business and them behind bars . The evidence that Eaton would need to put McGinnis on ice is the secret set of master cards , that McGinnis keeps under lock and key , that would prove that his surveys aren't on the up and up . It here that Eaton recruits McGinnis ' personal secretary Lorraine Dennis , Marille Earle , to help him break into his office and get the important master cards but what Eaton has to find out is if Lorraine won't turn him in to her boss and have Eaton suffer the same fate that his partner Baker did . Somewhat better then your average " Red Scare " type of movies released by Hollywood during the hight of the Cold War " The Fearmakers " has for once those working for the communist cause doing it for nothing more then capitalistic reasons ; the mighty buck . McGinnis and his gang are not at all interested in what communism is and what good it can do for the people but only in the money that the communists , obviously the Soviet Union , will pay them for their services . Theirs also an added treat in " The Fearmakers " with singer Mel Torme , who doesn't sing a note in the film , as the nerdy Barney Bond who's secretly as well as insanely in love with Lorraine . Berney later in trying to save Lorrine , as well as Eaton , from McGinnis ' hoods who plan to stage an accident for her gets himself shot and later , as he's dying , informs Sen . Walden by phone to what McGinnis is planing to do having the D . C police come to both Lorraine & Eaton's rescue . Totally unnecessary final scene with Eaton having it out with a fleeing McGinnis at the steps of the Lincoln Memorial knocking him unconscious and downs the stairs . All this happens with some dozen cops who could have easily apprehended and arrested McGinnis , who had no were to run anyway , standing around and doing nothing but watching the fight !
An American in Paris	SPOILERS Perry Mason goes international here as he travels to France to defend US Marines Capt . David Breman for the murder of millionaire businessman Felix Altmann . We learn early in the movie that David suspected , with good reason , that Altmann is really former Nazi concentration camp commandant the notorious Hauptsturmfuher Dieter Krugmann of the Midanek death camp in German occupied Poland and has been living undercover in France as businessman Felix Altmann for the last 40 or so years . Ggetting the information that Krugmann is alive and in Paris living under an assumed name from Midanek concentration camp survivor Elsa Remsy David , who's mother Helene is also a survivor of Midanek , wants Krugmann to be brought before the bar of justice and pay for his crimes . The only person who can identify him Mrs . Ramsey is suddenly run down and killed on a Paris street . Coming to the conclusion that Altmann is actually Krugmann David finds out , through his good and close friend American diplomat Curt Mitchell , that he spends his time in a local health spa and goes to see him only to have Altmann gunned down before his eyes by an unknown and unseen assailant . It's a race against time for Perry Mason as he uses delaying tactics to get the evidence to clear Berman of murder before he's convicted by a military court-martial . Perry is hampered by this bunch of doofas wannabe Nazi hunters lead by another concentration camp , this time from Triblika , survivor Otto Rosen a former , or so he says , Polish / Jewish guerrilla freedom fighter . Rosen and his boys , that includes the almost clueless Carl Meyerhoff , do more to screw things up in finding evidence of Berman's innocence then in finding the elusive Commandant Krugmann , if he's in fact alive , himself . Krugmann always seems to be a step ahead of the law and the Nazi hunters out to get him . SPOILERS It's later shown that Krugmann in fact is being helped by the Nazi / SS Odessa Group who have an inside man in the US embassy who tips him off whenever things , like now , start to get hot for him . So who was the murdered Felix Altmann if he's not , as Perry Mason suspects , wanted Nazi war criminal Dieter Krugmann ? Far too complicated to go into detail , without giving away a lot of keys facts , " Desperate Deception " goes on to uncover a major hole in the Nazi hunter Otto Rosen organization that has to do with the fearless Otto himself . Otto is using the organization for his own selfish purposes . It's later in the movie that the real reasons for Otto's obsession with Krugmann comes out that will leave you , as well as everyone in the court house , in a total state of shock . The biggest shock of all comes when you just about thought that the movie was finally over as we start to realize that the Nazis are alive and well and still in control some 45 years after they were blasted out of existence . That is of course in the minds and pens of those screenwriters in Hollywood who still write these kinds of scripts for both the movies and TV .
This movie will turn you into a vegetarian	SPOILERS Watching Farmer Vincent , Rory Calhoun , when he's not at work at the meat shed and ambushing people on the roads for future meat-processing you get the impression of a sweet and kindly old man . A person who's only interest in life is to provide the best meats possible , totally free of any chemical additives , at very affordable prices to an adoring and growing public . Who come from miles around to buy his famous meat products . But behind that benign exterior is a criminal and murderous interior of a deluded and disturbed person . Who together with his gluttonous sister Ida , Nancy Persons , Farmer Vincent would ambush motorists on the roads around his farm and motel and plant them into the ground . With their vocal cords cut , to keep them quiet , and heads sticking out to be force-feed and later turned into Farmer Vincent's famous meats , meats that people would die for . Farmer Vincent does all this for his many adoring eager and growing costumers from all over the country . But like all criminals who always cover their tracks Farmer Vincent makes a fatal mistake one night when he trips and captures a couple riding on a motorbike along the road outside his farm . Vincent leaves one of the bikers Terry , Nina Axelrod , alive and instead of having Terry turned into breakfast links he falls head over heels for her and it's that fatal miscalculation on his part that led to his downfall . Masking his crimes with religious favor in thinking that he's saving the human race from starvation . By providing it with a new source of nourishment Farmer Vincent happily mixes the humans with cows and hogs in his food processing to get the right balance of taste and nutrition that drives people , who buy his meat products , wild . But with him getting involved with Terry brought attention to his underground criminal operation that would expose him to the police as the mad man that he is . Vincent's kid brother Bruce , Paul Linke , also took a serious liking toward Terry and was hurt and outraged when he saw that Terry left him for his old and crazy brother ; and Bruce just happens to be the towns Sheriff . " Motel Hell " is a film about murder and cannibalism with a lot of black comedy mixed in . Even though at times it's very funny it never lets you forget that the human mind when it snaps , like in the case of Farmer Vincent , can be more dangerous then any lethal weapon . The movie ends With the revolt of Farmer Vincent's future hot dogs and hamburgers who broke out of his " secret garden " where he had them buried . As well as an incredible chainsaw battle between Vincent and his kid brother Bruce . With Bruce coming to the rescue of Terry before she's cut into cold-cuts by a meat slicing machine . Farmer Vincent is exposed as a fraud as well as a murder in his criminal enterprise of illegal food-processing when he finally let the truth out for the whole world to hear . The shocking truth that his meat products weren't anywhere as wholesome and nutritious as he and his advertisements for them claimed that they were . As he so painfully admitted what he felt to be was the biggest and most inexcusable crime , in his sick and disturbed mind , that he ever committed : " I Used Preservatives " ! .
The Big Con	SPOILERS A gang of con-artists in the beginning of the film " Confidence " set up and rip-off Lionel Dolby , Leland Orser , of $150 , 000 . 00 . Unknown to them the money is the weekly collection that goes to vicious and unstable mobster Winston King , Dustin Hoffman . King later has Lional shot and dumped in the river and one of the con-artists Al , Louis Lombardi , shot between his eyes . The remaining con-men Jake Gordo & Miles , Edward Burns Paul Giamatti & Brain Van Holt , in fear take off for their lives . Jake goes to see King to make a deal with him to set things straight . Told that he , King , wants 5 million in cash to make up for what Jake and his crew took from him and the whole messy matter would be settled . Jake getting Lily , Rachel Weisz , who showed him her talents earlier in the movie , to replace Al and uses her to hook and reel in Price Bank VP Grant Ashby , John Carroll Lynch . Lily is to get him to give her con-artist friends a lone for 5 million dollars which of course they won't pay back but give it to King in order for him not to have them killed . What's really going on in the movie is that Jake has no intentions at all to pay King off with the 5 million . He does have every intention to pay him back for having Al killed by his hoods but unknown to Jake is that the hood who killed Al is , not now but later , much closer to him then he could possibly have known . The movie " Confidence " is not really about a con but a double or better yet triple-con that not only pays King back for what he did to Al , The film also shakes out a lot of loose and crooked nuts and bolts who are working with Jake and his con-artists friends . We later see Government Special Agent Butan , Andy Garcia , collar two dirty L . A policemen Withworth & Manzano , Donal Logue & Luis Guzman , who work with Jake & Co . with a tape recording of them talking a drug deal . A deal they just made and catching them with two kilo's of drugs in their car trunk . Unknown to the crooked cops is that their being set up to see if their honest more then crooked by guess who ? Meanwhile King thinking that he's in control of the whole situation is about to get the surprise of his life . Like in the movie " The Usual Suspects " the whole story is told in flashback by Jake with a gun pointed to his head . By Travis , Morris Chestnut , a hit-man for mobbed-up bank president Morgan Price of the Price Bank . that Jake and hes fellow con-artists swindled out of 5 million dollars . Complicated but fascinating story with a lingo spoken in the movie by Jake and his friends thats so strange and foreign sounding that the movie makers of " Confidence " should have put in sub-titles . So that those of us watching the movie could fully understand just what was being said .
Mysteries of the Mind	SPOILER ALERT Very dated but still interesting psychological mystery / drama about a man who completely lost it , his memory , and assumed another mans identity who we later get to learn , when he gets his memory back , was murdered in what was thought at first to be a skiing accident . Dr . Tony Edwards , Gregory Peck , is the darling of the tight knit and very exclusive psychoanalysis community and is due to replace one of the most eminent pioneer in psychoanalysis , who studied with the great man of modern psychology Freud himself , Dr . Murchison , Leo G . Carroll . Showing up at the Green Manson Sanitarium to take over the job as its # 1 head-shrinker Dr . Edwards surprises everyone there in how young he looks . That also the fact that he amassed a body of work on psychology , mostly specializing in the complexities and labyrinth of the guilt complex , that would have taken at least twenty years to complete . Edwards looks like he's old enough to have just completed high school . It later turns out that Dr . Edwards is not only an impostor but a mental case himself . He always freaks out every time he sees something as harmless as a white napkin , with fork lines on it , or a pin-strip shirt or coat . Before you know it Dr . Edwards suddenly takes off , in the dead of night , for New York City where It later comes out all his psychological problems began . During his short stay , which lasted just about a day , at Green Manors the very cute and adorable as well as sensitive Dr . Edwards , or whoever he really is , got both psychologically as well as romantically involved with the ice cold psychoanalysts Dr . Constance Peterson , Ingrid Bergman . Who after reading a note that he left her followed him down , from rural Vermont , to the Big Apple in order to get to the bottom of his fears and apprehensions about anything white , with track marks on it . Dr . Peterson also wants to rekindle her hot as a pistol relationship with the cute Dr . Edwards or whoever he really is . Constance finds out that the so-called Dr . Edwards , when she finally finds him , is in fact someone else who turns out to be a mentally disturbed GI . Who was suffering from a case of server shell-shock and was in fact seeing the real Dr . Edwards in order to get help . Hiding whoever he , Dr . Edwards , is out at her former collage professor's Dr . Brulov , Michael Checkov , home in upstate New York Constance has Brulov help her get , whoever the hell he is , his memory back . It turns out that the tall dark and mysterious stranger is a John Ballintine who indeed , like Constance suspected , was being treated by Dr . Edwards ! Putting Ballintine under hypnosis he reveals , in a spaced out Salvador Dali dream sequence , what turned his weak and guilt-ridden brain almost into mush from what he went through . Not only with his relations with Dr . Edwards but also his kid brother whom he accidentally killed and held himself responsible , even though he was completely cleared of it , for it ever since . Interpreting Ballintines far out dream it comes out that Dr . Edwards was actually killed in a skiing accident when he went out on the slops with Ballintine , this seemed to have been part of Dr . Edwards treatment of his psychosis , which is the reason for Ballintines many unexplained freak-outs . The big shocker to all this is that it's later found out at Dr . Edwards autopsy is that he was shot in the back before he fell some 500 feet , off the slopes , to his death ! Could Ballintine be the man who shot him ! The ending was a bit too unbelievable and was obviously it's screen writers , Ben Hecht , attempt to smooth everything out . The totally mind bending final tries to get the guilty party to not only to admit , thus clearing Ballintine , his crime . There's also the fact that the state has an almost impossible case against him with the only evidence , the murder weapon , that can convict him in the killers hands and him having no trouble at all in disposing it . Were then startled to see the killer suddenly gets a glint of conscience , or guilt feeling , and then mindlessly turns his gun on himself and blowing his brains out ! With that the movie " Spellbound " has a what can be called a happy but not too convincing ending .
It's not that people commit suicide because they want to die ! They just want to stop hurting !	SPOILERS Sad but touching made for TV movie involving teenage suicide and it's effects on the person's-who killed himself-family and friends . As both his parents Maggie & Sam Stapp , Meredith Baxter & Bruce Davison , thought their 18 year-old son Jimmy , Peter Facinelli , had everything going for him in school where he's a straight A student and on his high school soccer team where he's the star player . Both of Jimmy's parents didn't quite notice the sever depression that Jimmy was going through until it was too late . That's when Jimmy took his dad's licensed . 38 caliber handgun loaded it with ammunition , that he bought at the local sporting good store , and quietly blew his brains out , This while his parents as well as little sister Rosie , Mea Withman , and brother Billy , Ryan Slater , were attending Sunday Church services ! In trying to cope with his great loss Jimmy's father Sam Stapp just went into a shell in him not as much as going outside to buy the groceries or newspaper . That had Jimmy's mother Maggie become not only the breadwinner for the Stapp family but psychiatrist , in looking after her almost helpless husband Sam , as well . It was Maggie's reluctance to face the truth about her dead son Jimmy in that he in fact killed himself not that he died due to an accidentally shooting , as Maggie always insisted , kept both her and Sam , as well as little Rosie and Billy , from excepting the reality of Jimmy's emotional problems that lead to his suicide . The truth about what made Jimmy kill himself came out in Maggie trying to blame the very people , at school , who tried to help Jimmy while he was still alive : His teacher Susan Johnson , Tina Lifford and school principle Mr . Davies , Raye Birk , as well as his school appointed psychiatrist Dr . Walters , Zeljko Ivanek . It turned out that Jimmy was just giving up on his schoolwork and his training for the school soccer team and going into a deep depression . It's never explained in the film what made Jimmy act this way only that he seemed to have suffered from burn out in trying to please his parents and make them proud of him . Even the letters that his teacher and principle sent to his parents were intercepted by Jimmy who forged his mom's signature making it look like she , and Sam , got word about her very troubled son . It took a lot for Maggie to accept her son's Jimmy's suicide which almost wrecked her family with Sam and the kids , Rosie & Billy , at one point in the movie leaving Maggie in order to get away from her constant quarrels with them over Jimmy . With Sam's insistence Maggie was finally persuaded , after at first refusing , to get help by attending a support group of persons who lost a loved one because of them killing themselves that had her overcome Jimmy's tragic death . The death of someone close to you is tragic enough but when that person took his , or her , own life makes it that much worse . Maggie in her effort to convince herself that her son's death was somehow an accident didn't help her in the fact , suicide or not , that he was no longer with her . It also made her husband Sam an emotional cripple in , by her constantly hinting at it , that it was his gun that caused Jimmy's , either suicide or accidental shooting , death . It was with the help of Sam and the people in the support group that Maggie finally accepted Jimmy's killing himself and thus was able to put it behind her and go out and face what the future held for her .
Imprisoned by Guilt	( There are Spoilers ) Driving down a lonely country road one rainy afternoon Joanna Kndall , Margaret Colin , is distracted for a brief moment and runs down a little girl riding a bicycle on the side of the roadway . Doing what she can to keep the injured youngster comfortable Joanna goes to call for help at a local service station . Before she can give her name Joanna hangs up the phone in order to get back to the girl and see if she's all right ; it's then and there when the nightmare begins for Joanna . Heart-wrenching drama that can effect any one of us when you try to do the right thing but are influenced by the words and feelings of those around you . Getting back to the accident site Joanna sees it's cordoned off by the highway police . Before she can tell them what happened , and her involvement in it , Joanna starts to have second thought about turning herself in . What would at first have been a tragic accident turns out to be a hit-and-run with Joanna facing time behind bars , if caught . Even far worse she has to live with herself in what she did seeing almost every day the family of the little girl she ran down Kelly Corey , Dallas Deremer , who goes to the same school as her two daughters Mindy & Holly , Gretchen Esau & Kira Posey . Joanna's life starts to come apart as she tries to keep the truth from her friends and family , not to mention the Eaton Police , of what she was involved with in little Kelly's accident . You can easily see how the words of her friends and neighbors as well as her husband Doug , Drew Phillbury , about the hit and run , effected Joanna . It was those words that had Joanna unable to bring herself to admit what she did not just for her own concern but her two daughters and her husband as well . Feeling that they'll be shunned by the people that they knew as friends as well as neighbors for years . Joanna on the verge of losing her mind tries to implicate her friend Nancy Grayson , Sherry Hursey , in Kelly's hit-and-run accident by trying to plant her earing , that she lost in Joanna house , at the accident site . It's then that she realizes what she's doing and suddenly stops , keeping her from making an already bad situation even worse , not wanting to have Kelly's accident but also innocent Nancy's freedom and reputation on her conscience as well . Margraet Colin gives a stunning performance as the guilt ridden Joanna Kendall and you can really feel for her seeing how she's being eaten up inside and not knowing just what to do . Wanting at first to turn herself in to the police a series of miscalculations causes Joanna to become a fugitive from the law . When she eventually did Joanna became the most hated and despised person in Eaton . Not being herself , when still at large , Joanna's husband starts to feel that she's either back to smoking or even having an affair . Never in a million years would Doug have thought that Joanna was the person who ran down little Kelly and left her to die on that rain soaked road ! The look on his face , with his mouth quivering , when he found out the truth said it all . The last few minutes of the movie took a lot out of you knowing what Joanna was going through , not to downplay the suffering of the injured Kelly Corey and her parents , and how she now has to face the music for what she did and have to live with it for the rest of her life .
Still Life	( Minor Spoilers ) Director Robert Benton borrows from at least seven Alfred Hitchcock films : Spellbound ( 1945 ) Rear Window ( 1954 ) Vertigo ( 1958 ) North by Northwest ( 1959 ) Psycho ( 1960 ) The Birds ( 1963 ) and Marnie ( 1964 ) and comes up with a pretty fair Hitchcockian thriller of his own in " Still of the Night " . The film centers on Brooke Reynolds , Meryl Streep , an antique dealer at the Crispin Antique & Auction House in New York City . Brooke's fellow dealer and lover George Bynum , Josef Sommer , was found murdered the night before and he was a patient of Dr . Sam Rice , Roy Scheider , his psychiatrist who she went to see to give him a watch that George left in her apartment . Brooke wants Dr . Rice to give the watch back to George's wife in order for her not to find out that she was having an affair with him . Dr . Rice agrees to return it to Mrs . Bynum but can't get over the alluring and beautiful Brooke and slowly falls in love with her which gets him involved with his dead patient and Brooke's lover George . Dr . Rice is trying to get over an failed marriage himself and Brooke coming into his life at this important time seems to be just the right medicine for him but it's the baggage that she carries with her , her lovers murder , that puts him in danger as well as Brooke herself . " Still of the Night " is a very stylish thriller with almost no action at all until the final scene and thats what makes the movie work . Roy Scheider is perfect as the meek and troubled psychiatrist Dr . Sam Rice who takes it upon himself to solve his patients murder as he falls in love with Brooke who may have had something to do with it . The usually two-fisted and tough Roy Scheider is very good as the withdrawn and inoffensive Dr . Sam Rice who's driven to solve George's murder in order to clear Brooke from being blamed for it which seems to be whats being made to happen by George's killer . Dr . Rice is also somewhat of a mama's boy with his psychiatrist mom Grace , Jessica Tandy , giving him advice on his breakup with his wife and the solving of George's murder . There's a very good dream sequence in the movie " Still of the Night " much like the one in " Spellbound " that bring out what was really going on between George & Brooke as well as Brooke's dark secret that the killer somehow found out about and was using it to set up and implicate Brooke for George's murder . Meryl Streep , who known more for being an excellent Academy Award winning actress then a beauty queen , was never more beautiful as well as classy as Brooke Reynolds , the mystery woman with a secret who knew much more then what she lead Dr . Rice to believe . Miss . Streep is such a turn-on in the film that even with all her clothes on she had more sex appeal then both Britney Spear and Madonna put together with their clothes off . In fact the only scene that Meryl Streep was nude had nothing to do with her affair with Dr . Rice but when he came to her apartment and was startled to find her getting a rub-down from her masseur Mr . Chang , Hyon Cho ; WHAT A LUCKY GUY HE IS . " Still of the Night " turned off a lot of movie viewers because of it's slow pace and lack of any steamy scenes between Dr . Rice and Brooke Reynolds as well as it's almost total lack of action until the very last minutes of the movie . But it substituted all that with a well thought out story and as for the lack of sex thats exactly what made the movie , or better yet Brooke Reynold , so sexy . Brooke was so gorgeous that she came across as being almost untouchable , and rightly so . A woman as attractive as her should only be looked upon with awe and admiration and not be manhandled , at least until the lights are turned off .
Smoke & Mirrors	( Some Spoilers ) Having carried a torch for John " Johnny Boy " Buchanan , Laurence Harvey , since childhood Alma Winemiller , Geraldina Page , had almost forgotten about him until he unexpectedly showed up , in his jalopy , at a Forth of July fireworks display at his and Alma's home town of Glorious Hill Mississippi . Johnny had been away for years studying medicine in order to fill his old man's Dr . Buchanan , John McIntire , shoes as the towns doctor . It doesn't take long to figure out what Johnny really is in his both arrogant and condescending display of hubris towards both Alma and his dad . Having hit every whore house gambling den and ginmill from Virginia to Mississippi Johnny got back home ten days late outraging his dad who refused to let him stay at his house . Spending the evening at the notorious Moon Lake Casino Johnny got right back into action gambling drinking and striking up a hot and heavy relationship with the joints owner Papa Zacharias ' , Thomas Gomez , hot to trot and hot blooded daughter Rosita , Rita Marino . Johnny in a effort to put the hurt on Alma , the town preacher's daughter , who's alway pestering and annoying him about the goodness of the soul lets it out that he plans to wed the fiery and anything goes Rosita . Angry and deeply hurt Alma gets in touch with Dr . Buchanan at his clinic about Johnny's wild and uncontrollable lifestyle that in the end might well end up killing him . Rushing home to bang some sense , and morality , into his son's head Dr . Buchanan finds the placed a total wreck . With dead drunk party goers , including Johnny Boy , and empty whiskey bottles littering the place Dr . Buchanan spots Papa Zacharias plopped down on his , Dr . Buchanan , favorite easy chair and completely loses it . Before Johnny , who's upstairs smashed on booze , could stop it Old Man Buchanan starts to beat the barley sober Papa Zacharias who in self defense pulls out a gun and blasts him away . Johnny seeing what a mess he made and not even being forgiven by his dad , on his death bed , turns over a new leaf and goes straight . Straight to his now deceased old man's clinic finishing the work , in saving the townspeople from a deadly epidemic , that Dr . Buchanan started . Alma who wanted to straighten Johnny out , in him seeing the light , during the entire movie succeeded beyond her wildest dreams ! Johnny became so spiritual that he , in respecting Alma's wishes , refused to have anything psychical , or sexual , to do with poor Alma ! Treating her as if she were an unapproachable and untouchable Goddess instead of a real live and wanting to be sexually fulfilled woman ! Johnny throwing away his wild life of womanizing and drinking ends up marrying young , who's 19 years old compared to Alma's 35 , Nellie Wells , Pamela Tiffin , who was once a student in Alma's Bible Sunday-school & singing class . Alma now left out in the cold losing the only man that she was ever in love with ends up doing what she tried to , successfully , save Johhny from doing . Alma gives into the sinful lifestyle that Johnny , with her help , just threw away ! Discarding her strong religious upbringing Alma ends up going to the Moon Lake Casino with Archie , Earl Holliman , a lonely traveling salesman , whom she picked up in town , to have a wild crazy and wonderful time with ! Beautifully photographed , in lushes color , the movie " Summer and Smoke " greatly benefited from the wonderful acting of Geraldine Page as the spinster religious and ultra sensitive daughter of the towns preacher Reverand Winemiller , Malcolm Attenburg . We also can't leave out the great acting contribution in the film by British actor Laureance Harvey . The very British , as well as Lithuanian / Jewish , Mr . Harvey seemed to have made a name for himself in playing Southerners as well as lovable heels all throughout his great but unfortunately short , Harvey died in 1973 from stomach cancer at age 46 , movie and stage career .
Law of the Jungle	SPOILERS Early disaster-like movie that has some dozen or so people stranded in the dangerous head-hunter infested and uncharted South American jungle after their plane crash landed in a violent tropical storm . With only enough food and drinking water to last for about a month the plane passengers try to fix the disabled plane so that they can fly out of the valley that their stuck in before the head-hunters get a lock on them and move in for the kill . The movie " Five came Back " has an unlikely hero in the person of convicted assassin and anarchist Vasques , Joesph Calleia . Vasques is was to be brought back to Panama by bounty hunter Mr . Chimp , John Carradine , to be hung for his crimes against that country's leadership . We get to see Vasquez lose his hostility to humanity and the world at large when he's confronted with the kindness shown to him by the elderly Professor Henry , and his wife Martha , Spengler , C . Aubrey Smith & Elisabeth Risdon . If there were more like you , Vasquez heart-fully tells Prof . Spengler , in the world there would be less like me . Mr . Chimp who's interest in the $5 , 000 . 00 reward for turning in Vasquez is superseded by his wanting to save his life from being captured and beheaded by the head-hunters . This fear on Chimp's part has him make a blind and drunken run for it in the dark and unfriendly jungle , only to be killed by a native's poison dart blow gun . The rich and arrogant playboy Judson Ellis , Patrick Knowles , who's eloping with his sweetheart Alice Melbourne , Wendy Barrie , becomes panic-stricken when he realizes that his money can't buy him everything ; as Vasquez tells him that he's , together with himself and the Spengler's who volunteered to stay , to be one of those left behind . the rest of the stranded passengers and crew which includes Alice and the planes pilot Bill Brooks , Chester Morris , and co-pilot Joe ( Kent Taylor ) , whom Alice fell in love with . Together with young five-year-old Tommy Mulvaney , Casey Johson , who's dad , Pat O'Malley , was just the victim of a mob rub-out in San Francisco together . There's also a 28 year-old pre - " I Love Lucy " Lucille Ball as the tough-talking dame with the heart of gold Peggy Noland . The now ready to fly plane is to take take off as soon the jungle drums stop beating and the head-hunters slowly move in to finish the survivor's off one by one . Tommy's guardian and his dad's best friend Pete , Allen Jenkins , was also one of those passengers who didn't make it back when he was shot and killed by a poison dart from a head-hunter's blow gun . Vasquez telling Professor Spengler that he has three bullets left in his revolver , to do them and himself in before the head-hunters get a hold of them , really has only two and uses them on the elderly couple . We then see the plane , with the five who came back , fly off over the jungle sky and into the safety of modern 20th century civilization . With Vasquez himself feeling in some strange sort of way a sense of freedom and redemption due to the unique turn of events that he finds himself in . By outliving his captor Mr . Chimp and denying his life to his Panamanian executioners , Vasquez now faces death at the hands of the jungle head-hunters . Whom to them the only crime that he committed was not being a member of their tribe .
Believe It !	SPOILERS Not your average cops and serial killer flick " 88 Minutes " has 65 year-old college professor Dr . Jack Gramm , Al Pacino , does more running during the movie's 108 minutes , that takes place in real time , and is involved in more murderers , mostly of the students in his class , then in a Boston Marathon and Bruce Willis action movie . Jacks troubles begins just when convicted serial killer " The Seattle Slasher " Jon Foster , Neal McDonough , is about to be executed in Washington State's Wala Wala prison . Jack's expert testimony was the reason for Foster being convicted in some half dozen brutal and sadistic murders of female collage students . With the execution scheduled within 24 hours the murder of Dale Morris , Kristina Copeland , surfaces and throws Fosters date with death into total chaos . Not only was Dale murdered the exact same way that Foster murdered his victims she was also a student in Jack class and even more ironic , or disturbing for Jack , was with Jack just hours before she was murdered ! Jack was never liked by the local police and the FBI in his wired methods , which was just plain double-talk , in getting juries to convict persons whom he , as a forensic psychiatrist , testified against as an expert witness for the prosecution . It now becomes apparent to the FBI that Jack may himself have been responsible for the slew of killings that the now to be executed Foster is to pay with his life for . With Jack trying to prove his innocence , in the Dale Morris murder , he's suddenly contacted on his cell-phone by this person who cryptically tells him that he's just got 88 minutes left to live ! This mystery caller is on Jack back , or cell-phone , during the entire movie giving an up to date , or minute by minute , countdown to his own murder ! If you try not to be too critical of the movies very obvious plot holes which you would expect in a film like " 88 Minutes " , which was far better then Pacino's likewise police action thriller " Heat " , it's not really as bad as most people say it is . Jack instinctively knows that Foster , from his jail cell on death row , is somehow orchestrating not only his impending murder but also having his students murdered by one of his many fans on the outside . Just like serial killer Ted Bundy the handsome and All-American-looking Foster has attracted a huge following while behind bars . The people who are Foster supporters are not doing it because of his crimes but in the thought that he was innocent and railroaded into prison and death row by non other then Dr . Jack Gramm ! The person who now , with the murders of people that Jack is very intimate with , who actually committed the murders that Foster was convicted of ! Not one of Al Pacino's best , compared to his Michael Corleone in the " Godfather " movies of that of the money lender Shylock in " The Merchant of Venice " but with what little he had to work with Pacino made the film far more entertaining that it would have been with a much less talented actor . SPOILER ALERTThe movie also has playing a good guy for once William Forsythe as FBI Special Agent Frank Parks . Agent Parks , like everyone else in the movie , is anything but supportive in Jack assertions that he's being targeted for death by Foster groupies outside the prison . Parks feels that Jack is not only lying but covering up his own crimes that he framed Foster with . As the minutes tick away and Jack's , with Agent Parks finally believing him , life about to be snuffed out the only thing left for him now is to come face to face with whoever is setting him up for the kill ! And by Jack doing that he's knowingly playing right into that murderous psycho's hands !
Da da Daaaaa	( There are Spoilers ) Finding embedded in a rock , along the Amazon River in Brazil , what looks like a over-sized catchers mitt Prof . Carl Maia , Antono Morero , feels that he made the rock-hard discovery or the century : the remains of an aquatic human-like creature , dating back to the Devonian Era . This discovery can be the the very first link to what turned out to become the human race . Getting an expiation together and going into the uncharted , and undiscovered , Amazon Basin Prof . Maia together with a crew of scientists lead by Dr . Mark Williams , Richard Dennings , get to his campsite . There they find that his two Indian guides were butchered by some strange monster from the deep . It turns out that this creature has been living in the lagoon for millions of years without any contact with the outside world . Now that his domain had been invaded and disturbed he's out for blood and won't stop until all those who trespassed into his kingdom , the Black Lagoon , are eliminated . The " Gillman " at first is a bit confused of what's happening and just goes out in the water to observe what the humans are doing . When it becomes obvious that their out to get him , dead or alive , and bring him back to civilization , as the scientific find of the century , he goes bananas and sets out to attack and kill everyone on board the science ship Rtia . The Gillman has just one weakness , he gets distracted by the beautiful assistant of Dr . Williams Kay ( Julie Adams ) whom the Gillman , or creature , wants to keep alive all for himself as a playmate as well as a mate . Even though Dr . Williams wants to go as far as killing the creature the sensitive second-in-command of the expiation Dr . David Reed , Richard Carlson , is dead set against it . Dr . Reed wants to leave the creature alone and just bring back photographic proof that he exists . This causes great friction between the two explorers . The creature meanwhile barricades the Rita into the Black Lagoon by blocking the exit route , with logs and tree branches . Setting up the movie's finale conflict between man and beast or creature . The creature goes on the attack killing a number of Rita crewmen and almost rips Dr . Thompson's ( Whit Bissell ) , another member of the expiation , face off Later the creature is put to sleep with the underwater knock-out drug Rotenone that Dr . Reed sprays in his face in a tense and deadly underwater encounter . Put in an underwater cage , on the Rita , the creature easily breaks out , after the effects of the drug wears off . Goes back into attack mode the creature has it out in an underwater battle royal with both Dr . Reed and Dr . Williams who he ends up killing . By dragging him down to the bottom of the lagoon and cutting off his air supply . The creature finally gets what he's been after all along , Julie , by boarding the Rita and snatching her up , while everyone else on board is looking the other way . In the end the effects of the Rotenone and a number of spear-gun wounds have taken the wind out of " The Gillman " , or creature . After taking Julie to his secret hideout or " pad " , an underground cave , the creature just about had it staggering along the shore , like a drunk , and plopping into the river with David and the crew of the Rita letting him get away . Eye-popping underwater photography makes the movie " The Creature from the Black Lagoon " one of the best horror films released in the 1950's . The Gillman does return in two more sequels , " Revenge of the Creature " in 1955 and " The Creature Walks Among Us " in 1956 , until he was finally put out to pasture , or sea , by the Universal Pictures Studios .
Charles Stewart Parnell : A man who betrayed his country or a man whom his country betrayed ?	Epic motion picture about the life times and loves of the immortal Irish patriot Charles Stewart Parnell , Clark Gable , who fought for Irish independence and home rule from the hated and oppressive British Empire . In the end Parnell succumb not to British power bullets or gallows or even his fellow Irishmens infighting but to the woman that he loved Mrs . Katie O'Shea , Myrna Loy . It was Katie's social climbing husband Captain Willie , Alan Marshal , who exposed his love affair with his wife Katie in order to get back at him . Parnell was a man who never turned away from a good fight and his career in Irish / British politics was filled with battles that he both fought and won against almost unbelievable odds . Yet when it came to defend himself in the divorce trial of his love Katie O'Shea he just refused to stand up and fight like a man for her and his honor . Katie's husband Willie never loved her and just kept her around , not giving her the divorce that she begged him for , for only political reasons and nothing else . Coming back to his beloved Ireland after visiting his mother in the United States Parnell is quickly caught up in the vicious and cold-hearted attempt by the British to drive tens of thousands of Irish families out of their homes and farms in a major land-grab on their part . Being himself arrested for inciting violence , which was a bald-faced lie on the part of the British government , Parnell in fact called on his fellow Irishmen to refrain from violence and fight their brutal British overlords with the power of the vote instead . Being framed for the infamous May 6 , 1882 Dublin Phoenix Park murders of British foreign secretary Fredrick Cavendish and his aid T . H Burke , Parnell stood on trial for his life and forced the issue when he got the Irish editor Richard Piggot , Neil Fitzgerald , to admit that he forged the letters supposedly written by the Innocent Parnell taking credit for the two British diplomats murders . Exposed on the stand as both a liar and a fraud a shaken Piggot asks to be excused so he can go outside the courtroom for some air and then proceeds to blow his brains out . Parnell now on the verge of his greatest and most sought after political victory , Irish autonomy and independence , is back-stabbed by his lovers , Kate O'Shea's , scheming husband Willie who exposes his affair with his wife by suing Katie for divorce . Refusing to defend himself feeling that his , and Katie's , personal life is nobody's business Parnell is then about to be thrown out of the newly formed Irish Parliament that he , more then anyone else , was responsible from being brought into existence in the first place . With a lifetime of battles under his belt Parnell's decision to turn away from this one the nasty and publicized O'Shea divorce lead him , by the vicious attacks on Katie and himself in the press , to suffer an emotional and physical collapses . In the end Parnell died from pneumonia on October 6 , 1891 at the very young age of 45 ; Parnell was married to Katie some six months at the time of his death . Nowhere as bad as it's critics said it was back in 1937 " Parnell " gives a very accurate description of one of Ireland's most beloved sons and charismatic statesman and Clark Gable is very good in the role as the fiery but tragic Charles Stewart Parnell . The only thing that was bit too overdone in the film was Parnell's long and drawn out illness which could have been at least cut in half so the movie wouldn't have turned out to be a boring TV soap opera . Besides that " Parnell " is one of the best biographies to come out of Hollywood back then in the 1930's .
Stranger in the house	SPOILERS Well made and interesting film about the alienated youth of America back in the 1950's . Back in those days many parents caught up with making big bucks and living high on the hog forget that their children , especially teen-agers , needed a lot more then a car and and hefty allowance in order to feel part of the family . They also needed love and attention , to their growing up problems , which is what 16 year-old Hal Ditmar , James MacArthur never got from his successful movie producer dad Mr . Tom Ditmar , James Daly . Never really connecting with his dad Hal grows more and more distant from both him and his caring mom Helen Ditmar , Kim Hunter , as well as from society . After his dad put Hal down about him wanting to borrow his car , a late model luxury sedan , he and his friend Jerry , Jeffery Silver , drive in Hal's beat up and barley operational 1930's jalopy to the local treater to catch the latest western flick . Feeling like striking out at the world Hal acts like a real first-class jerk sticking his smelly feet almost into the faces of a couple , Eddie Ryder & Jean Corbett , sitting in front of him and Jerry trying to watch the movie . This leads Hal , as well as his friend Jerry , to not only be kicked out of the theater but with him belting the theater manager Mr . Grebbs , Whit Bissell . It turned out that at least Hal was willing to leave the theater , without even getting his money back , but when Grebbs tries to grab him Hal wheeled around and belted him right in the kisser . Hal now in real hot water , he's charged with assault and battery , put's on his " James Dean " act , at the local police station , making like he's either too cool or just plain stupid to realize what he's done ; almost knocked Mr . Grebbs teeth out . It's when Sgt . Shipley , James Gergory , tells Hal that his dad is coming to pick him up when he finally sobers up to the fact of what he's done . The rest of the film has Hal try to straighten himself out but is unable to do that because the low esteem that his dad has of him . Begging his father to understand that what he did , in belting Mr . Grebbs , was in self-defense Hal's father acts as if he's been there , at the theater , and saw the whole incident with his son Hal acting like a street thug instead of of a young man being grabbed and pushed without provocation . Not excusing what Hal did , in laying out Mr . Grebbs , he in fact was willing to admit his hooligan behavior but he wanted both Mr . Grebbs and his dad to at least treat him with an iota of consideration ; Gebbs in the fact that he provoked Hal and Mr . Ditmas in not even bothering to hear him out ! Feeling like a wanted criminal without anyone , but his mom , to really turn too Hal slowly loses it only to later have both Sgt . Shipley and Mr . Grabbs agree to drop the assault charge . You would think that by now Hal's has finally learned his lesson but the real lesson , more then a stretch behind bars , that Hal's so desperately needed was a lesson that his father totally ignored ! Being there when his son needed him most and in that Mr . Ditmar failed with flying colors . Things do in fact straighten out for everyone in the movie only after Mr . Grebbs gets belted , ending up with a butte of a shiner , again by Hal who , going back to Grebbs theater , tries to get him to phone his dad and tell him that Hal was only defending himself when he first , not the second time around , clobbered him . In the end Hal learned a real lesson in getting along with people an not letting his problems become other peoples problems . But most of all Hal's father Mr . Ditmar learned the most valuable lesson of all in how to understand his frustrated and alienated son and act like a father toward him instead of a combination jail-keeper and a sugar daddy . Like the song says " All you need s Love " to get things on the right track and it was both love and understanding for his son Hal that Mr . Ditmar , until the very end of the movie , lacked the most off .
I misjudged you , your not stupid your crazy !	SPOILERS Some 365 million miles from earth on the Jupiter moon of Io a corporate mining company is hard at work drilling for titanium and is breaking all records in digging up the precious medal but at the cost of the lives of many of it's employees . When William O'Neil , Sean Connery , is given the job of security on Io he begins to notice a number of miners have gone off the deep end and ended up doing themselves in . The movie is more about everyday crime back her on earth then a futuristic look at space travel and colonization of the outer planets and their satellites , moons , in that it has to do with illegal drugs thats being given to the workers at Io to increase their endurance . This is done in order to drive the workers beyond their capabilities to the point where they end up with their brains being fried that leads to them going insane and killing themselves . O'Neil having the bodies of a number of dead miners checked out , by having their blood tested , and to the company doctor Lazarus , Frances Sternhag , shock and surprise it's found out that they've been injected with the synthetic and very deadly amphetamine PDE . Even worse the drug is being shipped into Io hidden in it's food supply with the full knowledge and approval of the satellites general manager Sheppard , Peter Boyle , whom O'Neil as Io security chief is working for ! The movie has O'Neil realizing that the deadly drug PDE is being used to get the miners to work twice as hard , and long , as normal in order to get lagging production up is in effect driving the overworked and sleep deprived men to go insane and leading them to take their own lives or killing , in a drug induced frenzy , other workers . Sheppard in an effort to stop O'Neil from preventing the drugs from getting to Io has a number of corporate hit-men sent to the Jupiter moon to put an end to O'Neil's attempt and have him and his honchos arrested and put on trial for drug trafficking . A " High Noon " like final with O'Neil on his own with none of his deputies willing to help him in combating the disembarking hit-men . O'Neil has it out with the corporate killer not inside the sealed and safe working and living quarters of Io but outside in the deadly zero atmosphere conditions where nature , more then anything else , is far more deadly then any of the weaponry that both the hit-men or O'Neil can muster . With all the fighting going on outside inside everyone is too busy getting drunk to even notice whats happening until O'Neil , who with the help of Dr . Lazarus , after dispatching the hit-men confronts Sheppard , who seems to be completely out of it , and puts him to sleep and out cold with a straight right to the kisser .
Changeling : A child secretly exchanged for another	( There are Spoilers ) Coming home from work at the L . A Telephone Company , where she's a supervisor , Christine Collins , Angelina Jolie , finds that her nine year old son Water , Gaittin Griffith , had gone missing . Going to the police to file a missing persons report Christine runs into the first of many horrors she suffers throughout the film in the police's indifference to finding her son Walter . It's when the police finally locate Walter some five months later in a diner at far off DeKalb Illinois that Christine's problems , instead of ending , star to intensify . The boy isn't her missing son Walter and what's more the L . A police-who took the credit in locating and returning " Walter " to her-in wanting to finally close the case insist that he is ! So much so that they have Christine committed to an insane asylum when she refuses to go along with them ! True story about the Wineville Chicken Coop Murders committed by the deranged Gordon Northcott , Jason Butler Hanner , back in 1928 that stunned the entire nation . The person who unknowingly uncovered these ghastly ax murders-Christine Collins-almost ended up being committed for life in an insane asylum by the very police who's job it was to solve them . It was when L . A Det . Lester Ybarra , Michael Kelly , interviewed this 15 year-old Canadian runaway Sandford Clark , Eddie Anderson , that the truth-about the ax murders - finally saw he light of day . It was Sandford who identified a photo of Walter Collins as one of his crazed Uncle Gordon's victims that cracked the case wide open . Uncovering the victims , as many as 20 , at the Northcott Ranch not only leads to the arrest of Gordon Northcott but the indictment of the L . A police in their total incompetence in not chasing down the clues , in the case of the missing Walter Collins , that may have prevent any more murders from happening . SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT DOWN Besides the tragic story about the missing Walter Collins-who in fact was never found dead or alive - and what his mother Christine went through to find him the " Changeling " also shows the amount of corruption that existed in the LAPD back then and how it allowed , with the police participating in it , crime to get out of hand in the " City of Angels " . Gordon Northcott who was sentenced to be executed at San Quentin Prison was still up to his old tricks when he , from his cell in solitary confinement , sent Christine a telegram expressing remorse for his crimes and willing to tell her if her son Walter was in fact one of his victims . This lead to one of the most explosive scenes in the entire movie with Christine , while visiting him in a holding cell with a prison guard present , smacked Northcott silly when she realized that he was , by pulling her leg in what he knew about Walter , just extending her suffering for his own sick and perverted pleasure ! As for Northcott he was to meet his maker the very next morning , on the San Quentin gallows , and that , unlike his sickening game of cat and mouse he played with Christine the previous day , was nothing for him to laugh about !
Trying to ride out the storm	( Spoiler Alert ) If it wasn't from Jason Miller's smoldering performance as the troubled paranoid and eventually doomed L . A mobster Cooper the movie " The Nickel Ride " would just die on the screen as soon as the opening credits stopped rolling . Playing a low-level hood involved in the storage of stolen mob merchandise , at a warehouse complex that he runs in the city , Cooper is no longer of any use to his new mob bosses who feel that his old ways of doing things is just not cutting it in this modern era of organized crime . After 19 years on the job and being the best at it Coop's days are numbered as the syndicated is now planning to have him retired permanently . With his immediate boss Carl , John Hllerman , feeding him this line of bull about how he's falling behind in his work and now his mob boss want an even bigger piece of his cut from his storage and selling business . Carl comes to an agreement with Cooper on his payoff to the head mobsters to be increased from $8 , 500 . 00 to just under $20 , 000 . 00 . Things just don't seem to be going right for Cooper senses that somehow he's being set up for a " Hit " and all this talk about him not coming through for his mob bosses is really a diversion to keep him from realizing that . They don't really care how his operation , or block , is going they just want him to have him drop his guard in order to have him whacked and then replaced . Cooper get a message , of sorts , when his friend Paulie , Lou Frizzeli , who manages boxer Tonozzi , Mark Gordon , ends up murdered because he couldn't get his boxer to throw a fight that the mob bet heavy on for Tonozzi to lose . Feeling he still has his " touch " with the mob bosses Cooper did his best to call the " Hit " on Paulie off . When he got the bad news about Paulie from the hoodlum who " Hit " him Bobby , Richard Evens , Cooper getting him alone on an elevator almost kills him ; this convinced his bosses from Carl on up that he's not suitable in their new reconstructed business and has to go . Being introduced by Carl to his out-of-town driver Turner , Bo Hopkins , who's always in Cooper's face and obnoxious to the point where Cooper has nightmares about him being the " hit-man " sent by the new mob bosses to do him in . Cooper tries to get in touch with an old associate of his Elias , Bart Burns , to meet him outside of the city at his country home in a desperate attempt to stave off the " Hit " , that he feels thats coming . In the end Cooper sees that all his fear and paranoia had some truth to it with Elias never showing up and him and his girlfriend Shara , Linda Haynes , alone in the woods with Turner seeming to be behind every tree and ready to finish him as well as Shara off . Surreal and dark thriller that has a number of fine twists and turns in it but it's obvious from the start that the dye was cast and Cooper was to become history by the time the movie ends . There were a number of off-beat moments in the film that didn't seem to make much sense with a dream sequence involving Turner at Cooper's country home that to me came across like an alternate ending that was left in the movie by it's director by mistake . The actual ending in the film with Turner and Cooper at his office in L . A was also very hard to accept since it made the sly and methodical Turner come across unbelievably unprofessional as a professional hit-man .
Profits before People	( There are Spoilers ) Going on a fact finding trip to Loki Kenya with her fellow investigator Dr . Arnold Bluhm , Herbert Kounde , social activist Tessa Quayle , Rachel Weisz , says goodbye to her British diplomat husband Justin , Ralph Fiennes . Tessa doesn't realize that it's the last time that he'll ever see her alive . Tessa is later found gunned down with her African driver on the banks of Lake Turnaka with Arnold no where to be seen . Arnold , who's secretly gay , who was wrongfully reported to be having an affair with Tessa , was later found hanging upside down on a tree limb in the African bush viciously and savagely militated most likely by Tessa's killers . Justin now on a mission to find the cause of his wife's murder goes to Kenya and uncovers a scheme that was secretly worked out on three different continent's . to make a few people filthy rich at the expense of millions of Africans who put their lives and trust in them : the pharmaceutical industry . Notably KDH pharmaceuticals that make the anti-tuberculosis drug Dypraxa . A bit disjointed the movie " The Constant Gardener " jumps from the present to the past in a number of flashbacks that seem to come without warning . That's about the only thing that I can find wrong with the movie . It's basic story is about political and corporate corruption that's straight out of todays headlines . Tassa a long time whistle blower finds that KDH is pushing it's so-called wonder drug Dypraxa on unsuspecting Africans . These Africans are dying by the thousands because of it as well as from major TB epidemic that broke out in Africa and is threatening to engulf the entire world . Tessa gets the facts about Dypraxa from her and Justin's good friend and British diplomat Sandy Woodrow , Danny Huston , with the promise to Sandy that she'll keep quit about it , the secret report . Tessa instead is about to go public to the UN and spill the goods about KDH . That will postponed Dypraxa from coming on the open market for as long as three years if at all . It would also end up costing KDH's stockholders tens of millions of dollars . That's also something that KDH , as well as all the drug companies that have a stake in in the drug Dypraxa , can't well afford to let happen . Justin goes to Kenya to find what was really behind Tessa ' death and becomes a marked man as he comes to the same conclusion that she did . The drug companies were using the people of Africa as human guinea pigs for their experimental drugs and that was resulting in the deaths of tens of thousands of them . It was only when Justin went to see Tessa ' friend and fellow activist Ghita Person , Archie Panjabi , in Holland that it , the brutal honest truth , finally sank in . Justin was beaten within an inch of his life by drug company goons who told him that this is his last warning to stop and desist from looking into and exposing their company's unsavory and criminal actions . Justin later finds out that his and Tessa ' close friend , as well as her secret lover , Sandy Woodrow was the one , together with drug company doctor Lobeer ( Pete Postlethwaite ) , who fingered Tessa's whereabouts to KDH . Woodrow also ratted her out to other major drug companies , government front man Sir Bernard Pellegrin . Bill Nighy , the day that she let for Kenya that resulted in her and Dr . Bluhm's murder . It has to be sad that both Sandy and Dr . Lobeer had no idea that what they told Pellegrin would lead to this terrible tragedy . They were only trying to keep their jobs in the medical and diplomatic world . They just thought that Tessa would be detained or thrown out of the country , Kenya , as an undesirable alien but never murdered . Justin now knowing what was really behind Tessa's death and not wanting to live without her decides to share the same fate that she did . Justin goes to Lake Turnaka , the site of Tessa's murder , and waits for the end to come and he doesn't have to wait long . The ending is a bit too optimistic for a down beat movie like " The Constant Gardener " with Sir . Pellegrin and his drug companies , that he fronted for , being exposed at a public form in London . Even that was a little too late with Justin now dead , and nobody willing to stand up and tell the truth . A gigantic epidemic of a deadly and unknown strain of Sub-Saharan African TB is going unreported and unchecked as the world now braces itself for a plague , of what can best be described , of literately biblical proportions .
Phone call to murder	SPOILERS Pretty good FBI crime drama with Broaderick Crawford as FBI Agent John " Rip " Ripley on the trail of an on the loose killer who murdered his friend and fellow FBI Agent Zack Stewart , Kenneth Tobey . Finding out that the late Agent Stewart was involved in three separate cases it becomes evident that somehow one of the cases he was working on had to involved the man who murdered him . Agent Ripley soon comes to the conclusion that the case involving the extortion of widow Kate Martell , Ruth Roman , is the one that lead to Agent Stewart's murder and may possibly be connected in the two other cases he was involved in ; A car robbery ring and the murder of a gas station attendant , William Schallert , on the Nevada Californian border ! Using Mrs . Martell as bait Agent Ripley has her play along with her extortionist who want her to pay him off with the $10 , 000 . 00 of insurance money she got when her husband was killed in a fatal car accident . If Mrs . Martell doesn't comply he threatens to murder her nine year old daughter Vickie , Dede Grinor . It takes both good old fashion police work as well as the most up to date state of the art , circa 1954 , police science to finally track down the both killer / extortionist . In the process of doing that Agent Riply also solves the two other cases , the car robbery ring and murder of the gas station attendant , as well . Even though they had nothing at all to do with both Agent Stewart and Brenda Rolles ' ( Suzanne Alexander ) , who knew who Stewarts killer was , murders . SPOILER ALERT The films ending was a real hum dingier with the killer finally revealing himself as he appears out of the blue right under the famous Hollywood sign . It's there where he instructed Mrs . Martell to leave the extortion money . It was also there where Agent Ripley , without Mrs . Mantell knowledge , and his fellow FBI agents and the local police set a trap for him ! P . S Interesting cast of unknowns who went on to bigger and better things later on in their film careers . Both Kenneth Tobey-who also stared in the sci-fi classic " The Thing " back in 1951-and Max Showalter were to make within two years , in 1955 & 1956 , the classic bad sci-fi movie epics that were immortalized on TV-on shows like Mystery Science Fiction Theater 3000-in " It Came Form Beneath the Sea " and " The Indestructible Man " . The murdered gas station attendant William Schallert was to later play the befuddled and out of touch , to what his zany daughter was doing , father of Patty Duke in the aptly named " Patty Duke Show " . And the beefy and booming voiced Claud Akins was to finally make it all the way to top , as President of the United States , playing President Teddy Roosevelt in the 1992 , two years before his untimely death of cancer , Sherlock Holmes movie " Incident at Victoria Falls " .
Cuts Both Ways	SPOILER ALERT Meg Ryan drops her bubbly and perky image in the movie " In The Cut " to do some very serious acting as high school English teacher Fannie Avery . In this murder mystery / drama set in the Sho-Ho section of Manhattan . Ariving home one afternoon to her apartment Fannie runs into police Det . Malloy , Mark Ruffalo , who's canvasing her building . Det . Malloy is trying to find out if anyone saw or heard a murder being committed in back of the building where she lives the night before . The woman who was murdered was also dismembered and the police feel that there's a psycho killer on the loose and that he'll definitely strike again if he's not caught soon . Fannie tells Det . Malloy that she was asleep at the time that the murder was committed and couldn't help him in the case . The next day Fannie is picked up by Det . Malloy and his partner Det . Rodriguez , Nick Damici , for more questioning on the murder . There's the fact that she was seen at the " Red Turtle " bar at the same time that the murder victim was last seen alive . This strangely rings a bell with Fannie since she was at the bar and did see the woman who was murdered . But she also may have seen her killer and the killer may well be one of the detectives who's interviewing her , Det . Malloy . Jane Campion the director of " In The Cut " throws into the movie an obvious " Red Herring " by having Fannie's former boyfriend John , Kevin Bacon , stalking her throughout the entire film . It's easy to see that John is only a flake with serious emotional problems but not the clever and maniacal killer in the movie . Champion does cleverly throw in a " Red Lighthouse " that we see a number of times in the movie . Especially in the scene where Fannie is teaching her students about English Literature that has a lot to do with the ending of the film even though it doesn't revile who the killer is . Fannie is later attacked by what may very well be the murderer but gets away . That has Det . Malloy get more involved with her since it seems that she somehow may be able to recognize him since he went out of his way to murder her . At the same time Fannie feel that it's Det Malloy himself who's the killer and want's to do her in to prevent her from identifying him . This leads to a strange and weird relationship between the two with Fannie having to depend on Det . Malloy's protection where at the same time feels that he may at any moment murder her . The killings continue with a woman found chopped to pieces and stuffed into a washer-dryer at a neighborhood laundromat . The killings get even more personal when Fannie's half-sister Pauline , Jennifer Jason Leigh , is found brutally murdered and dismembered in her apartment . Just when you , and Fannie , think you know who's behind the killings and the killer is about to be caught and arrested the film turns upside down ! You then realize that the person who you think is about to save Fannie from her crazed and dangerous pursuer is the one who's out to murder her . Even though the movie lags in some places it still holds your interests right until the final credits . Meg Ryan is almost unrecognizable as Fannie Avery but thats what made the movie so effective . You took it as a serious murder / drama instead of a light comedy that you would have expected it to be with her staring in it .
Mopping Up Expert	( There are Spoilers ) Pretty straight froward motion picture without any real surprises including the not all that surprising " twist ending " at the end of the film . " Michael Clayton " is about corporate greed and how far a multi-billion dollar corporation , U-North , and the law firm that represents it , Kenner-Bach & Ledeen , would go to keep from losing a three billion dollar joint action lawsuit . As far as first degree murder . We see Kenner-Bach & Ledeen fixer Michael Clayton ( George Clooney ) , the guy who does all the dirty work , in action at the beginning of the movie . Greasing the wheels of Justice to get a client off in a hit and run rap Michael then takes a ride outside of town in Westchester NY where for some unexplained reason his car , after he left it to what looked like to converse with some horses , exploded into a fiery ball of flames . It's then that we get the picture when were by the miracle of film editing transported , together with Michael , four days into the past and see what exactly transpired that lead to the attempted murder of Michael Clayton . Michael really wasn't interested in what the company that he worked for was doing so long as he got his paycheck every two weeks . It's when Michael's good friend Arthur Evens , Tom Wilkinson , went cuckoo-cuckoo and had a pair breakdown , in the corporate office and parking lot of Kenner-Bach & Ledeen , that Michael realized that he was , in his fix-it job for the company , both abetting and abating a major and nation-wide criminal conspiracy . Running around buff naked , with only his shoes and socks on , screeching and screaming , like we heard Arthur at the start of the movie , and letting the truth out about the U-North cover-up it was determined by the higher ups , like the law firms CEO Marty Bach ( Sydnet Pollack ) , that Arthur was to be neutralized by any and all means possible . Arthur an attorney for Kenner-Bach & Ledeen was handling the U-North case for some six years and the pressure just got to him . Arthur's crack-up had to do with the shocking knowledge of his firms responsibility in covering up a major crime that U-North's insecticide department was involved in . A crime that lead to the deaths of some 450 people ! It was up to Michael to get Arthur locked up and into a mental institution to keep him away from the public and the media until a settlement , in U-North's favor of course , was ironed out . Michael who had his own problems , like being in debt for $75 , 000 to the bookies and loan-sharks , wasn't really up to it and later when he found out what his firm as involved with , covering up the deaths of hundreds of people , he started having seconds thoughts about his job as a fixer for the company . SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON Not being able to both keep Arthur from talking or locked away in a mental ward the firm had him iced , after his hiding place was discovered , and his death made to look like a massive heart-attack . Picking up the ball that his now dead friend Arthur dropped Michael started getting the goods on the company when he deciphered this explosive little red book secretly hidden in Arthur's loft apartment . The red book not only spelled out , with irrefutable evidence to back it up , what U-North was criminally involved with but also what Michael's law firm , Kenner-Bach & Ledeen , illegally did to cover it up ! From this point on Michael was a marked man with a hit put on on his life to , like with Arthur , shut him up for good and forever . Knowing that his only hope for survival is to get the truth out to the public , thus bankrupting both U-North and his law firm , Michael together with , what I think is his brother , NYPD Detective Gene Clayton , Sean Cullen , set up a trap or " sting " to catch the firms-Kenner-Bach & Leden-top honcho high powered attorney Karen Crowder , Tilda Swinton , with both her guard and dress down . The plan , the only big surprise in the film , worked to perfection but only after Michael Clayton came back from the dead to pull it off !
Don't Trust No One	SPOILERS Ripping off the Milton mob of $7 . 2 million dollars and killing Milton's son Kevin in the process was a big mistake for the Steven Wayne , Bom Gunton , gang and Wayne's partner Jimmy Berg , Jeff Bridges , who executed that robbery . Milton's top henchman Trevor Morrison , Brian Goodman , has a hit-man Rick , Peter Green , sent to kidnap and kill Jimmy Berg . Driving a van with Rick to the Berg home is part-time mob wheel-man Lenny Burrough , Jon Abrahams . Everything seems to go right with Berg taken with out a struggle and Rick getting a key hidden under a mailbox that will unlock a designated bus station locker that he was given instructions to go to . There's $250 , 000 . 00 in cash waiting for Rick , in that locker , after he did the " job " but then all hell breaks loose with the Wayne mob showing up and running down Rick and killing him with a silencer . In the middle of a busy street in broad daylight . There's still Lenny in the van with Berg and with Morrison in contact with him and giving Lenny orders on his cell-phone to stay put is not to let him go . The movie " Scenes of the crime " just stands still after that with both Wayne & Morrison negotiating for Bergs life with Lenny who up to then was an innocent bystander the main obstacle . After going back and forth for a half hour the two hoodlums come to the conclusion that the best thing that they can do that will favor both of them is to have Wayne sell Berg out . The trick is to convince him that his partner Wayne isn't doing that . This to get Berg to drop his guard and come out and surrender and eventually be killed by the Milton mobsters . Somewhat slow but interesting film about how the mob works and how the saying that " There's no honor among thieves " is so true . You soon also begin to realize that theirs a third party , besides Wayne and Morrison , who's more sinister and murderous then the other two . Who's manipulating everyone like puppets on a string without them ever knowing about it . Jeff Bridges is his usual competent self as Jimmy Berg who knows that trust is not a word that's worth the paper it's written on when it comes to dealing with mobsters like Wayne , his 15 year partner and friend , and Morrison . Berg realizes in the end that he was sold out and pleads for Lenny to shoot him dead instead of being given up and tortured to death by the Milton mob . Jon Abrahams is very good as the somewhat naive mob driver Lenny who thinks that he's only doing a job and not what the reality of his situation really is . That by having anything to do with the mob is like signing you life away to it with out a reserve clause . There's also a couple who own a deli , Carman & Raymond , Madchen Amick & Morris Chestnut , as well as two construction workers Martin & Louis , Nicholas Gonzalez & Justin Louis , who all get caught up with what's happening in the whirlpool of violence between Wayne & Morrison , and in the case of the construction workers , end up losing their lives . The ending of " Scenes of the crime " was a bit labored but it gave the movie an ending that wasn't as depressing and gloomy as the rest of the film which is supposed to be based on a true story according to it's prologue .
No Kiddin !	SPOILERS Somethink like " The Most Dangerous Game " the British horror / suspense movie " The Beast Must Die " has to do with a man's obsession in his ability to prove himself superior over what he considers the most dangerous and cunning adversary on the face of the earth ; The legendary Werewolf . Inviting a number of guests to his country estate including werewolf expert Dr . Christopher Lundgren , Peter Cushing , and his wife Caroline , Malene Clark , big game hunter and all around adventurer Tom Newcliffe , Calvin Lockhert , is determine to prove that one of his invitees is in fact a werewolf ! When Newscliffe finally exposes the beast he then plans , being armed to the teeth with silver bullets , to hunt the animal down and kill it . Newscliffe had his some 40 acre estate honeycombed with hidden TV cameras and microphones in order to get the jump on the clever and elusive beast with his loyal assistant Pavel , Anton Diffring , who's hidden from his guests at the controls back in the mansion . Everyone at first thinks that Newscliffe , not the imaginary werewolf , is the one who needs to be put away more for his own safety and well being then anything else . With his piercing black eyes and maniacal actions Newscliffe comes across as a man who's completely lost his mind . It's only later when the werewolf makes his appearance knocking off a couple of Newscliffe's guests that it becomes apparent that he's not as crazy as he looks and acts but is really on to something big . The killer werewolf is far too smart for Newscliffe who tries to hunt the animal down with a high-powered rifle while riding on a helicopter as well as on foot in the wilds of his estate . The werewolf really comes out into the open , looking about as scary as any werewolf you'll even see , when he breaks into the control room and attacks a startled , who up until then thought that he was just joke on Newscliffe's part , Pavel who ended up getting his throat ripped out by the rampaging beast . It's then when were acquainted with all of Newscliffe's guests , or the one's that are still alive , that were given this 30 second " Werewolf Break " , like in a William Castle movie , and during that time were to figure who the werewolf really is . SPOILERS If you think that by the time the break is over you've found out who the werewolf is your in for a big surprise . In fact the suspense is just beginning with the killer werewolf , whom the cagey and overwhelmingly confident Newscliffe had grossly underestimated , is about to pull off the biggest surprise in the movie ! The film " The Beast Must Die " unwinds very slowly thus giving you the impression that it's trying to pace itself with meaningless scenes until the very last moment when it will explode it's surprise ending right in your , and it's audiences , face . The fact is that the movie has a number of scenes in it before the shocking final that are far more interesting , but nowhere as explosive , as it's very upsetting and unexpected , for Newscliffe , conclusion . I found Dr . Lundgren explanation of what makes a werewolf and how the creature ticks far more interesting that any of the actions on the werewolf's part in the film . Dr . Lundgren's description of a werewolf was far more realistic , by being scientific and not supernatural , then anything I've ever seen or heard in a film about the subject !
Back then we were desperate for guns now we need brains !	( Some Spoilers ) The days are not only numbered for the year 1958 but also for the Batista regime running Cuba as well . With the Cuban rebels lead by the " Bearded One " , Fidel Castro , streaming out of the Mestra Serria Mountains and linking up with thousands of supporters in the big cities like Havana and Santiago . Batista and his gang are making every attempt to get out of the island with all the loot that can carry before the rebels take over the Havana airport , Batista & Co . only escape route , and put them in front of a firing squad . In the middle of all this chaos British mercenary Maj . Robert Dapes , Sean Connery , is hired by the Batista government to help steam the rebel tide . Arriving in Havana Robert finds that there's more then a revolution going on in Cuba . There's the stunning and beautiful Alexandra Lopez de Pulido , Brooks Adams , there for whom he's carried a torch for over fifteen years , since he was a British soldier in North Africa back in WWII . Robert realizes right away that the situation is hopeless for the government forces and plans to get out of the country as soon as he can . Yet he's torn with fleeing Cuba an at the same time leaving his former , and now rediscovered , lover Alexandra behind . Alexandra is married to wealthy and politically connected Cuban Juan Pulido , Chris Sarandon , who besides being a good for nothing spoiled rich boy is also cheating on her . Juan is having an affair with the sexy Therese Mederos , Lon Etta McKee , who works in his cigar factory as a tobacco roller . With everything falling apart in the confusion There's younger brother Julio , Danny De La Paz , who's a Castro supporter . Julio is out to kill Juan for his disrespecting his sister by having her treated like she's a hooker . Robert tries to get Alexandra to come with him out of the war-torn island nation but she decides to stay in her beloved Cuba and face whatever the coming Castro regime has to offer her . With Robert leaving on the last plane out of the now rebel-controlled Havana Airport we see Alexandra , on the ground , in tears watching him leave Cuba as well as her heart forever . As for Alexandra's cheating husband Juan he get's just what's coming to him at the conclusion of the movie . The film " Cuba " shows the audience just how things were on that island nation back in late 1958 and up to New Years Day 1959 when the Castro rebels took over the country . The last days of the Batista Regime were so weird and surrealistic that most of the people there couldn't fathom just what was happening and acted as if everything was just normal ; as their world was slowly collapsing all around them .
Scheduled For Fifteen Rounds	( Some Spoilers ) One of the best Sci-Fi movies coming out of post WWII Hollywood " Earth vs . the Flfying Saucers " still holds up today just like it did back in 1956 some fifty years after it was released . Traveling vast distances in space a fleet of alien spaceships reach earth and plan to take over the planet but want to avoid any conflict with earths inhabitants in order not to destroy it . With their own planet slowly dying the earth is the perfect place for the aliens to live in and they plan to first use persuasion not force but force if necessary if the earthlings dare to resist them . Trying to get in touch with one of the brightest of those on earth to get his government , the US , as well as the rest of the world community of nations to give up peacefully the aliens chose the brilliant Dr . Russell Marvin , Hugh Marlowe , as the person to give their message to . It later turns out that Dr . Marvin isn't as bright as the aliens at first thought that he was . Dr . Marvin couldn't figure out that they were trying to contact him even when their space-craft , that was the size of a battleship , was practically on top of his car as he and his newlywed bride Carol , Joan Taylor , were driving in the wide-open California Desert . Marvin finally gets the message from a audio tape-recording that Carol made , by accident , of he incident with the flying saucer . Trying to get in touch with the earth's governments the aliens who even after destroying the secret US military installation Skyhook , that Dr . Marvin was in charge off , still couldn't convince the US government , and Dr . Marvin , that the earth was under attack from aliens from outer space . Those in charge thought that it , the Skyhook disaster , was some kind of unexplained phenomena . Dr . Marvin finally realizing at last what was going on , after about a half dozen alien attempts to get his attention , has a secret meeting arranged with the aliens at night by the seashore off Chesapeake Bay . The alien take Dr . Marvin and is wife Carol US Army Maj . Huglin , Donald Curtis as well as motorcycle cop Larry Blake , who just happened to tag along , in their space-craft and give a message to bring back to their leaders : Surrender or Die . On the space-craft the earth visitors hear and finally meet Carol's father Brig . Gen . John Hanley , Morris Ankrum , who the aliens captured during their attack on Skyhook . It turned out that Gen . Hanley had been lobotomized by the aliens with his brain being stored in the flying saucer as an information data-bank . Hanley just walks around aimlessly with a brainless and zombie-like stare and later together with highway policeman Blake , who also was lobotomized by the aliens , is thrown out the space-craft in mid-flight as if they were yesterday's garbage . Making their stand in the US capital , Washingtn D . C , against the fleet of alien flying saucers the US military , with the help of Dr . Marvin , found the aliens weak-point . With the use of ultra-high frequency sounds the US military knocked out the entire alien fleet of flying saucers but only after the city of Washington was destroyed by them . One of special-effect expert Ray Harryhausens best work with the footage of the movie used in dozens of Sci-fi films all throughout the 1950's and 60's . Remade in 1996 as " Inependance Day " but the original is still far better even though it didn't have the spectacular computer generated special effects that it's remake had .
I'm sick and tired of being pushed around and treated like dirt !	SPOILERS Somewhat better then its writer Raymond Chandler's over-plotted and confusing " The Big Sleep " released the same year-1946 - " the Blue Dahlia " is only hampered by the restrictions put on its screenplay by the US Military not its complicated storyline . These forced restrictions inserted into the screenplay , by a very reluctant Raymond Chandler , totally destroyed the movie's surprise ending in revealing who the murderer of Lt . Cmdr . Johnny Morrison's , Alan Ladd , wife Helen , Doris Dowling , really was . Helen has been cheating on her husband Johnny while he was away in the Pacific fighting the Japs by having an affair with the manager of " Blue Dahlia " nightclub Eddie Harwood , Howard De Silva . When Johnny came marching home , on a Greyhound bus , together with his two navy buddies Buzz & George , William Bendix & Hugh Beaumont , he caught Helen kissing Eddie at a party she was throwing at her bungalow . An outraged Johhny flattened the surprised Eddie in him not knowing that he got an early discharge from the US Navy . Johnny later having it out with Helen found out that she , not diphtheria , was responsible for the death of their four year old son Dickie ! It turned out that Dickie was killed in a car smash-up when his mother Mrs . Helen Morrison got stone cold drunk at a party that she , not wanting to pay for a babysitter , took Dickie to ! It's later when Helen was found murdered at her bungalow , by the cleaning lady , that the bungalow colony's house detective Dad Newell , Will Wright , gave evidence to the police that both Johhny and Helen had it out with each other , with Johnny later pulling a gun on her , that evening making Johnny the # 1 suspect in his wife's murder . On the run Johnny later get's involved with sultry blond Joyce Harwood , Veronica Lake , who keeps her relationship with her estranged husband Eddie , the manager of the " Blue Dahlia " , from him . While all this is happening Buzz , who's suffering from a sever case of shell-shock , earlier in the movie tries to find his friend Johnny only ending up at a bar , at the bungalow colony , shearing drinks with Helen whom he didn't know was Johnny's wife ! This also makes Buzz , who has trouble remembering , in being the last person to see Helen alive a major suspect in her murder ! To make a long story short Johnny in trying to prove his innocence ends up getting kidnapped , by Eddie Harwood's thugs , and worked over for being so uncooperative in not telling them , and Eddie Harwood , what they want to know ! What they actually want from Johnny , besides beating him almost to death , is never made quite clear to those of us watching the movie ! After most of those in the cast end up getting zapped with Johnny escaping his captors , by killing all of them , were finally shown who the actual murderer of the unlamented , in that nobody missed her , Helen Morrison is . SPOILER ALERT The killer , when his identity was reveled , did in fact have the best lines in the movie giving it his best with the usual " Yes I did it and I'm glad that I did it " shtick ! It was just too bad for him that by not shutting his big mouth and going on and on with his non-stop monologue he gave the cops all the time that they needed to block his only avenue of escape with him ending up dead in a crossfire of police bullets !
Stark winterly scenes on a frozen landscape	SPOILERS Very personal movie directed by the late great Elia Kazan with the screenplay written by his # 1 Son Chris involving naming names or testifying against fellow GI's and the consequences that result from it to the person who felt obligated to do so . The movie " The Visitors " takes place in early January 1969 , judging the New York Jet Baltimore Colt Superbowl Game shown on TV , in snowy Newton Connecticut . It's there where young Vietnam vet Bill Schmidt is living a quite and peaceful existence with his live in girlfriend Martha Wayne and the couples out of wedlock two year old boy Hal . Bill trying the make ends meet with his job at a local helicopter plant is in luck in both him & Martha being allowed to live in Martha's dad's , Harry Wayne , home rent free . Wayne is anything but impressed with Bill's very in your face pacifism even though he served as a combat infantryman in Vietnam with honors . Harry himself being a combat vet from the Pacific Theater in WWII and damn proud of it can't understand Bill's misguided attitude towards those Vietcong Commies who , in Harry's mind , are a threat to everything America stands for . Wayne also feels that there's something loose upstairs in Bill's head , besides his pacifism , in his refusing to as much as go out raccoon or rabbit hunting with him ! Writing 19th Century American Western novels and getting heavily drunk while doing it Wayne makes more then enough money to support himself as well as his daughter Martha together with Bill and little Hal . Still Wayne has no use for Bill at all and lets him known it , especially when he's smashed out of his head , at every opportunity . It's on one cold & snowy morning that Bill's fellow Vietnam vets Mike Nickerson & Tony Rodrigues show up unexpectedly at the Wayne home that the past suddenly catches up with him . It was some three years ago that Bill testified against both Mike and Tony in a brutal rape and murder that they committed in Vietnam which he was an eye witness to . Like a spider spinning a web for its intended victim both Mike & Tony begin to set Bill up for the kill with his girlfriend-Martha-having at first no idea of what their planning to do ! Bill ashamed and feeling like a turncoat in , by testifying against them , having sent Mike & Tony away for two years at the Leavenworth Federal Penitentiary kept what he did from Martha , as well as Harry , all this time ! But now all that was about to come out in the wash with Martha , besides Bill , being the one to end up paying for it . James Woods in his movie debut is both touching and tragic as the troubled Vietnam vet Bill Schmidt a man with a conscience that never goes away . Troubled in what he was involved with , in doing nothing to stop it , in the Vietnam War Bill turned evidence against Mike and Tony at their court-martial trial that has now come back-like a boomerang - to haunt him . Now out of prison on a technicality the two after a evening of heavy drinking decided to pay Bill , who's home address they found out from their court appointed lawyer , a visit . It turned out to be a visit straight out of hell !
Perfect Symmetry	( Slight Spoilers ) True story of a sports team that has become , in over 118 countries , a legend in their own time Abe Saperstein's , Dane Clark , amazing barnstorming powerhouse basketball team the " Harlem Globetrotters " . Since Abe Saperstein , who passed away in 1966 , founded and organized the team the Globetrotters have run up an incredible record of over 22 , 000 victories against only 345 defeats , an over 98 % winning percentage , in some 80 years since they came into existence back in . At one point the Globetrotters had a 8 , 829 winning streak , which stretched almost 25 years , that was eventually snapped on September 12 , 1995 in Vienna Austria by the Kareem Abdul Jabbar All-Stars . The movie goes into the early days of the spectacular basketball team which was anything but spectacular . Going from one small town to another the Globetrotters played semi-pro and third rate basketball teams which they had no trouble at all beating . Considered a bunch of clowns by the sport writers and both collage and professional basketball team owners Abe had to do his best to convince the sports world that his team was in fact the powerhouse that its record , sometimes going through an entire season without a single loss , showed that it was . The film " Go Man Go " was fortunate to have in it besides a young and up and coming 27 year-old Sidney Poitier , plying Globetrotter regular Inman Jackson , as well as three real life Harlem Globtrotters in its cast : Reese " Goose " Tatum " Sweetwater " Clifton and the only surviving member of the trio Marques Hayes . It was Marques Haynes's amazing ball control , in dribbling the basketball for minutes on end , that allowed his fellow teammates to rest . This while at the same time exhausting the opposition players in trying to get the ball away from him . We also have a little romantic interlude in the film with Abe meeting at a Kenosha Wisconsin beauty contest no less his future wife the former Sylvia Franklin , Patricia Breslin , who came in second best . Still Sylvia was # 1 not only with Abe and his parents Pa & Ma Saperstein , Anatol Winogradoff & Celia Brodkin , but the Globetrotters as well . It was a well meaning and determined Sylvia that kept Abe from quiting the team that he founded when those in high positions in professional and collage basketball tried to blackball him and his Globtrotters out of existence . With the Globetrotters making such a splash on the sports front pages the big cheese of the professional basketball leagues James Willoughby , Bram Nussem , was forced to give the team a shot in the Basketball Playoffs which were in fact thought up by Abe ! Going up the ladder as all the opposition folded before their unique brand , clownish but skillful and exciting ball handling and shooting , of basketball the Globetrotters were now in the final game of the playoffs against the highly touted , and expected to win , Chicago Majors . The last ten or so minutes of the movie " Go Man Go " is pure magic with the bigger then life Harlem Globetrotters behind during the entire game coming back , from a ten point deficit , against the Chicago Majors like in a fictional sports movie . Nail-biting tension and excitement as the come from behind Globetrotters unbelievably pull off an upset to end all upsets in the last dwindling seconds of the game . P . S Despite their name " Harlem Globetrotters " the Globtrotters didn't play a basketball game in Harlem , in upper Manhattan New York , until 1968 ! Some 40 years after they were founded and two years after their founder and couch Abe Saperstein passed away !
A killer from the past strikes in the present	( Some Spoilers ) Sweeping into New York City on a first-class railroad car a killer who doesn't kill with a gun or knife or club but just with his , or it's , touch and breath . A killer that's as old , or even older , then man himself . That killer has a name it's know the world over as smallpox . Arriving in New York one cold November afternoon the killer hidden inside of Sheila Bennet , Evelyn Keyes , and like a Trojen Horse it waits until the opportunity presents itself . Then like a ticking time bomb with it's fuse set off explodes throughout the length and breath of the city . Sheila knows that she's being followed by a U . S Customs officer who's been on her tail since she came back to the US from the Island nation of Cuba . Having smuggled $50 , 000 . 00 of illegal uncut diamonds she had to be careful in getting them to her husband Matt , Charles Korvin , to be cut and sold to unsuspecting jewelers in the city . Mailing the diamonds ahead of time Sheila knows that if caught the diamonds won't be found on her . What she doesn't know is that Matt is two timing her by having an affair with her kid sister Francie , Lola Albrght . Even worse he plans to check out of town with the diamonds leaving her as well as Francie holding the bag . Even though we know right from the start of Sheila's deathly condition it doesn't really come to the surface until much later in the movie . The first half of " The Killer that stalked New York " is a crime suspense / drama with the U . S Customs officials and NYC police looking for the stolen diamonds . As Sheila starts to get sick and begins to infect everyone whom she comes in contact with the film reaches the point of a mass panic in the streets type horror movie . Both the police and custom officials together with members of the city's Health Depertment race against the clock to find Sheila before she infects the entire city of New York with the deadly smallpox infection that she's carrying . Sheila finding out from Matt's boss Willie Dennis , Jim Backus , that he quit his job as a nightclub piano player and that he was having an affair with Francie shocks her into the realization to what a heel he is . Confronting Francie at her apartment it turns out that Matt not only stiffed Shelia but her sister as well . Which later leads the guilt-ridden Francie to take her own life . On the run and not knowing that she's infected with smallpox Sheila goes to her brother Sid ( With Bissell ) , who manages a flop-house on the Bowery , to find a place to stay . Only too late does Sheila , and Sid , find out the the stolen diamonds is the last of her problems . Knowing that she's dying Sheila goes to the office of jeweler Arnold Moss , Art Smith , knowing that sleaze-ball of a husband Matt , who ended up beating old man Moss into a bloody pulp , is going to be there to exact vengeance on him . Doucmentry-type drama , based on a true story , with striking black and white on-location photography makes this movie about the horrors of unseen and deadly smallpox unleashed on a unsuspecting public well worth watching .
I can't live this life !	SPOILERS Avant guard-type movie that has to do with , what looks like , a well to do upper-class middle aged man Edmond Burke , William H . Macy . Edmond seems to be going through a mid-life crisis as he throws away his job wife , Rebecca Pidgeon , and whatever future that he has in society to become a insane and unfeeling murderous psycho . By the time the movie is over he's serving a life sentence for murder in the state penitentiary shearing a cell with his prison boyfriend and protector the brutal and , on and off , philosophical speaking thug Bokeem Woodbine . Edmond at first is seen going to get an interview about a job , I guess that's what it was , and is told that the person that he's to see a Mr . Harrington will be out for the weekend and the interview had been rescheduled for the following Monday at 1 : 15PM . Walking aimlessly through the streets Edmond comes upon this store that sells all kinds of occult items that has as it's address 115 just like the time of his Monday appointment and interview ! Given a tarot card reading by the owner a Gyspy fortune teller , Francis Bay , the old woman seems genuinely shocked at what she sees in Edmonds future . She tells him that the life that he's been living is not really him and that he has to find himself in order to put his head , and life , together again . For some strange reason this reading starts Edmond on his way to self-destruction where he leaves his wife and tries to pick up a number of high priced hookers and call girls , at adult clubs and strip joints . This all happens after being given advice to do it by this mysterious man , Joe Mantegna , that Edmond met at the local bar . The mystery man told him to get laid and forget about his troubles ! The hookers at the clubs turn out to be too expensive for the frugal Edmond who later , in order to get some money to pay for them , gets himself involved in a sidewalk Three-Card-Monte game . During the game Edmond is not only cheated out of whatever money that he still had left in his wallet but was savagely beaten up by the game card dealer and his shill . Who took his wallet and credit cards , after Edmond bitterly complained that the game was fixed . Hocking his wedding ring for $120 . 00 at a local pawn shop to get some cash to either get laid , like he was earlier told by the mystery man , or a hotel room for the evening , since his wife threw him out of his apartment . Edmond comes across a fierce looking WWI brass-knuckle army knife and buys it for $30 . 00 . It's that some 85 year old combat weapon that in effect makes a real man out of the wimpy Edmond . Edmond later uses it to kill two people one in self defense , a vicious and sneering pimp Lionel Mark Smith , and the other in cold blood , a waitress Glenna ( Julia Stiles ) that he picked up to have sex with at her apartment . For the first time in his uneventful life Edmond was able to feel that he accomplished something of heroic proportions and finely became the real true man , with Viking Warriors blood flowing in his veins , that he always dreamed about being . Edmond's new found euphoria as a man of strength and power was short lived . On the subway he threatened an old black lady Patricia Belcher who didn't respond to his remakes , showing the big and powerful man disrespect , in that she wore the same kind of hat that his mother used to wear . Later he's arrested , at an all-black Harlem church no less , by the police for harassment of Mrs . Belcher . It turned out that the police were really after Edmond for the brutal stabbing murder of Glenna the bar waitress . Convicted of first-degree murder Edmond is sent away for life where he meets his prison cell-mate , in prison cell # 115 no less , big bad and black Bokeem who in no time at all teaches a broken in mind and body as well as terrified Edmond just what disrespect really is . It's now years later and Edmond , with a mustache his head shaved and tattooed , has gotten used to his new life as a lifer behind bars . Edmond trying to make some sense of the predicament he got himself into spends most of his time in the prison library reflecting , in writing , on what a mess he made of not only his life but those whom he shared it with like his ex-wife Rebecca . Edmond after the initial shock of prison life also found peace and serenity within the cold and hard walls of the state penitentiary as we see Edmond and Bokeem , now the very very best of friends , reflecting on life and what all this , existence , is really all about . We also get to see Edmond also shearing his opinion with Bokeem if it's true that there is a life after the life on earth that we all live is over and how it would effect people like themselves ; Hard core convicted criminals . The two convicts , after a long and deep philosophical discussion , then kiss nighty night and go to sleep together in the same bunk . Interesting movie about a man who for one reason or another completely self-destructs over what at first seemed really nothing , a tarot card reading ? Later we begin to realize that he had these destructive tendencies inside him all the time that were just waiting to explode like an underground landmine . It was just that one little insignificant thing , like stepping on the mine or getting a life reading , that finally and tragically set them off with disastrous results .
Frank Challenge turned out to be more then a " Challenge " for the mob	( There are Spoilers ) Running for the state senate as an independent , with no strings attached , businessman Frank Challenge , Earl Owensby , is rapidly closing in on the lead against incumbent Senator Newhouse and looks like he's a sure winner in the upcoming senatorial elections . Having in his possession a dossier of documents against not only Newhouse but his behind the scenes mob controllers Challenge is going to see the states Special Crime Commissioner Taylor , Lauen Moore , and hand over the important and explosive papers . These papers would all but guarantee his election to the senate but at the same time also destroy the mob by exposing it's hold on the states elected officials from governor to dog catcher . Dropping in at the local TV station to see his good friend newscaster William Reynolds , William Alspaugh , Challenge is talked into telling him want he has on the mob not knowing that Reynolds is in debt to it , big time , due to his compulsive gambling habit . Reynolds then uses the information that Challenge gives him , off the record , to get in touch with mob kingpin W . F Gutherie , William T . Hicks . Gutherie not only forgive Reylonds ' debt to his bookies but also get's a bunch of his goons to do in both Challenge and his family his wife Betty and young daughter Bebe , Katheryn Thompson & Tiffany Crawley , by burning down the Challenge home in their search for the other duplicate documents that he has hidden there . Challenge savagely beaten , with his dossier on the mob stolen , as he was going to see Commissioner Taylor by Gutherie's goons miraculously survives . After finding out in his hospital room from Susan ( Judith Hanson ) , the nurse looking after him , that his family perished in the mob set fire of his home Challenge completely gives up his run for the senate . Challenge begins a one man guerrilla war against the Gutherie mob that ends with Gutherie himself , after all his goons are taken care off , as Challenge's main target . What " Challenge " lacks in money and experience it more then makes up with drive and ingenuity . Challenge goes after the Gutherie mob with a vengeance on the roads highways and in the air . There's an exciting and almost unbelievable air to air dog fight with one of Gutherie's hoods as Challenge , without the help of special effects , single-handedly puts it the plane & pilot out of business for good . Having Gutherie check out of his fortress-like suite in the state capital , after he broke into it , Challenge has him on the run for his life . This results in Gutherie falling by the wayside , dead , with out Challenge even having to shoot or lay as much as a hand on the cowardly thug . Owensby's first attempt in making motion pictures and it shows in his acting , that's as wooden at times as a cigar store Indian . The effort put into the movie by Owensby with a more or less cast of unknowns makes " Challenge " well worth seeing . If you can find " Challange " at your local video and DVD store take it out and give it a spin . It's far better then most like-wise crime / action films with far bigger budgets and well known , and multi-million dollar salaried , stars .
Danger Signs	( There may be Spoilers ) Covering the period of December 20 , 1968 to October 11 , 1969 when the notorious Zodiac Killer , Marty Lindsey , made his grand entrance into crime history together with the likes of Jack the Ripper and as of now some forty years later he's , if alive , still out there with as much as 40 victims on his police rap sheet . Terrorizing the San Francisco Bay area The Zodiac seemed to come out of nowhere stalking lovers lanes and deserted parks and city streets murdering some five people and seriously injuring two more in the ten month rampage that's depicted in the movie . When it becomes apparent that a string of attacks in and around town are that of the same person Vallejo police chief Frank Perkins , Philip Baker Hall , puts his best man on the case Inspector Matt Parish , Justin Chambers , who by the end of the movie " The Zodiac " suffers a total emotional breakdown from the stress of trying to trap the elusive killer who seems to always be one step ahead of him and the Vallejo police department . Zodiac taunts the police FBI and even Naval Intelligence with the US Navy having a base outside of town , with one of its civilian worker a mechanic being a prime suspect in the case . Zodiac does that with cryptic and chilling letters sprinkled with strange and undecipherable astrological symbols giving evidence of his crimes that only he and the police that are investigating them know of . We get a whole line of BS in the movie from so-called crime experts to what's driving this faceless killer from him being crazy and sexually frustrated to having not gotten any Christmas presents when he was a little boy . But they all turn out to lead to a dead end with the killer being anything but insane but actually as smart as a fox and as quick and deadly as a black panther who strikes in the dead of night , and even in the daytime , and then after finishing his gory work disappears into thin air . Being a true story the movie does not have a happy ending with The Zodiac not only getting away with his crimes but not even being unidentified as he vanished , together with his socking murders , from the public eye as mysteriously as he appeared . Sending letters to the police and newspapers of his " exploits " as late as April 1978 Zodiac bragged about how he hopes that Hollywood would one day make a good and interesting movie about him so he could see his name up in lights in movie marquees all over the country . Zodiac must have missed seeing the 1971 movie , that was made when he was still at large and active , " Dirty Harry " . In the move Clint Eastwood plays the San Francisco police inspector " Dirty Harry " Calanhan . Harry's adversary was a kill crazy psycho , played by Andy Robinson , who murdered a number of people and then taunted the SFPD with phone calls of his crimes as well as sending them weird astrological symbolic ladened letters . The psycho killer sign the letters Scorpio which incidentally is one of the twelve signs of the Zodiac .
The Destructive Generation	( Some Spoilers ) The movie " Back August " is named after the bloodiest prison brake in the California state prison San Quentin's history . On Saturday August 21 , 1971 six people , three guards and three convicts , were slashed shot and beaten to death in an aborted break-out of San Quentin lead by career criminal and militant black activist George Jackson . Jackson himself didn't get far being shot by a prison guard sniper in his leg with the bullet somehow going , after ricocheting on impact , up the left side of his body , like that of an M-16 assault rifle , and ending up smashing into his brain killing him . We last see Jackson as the movie goes into freeze-frame laying on the ground dead with his right hand extended in a grotesque looking black power salute . The movie only covers George Jackson's short , who died at age 29 , and violent life from January 13 , 1970 to his death some 19 months later . On January 13 , 1970 on the exercise grounds of Soledad prison a fight broke out between members of the Black Guerrilla Family and White Aryan Nation . With prison tower guard O . G Miller opening fire to stop the fighting three members of the Black Guerrilla's were gunned down and killed . One was W . D Nolen a fellow inmate and close friend of Jackson who introduced the young man to radical Marxism . Three days later prison guard John V . Mills was attacked beaten and thrown to his death from a third floor catwalk in retaliation for the Soledad killings . Arrested for Mills murder ware convicts Fleeta Drumgo John Clutchette and George Jackson . The three were to later become , because of Jackson's writings , known as the Soledad Brothers . While in solitary confinement Jackson wrote a slew of letters to his mother in Oakland that soon found their way to Batam Books in New York City . Even though Jackson's letters were crudely written and loaded with grammatical errors they hit the spot in how political prisoners , that Jackson called himself and his fellow black brothers behind bars , are being treated by the law enforcement and legal systems in America . Jackson spent his time in solitary not only writing but keeping himself in shape . Doing as many as 1 , 000 fingertip push-ups every day Jackson's forearms became so muscle-bound that he couldn't put them through the steel bars in his cell when he was to be manacled for his daily supervised half hour walk in the prison's exercise yard . The eye-opening and thought provoking letters had Batam send one of its proof writers David Dryer to see George Jackson in getting his OK to publish them . Grudgingly agreeing to let Batam publish his letters in a book called " Soledad Brothers " George Jackson became a literary sensation overnight . In the end the fame that Jackson got from his writings lead to him making himself a martyr for his cause , Black Liberation . This celebrity status had Jackson go on the road that lead to what was to become Black August , or Saturday , on August 21 , 1971 at San Quentin . The money and fame that Jackson got from is writing " Soledad Brothers " could have gotten him the legal help that would have easily overturned his conviction on a $70 . 00 gas station robbery in 1960 that had him serve , like Jackson said , over one year behind bars for every $10 . 00 he stole . Always maintaining that he was Innocent of prison guard Mills murder Jackson getting so caught up with his own popularity , in and out of prison , refused to plead innocent to Mills murder just to keep his revolutionary image in tact . What I feel was the real reason for Jacksons death wish was the death of his younger brother 17 year-old Jonathan who , together with two fellow Black Guerrilla Family members , was gunned down at the Marin County Civic Center in San Raphael on August 7 , 1970 . Jonhatan tries to get his big brother George freed by taking hostages right out of a courtroom at the center . Jonathan together with his fellow kidnappers William Christmas and James McCain as well as the presiding judge in the courtroom Harold Haley were killed as well as a number of jurors wounded in the wild and deadly police and kidnappers crossfire . With his kid brother Jonathan , who George affectionately called Man-Child , gone Jackson just gave up on life in and out of prison and that lead to his ill conceived breakout a year later ; Where he ended up dead with his brains blown out by a sniper's bullet . P . S George Jackson was to go on trial for the murder of John V . Mills , just three days after his death in San Quentin , on August 24 , 1971 . A trial that many in the legal profession as well as fellow black activists were sure he would have won his freedom with the help of the money as well as nation wide , mostly positive , publicity that he got from his best selling book " Soledad Brothers " . By then Jackson got so caught up with his both bad a image as well as guilt for his brother Jonathan death that freedom as sweet to him as if was before all this happened wasn't all that appealing to George anymore .
I hope some day you would forgive me	SPOILERS Highly inflammatory made for TV movie showing how the present war in Iraq as well as in Afghanistan effects us all here at home as well as on the battlefield of those two war torn and embattled country's . The film " Stir of Echoes : The Homecoming " starts out like your typical war film with an attack on a van that runs a road block in Iraq . The person in charge of the US patrol Capt . Ted Cogan , Rob Lowe , orders a warning shot but his order doesn't go through to the tank commander . This results is a full scale one sided fire fight where everyone in the van gets roasted alive when it's hit in the gas tank by a volley of rifle shots . The results of the attack on the van led to a real Iraqi insurgents attack on the US Army unite with both Capt . Cogan and one of his men the units medic Kabinsky , Nicholas Carella , badly wounded in the shootout ; It later turns that Capt . Cogan survived but Kabinsky didn't . Recovering back home the now discharged from the US military Ted Cogan finds out that his actions resulted in some half dozen innocent Iraqi civilians being killed including a 12 year-old girl that he and Kabinsky desperately tried to save . It's then when Cogan starts to get these intense headaches and hallucinations where he relives the horrors that he went through in Iraq . Back home Cogan finds that everything that he left behind isn't what it used to be with his son Max , Ben Lewis , becoming very resentful and even hateful of all persons of Arabic decent as well as taking up smoking and drinking . Later going to see his neighbor April , Katya Gardner , Cogan is shocked to both find her husband was not only killed in Iraq but savagely decapitated ! Cogan finds April is so distraught over her husbands brutal death that he had to take a . 45 handgun from her to keep April from blowing her brains out . Th film wastes a lot of time in Ted Cogan going through a number of strange and almost unnecessary mental breakdowns and mind-bending hallucinations but when it gets to the real reason for what's unknowingly on his mind it more then makes up for that defect . We and Ted are drawn to this place some two hours drive from his home and it's there that he finds out what's really driving him insane and it has nothing to do with what he did in Iarq ! Ted's deteriorating mental condition does in fact have everything to do with what people here in the states see on TV and read in the newspapers about that war and how they in their own way try to fight it here back home ! Very unusual war movie that's made at a time that the war that it depicts is still going on . Ted who by being in the war and suffering from it's affects is by far more understanding then those who aren't about the people , basically Iraqis , who are said to be his and Americas mortal enemies . The ending is almost too hard to watch in that it turns people here at home who are effected by the war in Iraq into the monsters , like Al-Quida and the Taliban , that we depict our enemies as being . Besides the aforementioned cast there's also Mannie McPhail as Molly Cogan who ends up not only losing her husband Ted who ends up in a mental institution from the criminally insane but her son Max , in how what happened to his father affected him , as well as her life ! All this because of a war being fought some 7 , 000 miles away on the other side of the globe that , with what we now know , should't have been fought at all !
Dark and dangerous goings on in the City of Lights	( Some Spoilers ) The movie " Frantic " slowly gets you to like it . It takes it's audience from a simple case of suitcases being innocently switched at the airport to an nail-biting off camera kidnapping . Then to a tour through the Paris underworld and nightlife to finally a confrontation with this mysterious Mid-East terrorist organization . The terror group is dealing with the smuggling of top-secret US government nuclear trigger mechanisms that , if in the wrong hands , can vaporise entire cities . American Doctor Richard Walker , Harrison Ford , and his wife Sondra , Betty Buckley , arrive from San Francisco at the Grand Hotel in Paris for a doctors convention where Dr . Walker is to be the featured speaker . Finding that his luggage had been switched at the airport Walker calls TWA Airline giving them all the information including the switched luggage ticket number . With her husband taking a shower Sondra is seen answering the door and then disappears out of sight and out of the movie . It takes a while for Walker , who thought that his wife went out shopping , to realize that something is terribly wrong when Sandra doesn't show up and goes to the hotel lobby to find out what happened to her . Walker is later told by the desk clerk that Sandra left the hotel together with a Arabic-looking man . Walker frantic that his wife was kidnapped goes to the local police only to be told that she may be cheating on him , it's something that seems to be very common among married couples in the city . Even the US embassy doesn't seem at all too concerned or caring about his wife's disappearance . That has a desperate and determined Walker go out on his own to track down where she is , alive or dead , and who's responsible for her disappearance . Opening up the switched luggage Walker finds a pack of matches from the Blue Parrot nightclub and the name and telephone number of a person named Dede on it . Walker also inadvertently finds the hidden nuclear trigger that he at first thinks is a SPOILER toy model of the Statue of Liberty . Finding out at the Blue Parrort that Dede is a drug dealer Walker goes to his apartment in the seedy side of the city only to find Dede , Doll Boyer , brutally murdered . Waiting in the hallway Walker sees this young woman Michelle , Emmanuell Seigner , enter Dede's pad and grabs her trying to find out what Dede and herself had to do with his wife's Sandra's disappearance . To Walker's surprise he finds that Michelle , after a bit of convincing on his part , was the person who's luggage she mistakenly has and that she's also some kind of illegal courier for a local Paris drug gang . You and both Walker and Michelle at first think that there's illegal drugs involved with , or in , the luggage that Walker mistakenly received at the Paris Airport . As the real truth slowly and shockingly comes out with the Arab terrorists gang Israeli Mossad and now even the US embassy getting into the mix it becomes more and more evident that there's something far more serious and explosive in that misplaced suitcase . there's also the fact that if the suitcase is ever gotten into the wrong hands it can lead to a nuclear holocaust . It takes a while for " Frantic " to unravel it's storyline , like most good thrillers do , but it's actor Harrison Ford who makes it come alive with his frantic and almost hysterical search for his missing and kidnapped wife Sondra . As he goes together with , an at first very reluctant , Michelle through the length and breath of the city to finally get his wife's kidnappers to release her . This only after a deadly shootout between the kidnappers and the perusing Mossad agents . Which lead to the precious and deadly triggering device to plant itself at the bottom of Paris ' Seine River , where it could do no harm to anyone , courtesy of Dr . Richard Walker .
Message from the Stars	( There are Spoilers ) Cold war alien from space sci-fi thriller that has five people from different parts of the earth entrusted with the power of destroying the entire human race . Being abducted by an alien space ship the five earthlings L . A reported Jonathen Clark , Gene Barry , young British woman Eva Wingate , Valerie French , German scientist Prof . Klaus Bechner , George Voscovec , Chinese peasant Su Tan , Marie Tsien , and Red Army private Ivan Godofsky , Azemat Janti . These five are given these strange glass encased capsules by the Alien spaceman , Arnold Moss , that only they can open and activate . Told by the Alien that they have just 27 days to either destroy themselves , by opening up and arming the capsules , or if they don't it would mean curtains for the aliens in their plan to make the earth their new home away from home which is to be destroyed by their sun , turning into a super-nova , in 35 days . The aliens who are dead set against violence of any kind don't have it in them to kill anyone much less wipe out the entire human race . In order to have the earth all to themselves the aliens know that the humans , from studying them over the centuries , are more then willing to do themselves in . With just a little push on their part , the aliens , in giving the human race the ultimate weapon of mass destruction , it will only kill human beings and leave everything else on earth alone and they'll be more then happy , by their not using the wisdom and common sense that nature or the lord gave them , to mindlessly self-destruct . The Alien for some strange reason broadcast , on live TV , the reason for his coming to earth and even more puzzling the true reason for the destructive capsules that he gave the five humans . The Alien also gives out their names and addresses and making it almost curtain that they'll be marked men , and women , by everyone from neighborhood kooks to secretive and shadowy spy agencies as well as ego-maniacal power hungry world leaders . As you would expect all the people who received the capsules become targets of the very country's that they live in but are saved from either being killed or suffer severe mental or psychical damage since they , those who received the capsules , are the only ones who can open , with their individual minds , and use them . With the 27th day soon upon them the two earth super powers , the USA & USSR , feeling that each of them are now in possession of this super-neutron bomb . With reporter Clark of the USA and Private Godofsky of the USSR , in possession of the capsuls it's now only a matter of time before the human race , with the help of the space aliens , blows or neutrons itself out of existence until the very wise and observant German scientist Prof . Bechner , one of the five earthlings who received them , notices something cryptically etched onto the capsules that the aliens who put it there hoped would be deciphered . The 1957 movie " The 27th Day " is in many ways ahead of it's time in not being so over-the-top in trying to paint the former Soviet Union , the Evil Empire dubbed by the future President Ronald Wislon Reagan , as pure evil . Both Willing and able to go so far as killing every man woman and child on earth , including those within it's own borders , in it's mindless and mad rush to achieve world domination . We only have the power mad Soviet general Stefan Schnabl and his hand picked stooges trying to have the deadly capsules used to wipe out the entire Western Hemispher . It's the brave and good Red Army private Godofsky , also one of them , who turns out to be the real hero in the film by freely giving up his life by jumping to his death to prevent that from happening . You get the strong feeling in watching " The 27th Day " that it's message is that it's only the power mad leaders on both sides of the Iron Curtain , not the majority of people of their respected country's , who are the one's more then willing to bring about Armageddon upon the world . These insane actions are order to fulfill their mad dreams of being the first person or world leader to conquer the entire planet
You did the wrong thing but straightened it out the right way	SPOILERSEven though crooked financial investor Henry Mander , Harry Stephens , was nothing but a low down and despicable swine he still didn't deserve the fate that faced him with Mander being just hours away from his trip to the Sing Sing electric chair . Nobody knew that better then the " New York Star " ace crime reporter Stev Gray , Spencer Tracy , yet it was Gray's testimony that put Mander in the very fix that he was in . The movie " The Murder Man " tries and succeeds to convince it's audience that justice should be blind in it's treatment even of someone as guilty as Henry Mander of the financial crimes that he committed against hundreds of unsuspecting victims . Two of Manders many victims included reporters Gray's both father " Pop " Gray , who lost his life savings in one of of Manders schemes , and his wife Dorothy who was driven to suicide by Mander and his partners J . S Halfords , Theodore Von Eltz actions . Halford not only took Dorothy's money but had an illicit affair with her and then unceremoniously dumped Dorothy leaving her estranged from Steve and out on the street . It's obvious right from the start that Mander was set up in the murder of his equally sleazy partner J . S Halford as we see him being told in a mysterious phone call to be at this shooting gallery where someone in the vicinity takes a pot shot at Holford , as he was in his open air limousine , that killed him . It doesn't take that long for the police to arrest Mander for his partners Halfords murder and the evidence is that Mander is to be the recipient of a $200 , 000 . 00 insurance policy on Halford . Being the star witness at Manders murder trial Gray's testimony is the icing on the cake that convinced the jury to come back with a guilty verdict that was to send Mander to the electric chair . Having the exclusive to the biggest news story in the city Gray doesn't at all act as if you , or his fellow reporters , expect him to and goes on a drinking binge that has his boss at " The Star " news editor Hal Robins , Robert Barrat , order Gray to take a forced vacation and dry out . Gray is obviously suffering some kind of severe depression over Manders impending execution but it takes an exclusive interview with Mander just before his scheduled execution for us the realize why . Gray had a lot more to do with Mander's crime and later conviction for it that anyone , but Gray , could have ever imagined and it's the absolutely shocking and surprising conclusion of the movie that put that all into focus . Powerful crime film that goes against the grain in it's treatment of both the killer and his victim that will really blow you away . Spencer Tracy as Steve Gray gives one of his most underrated as well as , being that the film is almost totally unknown to most movie goers , unseen performance of his long and distinguished career . The movie " The Murder Man " also has the distinction of being James ' Jimmy " Stewart's motion picture debut . The tall , six foot three inch , and lanky Stewart plays Steve Gray's fellow reporter on " The Star " who's ironically referred to by everyone in the movie as " Shorty " !
Why do you have to wake me up every time I'm on a date with Ann Sheridan !	SPOILERSEntertaining but utterly mindless allied WW II propaganda movie that has a group of downed allied pilots , American Australian and British , trek their way across hundreds of miles of enemy territory from the German / Polish border to Holland and the English channel with no more then a company of German troops to stop them . This gang of five with two of them Sgt . Llyod Hollis II & Sgt . Kirk Edwards , Ronald Sinclair & Alan Hale , not making it back are lead by Flight Lt . Terry Forbes , Erroll Flynn , who seem for the most part to live charmed lives . They amazingly gets themselves out of one tight squeeze after another with the help of a number of British & American supporting German civilians helping them , putting the lives of themselves and their families on the line , along the way . The task to get these allied fliers into custody falls on the shoulders of German Major Otto Baumeister , Raymond Massey , who at first screwed up by letting them get the best of him and making their escape after Maj . Baumeister's men had initially captured them . The movie then turns into a Willie Coyote Road Runner cartoon with Maj . Baumeister playing the part of the thankless and frustrated Willie Coyote who no matter how hard he tries just can't get his hands on his speedy adversity , the escaped allied fliers , even with the help of the entire German Whermacht and Lufftwaffe . The escaped fliers who include future US President and leader of the Free World Ronald Wilson Reagan , as the wise cracking US fly-boy Johnny Hammond , have a field day in making the Germans look both incompetent and ridicules as they hopelessly bumble their way through the movie in trying to apprehend them . Forbes Hammond & Co . easily make their way to the English Channel , knocking out dozens of Germans on the way , with the only thing stopping them from making it back home is that their car , carjacked from the German Army , ran out of gas . Just when you would think that it's curtains for Lt . Forbes and fly-boy Hammond together with numbers man , or accountant , Jed Forrest , Arthur Kenndey , Lord and behold there's a British Lockeed Hudson bomber materializing right before their eyes as if it were a desert mirage ! The Lockeed Hudson happens to be the very plane that the trio were trained to fly and there it is right there for them to hijack and fly back to England ! The dastardly and not at all cricket Germans were going to use the Birtish bomber to sneak over the channel and knock out the Battersea Waterworks that , among other things , supply the water for the London Fire Department ! Only the scheming and not on the level Nazis would think of something as evil as that being that the waterworks are the reason that kept London from burning down during the German Blitz of ! Forbes Hammond & Forrest gun down scores of hapless Germans , who have no idea in how to use firearms , together with the luckless Maj . Baumeister as the Lockeed Hudson finally takes off with Jed Forrest getting shot at least a half dozen times and surviving with only a minor flesh wound . On their way home to England Johnny Hammond just couldn't resist , against orders , to drop the bomb destined for the Battersea Waterworks on a German gun battery aimed at Dover England knocking it out of commission . All this happens without a single Lufwaffe plane or German anti-aircraft artillery battery in sight to stop the dynamic trios escape ! Within sight of the White Cliffs of Dover and freedom Flight Lt . Forbes radios in that he's looking forward to go to Australia , his home , and get a crack at the " Japs " . If the " Japs " are anywhere as helpless and buffoonish as their German allies in the movie " Desperate Journey " it will be nothing more then a walk in the park , and not at all desperate , for Forbes to deal with them .
The house where " Evil " dwells	( There are Spoilers ) Traveling all the way from Boston to see his future wife , whom he met and fell in love with back in Beantnown , the beautiful Madeline Usher , Myrna Fahey , Philip Wintdrop , Mark Damon , is struck by how unnerving the place , The House of Usher , that Medeline lives in is . Meeting the butler Bristol , Harry Ellerbe , at the door Philip is told to get as far away from Madeline and the House of Usher if he knows what's good for him . Refusing not to leave without taking Madeline with him Philip is then confronted by her pasty faced brother , some 20 years Madelines senior , the anemic-looking and accident prone Roderick , Vincent Price . Roderick trying to be as civil as possible tells an outraged Philip that Madeine as well as himself are not long for this world together with the house that they live in " The House of Usher " . The film then turns out to be a struggle between Philip and Roderick over Madeline . Philip want's Madeline to leave for Boston with him and Rodrick want her to stay with him in the mansion . It takes a while for the lovesick Philip to realize what's really behind Roberick's obsession in keeping Madeline from leaving him and thus suffer , by being a lost and tortured soul in the outside world , a fate worse then death itself and it has to do with the Usher descendants , which Roderick and Madeline are the only two left . The Usher clan over the last two centuries was made up , for the most part , of scalawags pirates and murders with a few slave dealers thrown in for good measure . The crimes that the Ushers committed against mankind are now about to be avenged and there's nothing that anyone , including Philip Wintrop , can do to stop it . Spectacular final , with cartoon-like 1960 special effects , has the House of Usher go up in flames when the evil that it represents is put to the torch and plowed underground from above and beyond . Philip blinded by his love for Madeline was just too bind to see what was all around him in the evil House of Usher and it was that revelation , at the very end to the movie , that brought him back to his senses . " House of Usher " is the movie that really established Roger Corman as a major director of highly successful low-budget films and thus opened the door for him and actor Vincent Price to collaborated in some half dozen low budget horror classics over the next five years . The movie also revived the publics interest in the writings of 19th century American author Edgar Allen Poe . It fact most , if not all , of the films that Roger Corman did together with Vincent Price were in one way or another based on Edgar Allen Poe short stories .
Why did you shoot him for ? I was afraid that the fall might kill em !	SOME SPOILERS One of John Wayne's best WWII movies has him in charge of the first Seebee construction battalion in the Pacific building airfields and port facilities for the US Navy and Air Force as well as fighting off hundreds of wild eyed and charging Japanese soldiers . Things at first didn't go too well from the men of the Wayde Donovan , John Wayne , Corps . Construction Company . Searving the US military in the Pacific their easy marks for Japanese snipers who pick off the unarmed construction workers . while the US Army and Marine Corps . are busy fighting the main Japanese forces on the many islands contested by in that theater of war . Demanding to be armed and part of the US military , not contract workers , has Donovan's men incorporated into the Army . Donovan's Seebees are then sent fully armed to island X-214 to build a base for the US Navy to refuel it's war-ships . Right from the start Donovan doesn't have the discipline thats demanded of him and is men by engaging the enemy . When told by his superior Lt . Cmdr . Yarrow , Dennis O'Keefe , to stay in the barracks and , in what looks like an American version of a Bonzai charge , Donovan has almost his entire construction company wiped out by the invading Japanese forces ! Donavon , now a Lt . Commander , also screws up an ambush that the US Army had set up to stop the Japanese . That resulted in his , and Yarrow's , girlfriend war corespondent Constence Chesley , Susan Hayward , to be gunned down but not killed by a wounded Japanese soldier . Back in the states Donovan tries to make amends with the US Navy Lt . Cmdr . Yarrow and Constance over his bullheadedness on the battlefield that cost scores of US military and Seebee's lives . His relationship with Constance is handicapped by her also being in love with Wayde's commander Lt . Cmdr . Yarrow who , unlike Wayde , is a handsome and refined spit and polish Annapolis Navy man . Given a second chance to show his , and his Seebees , worth on the field of battle Wayde Donovan's construction battalion is sent ashore on island X-371 . Not only to build a fuel depot and airfield but to defend if against a possible Japanese invasion of the island . Rip roaring battle scenes , some of the best ever put on film without the benefit of computer enhancement , makes " The Fighting Seebees " stand out among the score of war movies released during WWII by the major Hollywood studios . In fact the film was released by Republic Pictures which only specialized in low budget B and C movies up until then . Taking heavy casualties from Japanese fire Donovan decides , against orders , to take it , the fight , to em ' and organizes another Banzai-like charge on the Japanese forces , which seems like a full division , that are invading island X-371 . The US forces , Army & Marines , deafening the island are badly chopped up with Lt . Cmdr . Yarrow seriously wounded in the fighting and Donovan's Seebees are on the verge of being overrun by the fanatical Japanese troops . Having nothing but earth-moving and construction equipment to fight off the hoards of highly motivated and heavily armed Japanese troops supported by tanks the Seebees still hold on to the fuel tanks that's desperately needed for the US Navy Task Force in the area . Donavan told by the wounded Lt . Cmdr . Yarrow that he'll see to it that's he's court-martial-ed if he survives this action takes matters into his own hands . With a steam shovel loaded with explosives Donovan drives it into one of the fuel tanks causing it to explode and smoke out and drive into the open the attacking Japanese troops , their then mowed down by the Seebees and US Army and Marines . Donovan for his bravery got a medal , posthumously , not a court-martial at the end of the film , Let . Cmdr Yarrow gets the girl that both he and Donovan left behind Constance Chesely .
A drop of logic in a sea of obnoxiousness	SPOILERS The movie begins with Criswell addressing the theater audience about what their about to see . Sounding like he's giving a monologue for a movie that's a cross between " Dragnet " and " Unsolved Mysteries " Criswell tells us that what we are about to see is true based on the evidence that has been substantiated in the investigation of the facts , that are presented in the movie . Based on those irrefutable facts we should reward the innocent and punish the guilty in the matter of what we are about to see on the screen . well that's something that will get your attention if nothing else does . We're told by Criswell that there's flying saucers hovering over the earth using some kind of electric ray to rejuvenate the recently dead and bring them back to life to be used as an indestructible army of Zombies . Their mission is to stop the governments of Earth from building super bombs and ending up destroying themselves as well as the entire Universe . The aliens have tried peacefully eight times before to get the human race to stop their drive to self-destruction but to no avail . With the governments of earth shooting at their aircraft , and and in some cases killing their crews members . Now their taking off their gloves and going to Plan Nine and instead of trying to be peaceful and talkative with the Earth leaders their going to resort to force . What happens in the movie is that the aliens are foiled and destroyed by the heroic earthlings so that now they can develop more and more powerful weapons to destroy themselves as well as the Universe in the future . Taking away the stupid and ridicules sub-plots that Ed Wood Jr . put into the movie , Vampires Zombies flying saucers looking like car hubcaps and aliens dressed up like extras from a movie about Knights of the Round Table , " Plan Nine from Other Space " is truly thought provoking for a film released back in the 1950's . It was back then that criticizing the governments actions in regard to nuclear testing for the purpose of national security was unheard of . One scene in the movie that tells it all but is made to look by director Wood as if the aliens were the bad guys trying to do in the people of earth but really was just the opposite ! They were really trying to save them and get them off from their road to destruction . Eros , Dudley Manlove , the alien crafts captain tells those earthlings that he invited on his spaceship the reasons for his getting in contact with them was to stop the earthlings from building a Solarnite Bomb ! Which not only can destroy themselves but the entire Universe . The dense and brainless hero of the movie Jeff Trent , Gregory Wallcott , completely misinterpreting what Eros said then starts to brag to Eros saying that if we , the USA , develops this Solarnite Bomb " We'll be stronger then we are now " ! Which to the shock and surprise of Eros , who just explained to him how dangerous a bomb like that was , tells him just how stupid he and those on earth are . Eros then gets belted , by an outraged Trent , in the mouth for trying to put some sense into his empty head . The movie ends like it started with Criswell , again taking center stage , telling us emphatically that " The story that you just saw is true " . Criswell goes so far to even challenge those of us watching the movie ! saying " Can you prove that it didn't happen ? " Then adds , to his both smug and self-righteous monologue , " How do you know that after you leave the theater and pass someone in the dark that person is not from outer space ? " Which is well in line with a lot of the idiotic things that we've seen , and heard from Criswell , in the movie . But I have to admit that Criswell's last words are really thought provoking and do hit home after what we just saw about the dangers of nuclear destruction , in the mad rush for bigger and better nuclear bombs by the top world powers on earth : " God Help Us In The Future " .
There bringing in a body . What sort of body ? A Dead One !	SPOILERS We get a clue to who this mysterious killer terrorizing the Whitechaple district of London is almost as soon as the movie " Jack the Ripper " began : Mary Clarke ! The is the name the killer asks everyone of his victims before he runs them in with his surgical scalpel . The murdering in Whitechaple gets so out of control that Scotland Yard has to ask for help from the NYPD in the person of police detective Sam Lowry , Lee Patterson . Lowry in trying to assess the damage done by the elusive killer almost gets himself lynched by the terrified people in the area in thinking , in him being an outsider , that he may very well be the killer : " Jack the Ripper " . Working together with his British counterpart Inspt . O'Neill , Eddie Byrne , Lowry comes to the conclusion that the killer with his knowledge of the human anatomy and experience in using surgical equipment , in murdering and dismembering his victims , has to be a physician . It's these clues that has both Lowry and Inspt . O'Neill zero in on the only hospital in the Whitechaple district a privately funded medical clinic for women . The hospital is run by Sir David Rogers , Ewen Solon , and his top man the person who just happened to preform all the autopsies of the " Ripper's " victims Dr . Tranter , John Le Mesurier . As the killing in Whitechaple go unabated the people in he area start getting openly violent even attacking and almost killing Dr . Tranter's assistant the harmless mute , but a bit weird , Louis " Dumb Louie " Benz , Endre Muller . Louie being at the scene of the " Ripper's " latest murder accidentally dropped his medical kit containing a number of surgical scalpels . Feeling in that he had the murder weapon on him and that he's the notorious " Jack the Ripper " lead the angry and mindless mob to chase Louis all through the streets cornering and and almost murdering him if it wasn't for both Lowry and Inspt . O'Neill coming to his rescue . Finally through him locating her birth certificate the " Ripper " finds out who this mysterious Mary Clarke is and it's that very reason that in the end he finally exposes himself and the reason why he so's determined to murder her . It turns out that Mary Clarke , using another name , works as a chorus girl at a nightclub in the neighborhood . With him knowing Mary Clarke's true identity the " Ripper " completely drops his guard in going after her . This leads to the " Ripper " not only murdering Mary but attacking and , in making it look by Scotland Yard , almost killing the only person who can , by seeing his blood soaked clothes , identifying him . Trapped on all sides and with nowhere to go the " Ripper " has his whole world slowly come crashing down on him in he films bone crushing and gut spilling climax . By the time the movie ends there's nothing of " Jack the Ripper's " remains left even to be buried .
Deliver us from Evil	( Some spoilers ) Getting stuck on the Somoan Island of Pago Pago because of an outbreak of cholera makes life a bit tenuous for the boat passenger stranded there but for fun loving and partying Sadie Tompson , Joan Crawford , it's the best thing that could have happened to her . Palying the phonograph high and loud and drinking whiskey and rum right out of the bottle as well as carousing and dancing with the US Marines stationed at the island made Sadie a target of one of the fellow passengers that's stuck there with her reformer and religious fanatic Alfred Davidson , Walter Huston . Davidson makes it his utmost duty to shame Sadie's wicked godless soul in what's she's doing , and save it even if it kills him . W . Somerset Maugham novel " Miss Thompson " released in 1932 as the movie " Rain " is about how a man can become so infatuated with sin in battling it that he in the end he becomes not only deranged but overcomes with guilt and shame , to the point of killing himself , just for thinking about it . Throughout the entire movie Davidson is totally committed in saving Sadie's soul from eternal damnation by driving the poor woman almost into having a nervous breakdown . Davidson in his probing of Sadie's past comes up with the information , that he psychologically beat out of her , that she was wanted back in the states for prostitution and is awaiting a three year sentence for it when she steps off the boat at the San Farncisco piers . Sadie is slowly broken down by Davidson's tactics and he really gets to her when he has the Governor of the island , Pago Pago , sign an order to ship her out and back to San Francisco where she awaits a prison cell . Trying to get a rock hard Davison to change his mind Sadie gives into every one of his demands that includes her becoming a bible thumping and church going Christian . Even Sadie's going along with him isn't good enough for the non-forgiving , which is the exact opposite of Christianity , Davidson . A triumphant and smug Davidson tells a now completely destroyed , in mind and body , Sadie that she'll have to pay for her sins in being put away behind bars back in the states even if she's guilty or not ! The ending is a bit hazy with Sadie about to get away from Davidson and the law by shipping out with her new US Marine Corps boyfriend Sgt . Tim " Handsome " O'Hara , William Gargan , for Sidney Australia and then changing her mind when she's confronted by Davidson . Davidson playing what seems like a sadistic little cat and mouse game with Sadie tells her that she can leave for Sidney only to have Sadie , now suffering from what looks like a sever case of Stockhome Syndrome , chooses to go back to the states and face her punishment and have her soul cleansed . It's later that we see an obvious going insane Davidson as he gets a crazed look on his face and starts losing control of his feelings and emotions . With Davidson completely losing it we hear in the background the tempo of native drums and heavy monsoon rainfall starts to pick up . Davidson loses control of his ability to keep evil and sinful thoughts out of his mind as he finally snaps as he eventually loses his mind as well as his life . Your left up in the air to what caused Davidson to do himself in . I feel that W . Somerset Maugham was trying to tell us is that a religious nut like Davidson who put himself up on such a high pedestal of morality that when he as much as got a thought of what he would consider to be sinful that it burst his whole balloon of holy self-righteous . This rediscovery of himself caused , in Davidson thinking that he's a perfect Christian and human being , him to completely fall mentally as well as physically apart .
Last man standing	SPOILERS Taking upon himself almost Herculean efforts Charlie Samson , Don Murray , is not only holding down a job as a full-time bookkeeper at a major NYC brokerage house but is also spending all his free time from work taking collage classes to earn a degree as a CPA . It comes as a big shock to Charlie when his wife Helen , Patricia Smith , tells him that she's expecting their first child that coming February . It just happens that one of Charlie's fellow workers Arnold Craig , Philip Abbott , is to get married that weekend and reluctantly , skipping a collage class for the first time in six months , Charlie agrees to attend his bachelor party secluded to take place that evening . It turned out that Charlie as well as those who attended Arnold's bachelor party got an education in life and human relationships that in the end changed their lives around and for the better at that as well ! Getting tanked up on both beer and hard liquor Charlie and his friends that included life long bachelor , and best man at Arnold's wedding , Eddie , Jack Warden , as well as married men Walter , E . G Marshall , and Kenny , Larry Blyden , ended up letting their hair down and exposing to each other their deepest and darkest secrets . Eddie the big swinger and womanizer that he is showed that he was a man who couldn't bear to be alone even for a moment . Without booze friends and women Eddie was nothing but a lonely soul without any direction in life . Walter 48 years old with two teenagers is obsessed with the thought that he's soon going to die , from an asthmatic attack , if he doesn't move to the dry , of humidity not booze , and year round hot state of Arizona . Kenny about the only normal person of the group of beer swelling and woman grabbing bookkeepers showed how normal he was by leaving the party when it started to get out of hand and was never seen or heard from again in the movie . As for Arnold , the man of honor at the party , he started to get freaked out as his wedding day , some three days off , approached in his fears that he , being a virgin , won't be able to satisfy his recently divorced-or is it widowed-as well as experienced , in sexual matters , fiance . Charlie who's a straight as an arrow no fooling around family man soon loses his cool as the hot for him and really wanting it 25 year old woman beatnik Carolyon Jones , or the Existentialist in the movie credits , puts the squeeze on him at a local Greenwich village anything goes and free for all swingers party . As the dawn starts to approach Charlie together with his friends realizes what fools they made of themselves and try to put all the pieces of their shattered lives , because of the party that got out of control , back together . Both Charlie and Eddie having unknowingly , due to their childish needing , had Arnold brake off his engagement to his future bride finally get the by now totally drunk Arnold to go back home in Queens , to his parents , to make up with his girl before she leaves him both him and dry at the altar . Charlie who was about to drop his night classes in collage and become a full time carousing midnight scorer , or all day snorer , goes back to his wife Helen who was , like Arnold's fiance , about to walk out on him and move back to her parents . It took those heart wrenching and both boozing and womanizing 12 hours of partying the night away that in the end showed Charlie how good he's had it all along . It also showed Charlie that the life of a swinging and irresponsible bachelor , like his friend Eddie , was not his or his fellow married friends at the office cup of tea or bowl of borscht .
Street Life	SPOILERS Lee Remick , Fran Morrison , plays a hard nose crusading reporter who drives a hard pen & pencil to get to the bottom of the prostitution racket in NYC by exposing those on the top who are untouchable by the police , press and politicians until she takes them on . One night going out with the police to get a story about the seedy side of the city on a " hooker sweep " the police round up a number of prostitutes . At the police station Fran becomes interested in one of the hookers Wanda , Jill Clayburgh , and pays her bail to get her out of jail . Wanda grateful for what Fran did tells her that she'll repay her for what she did as soon as she turned enough tricks to make up for the $500 . 00 bail that Fran paid for her . But Fran tells Wanda that she just wants her to tell her everything that she knows about the life that she leads so she can write a story in her magazine , City Magazine , about it . At first Wanda hit's it right off with Fran in telling her about her hard life and how she has to work to pay off her pimp for food clothing and protection and that she makes something like $20-25 , 000 . 00 a year , this is in 1975 . But Fran is shocked that Wanda didn't even have $500 . 00 to bail herself out of jail with all that money that she makes on the streets . When Wanda's pimp , Sweets , finds out that she's talking to a reporter and also starting to think about getting out of the prostitution business and feels that he might lose her from working for him he has a couple of street thugs beat and cut her up so bad that she would get back into line . Fran feeling responsible for what happened to Wanda takes it upon herself to expose the prostitution business and those who profit the most from it . The makers and shakers from the city and state government as well as the big real estate interests who own the hotels where the hookers do their trade . Back on the streets Wanda's fellow prostitute as well as best friend Dee Dee , Melanie Mayron , who is 18 but looks like she's in her 40's , has been missing since her one year old son was taken away from her by the social services because they say that she can't provide for him . Fran going to where Dee Dee and Wanda hung out when they wanted to get out of the cold and rain in a deserted construction site and finds Dee Dee dead , she killed herself by slashing her wrists . With Dee Dee having no one and slated to be buried in Potter's Field Fran comes to the rescue and pays for her to get a proper burial where Wanda and all those from the streets who knew her were in attendance . Also there was Wanda's pimp , Sweets , waiting in the background for her to join him in his pimp-mobile . Wanda to her credit ignored him as he angrily sped away . In the final scene in the movie we see Wanda waiting for a bus to take her to the airport for a plane to Cleveland to move in with and take care of her old and sick father . Fran says good by and tells Wanda that she has something for her to read during that long plane trip . As a goodbye present Fran takes out the new copy of City Magazine . In it there's the story that Fran wrote about Wanda and the women and girls who work the streets of NYC ; also in the article is Fran's exposer of those in high places who shamelessly profit off them . With Wanda on the Bus and then Fran on her way to flag down a cab to take her home she sees that at the local newspaper stand everybody snapping up and buying the magazine with the article about the prostitution racket , that she wrote about , on the front cover . There's nothing earthshaking about " Hustling " but it's just a good and well intended film . With a young Jill Clayburgh in one of her first movie roles before she hit it big in Hollywood and portrayed women who were , well spoken and educated and classy , but anything then what she played in " Hustling " .
Ho The Humanity !	( There are Spoilers ) Put in charge of the German airship Hindenberg's security by Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Geobbles , David Mauro , Luftwaffe Col . Franz Ritter , George C . Scott , is very certain that there's a very strong possibility that members of the anti-Nazi resistance movement were planning to blow the ship up in a public statement against the Hitler regime . Ritter's worst fears turned out to be right dead right for over 30 passengers and crew on the ship . Even though the movie " The Hindenberg " was universally panned by many critics at the time of its release in 1975 it still remains , as far as I know , the only major disaster movie released back then that was in fact based on a true story . That makes it somewhat of a novelty itself in that everyone watching the film knew exactly what was to happen to it when it was about to moor , or anchor , at the Lakehurst NJ Naval airfield back in the spring , May 6 , of 1937 . Having his own doubts about what bad , not good , the Nazi regime is doing to his country from what he experienced in Spain , the bombing of Guernica , Ritter is still at heart a German national and loyal member of Hitler's Luftwaffe . Still he's bitterly divided in his emotions when he finds out that one of the riggers on the airship Nazi Youth leader Boerth , William Atherton , is planning to blow up the blimp . Boerth a bit unstable himself after his girlfriend , and fellow anti-Nazi resistance member , was shot and killed by the Gestapo during questioning . All this made Col . Ritter try to get him to reveal how he planned to down the airship in order to play on his humanistic qualities , in having Boerth abort his suicide mission . Col . Ritter knowing that what Boerth plans to do tries to get him to understand that he'll only in the end help , not hurt , the Nazi regime . We have the usual cast of characters on the flight where we try to figure out who , by the time he movie is over , will survive this impending disaster with Countess Ursula , Anne Bancroft , by far the most interesting . Ursala an old flame of Col . Ritter is trying to sneak out of Germany with all the gold jewels and diamonds that she can carry to start a new life , with her relatives in Boston , as an American citizen . The Hindenbergs flight over the vast Atlantic Ocean is even more interesting , with far better special effects , then the ship explosion itself with the movie makers using actual newsreel films inter-cut with the actors in the movie , all in black and white , of the Hindenberg disaster . The explosion and crash of the giant airship actually lasted under 40 seconds but was stretched out to over ten minutes in the film . In the end nothing even the on board and undercover Gestapo chief and fanatical Nazi Martin Vogle , Roy Thinnes , couldn't stop the very determined Boerth from carrying out his plans . What was really the big surprise in the movie was that Boerth had help from a very unexpected and , at first , unwilling person on the flight ! Who in him trying to disarm the explosive device , that Boerth planted , actually activated it ! P . S Even though the movie makes it look like the destruction of the German airship Hindenberg was the result of sabotage the true facts of it's demise were never fully found out . A joint US / German investigation determined that it was either an " Act of God " or the result of a freak electro-magnetic spark or St . Elmos's fire igniting the flammable hydrogen , not harmless helium , that was pumped into it's massive Hull .
Mr . Galt your imagination is beginning to bore me !	( Some Spoilers ) The guy stood out like a sore thumb all white summer suit hat and pants , like the Man from Glad , and it's was easy for private eye Bradford Galt , Mark Stevens , to spot him almost as soon as he saw him . Galt played along with him not letting him on to what he knows , the big guy's shadowing him . Leading his stalker down a dark alley Galt turns the tables on him and then roughing him up , after getting the big guy , in his office he finds out that he's also a private eye named Foss , William Bendix , not " White Suit " as he referred to him to his his secretary Kathleen , Lucille Ball . Much later Galt was to find out that he's really an out of town hood named Stauffer . Getting Foss to give him the name of the person who hired him a local art enthusiast named Tony Jardine , Kurt Kreuger , brings an icy chill down Galt's back . Jardine is the person who framed him back in San Francisco for manslaughter that cost him two years behind bars . Mostly forgotten post WWII Film Nior that has to do with a love triangle that leads to a series of murders that exposes the dark side of the New York cultured and well to do upper crust of society . Galt is unknowingly being set up in a murder that in the end will only benefit well know art collector Hardy Catchcart , Clifton Webb , with the help of hoodlum Staffer who's really working for Catchcart , not Tony Jerdine . Even though both Galt and Jardine had their falling outs back on the West Coast Jardine has long ago forgotten about them . Cathcart want's Galt to think that he's trying to have him knocked off , by Stauffer , and thus induce Galt to in turn to murder him . Cathcart has found that his good friend the strikingly handsome Jardine is having an affair with his beautiful young wife Mari , Cathy Downs , and their planing to leave town with him being left out in the cold . Cathcart also knows the troubles that Jardine got Galt into and is trying to exploit them by getting Galt to kill him . Dark and deadly the film " The Dark Corner " leads it's audience through a maze of murder infidelity insane jealousy and also a shocking double-cross . The movie ends with the person double-crossed falling to his death from a high rise office building in mid-town Manhattan . Both Mark Stevens and a pre " I Love Lucy " Lucille Ball really work very well together with William Bendix his usually brutish self as the tough as nails hood who thinks that he's in the drivers seat but sadly finds out that he's not . Clifton Webb as art connoisseur Hardy Cathcart in a more or less repeat of his role as gossip columnist Waldo Lydecker in " Laura " is the obsessed husband of the gorgeous Mari who will go as far as to commit murder in order to keep her from leaving him . The one thing that Hardy overlooked is that Mari is not at all that in love with him and his contract murder of her lover Tony Jerdine , when Mari found out that he was responsible for it , sealed his fate .
I don't care what nationality a man is , as long as he's Irish	( There are Spoilers ) Just graduating from medical school young Doctor James or Jimmy Kildare , Lew Ayres , comes back to his roots in the little sleepy town of Dartford Connecticut to open up a practice with his old man Dr . Stephen Kildare , Samuel H . Hinds . It doesn't take long for Jimmy to leave Dartford and his parents Mr . & Mrs . Kildare , played by Emma Dunn , as well as his long suffering girlfriend Alice ( Lynn Carver ) , who's been waiting for him all this time , for the big city's , NYC , Balir General Hospital . Dr . Kildare want's to make his mark as a diagnostician and the best place is Blair where the world renowned Dr . Leonard , or Lenny , Gillespie , Lionel Barymore , is in charge not only of the diagnosis but the surgery department as well . Things don't go as well as Jimmy expected in him being chewed out by Dr . Gillespie the first day he started his residency at Blair in front of all his fellow interns . In no time at all Dr . Kildare makes a name for himself in being able to diagnose on the spot illnesses and cure them with almost miraculous medical powers . This makes the grumpy Dr . Gillespie take notice of the young Doctor Jimmy Kildare even though he acts like he's not at all that impressed with Jimmy's almost unearthly healing skills . Dr . Kildare being the morally-minded person that he is get's himself in hot water later in the movie by after first rescuing heiress Barbara Chanler , Jo Ann Sayers , he refuses to reveal the reason for her attempted suicide . Barbara breaking up with her fiance Jack Hamilton , Truman Bradley , over him not taking her to the Blue Sawn nightclub ended up with horse owner Albert Foster , Leonard Penn , who got her juiced , inebriated , and left her almost dead drunk in one of the clubs private gambling rooms . Staggering out semi conscious into the street Barbara ended up in this Bowery flophouse where she tried to kill herself by turning on the gas oven in her room without lighting it . It seems that Barbara even though the movie doesn't spell it out , it leaves it to the viewers imagination , felt that Foster took advantage of her while she was drunk . The shock of her fiance Jack finding out that she's isn't a virgin on their wedding night was just too much for Barbara to take and thus decided , in what later turned out to be for the wrong reason , to take her own life . Being a doctor Jimmy Kildare knew that Barbara , after examining her , was not at all the " damaged goods " that she thought she was . It was Dr . Jimmy Kildare's sweet and caring , as well as private , doctor patient relationship that put Barbara off from killing herself again . This in the end cured Barbara of the fears she had in what Foster did , which in fact he didn't , to her . In keeping the truth about Barbara from his superior the administrator of Blair General Dr . P Walter Carew , Walter Kingsford , almost got Jimmy kicked out of the place . It turned that Dr . Lenny Gillespie came to the young and besieged , on all sides , Dr . Kildare's rescue by offering the startled young man a chance to be his assistant which he , at first thinking that the old guy was going to chew him out , snapped up without a moments hesitation . The future now looked bright for Young Doctor Kildare but at the same time looked very ominous for old man Gillespie in that he's suffering for a bad case of melanoma , skin cancer , and he knew his days were numbered . It's in the short time that he had left Dr . Gillespie planned to teach his young potage , Jimmy Kildare , all he knows about medicine before the final curtain comes down on him . P . S Amazingly the movie had Dr . Kildare examine Dr . Gillespie on his condition , melanoma , and he predicted that Ol'Lenny still had some ten years of life left in his gas-tank . Gillespie putting Dr . Kildare down on how ridicules his prognosis is it in fact turned out to be right on target ! Old and feisty Dr . Gillespie would out last young Doctor Kildare , or actor Lew Ayres who played him , in the Doctor Kildare series by some five years ! That's exactly tens years since Dr . Kildare diagnosed the old man telling him that he'll overcome his cancerous condition . In fact after the Doctor Kildare movies came to an end in 1947 Dr . Gillespie , with his portage Dr . Kildare no longer around , was still very much alive and as healthy as he was when the series first started back in 1938 !
Burn Baby Burn	SPOILERS The city of Chicago get's the grand treatment here in this 1937 20th Century Fox production . After going on and on with a boring and uninteresting love story between handsome and wisecracking Dion O'Leary , Tyrone Powes , and beautiful stage singer and dancer Belle Fawcett , Alice Faye it really takes off with a bang or flame . This happens when Dion's older brother Jack , Don Ameche , is persuaded to run for mayor against the corrupt Gil Warren , Brian Dunlevy , political machine . Getting elected mayor with the help , which he didn't know about , of his brother Dion Jack O'Leary is now determined to condemn the Colney Patch District thats the center of Warrens political power in the city . The four square mile Patch District is not only riddled with political corruption but is a tinder box of wooden houses and shacks , a shantytown for the many new Irish immigrants in the city , thats in danger of going up in flames at the striking of a match . Jack in a convoluted effort to get the goods on Warren & Co . plans to use his own brother Dion , who in fact got him elected , to testify not only against Warren but himself with the help of his girlfriend Faye . Who as a chorus girl worked for both men who run nightclubs in the Patch . This illogical plan on Jack's part falls flat on it's face when he's tricked , by being mayor of the city , by Dion to marry him and Faye without knowing that a wife can't testify against her husband . Throwing Jacks entire plan of getting the corrupt political kingpin Gil Warren , through his brother Dion , right in the garbage can ! Outraged at being tricked by Dion into making a complete fool of himself jack slugs it out with his brother only to later have his and Dion's mom Mrs . O'Leary , Alice Brady , leave her prized cow Daisey , whom she was milking , alone by herself in the barn . It's then that Daisey kicks over a lantern that in effect , according to legend , started the Great Chicago Fire of October 8-10 , 1871 that destroyed almost a quarter of the city . Only worth watching for the amazing state-of-the-art Hollywood special effects , for the late 1930's , in showing the devastating Chicago Fire . With the Warren Mob , thinking that it was started by the mayor himself , rustling up a lynch mob to string Mayor Jack O'Leary up . With the fire quickly getting out of control the Warren hoodlums , lead by the future Creeper & Brute Man Rondo Hatton , are caught flat footed as the whole Patch District is blown to pieces . On orders of Gen . Sheridan , Sidney Blackmar , with hundreds of sticks of dynamite in order to put the fire out . Warren who instead of trying to put out the fire tried to start a new one by inciting a riot and is later trampled to death by hundreds of steers who escaped from the burning Chicago stockyards . The grand final has thousands of people from in and around the Patch district scurrying out of their homes in order to save their lives by escaping into the only avenue opened to them left by the great fire the shore and waters of Lake Michigan . The one barrier , natural or man-made , that the flames couldn't penetrate . Despite the great cast with an strikingly handsome Tyrone Powers who looked even better , if thats possible , after he got his brains beat in . There's also the gorgeous Alice Faye as well as the wonderful acting of Alice Brady . Who won an Academy Award for her role as Mrs . Molly O'Leary . Still the actors and actresses had to take second place to the special effects of Great Chicago Fire thats as heart-wrenching and exciting now as it was back then 70 years ago .
A mind is a terrible thing to waste	SPOILERS A bit ahead of it's time in how the government uses it's people , like the GI's in the 1950's atomic bomb test in Utah & Nevada , in experimental tests to farther its both military and scientific knowledge . The bad thing about all this is that these tests are done without those people used in them knowing about them . Pvt . James H . Reese has been having disciplinary and behavioral problems both on and off the army base that he's stationed at in Frankfurt Germany . Accused of assault by a woman at a party he attended Reese is taken into custody while staying at his girlfriends , Lisa , apartment by the army MP's . Ending up with his left arm broken Reese is , instead of being taken to the local military base's medical facility , taken to this out of the way German castle run by Army Intelligence . It turned out to Pvt . Reese's surprise that beside himself there's only two other patients at the castle , now subbing for a mental institution , Sgt . Miles and Let . Rhodes . Depressed at being locked up Reese soon realized that he and his fellow GI's , Miles & Rhodes , are being used by the US military as guinea pigs in mind control experiments . A cross between " One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest " and " The Ninth Configuration " the movie " The Happiness Cage " brings out things about how were used by our own government that at the time of its release , 1972 , was a bit hard to take by the movie going public . Reese who at first was anything but interested in how the government operates becomes very in-tuned in it's methods in how it's trying to steal his as well as his fellow GI's minds . These experiments are the brainchild of the kindly and understanding Dr . Fredrick , Joss Akland , who despite what he's doing in destroying peoples minds thinks that he's actually curing mental illness . It's not long that Reese , broken arm and all , makes a escape attempt from the castle grounds only to find out that's it's secured , by guards police dogs and barb wire , as tight as a minute man nuclear missile base ! Put under around the clock guard Reese soon sees that his fellow patient , Sgt . Miles , at the castle is going off his rocker in his not having had a woman in more then a year . Miles taking advantage of the Red Cross lady Anna Kraus who comes over to play checkers with him , a service provided by the US Military , attacks and rapes her while Reese is being examined by Dr . Fredrick and his assistant orderly Shannon . Finding out what Miles did Reese despite his broken arm has it out with him only to find , after socking Miles , that he's slowly dying from terminal cancer . With Let . Rhodes , who seemed to be lobotomized , dying of a brain tumor Miles is then sent to Dr . Fredrick's laboratory in Rhodes ' place for a mind control experiment . Ashamed and feeling very guilty for what he did , raped Anna Kraus , a Zombie-like Miles lets himself be hooked up with electrodes by Dr . Fredrick . Pushing the button himself , Dr . Fredrick insisted on that , Miles shocks himself to the point where he ends up brain dead . With only Reese left to experiment with he , despite being wired , refuses to push the button and end up together with both Rhodes and Miles ; Dead or lobotomized . SPOILER ALERTJust about having enough of Dr . Fredrick's , who refuses to push the button himself , concern for Reese the Major , who really runs the place , finally takes control of things . The Major sends a jolt of electricity through Reese's gray matter turning him into a docile and mindless slave who'll do or say anything that he's superiors , like the Major , tells him too . And so ends the movie with Reese , looking like he's here on earth in body with his brain is on another planet , answering questions from the news media with the Major and Dr . Fredrick looking on . An almost teen-age looking , he was 29 at the time , Christopher Walken as Pvt . Reese is extremely effective as the mentally disturbed sociopath who , because of his stay at Dr . Fredrick's castle , becomes a feeling and sensitive human being . Joss Ackland as Dr . Fredrick put the usual mad scientist , in the part he played in the film , to rest with a sympathetic interpretation of the tortured doctor . Ronny Cox as the deranged Sgt . Miles was both funny and tragic in that he was losing control of his ability to remain normal . It was without a doubt Ralph Meeker as the spic & span , as well as blood & guts , Major who in spite of his short time on the screen dominated every scene he was in . Meeker , as the Major , knew what his bosses , the army brass , wanted from him and did it , like a robot , without a second thought . It was the Major who in the end did what Dr . Fredrick & Co . failed to do . Turned the wild and uncontrollable pit bull-like Pvt . James H . Reese into a harmless and obedient laboratory rat . But the Major had to destroy and wipe clean Reese's mind in order to do it !
A dark secret exposed to the light of truth	SPOILER ALERT Dark and depressing movie about a guilty past thats above and beyond everything thats done by the person responsible for it ; who ' been trying to suppress it for over a year . Not being able to sleep or eat properly Trevor Reznik , Christian Bale , has dropped to under 120 lbs . from his normal 180 lbs . six foot two inch , frame looking like he's a concentration camp survivor . Working at the machine plant one day Trevor is spotted by Ivan , John Sharian , who seems to know a lot about him and tells Trevor that he works with him at the plant . Never seeing Ivan in his life , much less at work , this plays on Trevor's mind to the point where he asks his fellow workers who this Ivan is . Trevor is told that one one ever saw him on the work-floor or even knew him . One day at work helping fellow worker Miller , Michael Ironsides , with the machinery Trevor sees Ivan who for some reason gave him the slit throat sign . Trevor is so startled by seeing him he backs up hitting the activator button on the machine that Miller was working on causing him to lose his left arm . Even though Trevor is exonerated for the accident that cost Miller his arm , and even Miller forgave him for what happened , no one at the factory wants to work with Trevor . Trevor still holds , not just himself responsible for Millers loss , that Ivan had something to do with the accident and wants to find Ivan who he feels is somehow trying to do him in , but why ? This Ivan is a very odd duck looking like Marlon Brando's portrayal of Col . Walter E . Kurtz in the movie " Apocalypes Now " with two of his toes grafted on his left hand to replace two missing fingers , looking like claws . He not only keeps popping up in Trevors life but has a connection with a number of people that Travor knows like Reynolds , who Ivan said that he replaced in " The Pit " , in the plant . Ivan also knows Stevie , Jennifer Jason Leigh , a hooker who Travor's frequents . Trevor found that out through a photo that he took from Ivan's wallet as if Ivan left it at the bar on purpose for Travor's to steal it from him that he found in Stevies apartment . Ivan's wallet also contains a photo of Reynolds , who claimed that he never knew Ivan , on it together with Ivan showing off a catch that they had while out fishing ! The story gets even weirder when Trevor's girlfriend Marie , Aitana Sanchez-Gijon , a waitress at the airport diner turns out to be a figment of his imagination . Trevor finds that out when he's told by the waitress at the diner that she , like Ivan at the machine plant , never worked there . Trevor knowing Ivan's car license goes so far as to get himself hit by a speeding car so he could report the license plate to the police in a hit and run report . All this to find out if this Ivan , who's license plate number he gave , is for real only to find out , to his surprise , that the plate number of the car was that of his car that he reported stolen by him last year ! Slowly losing his mind Trevor again sees Ivan's car in the streets one night and follows it to his apartment seeing that he had Marie's young son Nicholas , Matthew Romero-Moore , with him . Following Ivan & Nicholas into the apartment Trevor is told by Ivan that he just murdered the young boy leading Trevor to get into a fight with him slitting his throat ; like the death sigh that Ivan gave him at the factory earlier in the film , killing him . Wraping up Ivan's body in a rug and taking it out at night to dispose it into the ocean Trevor finds out to his surprise that there's no body in the rug and that there never was any Ivan , he only existed in poor Trevor's sick and disturbed mind ! It's then when everything that was safely hidden in the dark reaches of Trevor's mind started to reveal itself to him as he realized what he did and that he had to pay for his crime . It's then that Trevor finally made peace with himself as he gave himself up to the police to face the bar of justice . Very weird movie who's confusing story is more then made up by it's powerful surprise ending that ties all the loose ends together for those of us who were still around watching it .
Under and Out	SPOILERSBased on a true event " Escape from East Berlin " not only shows how desperate the people of Communist East Berlin were in willing to risk their lives in escaping from that " workers paradise " but also how some East Berliners were more then willing to turn in their fellow citizens just to ingratiate themselves with their Comminist masters . Gunther Jurgens , Horst Janson , just had all he could take from living in the walled in city of East Berlin and made a run for it one evening in a truck busting through the just constructed Berlin Wall . Intangled in barb wire Gunther is gunned down by the East German border guards just has he made it across into allied , USA UK & French , West Berlin . Gunther's friend Kurt Schroeder , Don Murray , who tried to prevent him from his , what turned out to be , suicide mission is contacted the next day by his younger sister Erika , Christine Kaufmann , looking for him . Erika hasn't seen Gunther since he went to work at the car pool the day before and is worried about her brother fearing that the worst happened to him . Eariler Erika was told by Gunther's fellow workers that Kurt was the last person to be seen with him the night that he disappeared . Kurt trying to tell a very concerned Erika what happened gets as far as her brother making in across , or through , the Berlin Wall but when she becomes excited in that Gunther is alive and well he decides to just stop right there not telling her that Gunther was gunned down and killed . It takes almost the entire movie until Kurth finally told Erika the full story of what happened to her brother in him doing his best not to upset her with the honest and brutal truth about Gunther death . The movie then concentrates in how a very reluctant Kurt comes up with the idea for digging a 200 foot long tunnel under the Berlin Wall that resulted in in one of most spectacular and successful escape attempts under , as well as across or over , that barrier to freedom . Kurt for his part liked the life he lead in Commuist East Berlin but not that he was so found of the communist regime . Having a job as East German Major Eckhardt's , Carl Schell , personal chauffeur Kurt was also fooling around with the Majors wife Heidi , Kia Fisher , as well as using the car to take girls out on dates . Kurt didn't want to give this all up by being involved in an escape attempt that even if successful didn't guarantee that he would have the same kind of swinging life-style in the west . It's just when the tunnel was completed and the escape set for sundown that Erika's father Prof . Jurgens , Kurt Waitzmann , is contacted by one of those who planned to escape Marla , Maria Tober , and asked if he and his wife , Helma Seitz , would want to join their daughter in the impending escape attempt . This Communist butt-kissing creep instead of either joining in with the escapees or just keeping his big fat mouth shut runs like his pants are on fire to Major Eckhardt , Kurt's boss , and rats out those who are trying to escape to freedom even his daughter Erika ! With Major Eckhardt alerting the border guards as well as mustering up a squad of East German troops to stop the breakout Kurt Erika and some 25 other east Berliners make it across to the other side of the Berlin wall to freedom as the movie ends . I could only hope that that two-timing swine Prof . Jurgens got exactly what's coming to him from his beloved East German Communist bosses ; an all expense paid life long vacation to a Soviet gulag in sunny Siberia with only a t-shirt and boxer shorts to keep him good and warm . P . S Since the Berlin Wall was built in the Summer of 1961 some 200 East Germans were shot and killed by East German border guards in escape attempts with the last East Berliner being gunned down on February 6 , 1989 just just eight month's before the infamous wall was finally torn down . In all the escapes across the East / West Berlin Wall , which numbered in the thousands , the one depicted in the movie " Escape from East Berlin " was by far the most famous and showed how far people would go to risk their lives for the freedom that awaited them on the other side .
Interview with a serial killer	SPOILERS Disturbing and scary insight of what make a serial killer tick in that he , like almost all his type , has both a good as well as murderous side to him . Which makes him more dangerous in that he's not that easy to identify by both the police and his unsuspecting victims . In the movie recovering alcoholic and armature film maker Mickey " Mick " Garvatski , Wes Bently , catches on video tape serial killer James Lemac , Mark Borowski , in the act as he brutally murders a young women in a dark alley . Instead of turning the tape over to the police Mick decides to blackmail James in giving him the story behind his actions and later , if James is either caught or killed by the police , releasing the video as a TV documentary . To make sure that James doesn't include him as one of his victims Mick has a number of copies made of the tape by his friend Gino , Albert Lopez-Murtra , just in case James decides not to cooperate with him . Having no choice but in going along with Mick's unusual plan James starts to manipulate him into being an accomplice in a future murder of his that will , if Mick decides to turn James over to the police , make him just as guilty of first degree murder as James is ! To get Mick even more under his control James tracks down his somewhat not too mentally stable mother Klara , Maria Haufrecht , and kidnaps her to doubly make sure that Mick doesn't rat him out to the police . As Mick starts to get closer to what's behind James murderous impulses he starts to realizes that it all started when he was six years old . Abused by his mother Emma Lemac , Beth Grant , who not only mistreated him but his kid sister Megan , Joanna Baron , as well had James when he reached adulthood strike out at society . Starting his career as a heartless killer by torturing and killing cats James graduated in doing the same to young women who he , in James sick mind , substituted for his hated and deceased mother ! SPOILER ALERT It's towards the end of the movie that James comes to realize that the person-his mother-that initiated his extreme hatred is in fact alive not dead like he was lead to believe all these years ! It's then that the cool clam and collective James Lemac for the first time in the movie loses it . With that shocking revelation a mentally and emotionally destroyed Mick is driven , by circumstances beyond his control , to do what even the cold blooded serial killer James Lumac couldn't ! And that leads to the horrific bloodbath that breaks out , in a major Philadelphia hospital no less , at the end of the film ! Despite the films many inconsistencies it does make it's point in what's the reasons behind the actions of serial killer James Lemac . The big surprise in the film is how someone like Mick Gravatski could let himself be taken in by the clever and ruthless killer . Not being all there , in him being a recovering alcoholic and drug abuser , to begin with Mick completely underestimated James ability to short-circuit his mindless plan to use him to his advantage . And it was that what lead Mick to end up doing something so bloody and outrageous that even the mindless psycho killer James was incapable of doing !
Their all following you ! No they ain't . . I'm just in front of them .	A convoy of angry and enraged truckers are rolling down the desert highways of Arizona New Mexico and Texas led by Martin Penwald ( Kris Kistofferson ) using the CB-handle " Rubber Duck " . The truckers had enough of the corrupt highway cops who shake them down and threaten to impound their rigs . Leaving the truckers without any means of financial support . As well as the ridicules 55 MPH speed limit on the highways that cuts into their time and earnings and last but not least the sky-rocketing gas prices . After the Rubber Duck and two of his trucker pals Love Machine & Spider Mike , Burt Young & Franklyn Ajaye , were entrapped by the nasty and vindictive local Sheriff Lyle Wallace , Earnest Borgnine , for illegally using the trucker CB-handle name Cottonmouth . Their shaken down by the " lawman " for $70 . 00 each in order to avoid having their trucks impounded and them being thrown behind bars . The three later Going to the local truck stop to celebrate the Rubber Ducks birthday and have a few drinks are again confronted by the lawman . Sheriff Wallace , still not satisfied with pushing the truckers around , comes snooping around the area to make a few more bucks off the abused haulers . Wallace picks on poor Spider Mike accusing him of loitering and is about to throw him in jail . Spiker Mike pleads to the unfeeling Wallace that his wife is about to give birth and to please leave him alone which doesn't move the sheriff at all . But a straight right to his jaw , by Spider Mike , does make him move right on the butt of his pants . In a bar brawl with the truckers , who come to the aid of Spider Mike Love Machine and the Rubber Duck , Wallace and two of his deputies are knocked out cold and handcuffed as the three truckers together with the Rubber Duck's new found squeeze the plucky and outspoken Melissa ( Ali MacGraw ) , a wedding photographer who's car broke down , then take off and go back on the road again with the entire Arizona Highway Patrol on their tail . Chased by the crazy Sheriff Wallace , who commandeered a car from a young couple smoking and shearing a joint . the Rubber Duck Love Machine & Spider Mike get the full support from some very expected and unexpected persons that during the remainder of the film has them on the front pages of the news as well as getting the ear of the local governors senators and even the President of the United States himself . There's strength in numbers is the theme of " Convoy " with the Rubber Duck & friends making a private affair into a public happening . This by drawing attention to the plight of him and his fellow truckers and how their short-changed and ill-treated by everyone down the line , police politicians and big oil , as they try to do their . The giant convoy of truckers following the Rubber Duck open the eyes of the nation and puts corrupt low-lives like Sheriff Wallace on the front pages . All that showed what these hard working and dedicated men , the truckers , have to put up with every day and night that their on the road . In the end they get the support and respect from the public , as well as the politicians , that they so richly deserve . When the clueless and almost brain-dead politicians see the endless line of the trucker convoy lead by the Rubber Duck they not only stand up and listen but they deliver as well . One of director Sam Peckinpah's most underrated films that , as far as I could see , had no one killed in it . Even though the amount of violence and explosions were equaled to Peckinpah's famous blood-splattering 1969 classic " The Wild Bunch " .
I don't know anything about this place ! I've never been dead before !	SPOILERS Getting killed on the golf course by a loose ball stock broker Sterling Brooks , Cameron Bancroft , ends of in this heavenly way-station where it's to be decided , by a Heavenly Counsel , where and what his final destination will be ; Heaven or that other place . This will be decided on in what actions Sterling takes when he goes back on earth when he's to correct the mistakes he made while he was still alive . Being guided by his Guardian Angle Joe , Greg Evlgan , Sterling will find out that his mission is to save both Annie Campbell , Erika Elenika , and her daughter Marissa , Nickol Tschenscher , from the notorious Badgett Brothers Junior & Eddie , Eli Gabry & Craig March . It's Junior Badgett whom Amie is slated to testify against in an arson an attempted murder case that she's the only witness to . It takes a while for Sterling to get the hang of being dead as well as invisible to those , like Amie and Marissa , back on earth . It takes even longer for the not that on the ball , in realizing what his relationship is with both Amie & Nickol , Sterling to throw off his hang ups , like disliking kids , and realize that he lived a life of nihilism and self absorption not feeling or caring for those whom he hurt in the process . As Sterling starts to connect with both Amie & Marissa he not only finds his long lost humanity for his fellow human being but becomes visible to both of them . As all this is happening Marissa feeling left out , by being locked up in her home for her own protection , in the world sneaks out of her mom's and granny's , Norah Campbell , house to go ice-skating with her friends . Spotted by Eddie Badgett and his henchmen they end up kidnapping Marissa holding her hostage in that it will persuade her mom not to testify against his brother Junior in court . That all had to do with Amie , who was the singer at a party thrown by the Badgett's , overhearing Junior brag about torching Hans Kramer's , Udo Kler , home-which he later did-in retaliation for Hans being late on a loan that he owed him . As if burning down Hans house wasn't enough Junior also plans to murder him after he gets his money from Hans in order , in him being a notorious loan shark , just to keep in practice ! If Amie testifies in court to what she heard Junior say he'll be put on ice , or the clink , for the rest of his miserable life ! It's now up to Sterling to rescue Marissa from the Badgett Mob and thus have her mom feel safe in testifying against Junior Badgett . As things turn out it's not Sterling who ends up saving the day but someone else who , like Sterling , came back from the " other side " to straighten things out . And that more then anything else will not only save both Marissa and , if it's possible to save someone's life who's dead already , Sterling lives but turn the murderous Badgett Brothers , or at lest Eddie , into decent and law abiding citizens ! A lot like the 1946 classic Christmas movie " It's a Wounderful Life " the 2002 made for TV film " He Sees You when You're Sleeping " hits all the right notes in its giving Sterling another chance in redeeming himself so he can be accepted as an angle in heaven . As for Guardian Angle Joe he's still hard at work with saving other persons assigned to him in having them clear up the messes they left on earth after they passed away ! But now Joe has fellow Guardian Angle Sterling Brooks to help him out with his heavy workload .
The attack of the radioactive mudslide	SPOILERS Hammer Studios excellent follow-up to " The Quatermass Experiment " the year before about this radioactive mud coming from the center of the earth looking to nourish itself , in order to stay alive , on radioactive material that's mostly in and around this British Atomic Laboatory in Scotland . Were told by the star of the film Dr . Adam Royston , Dean Jagger , that this " Thing " has been around since the birth of planet earth some 4 billion years ago and every 50 or so years when the suns pull on the earth is the greatest it comes alive and breaks through the surface looking for a meal . Now in 1956 with the dawn of the nuclear / atomic age there's a lot more for it to eat , living exclusively on nuclear material , then ever before . Making it's unannounced and unwanted appearance in the Scottish Highlands the thing , that's called the X Factor by Dr . Royston , cause havoc all around the countryside eating or absorbing everything in it's way as it zeros in on the Atomic Laboratory where Dr . Royston works and does his nuclear experiments . Looking like a glowing mudslide the X Factor coming and going from it's base of operations , a deep fissure in the highlands , leaves a trail of death and destruction by melting anyone unfortunate enough to get in its way . Dr . Royston realizes what the thing , or X Factor , is up to when it breaks into his lab , through the air ducts , and eats the little jar of nuclear material that he's been experimenting with . Dr . Royston sees that it took the jar with it on it's way home , to the bottomless ditch , and then dumped it at this deserted tower , occupied by a local hermit Old Tom , Norman Macowan , after t sucked out all the radiation . This made Dr . Royston conclude that the next place that he X Factor is going to strike at is the Atomic facility where he works at . Sure enough the thing makes it's way to the Atomic facility that evening and catches two of the workers Harry & Zena , Ian MacNaugton & Marianne Burns , making out in the restricted radiation room . It then attacks and kills Harry , by melting him into a blob of blubber , and drives the shocked and hysterical Zena , in what she saw in what happened to her boyfriend Harry , insane . Dr . Royston desperately trying to figure what to do in stopping this thing as it gets bigger and bigger every time it has a meal of radioactive material comes up with this concoction of scanners that when in sync can neutralize the rampaging radioactive mudslide . Thus causing it to enclose on itself , like a dying star , and then explode into total nothingness . Not really knowing if he has the right frequency , in the scanners , to destroy the X Factor but not having enough time to find out Dr . Royston sets up a trap for the thing or X Factor at the base of the ditch when it came from and made itself at home . Dr . Royston having placed an atomic isotope with the director John Elliott , Edward Chapman , of the Atomic facility's son Peter , William Lucas , doing the placing the whole world waits for it to come up , from down under , to either eat or absorb it . It's nail biting time as we all wait to see if the right frequency is turned on by Dr . Royston to destroy the thing from the underworld as it shows itself , in all it's radioactive horror and glory . The world waits to see if Dr . Royston's was right in all the time he played around in his lab with a hunk of radioactive mud , and neutralizing it with high frequency sound waves , by doing the same thing to the uncontrollable radioactive mudslide ; or as it's named in the movies title " X the Unknown " .
Revenge of the Meek	( There are Spoilers ) Very disturbing film about a Catholic boarding school that may very well offend some viewers in its depiction of the schools Latin teacher Father Goddard , Richard Burton . It's not what Father Goddard does but how he's manipulated and later drove to the brink of madness and suicide that's so disturbing . All this while Father Goddard is trying to help one of his students Benji Stanfield , Dominic Guard , who had gone astray from the schools teachings to the point of murder . Being looked upon as his best pupil Father Goddard has Benji set up , to all the students in his Latin class , as an example of what a good and intelligent young man should be . This has the nerdy and crippled Arthur Dyson , David Bradley , always try to hang out with Benji in order that some of his popularity with both the administrators and students in the school would rub off on himself . Benji tolerates the odd-ball Dyson up to a point but gets a bit turned off by his always , through no fault of his own , screwing things up for him in his fumbling and butterfingered ways . It's when Benji doing his morning run , which the lame legged Dyson couldn't participate in , runs into this easy rider type hippie Blakey , Billy Connolly , that he starts to change for the worst . Blakey putting ideas into Benji's head about drugs and sex , together with his hippie girlfriend Louella ( Sharon Duce ) , that has Father Goodard put his foot down and forbid Benji never to see Blakey again . Benji trying to mend fences with Father Goodard asks him to receives his confession which the Father reluctantly does and gets all the steamy and unholy details of his relationships with both Blakey and Louella . Father Goddard not being able to really do anything since the things that Benji confessed to him are between him and Benji , and God , tries in a round about sort of way to get the young man back on the right track . Benji who was getting fed up with the restrictions of his Catholic faith , in how it keeps him from doing the things that he really wants to do , starts to play games with the concerned Father Goddard . Benji goes out and committing a number of horrendous acts that included the murder of his good friend Blakey , who was about to leave him . Confessing those acts , or crimes , to Father Goddard Benji knows full well that he couldn't tell the police or even have him expelled from the school . Playing Father Goddard for a fool Benji starts to enjoy his driving the very serious and strict man almost insane . Running to where Benji told him that he buried the murdered Blakely Father Goddard only finds out that the whole story about murdering him was a joke . Later Benji again confesses that this time around he really did in fact murder Balkey and when the now almost hysterical Father Goddard goes to the place where Benji told him that Blakey was buried he indeed finds the man dead and buried ! The movie then takes a sudden U-turn when it comes out , with yet another confession on Benji's part , that the lame and dejected Dyson was also a victim of Benji's insanity . These revelations drives Father Goddard over the top which is exactly what Benji was planning to do to him right from the start . Bringing Father Goddard to the brink of condemning himself , in the Catholic tradition , to eternal damnation or , in the eyes of the law , a life behind bars in either a prison or mental institution . The movie has a very out of left field surprise ending where we see what was really behind all this manipulating of poor Father Goddards mind . This act of revenge and jealousy that went as far as driving the man to not only lose his faith and sanity but his life as well . Father Goddard demise came about by him innocently going along with those who were using him and his good will , in helping them , for their own sick selfish and ungodly purposes .
Remember no matter were the action is anywhere in the world ABC Sports will be there to cover it	One of Woody Allen's earliest and most personal films about someone very much like himself Fielding Mellish a product tester for the latest office exorcise equipment . Fielding falls for this social activist Nancy , Louise Lasser and ends up leaving the country for San Marcos , a country that Nancy is very personal involved with , helping it's fascist government be overthrown and replaced by a grass root peoples democratic regime . Fielding had been practically ostracized from his family because he didn't follow in his parents Mr . & Mrs . Al Mellish , Stanley Ackerman & Carlotte Rea , footsteps as heart surgeons . It wasn't Fieldings fault that he couldn't cut the mustard , or pour the ketchup , in that profession since the very sight of blood made him faint dead away . His relationship with Nancy fell apart since Fielding is such a snook who just can't get his act together in or out of bed and even his support for the San Marcos rebels , whom Nancy adores , is just half-hearted in his feeble attempt to impress her . Like a man trying to forget his past and joining the French Foreign Legion Fielding leaves the US and travels to San Marcos to forget Nancy but get's involved in a CIA-like black ops scheme engineered by that country's corrupt president Gen . Emilio M . Vargas , Carlos Montalban . Gen Varges tries to get Fielding assassinated by his soldiers and make it look like the anti-government rebels did it . With this stroke of genius on Vargas ' part he can get the US government to rush in desperately needed military aid that he needs to defeat the rebels . With Fielding escaping an ambush set for him by Vargas ' men he joins the rebel forces headed by comm-andante Esposito , Jacobo Moralas , and becomes the brains , as well as heart and soul , of the rebels revolutionary movement . Within two months Gen . Vargas is forced out of office and into exile in Miami with Esposito's forces taking over San Marcos . Esposito who wasn't that stable to begin with goes totally insane and drunk with power , forcing everyone in the country to speak Swedish and wear their underwear on the outside so that he can inspect them . Esposito's is himself forced from the presidency and put into a loony bin with Fielding , being elected president by a unanimous vote of the rebel officials , put in his place . Going to the USA on an official state visit Fielding , disguised in a phony red clip-on beard , is recognized as a former American anti-government activist . This was back when he was a product tester and trying to impress Nancy by participating in anti-government rallies , and put on trial for treason and attempting to overthrow the United States Government . At his trial Fielding , now without that dumb clip-on beard , acts as his own defense attorney and with the prosecution bringing in it's big guns including an undercover FBI Director J . Edger Hoover , Dorothi Fox , disguised as a middle-age black woman to testify against him it's an open and shut case for the government to win and it does . Fielding is quickly convicted of 12 counts of treason and inciting a violent overthrow of the government expecting to have the book thrown at him . Despite the seriousness of the charges Fielding only receives a suspended sentence ! The movie " Bannans " ends like it started with ABC sports commentator Howard Cosell , looking like an Americanized version of Bela Lugosi , giving a play by play description , like he did of the president of San Marco getting assassinated at the beginning of the film , of Fielding and Nancy who has since came back to him , after finding he's the new and rebel president of San Marcos , making out under the covers on their wedding night . This both earth-shaking and X-rated sports event has the whole world watching both live and in living , and huffing and puffing , color on ABC Sports . You have to be a die-in-the-wool Woody Allen fan to really like " Bannans " since it's more like one of his many TV and nightclub stand-up routines and not like a full length motion picture , Woody's really hamming it up in every scene that he's in . There's are a few real good sch-ticks in " Bannanas " that don't have Woody Allen in them that are even better then the one's that he's in . The two best scenes , without Woody , are the ones with the jury members at Fielding trial passing around a joint as they try to take in the evidence being presented on the witness stand that included that of FBI Director J . Edger Hoover who could have , but didn't , had them all arrested for using a controlled and illegal substance . There's also the hilarious scene when this wild and crazy nut breaks into the courtroom spilling out his guts and admitting his guilt , like in a Perry Mason episode . After a heart-wrenching confession on his part the crazy and befuddled lunatic finds out to his shock and embarrassment that he crashed into and disrupted the wrong trial !
There's a heavy fog rolling in on Gleanbrook Av	SPOILERS Coming out of the shadows of Kelly Sherwood's , Lee Remick , garage this heavy breathing and almost slurping sounding individual yokes Kelly around the neck , almost strangling her to death . He then threatens not only to murder Kelly but her kid sister Toby , Stepanie Powers , as well if she doesn't follow , to the letter , his precise instructions . What this shadowy psycho wants is for Kelly , a San Francisco bank teller , to heist $100 , 000 . 00 from her bank that Friday and hand it over to him at a prearranged location . The dark and heavy-breathing individual turns out to be a wanted killer named Garland Humphrey " Red " Lynch , Ross Martin , who killed before , like he told Kelly , and will kill again if Kelly reports him to the police . Kelly in fact never really sees Red , she never got a good look at him in the garage , at all with him contacting her by phone from all over the city . That's until he confronts her , in drag , in the ladies room at a bar restaurant that she went with her boyfriend Bard , Roy Poole , for lunch . Red is what Winnie Churchill would call a mystery hidden inside a riddle wrapped inside an enigma ! The guy can be both as vicious and brutal as a concentration camp or gulag commandant and at the same time sweet giving and understanding as an Albert Schweitzer ! We later learn that Red , or Uncle Red as he's know , paid thousands of dollars for a hip replacement operation for little Joey Soong , Warren Hsieh . Red was like a father to the little boy after his old man deserted him and his mom Mrs . Lisa Soong An Haloon , after Joey was born . What made Red be so down right rotten was never really borough out since his crimes were more for causing suffering and death to his victims then the money he got , by threatening them and their loved ones lives , from them . Kelly had gotten in touch with FBI Agent John-believe it or not-Ripley , Glenn Ford , who in trying to catch the invisible extortionist used her a bate to trap Red . It's during that time that another woman Nancy Ashton , Patricia Huston , also got it touch with Agent Ripley . In fear for her friends , who turned out to be herself , life Nancy tells Agent Ripley about someone trying to shake her " friend " down for money . Before Agent Ripley can make heads or tales to what Ashley is telling him she's found dead in her apartment with a note in her purse with Kelly Sherwood's address ! It's obvious that Red murdered Ashley but what's a mystery is what connection she had with Kelly other then being blackmailed by him ! The movie goes on with a number of misadventures in the FBI and SFPD failing to capture the elusive Red who seems to always be one step ahead of them until the big payoff is about to be pulled off . This has Kelly by following Red's instructions ending up in a sold out Candlestick Park featuring a game between the San Francisco Giants and L . A Dodgers . MAJOR SPOILER ALERT It's after the game that Red makes his move and it's that what does him in . By tipping of the FBI and police who were shadowing Kelly who had the $100 , 000 . 00 , stolen from her bank , that he demanded on her Red was caught red handed with no exit strategy . Running for his life , if captured and tried he was a shoo-in for the San Quentin gas chamber , Red ends up being gunned down , by Agent Ripley , on of all places the Candlestick Park's pitching mound ! Red for all his smarts was really a dummy in his actions which eventually lead to him being gunned down by the FBI . Keeping Toby , Kelly's kid sister , hidden in his hideout in downtown San Francisco wasn't that bright at all . Since the place could be , as it was , easily traced by the presents he bought for little Joey over the years that were mailed , as parcel post , there . Didn't Red know that if he rented a post-office box and occasionally changed it the FBI would have never been able to trace him down and eventually save Toby !
A Witches Brew	( + SPOILERS + ) Modern day horror story about a trio of college students Heather Donahue Michael Williams and Josh Leonard going into the woods outside of Burkittsville Maryland in October 1994 to do a documentary on the " Blair Witch " . A ghost that has haunted those woods since the founding of the town of Burkittsville in 1810 . Supposedly desecrating an old Indian cemetery in the in the area by building the town there it's felt by the people who live in and around Burkittsville that the " Blair Witch " is responsible for a number of vicious and unexplained murders . The string of killings started in the late 1800's when five hunters were brutally murdered by the stream at Coffin Rock . The killings continued on intermittently up until the winter of 1940-41 with the murder of seven children at the old man Parr house . The children who were still alive were made to stand in a corner and wait their turn , looking at an empty wall , in order not to see Parr murdered the others . Parr was found to be insane but the people of the town feel that he was possessed by the " Blair Witch " . The three students drive out into the woods with their van and then take their video and living equipment in backpacks and go hiking out into the eerie forest . Nothing at first really happens to them until they pass by the haunted Coffin Rock . After a nights sleep in their tent the hikers find themselves in what is an old Indian cemetery with a number of rock piles as tombstones all around them . On their way back to their parked van the next night they hear strange noises all around their camp site and when they wake up the next morning they see the rock piles outside as if they were following them . Things become very weird where the three seem to be going around in circles and even worse Mike for some reason throws away the map that Heather had to help them find their way out of the woods . After another harrowing night in the forest the hikers find themselves in an area of the woods with Voodoo like symbols and artifacts all over the trees ! Panic starts to set in on the three hikers with Josh , not being able to take it anymore , going crazy and running out into the woods away from the other two hikers . Heather and Mike searching the woods , trying to find Josh , later that night hear faint cries coming from what turns out to be an old abandon house , The old Parr house ? , in the woods . Mike going in first goes room to room trying to find Josh and finally realizes that the cries are coming from the basement and runs down there , just as the cries started they all of a sudden stop . Heather screaming for Mike and Josh to answer her also runs down to the basement and then all we see from her video camera is Mike standing in the corner looking into a blank wall , like the children who were killed at the old man Parr house some sixty years ago ! Terrified with fear we hear Heather give out an ear splitting cry and the camera falls out of her hand ! All we can see from what the video camera recorded is an empty ceiling ! Heather Mike and Josh were never seen or heard from again and all that was left of them was the video tapes that they made of their expedition in the woods that made up the movie " The Blair Witch Project " . " The Blair Witch Project " is a lot like the movies directed by the late Jacques Tourneur like " Cat People " in 1942 and " The Leopard Man " in 1943 and later " The Curse of the Demon " in 1957 . Tourneur used lights and sounds and shadows to scare the wits out of his audiences not special effects that were so used to seeing in horror movies now . The the film has over 3 , 000 IMDb users comment on it as well as taking in over $140 million in domestic ticket sales during it initial release in the summer of 1999 shows the tremendous effect that it had on those who saw it . These two facts , among many others , shows that " The Blair Witch Project " made an impact on the movie going public far bigger than many of it's detractors would like us to believe .
File it under the letter " O " , for Otherworldly , in the Twilight Zone .	SPOILERS Strange little movie that has to do with a man who's forced to see himself for who he really is not who he want's people , as well as himself , to think what's he's really not . Famous jazz saxophone player Izzy Maurer , Harvey Keitel , is doing his gig at a Greenwich Village night spot when this deranged lunatic bursts in with a gun blazing away and catches Izzy with a bullet in his left-lung and then turns the gun on himself . Izzy recovering from this life-threatening injury at a local NYC hospital is told that his left lung had to be removed and that he'll never be able to play the saxophone again . This to Izzy is like being told that he died . Alone and depressed Izzy walks the streets of New York aimlessly until one night when he comes across this body in a dark alley shot dead with a bullet in his head . Checking out the stiffs wallet Izzy finds out that the dead mans name is Stanley Mar and among his personal effects is a napkin with a telephone number written on it and a small box that has a smaller box in it with a small red-striped stone . At his apartment Izzy finds that the stone has these strange magical powers that he just can't phantom and then calls the phone number on Mar's napkin to find that it belongs to a Celia Burns , Mira Sorvino . Celia is ironically listening to a CD of Izzy's music when he calls her ! Izzy makes a date with Celia to come over and when he does he treats her so rudely that she almost asks him to leave or she'll call the police . It's only when Izzy explains to Celia about the stone , that emits a bright and soft blue light and levitates as well as shows her it's strange powers that she realizes , like he did , that it's something beyond the forces of nature ! The stone also seems to have magical powers of healing and creating luck for those who have it in their possession . It's after that strange meeting the two besides falling madly in love with each other have things start to change for the better for both of them . Celia a struggling young actress who supports herself as a waitress working gets a major part , in fact the leading role , in the movie " Pandoras Box " playing the role of it's star Lulu . Izzy's depression suddenly disappears because of his affair , and attachment , to Celia but there's things that are about to break that will turn this blissful dream for the two lovebirds into a dark and terrifying nightmare . Traveling to Dublin Ireland to do the movie Celia tells Izzy to keep in touch by phone and come visit her but as the days go by there's no word at all from Izzy . Getting kidnapped back in New York by a bunch of hoodlums who think that he has Stanley's Mar's " magic stone " , which he gave to Celia , Izzy is locked up in this empty warehouse and threatened with death if he doesn't talk . Celia shooting the movie " Pandora's Box " is a sensation on the set but at the same time is worried about her love Izzy who she hasn't heard from since she left New York . She soon get's so depressed by not hearing from him that one evening Celia , feeling dejected and abandoned , throws the " magic stone " into the nearby Liffey River . Being visited by this pseudo-shrink Dr . Van Horn , Willem DeFoe , Izzy is mentally tortured about his past and what a low-life rat he was to both his dad who's funeral he didn't attend and older brother Franz who hasn't spoken to him for seven years because of that . Izzy is about to break under Dr . Van Horn's brain-twisting tactics when he finally breaks out of his confinement and runs to the safety of the home of his friend Philip Kleinman , Mandy Patinkin , who's involved in the film that Celia is staring in . To both his surprise and shock Izzy finds that Celia had disappeared just before the filming of " Pandora's Box " was finished ! It later turned that the poor girl committed suicide when after being chased by Dr . Van Horn and two of his goons thinking that she had the mystical stone on her Celia jumped off the Dublin Ha'Penny Bridge into the Liffey River and her body was never recovered . Izzy sobbing and in a state of complete depression sits alone in his apartment watching the out-takes , that Philip gave him , of the movie " Pandora's Box " with Celia in them . It's then that the biggest surprise of all in the movie " Lulu on the Bridge " is about to come and hit the audience with the force of a sledge hammer right between their eyes ! A real honest to goodness LuLu !
Judgement Day at Sea	SPOILERS Unlike most movies with similar story-lines " Between Two Worlds " doesn't try to surprise you with a Twilight Zone-like ending revealing the reason for the strange and eerie voyage of a number of people on an crew-less ocean liner in the Atlantic . We know right from the beginning that both Henry and Ann Bergner , PaulHenreid & Eleanor Parker , killed themselves and thus were not alive when we see them next on the ship . They seem to be the only one's who know that their dead as well as all the other passengers on board . All the other persons on the ghost ship were killed in the carnage of WWII and were still not aware that their dead and during the movie one by one they slowly get the massage form the ship steward , or guide , the melancholy and mysterious Scrubby , Edmund Gwenn . Scrubby keeps the passengers occupied with his cock & bull stories , that almost puts them to sleep , about being the ships steward who participated in it's many gloomy boring and countless voyages . Besides the Bergners there's the wise cracking and sarcastic news reporter Tom Prior , John Garfield , who doesn't know it at the time as well as all through the movie SPOILER that his mom Mrs . Midget , Sara Allgood , is also one of the passengers on board . Sara is looking to make up for what she did to her son Tommy by giving him away to an American family , She and Tom are British , when he was an infant because she couldn't care for him . There's also the arrogant rude and condescending , the type of guy you'd just love to punch out , imminent and very rich crook and industrialist Mr . Lingley , George Coulouris . Mr . Lingley thinks he can buy his way out of any fix that he finds himself in but here as he soon finds out his money is as worthless as his ethics . Rounding out the passenger list on the ship of doom are the Cliveden-Banks Benji and Genevieve , Gilbert Emery & Isobel Elsom , whom the wife Genevieve is a ruthless gold digger who had been cheating for years on her naive husband Benji . Genevieve will soon find out that , after being killed in an exploding car , Benji's finally on to her and leaves Genevieve to spend the rest of all eternity all by herself as he happily goes off to play golf and gin rummy with the boys . There's also merchant marine Pete Musick , George Tobias , who's been torpedo's three times and , unknown to him , the third time was the last . Together with a priest Reverand Duke , Dennis King , and actress Maxie Russell , Fay Emerson , whom both Tom and Mr . Lingley have eyes for , that make up the rest of the people on the ship . Talky but very involving and heart-felt move as we , and the passengers , wait for the Examiner Tim Thompson the legendary " Fat Man " Sydney Greenstreet to show up and dole out the final judgment to the passengers and thus send them on their way to Heaven or the other place , based on what they did while they were still alive here on earth . Not as preachy as you would think " Between Two Worlds " has the people on board who were , according to Tim Thompson the Examiner , the most egregious by taking their own lives , the Bergners , given another chance to make up for their sins . The rest of the cast were more or less sent on their way to the great unknown with or without anyone accompanying them . That's what seemed to be the most extreme punishment given out by the Examiner . Mr . Lingley getting the worst of it by finding out that his money , which he can't take with him anyway , doesn't buy everything including the women he fell in love with while on board the ship Miss Maxine Russell . In the end were told by both Thompson and Scrubby in regard to the fate of the Bergners in if they'll go or not go to the good place up there in the sky . It's with them , the Bergners , and what really happened to get them on board the ship that we get the big surprise ending in the Movie . .
From Settin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic an " Iron Curtain " has descended across the continent	One of the more realistic as well as honest post WWII movies about the threat of Communism simply because it was based on a true story . The film supports the well worn notion of truth being stranger then fiction . Setting up a number of sleeper cells at the hight of WWII in and around the Canadian City of Ottawa the Soviet Union has developed a spying apparatus that's soon to became the biggest foreign spying network in all of North America . With the head spy a Canadian Communist named John Grubb , Barry Kroeger , having a number of his team of Soviet agents in the Atomic Research Division of the Canadian Government . Glubb and his boss ' back in Moscow got wind of a secret project that the US was developing in the use of atomic energy to harness and create an nuclear chain reaction , an Atomic Bomb , that will eventually be use against the axis to end the Second World War . The movie " The Iron Curtain " has to do with Soviet cypher clerk Igor Gouzenka , Dana Andrews , who being station in Ottawa becomes very disenchanted with his country of birth , the Soviet Union , and decides to defect . Igor is hampered with the fact that he has family back in the USSR and a wife and young child Anna & Andrei , Gene Tierney & Robin Olsen , here in Canada where goons from the Soviet NKVD , working for the Soviet Embassy , can easily get their hands on them . We see Igor go through a number of stages during his stay in Canada as he soon realizes what he's missing in not living in a free country and just how hellish his home the USSR really is . Being a good soldier , or cypher clerk , Igor does his work smoothly and without a flaw until his wife Anna , who with Soviet Government approval , came over to visit him from the USSR and later gets pregnant with his son . All this changes Igor's feelings about his motherland , Mother Russia , in wanting his son young Andrei to live and grow up free in a free land Canada . What really pushes Igor over the line , and gets him and his wife and son to defect , is when he gets to see his best friend Maj . Semyon Kulin , Eduard Franz , crack up while gulping down a bottle of vodka and spilling his guts out . Maj . Kulin is sorry that he ever got involved with the Bolshevik / Communist regime . Knowing now just how evil it is in it doing in Kulin's his old man a great and proud leader of the 1917 Communist , or October , Revolution has driving him to drink . They , or Uncle Joe Stalin and his gang of murderous cutthroats , felt that Kulin's father was no longer useful to them and their cause in taking over , by extreme and brutal force if necessary , the both civilized and uncivilized world and thus kicked him out of power . The old and sick guy is now left to live on his meager pension in a one room walk-up , with pop suffering from a case of sever arthritis , apartment in Moscow . It took a lot for Igor to do what he did in going over to the other side and not only revealing what he and his cohorts , both Russian and Canadians , were up to . Igor also stole from the Soviet Embassy over 100 pages of documents revealing the Soviets plan to steal the secret of the Atomic Bomb that Igor was terrified that they , the Stalin gangsters , would use to blackmail and thus take over , by hook or by crook , the free and none-Communist world . Igor gets away from the Soviet Secret Police , the dreaded NKVD , only because their so clumsy and confused in operating in a free , unlike their home turf the USSR , and open society . Igor then had , after almost being handed over to his countrymen by a bunch of brainless and clueless Canadian bureaucrats , himself and his wife and son , Anna & Andrei , given political asylum . Igor Gouzenka died in his adopted country Canada on June 28 , 1982 at the age of 63 . The vengeful Soviet Union who had put a price on his head and had dozens of secret agents looking to both find and do Igor in had him wearing a musty and smelly hood over his head in public to keep from being recognized and assassinated . This was a small price for Igor to pay to be a free man in a free land which he wasn't back home in the USSR . P . S The famous statement " Iron Curtain " that's been attributed to Winston Churchills speech in Fulton Missouri on March 5 , 1946 was actually coined by non-other then Nazi Propaganda and Culture Minister Dr . Joesph Goebbels a year earlier in an article that he wrote for the German newspaper Das Reich . Goebbels statement was broadcast by the British BBC , on Feberuary 25 , 1945 in the waning weeks of the Second World War in Europe . A broadcast that Churchill obviously heard and later used Goebbels timely phrase " Eis Erner Vorhang " , the Iron Curtain in German , in his Fulton speech .
I can't bring back your mommy	SPOILER ALERT " The Snorkel " , filmed in black and white , is one of the most underrated and least seen films to come out of Hammer Pictures in the late 1950's when the studio was riding high with remakes-in blood dripping color - of both Frankenstein and Dracula horror movies . Paul Decker , Peter Van Eyck , is seen at the beginning of the movie dressed up in a skin diving outfit as his unconscious wife Madge is out cold , from a strong sedative he slipped into her glass of milk , on the sofa . Your at first puzzled at what Paul is up to , is he planning to go skin diving in bathtub ? , but it soon becomes very evident what his plans are . Opening up all the gas outlets in the house Paul has Madge slowly suffocate to death as he hides under the floor , in a secret underground tunnel , with a snorkel as he breaths in all the clean air underneath while Madge is dying in the gas filled room upstairs . Paul is also diabolical enough to seal the room , from the inside , that Madge is in making it look like she killed herself . An open and shut case of suicide for police inspector Gregoire Asian Madge's daughter Candy , Mandy Miller , is certain that Paul , her stepfather , murdered her mother . It turns out that Candy's suspicions of Paul being a cold blooded murderer goes back when her father was killed in a boating accident . Even though ruled accidental by the police Candy , who witnessed the accident , held Paul responsible for her fathers drowning . With Paul knowing that Candy with the help of her dog Toto who , unknowing to Candy , found Paul's secret hiding place had Paul make Toto pay with his life by poisoning him . It's then that Paul tries to drive Candy insane to get her off his back and have Candy locked up in a sanitarium . It's when that plan of his fails to work Paul then decides to murder Candy . In the very same way that he murdered Candy's mother Madge . Having Candy's friend an legal guardian Jean , Bella St . John , fooled into thinking that he's trying to help Candy out of her illogical fears of being murdered , by him , Paul at the same time elaborately sets up the plan for Candy's murder . SPOILERS Even though everything was going smoothly for Paul in getting Candy's guard down , by faking a suicide letter that her mother left her , a number of unexpected things happen that screws up his almost perfect murder plan . In a why Paul's did succeed in getting away with murder in that he couldn't be arrested and prosecuted for his crime . It just happen Paul ended up being , in his trying to murder Candy , the person that he accidentally ended up murdering ! Candy being told by everyone , even her friend Jean , that she's both silly and illogical in her both fear and dislike of her stepfather Paul Decker in the end finally give in and agrees with them . That's when she realized by going back into her house , after everyone left , to check that Paul was actually hiding there . As it turn out he in fact was and his time on earth , as well as oxygen supply , was quickly and painfully running out on him !
One's guilty Mind Has A Mind Of It's Own	SPOILERS Solid " Film Noir " about murder guilt and justice and how events can't be changed even if the one who's effected is told about them in advance . The movie " Inner Sanctum " begins and ends on a train that pulls in one night in the little town of Clayburn . Harold Dunlap tries to get away from his overbearing and demanding fianc Marie who sees him trying to leave her and runs out of the train and has a confrontation with him . Pulling a nail file from her purse Marie tries to stab Harold who in turn takes it away and kills her with it . With the train about to pull out of the station Harold picks up Marie's body and dumps it on the train and with no one around thinks that he's gotten away with what he did , Harold thought wrong . Looking to get lost Harold tries to hitch a ride out of town and lose himself in the darkness of the night . Like he thinks that his connection to the murder will get lost along with him . Fate and destiny , like a magnet , has other ideas about what's in store for Harold and pulls him back to face justice for what he did . Tense creepy and well written and acted movie that shows what Harold should have known right from the start : crime doesn't pay and the only one who does pay is the one who commits it . Tightly edited and suspenseful film that doesn't try to fool the audience about who's guilty of the crime , you see Harold kill Marie at the start of the movie , but does have a twist to it that's as good as any whodunit . The movies somewhat uneventful beginning with a sharp turn on the rail and a man who can tell what time it is without a watch with the mysterious Dr . Valonius seems a bit slow but it ties all the loose ends together at the end of the film . " Inner Santcum " is a movie , that by the time that it's over , you know will never end .
As long as Johnny Rocco is still alive nobody is safe in this world	( There are Spoilers ) Showing up at the Largo Hotel on the Florida Keys Ex US combat vet Frank " Soilder " McCloud , Humphrey Bogart , just wants to rent out a boat and go fishing . It turns out that MCloud is in for a rough time with both a major hurricane brewing and about the hit the Keys as well as big time gangster Johnny Rocco , Edward G . Robinson , planning to make his way back to the states , via Cuba . This after eight years in exile in Italy after Rocco was drummed out of the country as an undesirable alien . Besides wanting to go out in the Caribbean to catch fish McCloud is eager to meet the Largo Hotel's owner and his daughter in law James & Norma Temple , Lionel Barrymore & Lauren Bacall , who's son and Nora's husband , George Temple , McCloud was with when he was killed in action at Mount Casino back in 1944 . At the hotel there's Rocco's gang waiting for the big man himself to finally make his grand appearance and jump start , after eight of inactivity , his criminal career . Rocco is planning to ship a load of counterfeit money , " round robin " , from Key Largo to Havana and then back to the USA with his gangster friend Ziggy , Marc Lawrence , bank rolling the deal . With everything planned to perfection by Rocco and his hoods things get a bit strained when the hurricane hits the Keys and then blows , or was it that the skipper chickened out and took off , their getaway boat to Cuba out to sea . With just a few hours left to get out of the state , as well as country , before the cops and feds get wind of what's going on at the Largo Hotel Rocco has McCloud take him and his boys on his fishing boat to Cuba planning to knock him off before they makes port . McCloud who's on to Rocco and what he plans for him turns the tables on the arrogant hoodlum by getting his men , lead by Richard Curly Huff ( Thomas Gomez ) , to drop their guard . After offing all three of Rocco's hoods , Curly Angel & Toots , McCloud then has a showdown on the high seas with Rocco who has to do something that he's not at all that used to ; whack someone , who's both armed and dangerous , by himself without his hoods there to protect him . Even though he didn't show up on the screen until almost an half hour into the movie Edward G . Robinson is by far more effective as the deported Mafia Chieftain Johnny Rocco then his co-star the , for once in a gangster movie , All-Amerca good guy Humphrey Bogart as " Soldier " McCloud . There's also in " Key Largo " the woozy girlfriend of Johnny Rocco ex-showgirl and singer Gaye Dawn , Claire Trevor , whom he mercilessly and sadistically tortures by keeping her away from the hotel's bar and liquor cabinet . The movie takes place within the space of a 24 hour period with the real star in it the hurricane that hits the Keys and prevents Rocco and his hoods from making good their getaway . The Rocco Mob plans to reestablishing a newer and better , as well as more effective , mob that will uses it's both power and influence to have probation again enacted and put on the books . With probation back in business it will put the mob back in the money by it pushing cheap cut and and water down booze to the , by then , bone dry American public and make millions , like in the 1920's and 1930's , off it . What happened instead is that after the war it was drugs like heroin and cocaine that took the place of bootleg booze which was not only deadlier but far more profitable for the mob . Rocco in a way did get it right with his idea of using Cuba as a hub for his criminal operations in the states . In just four more years , in 1952 , Sgt . Batista took over the country as Cuba's dictator and worked together with the Mob , or Mafia , as his partners in establishing Cuba as the only country that let it run it's illegal operations up front and in public with him and his boys getting a piece of the action . It's just too bad that in the end that great seer and visionary Johnny Rocco never lived to see that great event in Mafia history ever happen .
Like the layers of an onion , the more you peel away , the more you feel like crying	SPOILERS Top notch political thriller set in Northern Ireland that goes well beyond the conflict in that troubled British controlled province and into the heart and policy making of the British Government itself . After American human rights activist Paul Sullivan , Brad Dourif , was gunned down together with his Irish contact Molloy , Brian McCann , by the British police outside of Dungannon an official inquiry is brought in on the case with high ranking British law enforcement officers Kerrigan & Maxwell , Brian Cox & John Benfield . Kerrigan getting in touch with Sullivan's friend and colleague in the American human rights group Ingrid Jessner , Frances McDormand , finds out from her that Sullivan together with Molloy were to meet with this mysterious stranger Harris , Maurice Roeves . The meeting with Harris was to be about the authenticity of a tape he had made that was in the possession of Sullivan that seemed to have disappeared from the shooting sight . Jessner get's some information from a secret I . R . A , which it turns out that the late Molloy was a member of , source that the tape contained such explosive information that if made public can unseat the Thatcher regime and bring a number of very high government officials to the bar of justice on charges of treason against the state . Jessner together with Kerrigan gets in touch with the author , Harris , of the incriminating tape at a secret I . R . A meeting hall in Belfast . It turns out that Harris is not only British but a former member of the super-secret UK intelligence agency M15 . Harris tells both Jessner and Kerrigan that the deaths of Sullivan and Molloy wasn't , as the official report states , self-defense on the polices part but cold-blooded murder . Harris goes on with what was on the missing tape that Sullivan had on him , that was not in the report . Harris revelations are so shocking that it get's the usual by the book Kerrigan to not only risk his career as a police officer but his life to uncover it . Top members of the British Government had created a shadow / agency answerable only to themselves . This secret agency helped to destroy the previous Edward Heath left to center Conservative Party that controlled Britian during the 1970's and had it replaced , by defeating Heath in the 1975 Conservative party's election , with the ultra-right wing Conservative Margerat Tatcher who's completely under their control . Forming secret death-squads these usurpers behind the throne , or Tatcher Regime , have been pulling off a number of political assassinations all over Britian , as well as in the Irish Republic . Their main purpose was to silence anyone they feel threatened by and if murder doesn't do the trick , like in the case of Officer Kerrigan , personal or political blackmail will . The movie " Secret Agenda " get's a bit unbelievable with Kerrigan agreeing to go all the way in retrieving the important tape , that Harris duplicated , with Jessner . Kerrigan in effect chickens out at the last moment and leaves her out in the cold as he goes to his superiors in the British Police . Kerrigan tells them everything about his and Jessner's , who Kerrigan kept in the dark about all this , upcoming meeting with Harris who's to hand over the secret tape to them the next day at Dublin's O'Connell Bridge ! Jessner's meeting with Harris turns into a disaster with him being grabbed by M15 agents who were tipped off , in his being unknowingly double-crossed , by a very naive Kerrigan who should have known better ! Beaten and handcuffed Harris is quickly put in a van where he's later shot and killed and his murder made to look like the work of the I . R . A . During all this confusion Jessner gets away from the perusing M15 agents and is later confronted at the Belfast Airport , where she plans to get out of the country , by Kerrigan . Asking Jessner if she has the tape that Harris was to give to her Kerrigan get an unequivocal no answer from her and as both he and his partner Maxwell leave and Jessner goes on her flight back to the US the film goes into freeze-frame and ends . Irgrid Jessner learned a lot from what she herself saw in Northern Ireland and heard from Harris & Co . The most important revelation that Jessner got from all that is never to trust anybody in government , including the very helpful at times Kerrigan . Jessner in fact did have Harris ' tape and listening to it in her car on the way to the airport made up her mind that the British people had been hoodwinked long enough . Whats more they deserves to know the truth about what their government is doing in their name and will make sure that they'll find that out by making the contents of Harris ' tape public through the free and open American media : that's if they'll have both the guts and foresight to print or broadcast it !
There Must Be Complete Submission To The Master Race !	( Some Spoilers ) We already see there's been a slaughter in the little Norwegian town of Trollness as a German military scout plane lands there to check out what happened . The head Nazi in town Capt . Hauptmann Koenig , Helmut Dantine , is found behind his desk with a self inflected bullet wound in his skull . This obviously in an attempt by the Captain to prevent himself from being taken alive by the rebellious Norwegians and made to face the music . It's then that we get this almost two hour flashback to what lead up to this mindless slaughter of what looks like the entire town and the German garrison in it . Capt . Koenig felt that his ability to lead man in battle had been squandered by his higher up in the German Military High Command by being put in this little nothing town on the Northen Norwegian coast . Wanting to see action on the Russian Front the Captain was always turned down by his superiors from being stationed there . This made Captain Koeing very pied off but unable to take it out on those who screwed him , the German Military High Command , he took it out on the local peaceful Norwegians . Capt . Koenig abuse of the people of Trollness lead them to go so far as getting involved with the British in having them , through he Royal Navy , get loads of arms ammunition and explosives in order to drive the hated Germans out . But what they really needed most was the will to do it , drive the Germans out of town , and be willing to suffer the consequences . When the and the people of Trollness just had their fill of Capt . Koenig and his men they lead by Norwegian freedom fighter Gunnar Brogge , Errol Flynn , broke open the boxes of guns and ammunition that they got from the British and planned to have the German run out of town once and for all . It's wasn't until after Gunner's girlfriend Karen Stensgard , Ann Sheridan , was assaulted and raped , off camera , by a horny German soldier who had the hots for her for some time that he finally got it , and the men and women of the town , all together and revolted against the Germans . It's when Gunnar himself and the leaders of Trollness were rounded up and forced to dig their own graves by the Germans that had the townspeople lead by the peace loving father of Karen Dr . Stensgard , Walter Huston , and town towns ultra-passive Paster Aalesen , Richard Prasen , take to the streets . What's makes " Edge of Darkness " a cut above your average war-time propaganda movie is that it keeps the action off the screen until the last fifteen or so minutes . When the fighting finally breaks out the good guys , the freedom fighting Norwegians , are for the most part the ones who get the worst of it by the much better armed and disciplined German troops . What makes the Norwegians succeed is that their more then willing to die , unlike the Germans , for both their ideals and freedoms . The Norwegians use human wave and suicide tactics , totally disregarding their lives and safety , like attacking the Germans with live hand grenades , exploding themselves together with the German troops , in order to drive the hated Germans out of Trolless . An irony in the movie is that the two Quisling in it Kasper Torgerson , Charles Dingle , and is nephew Johann Stensgrad , John Beal , Karen's and Dr . Stensgard brother and son die different death one fighting against the Nazis and the other sucking up to them . Johann having a change of heart risks and eventually gives his life alerting the Norwegian freedom fighters , lead by Gunnar Brogge , that the Germans are waiting in an ambush that they set up for them . Kasper survives the slaughter of Trollness only to get shot , as he rants and raves like a lunatic , by the very Germans whom he sold his people and country out to .
The Gill Man Has Esaped !	SPOILERS Fairly good sequel of " Creature From the Black Lagoon " has the Rita II traveling back to the Amazon Basin to capture the Gill Man who survived in the earlier film from his would-be-captors or executioners . Getting the Gill Man trapped in the Black Lagoon the boat's crew headed by aquatic scientist Joe Hayes , John Bromfield , blast the Gill Man out of the water with high explosives . Knocked out and helpless the Gill man is shipped back to the USA to Ocean Harbor Aquarium in Silver Springs Florida to be exhibited to the eager and curious public and examined by scores of scientists and ichthyologists . To see just what he's all about and if he's the missing link between man , before he evolved into a primate , and fish . Put in this huge water tank and held down by a steel chain tied to his leg the Gill Man is a major curiosity piece for the thousands of tourists who visit the aquarium . Much like in the first Gill Man film the underwater photography is breathtaking with the Gill Man trapped , swimming around in circles , and having nowhere to go . As well as when he's free in the open ocean and in the Amazon River swimming and diving like he were an Olympic Gold Medal winner . Examined by Prof . Clete Ferguson , John Agar , and ichthyologist Helen Dobson , Lori Nelson , the Gill Man develops a crush on Helen and that drives him almost bonkers as he's just out of reach of grabbing Helen when she and Clete are studying him underwater . It doesn't take long for the Gill Man to break his chain and escape from the tank . After tearing up the aquarium , and killing a couple of people , he jumps into the Atlantic Ocean and swims away . The Gill Man for some reason doesn't travel south to the Amazon River where he comes from but north to the St . Augustine / Jacksonville area in Florida to follow Helen who's there with Prof . Ferguson and her dog Chris . Obviously madly in love with Helen but too shy to ask her out on a date the Gill Man spends the last half of the movie stalking her all the way up Florida's Atlantic Coast . He finally gets enough nerve to approach Helen and burst into the local Lobster House , during a Saturday night bandstand party , knocking the place , with it's tables chairs and people , over and putting a couple of drunk party goers into the hospital . Grabbing a terrified Helen the Gill Man disappeared with her into he night . The ending was what you would have expected with the Gill Man stymied in his attempt to swim back home , to the Black Lagoon , with Helen and shot up by Prof . Furguson and an army of police and local townspeople but still making a successful getaway . Even though the villain in the movie the Gill Man evoked far more sympathy in " The Revenge of the Creature " then he did in " the Creature from the Black Lagoon " . Since he had more screen time and showed genuine sensitivity and feeling for Helen . He was also minding his own business in the safety of the Black Lagoon , when he was kid or creature-napped by a bunch of strangers , the crew of the Rita II . Who's only reasons for doing it was to glorify and enrich themselves at his , the Gill Mans , expense and freedom .
You have no idea how rare life is in the cold countless miles of space	Traveling tens of billions of miles through space the lead scout ship lands on earth outside the sleepy little town of Norrisville USA . It's there the aliens in it begin to take over he bodies , after their kidnapped , of the young men in that town . Getting married to her high-school sweetheart Bill Farrel , Tom Tryon , Marge , Goria Talbott , begins to realize that he's not the man that she was in love with all these years ! Marge later realizes that he's not a man at all but Bill is like what the title of the movie says : " A Monster from Outer Space " . Coming from a planet in the distance Andromeda Constellation the aliens escaped from their dying planet due to their sun's deadly radiation that killed off all the females of their race . Looking for a planet with life and to be able reproduce their people the earth was one of the few planets available to them . But they made a fatal miscalculation in both the human race and themselves . The aliens lacked any human feeling which is needed to attract a woman to fall in love with , and thus marry and have children , them . They were also not adapted to breath the oxygen on earth , which turned out to be fatal to the aliens . Most off all they were rendered sterile by the massive doses of radiations that they absorbed on their home planet from their dying , and later exploding , sun . Much better then you would expect the movie " I Married a Monster from Outer Space " has a intelligent script and fine acting on the part of it's cast . It makes you interested not only in the people on earth that are being targeted for this grand plan on the part of the aliens but the aliens themselves in their attempt to save their race from extinction . The movie also makes you sympathetic to the aliens by realizing that their trying to do what any people would do the save themselves . By being able to sire future generations , through mating with the women on earth . The movie does take a violent turn when the aliens , disguised as human beings , are beginning to be exposed by Marge . Marge tries to warn her girlfriend Helen , Jean Carson , not to marry her faence Sam Benson , Alan Dexter , because he's one of the aliens like her husband Bill ! Still she's not believed by anyone in town but only by the aliens , like her husband Bill , who try to keep Marge quite as well as anyone else who would suspect them . The ending of the movie was in a way a bit sad with all the aliens from the scout ship destroyed by the townspeople , and two brave German Shepherd dogs since you could never really dislike them knowing that they warn't really evil . The aliens were just trying to do what any living entity , human being included , would try to do . Save their race from becoming extinct , and thus have the audience overlook the fact they they were what they were : Invaders from Space trying to take over and conquer a foreign planet and , for loss of a better word , rape it's human female inhabitants .
Unfinished Symphony	( Some Spoilers ) Popular Hollywood song writer Keith Vincent , Edward Ashley , is found dead with a bullet at his head at his luxury home in the Hollywood Hills . Checking out the scene the police come to the conclusion that Vincent killed himself after the forensics results come in showing powder burns on both his hand and head and no sign of a struggle but LAPD Det . Warner , George Raft , has other ideas about Vincent's death ; he was murdered . It's apparent that Vincent was murdered when a piece of music he was composing was found on his piano unfinished . The piece was dedicated to some woman called Dolores . The fact that Vincent was , according to his live-in maid and houseboy , very upbeat the day he was found dead convinced Det . Warner that his death wasn't a suicide . On the wall of Vincent's living-room there's a number of large photos of women who were in one way or another involved with Vincent and checking out who they are Warner finds out that Vincent had a habit of calling any woman that he knew Dolores ! There was also a photo that was missing and that may have been that of the person who murdered Keith Vincent . Going through the nightlife scene of post WWII L . A Det . Warner tracks down the killer who murdered Kieth Vincent but only after he gets his head broken and his ribs bruised . Warner also falls in love with the # 1 suspect in Vincent murder the woman who's photo was mysterious missing from Vincent's living-room wall Frances Ransom , Lynn Bari . Det . Warner connects Vincent with both Frances ' younger sister Carol Page , Virgina Huston , and the piano player at the nightclub " The Keyboard " , where Carol is a singer and the star attraction , Ned " Fingers " Ford , Joseph Pevney , the club's pianist . Det . Warner finds both Carol and " Fingers " very uncomfortable when he asks them about Vincent's unfinished piece of music and later " Finger's " admits to him that he in fact was a collaborator in a number of Vincent's songs . As Det . Warner gets closer to the truth about Vincent's death , or murder his life becomes endangered when he's attacked by one of the bouncer's or muscle-men Eric Torp , Ben Hoffman , who works at " The Keyboard " nightclub ending up in the hospital . The photographer Charles Shawn , John Banner , who took the pictures of the Vincent women panics and tries to get in touch with Warner about the truth of why he was murdered and who did it . When Warner gets to his studio he finds Shawn dead hanging from the sky window apparently murdered but made to look , like with Vincent , as if he killed himself . Going back to the " Keyboard " nightclub to get some more information out of both Carol and " Fingers , as well as Caorl's sister Frances , Det . Warner is confronted again by the large and brutish Torp . This time Det . Warner puts Torp away with a hot pot of coffee thrown in his face and a steel pipe smashed over his head . A color change threw Det . Warner off to who was responsible for Vincent's murder and with a new photo that Det . Warner uncovered at the Shawn Studio he now knows who's behind Vincent's death and even more why .
Night of the Demons	SPOILERS They form a circle in the evening sky . A curtain seven stars come into a evil conjunction and when that happens it's called " Demon Knight " . Brayker , William Sadler , is on the run he's been running since May 1917 when he was a soldier on the Western Front . It was there that he was chosen to pick up the baton , or key , and he's been running with it ever since . After 78 years " Demon Knight " has come again in 1995 like it last did in 1917 and it was time for the Collector , Billy Zane , to make his collection from Brayker his key . A key that has the power to both stop and destroy him and the hoard of demons that he's in control of . Not the anthology that you would have expected from a film called " Tales From the Crypt : Demon Knight " but an entire 90 minute movie that holds together as well as any four or five different stories in a like-wise horror anthology film . Running for his life from the collector Brayker ends up hiding in this converted church that's now a out-of-way hotel with the collector bearing down on him . Together with the people in the hotel Brayker uses the blood from his holy and magical key to keep The Collector and the demons , that he conjured up , at bay until the morning sunrise . But by then it's too late for Brayker and almost all the hotel guests and workers but one ; the one who Brayker handed the key off to . That person , like Brayker , will be on the run and never have a day of peace for years until the next " Demon Knight " comes around . That's where he , or she , will finally turn the key over to another deserving soul to keep the cycle going ; a cycle that's been going on since the days when Christ walked the Earth . Scary movie with a bit of comedy added on , especially in the acting of Billy Zane as the Collector . At first you don't know what Brayker is really all about , he seems to be a fugitive on the run from the law . But as it becomes obvious who he is and what he running from you as well as those in the hotel and the police pursuing him Sheriff Tupper and his deputy Bob Martel , John Schuck & Gary Farmer , finally realize that Brayker's an noble and innocent man trying to escape the jaws of hell . It's when the Collector in feeling that Brayker is getting away from him , when the two policemen start to take him away in their squad car to prison , makes himself and his motives known that you see who the bad guy in the movie " Demon Knight " really is . Were introduced to the Crypt Keeper , John Kassr , a the beginning of the movie who's now a film director making a horror , what else , film and it isn't until the end of " Demon Knight " that we realize that the movie that he was directing is non other then the movie that we just saw " Tales from the Crypt : Demon Knight " . The Crypt Keeper did such a good job in directing the film that he was given by the film studio the right to have full control of what should be in , or not in , his movie ; it's what's called in the motion picture industry Final Directors Cut !
Hoodwinked	SPOILERS In " The Hood " three homeboys Stack Ball & Bulldog are mysteriously drawn to the Simms Funeral Home to get their hands on a stash of , what they call illegal drugs in gangster jive , " The Sht " thats supposedly hidden there . Forcing their way in they get the owner of the place the mortician Mr . Simms to take them where " The Sht " is threatening to murder him if he doesn't do " business " with them and lead them to it . Mr . Simms , who's new in the business of drug selling and who's also a bit weird and screwy but , for some strange reason , seems to show no fear at all of these dangerous hoodlums who are armed with handguns and ready to use them in an instant . Simms tells the homeboys that they'll get " The Sht " all right in fact by the time the night is over they'll be knee deep in " The Sht " but before he takes them to where " The Sht " is he's got a few nice little stories to tell them about some of the stiffs , that are now being prepared for burial in his funeral home , stories that he calls " Tales from the Hood " . The first tale that Simms tells the hoodlums is about a former cop black Clarence who went insane from guilt in not doing anything to save the life of a popular black community activist Martin Moorehouse when he was brutally beaten and then shot up with drugs , that caused him to die from an overdose , by three of his fellow cops . Clarence ended up murdering the three criminally-corrupt policemen on the one year anniversary of Moorehouses murder and then lost his mind and later his life . The next Tale from " The Hood " is about little Walter who's dad Mr . Johnson constantly and brutally beats him and his mom to a pulp for the slightest reason , back in school a bully who also beat up Walter had for some strange reason both his arms and legs broken when Walter drew a picture of him and then crushed it . Having his teacher Mr . Garvy go to see Mr . Johnson about Walter's fears of going home Mr . Johnson shows up and , true to his nature , starts to attack the teacher as well as Walter and his mom only to be broken to pieces and burned to a crisp by Walter doing the same thing to him like he did back in school to the bully with his strange and destructive powers . The third " Tale from the Hood " has to do with this racist politician Duke Metger who bought this old southern plantation , that he'll run his campaign out of , where the owner had all his slaves slaughtered just before they were to be set free by the Union Army after the Civil War . Stirring from their graves the souls of the murdered slaves came to life by taking over a number of voodoo dolls buried in the mansion and vengefully and ferociously do the arrogant Metger in . And finally the last " Tale from the Hood " is about local homeboy gang-banger Crazy K , which seemed to strike a cord with the three thugs , who was brutally shot down in the streets by his fellow homeboys who he was at war with over the control of the already mentioned " Sht " that killed so many in " The Hood " , like black atavist Moorehouse , over the years . The story about Crazy K really shook up the three who it turned out where the one's who did in the vicious and unrepentant Crazy K . Now with all the tales and stories from " The Hood " finished Mr . Simms takes the three hoods , who by now are getting very inpatient with him , down to the cellar to get the valuable " Sht " all for themselves and they do get " The Sht " but it's not " The Sht " that they expected and Mr . Simms didn't turn out to be the wacky harmless and no-offensive eccentric that they thought that he was but " The Sht " and the person who took them to it turned out to be their , the three homeboys , worst darkest and most terrifying nightmare a nightmare that dwarfs anything that they can imagine , in their wildest drug-induced hallucinations , to be really " Bad " in " The Hood " or for that matter anywhere else .
Like that of a disturbed and crippled mind " Deepwater " holds many dark and terrifying secrets	SPOILER ALERT After a stay at the hospital recovering from an ankle injury Nat Banyon , Lucas Back , goes on the road hitch-hiking to Wyoming to open up an ostrich farm . At some truckers rest stop bar Nat gets beaten up when he grabs a patron's hand who may have mistakenly thought that he was trying to proposition him . In the confusion Nat get a hold of the patron's car keys , that he accidentally dropped , and takes off with his sports car . Driving throughout the night Nat , struggling to say awake , spots an overturned car and saves the driver Herman Finch , Peter Coyote , just before his car was totaled by an oncoming truck . Finch very appreciative of what Nat did in saving his life gives the young man a job at his motel as an all-around handy-man . Later Finch get's Nat a car that he's to pay him back by the work he does at his place . Nothing really seems to be right with the movie as we get a number of sub-plots that makes an attempt to explain just what Finch is involved with . Finch comes across at first as a good natured and friendly person who's more then grateful at what Nat did for him but . At the same time we , and Nat , get this very disturbing insight about Finch that he's a local mobster who's involved in a number of unsolved murders that he uses surrogates to do his dirty and criminal work . Later we get to see some of Finch's friends a used car dealer Walnut , Michael Ironside , and Native American Joe Littlefield , John Boncore , who's being groomed by Finch to take over the management of a casino that he runs . there's also Finch's very young and attractive wife Iris , Mia Maestro , who works at her husbands motel as a cleaning woman . Very early in the movie we , and Nat , saw Finch get into a violent argument with Sal , Jason Cerboe , who later after being kicked out of a card game , between Finch Walnut and Littlefeet , disappears from sight and is found days later in the lake murdered . The same thing happens to local cop Newell , Brett Watson , who seemed to be on to Finch's sleazy activities and tried to warn Nat about him and his under the table dealings . Officer Newell is later found in the woods dead and decomposing with murder being the only reason for his sudden and untimely demise . Finch himself is about as weird as can be in his relations with Nat by moronically trying to get Nat in tip top shape for a boxing match with him ? Nat with rippling muscles and his boxing skills razor sharpen by the hard and rigorous training routine , that he was put under by Finch himself , as well as being some 30 to 40 years younger then the out of shape and cigar chomping Finch would kill the crazy old nut in the ring with one hand tied behind his back ! Had Finch already lost his mind and now want's to lose his marbles with a solid left hook to the temple as well ? while were left in the dark to what exactly Finch is planningMAJOR SPOILER we overlook what was the reason for Nat's interment in a medical facility and even more important is he fully recovered from the the illness or injury that he was there for ? The movie sets you up for a real shock that , in many ways , it leaves clues to get you ready for it . The big fight between Nat and Finch is done in all seriousness with Nat completely falling for Finch's line but what Finch is totally unaware of is that Nat is a bit , that may be understated , abnormal and also has some kind of weird attachment to him . This makes you wonder about the strange bar scene early in the film , that's slowly driving Nat off the deep end and into the deep dark and dangerous waters of his subconscious and unbalanced mind .
Janitor in a Drum	SPOILERS Love does strange things to people and the case of NYC office building janitor Daryl Deever , William Hurt , is a very good example . Throughout the entire film " Eyewitness " Daryl doesn't have a clue to why he's a marked man and what the reasons are for someone , or someone's , wanting him dead . Whats more he doesn't even seen interested why , the guy is hopelessly in love . Even at the end of the movie after a Charge of the Light Brigade down New York City's heavily traveled West Side with more bullets flying then even during the gunfight at O . K Corral Daryl doesn't at all seem to care what the reason for all this action and excitement is all about ! All he has on his mind , all throughout the movie , is making it with channel Five TV live at five anchorwomen classy and pretty Tony Sokolow , Sigourney Weaver , who he's been secretly in love with ever since he saw her on TV six months ago . Working as a janitor on the night shift Daryl finds that someone broke into the office of Mr . Long , Choa Li Chi , and murdered him . Daryl's friend and former army buddy Aldo Murcer , James Woods , had it out with Mr . Long and that argument cost him his job as a janitor , Aldo was also in the building the night that Mr . Long was murdered . This puts Daryl in a very uncomfortable position and has him withhold information from the police . Seeing news reporter and anchorwomen Tony Sokolow at the scene Daryl just can't keep from trying to get to talk to her . Daryl concocts this BS story that he saw , which he didn't , the person who did in the unfortunate Mr . Long just to strike up a conversation and relationship with her . This harmless chat in the end leads the killer to overplay his hand thinking that Daryl indeed knows who he is and thus has to be eliminated , this also puts Tony's life in danger as well . Terrific performances by all involved with William Hurt as Daryl the janitor who grew up on a farm who likes and understands horses , it's that valuable talent that in the end saved his life . Sigourney Weaver as the talented part-time concert pianist turned TV news anchorwoman who's attempt to get the big scoop on the Mr . Long murder uncovers things about a very close friend of her that she would rather not have known about . James Woods in one of his earliest roles at the creepy and overbearing Aldo who's attempt to get his best friend Daryl to marry his sister Linda , Pamela Reed , backfires when Dayral meets Tony and the sparks really begin to fly . There was also a very moving scene between Dyral and Linda at her job where they both realized that they were not , and never were , in love with each other . Which freed them from the act that they were playing and allowed them to go on with their lives without the meddling and annoying Aldo running their lives into the ground . Aldo , if he didn't have enough problems already , is also into the mob for as much as $50 , 000 . 00 and with the cops looking for him in the Mr . Long killing , which the poor sap is innocent of , has him just about on the verge of a nervous breakdown . The exciting ending where Daryl , who's mind is still in a complete fog to why someone want's to murder him , goes to meet the killer thinking that he's Tony's father and , I guess , wanting to ask him for his daughters hand in marriage . Instead Daryl is set up to be killed by the killer and his accomplice who , like Daryl , have totally different ideas to just how much and what he knows about the Mr . Long murder .
Joe you can make your people proud of you	" Spirit of Youth " with World Heavyweight Champ Joe Louis in it playing the title role of boxing sensation Joe Thomas is more of a true story about the early life of the famed Brown Bomber then just another 1930's run of the mill boxing flick . Joe taking over the care of his family in Birmingham Alabama when his dad Jeff was permanently injured , in a work-related accident , goes north to Detroit to find work and send whatever money he can back to his mom and kid sister . Making friends with Crickie who get's Joe fired from more jobs then he gets him hired to with Joe , again getting canned , one day at a warehouse job when he lays out the foreman after he punches the wise cracking and unruly Crickie out . Being unable to get or hold a study job Joe's just about had it in the big city and is ready to take the first train back home when fate , in the person of the semi-conscious Chrickie , intervenes . Seeing the dynamite right hand that Joe has Crickie gets the bright idea that Joe should enter the ring as a professional boxer . Crickie getting his friend fight manager Frankie Washburn to get Joe into shape and then into some boxing matches . The rest is a no brainier for the quick punching and hard hitting Joe Thomas , The Dark Destoryer , who with his sudden and devastating one two punch combination moves his way up the ranks . Joe knocks out all of his opponents with a match scheduled against top heavyweight contender Chris Baldwin with the winner meeting the heavyweight champ of the world Jack Stanley . With success going to Joe's head he soon falls in with the wrong crowd spending most of his free time at the Bluebird Caf instead of getting the much needed rest that he needs to stay razor sharp and in tip top shape as a top champion caliber boxer . The owner of the Bluebird Duke Emerald had won a bundle of money betting on Joe but now get's his star attraction at the club singer Flora Baily to get Joe to party with her and friends , night in and night out . This in an effort to get Joe out in shape to beat Baldwin in his next fight with Duke planning to bet on Joe in that fight but this time to lose not win . Out of shape with his punches lacking the explosive power that they had in the past Joe is knocked out by Baldwin losing in the ring for the first time in his professional boxing career . Joe trying to get over his loss to Baldwin gets a second shock when his girl Mary leaves him because of him spending all of his time with Nora . Joe at the same time has a reality check when he's later having lunch at a bar with Frankie and sees one of Frankie's former boxers broken down Tommy Bright grubbing Tommy for money to have a drink . Tommy is so brain damaged that doesn't even recognizing Joe , a top boxing contender for the heavyweight championship , at all ! Tommy is so drunk both from the punches he took in the ring and alcohol that he gulped down out of it that it made Joe , by noticing all of this , becomes determined not to end up like Tommy did by being a party animal instead of a dedicated and disciplined professional boxer . Somewhat corny and predictable ending with Joe getting a second chance to fight the champ Jack Stanley and losing badly in the early and middle rounds . It's not until his girl Mary , with the help of both Crickie and the now reformed and repentant Nora , gets to the boxing arena just in time for Joe , who's just about out on his feet from the pounding he's been taking , to see her at his side and smile at him . That charges him up with Joe coming back from certain defeat and clobbering Stanley with the old one two , and right left , wining the fight and the world heavyweight championship . Joe Louis played boxer Joe Thomas with that same humble shyness and lack of arrogance and bravado on the screen like he was in real life that in the end made him a true to life American hero , not a made in Hollywood one . It's those qualities which earned Joe Louis the love and respect of millions of boxing and sports fans , as well as those that don't follow sports or boxing , not only in the USA but from all over the world .
If you have to go out you might as well make it count for something !	( There are Spoilers ) Too talky at times with a number of far-out Native American occult-like rituals with the star Billy Jack , Tom Loughlin , involved in some kind of weird snake dance where he's repeatedly bitten by a deadly diamond back rattlesnake and survives only because of his faith in the great Indian Spirit . The movie " Blly Jack " really get's down to business when Billy early in the film puts away his pacifism and takes off his boots and socks and socks the bad guys with a few well placed kicks , together with a strong whiff of his foot perspiration odor , sending them running for their lives . Billy a decorated Vietnam War veteran has had it with civilization and lives by himself on a New Mexican Indian Reservation Peace-loving Billy's life is always disturbed by the local ranchers and townspeople who constantly break the agreement between the local Indian tribes and the US government of not trespassing on Indian land . Billy is also secretly in love with Jean Roberts , Delores Taylor , the founder and administrator of the local Freedom School for runaway youths and unwanted adults All this is a thorn in the side of local big shot rancher and political power broker Mr . Stuart Posner , Ben Freed , The trouble starts for Jean's beleaguered Freedom School when Barbara , Julie Webb , the sixteen year-old daughter of deputy Sheriff Mike , Kenneth Tobey , is beaten up and kicked out of the house by her outraged father . This happens when deputy sheriff Mike finds that Barbara spent the summer in a hippie commune in San Francisco and got knocked up by at least a dozen smelly pot smoking longhairs . Taken into the school and after being cleaned up Barbara is then taught the fine points in what life is really all about and most of all after becoming a member of the school's acting troupe Barbara finally finds the family she always wished for but never had . Mike together with Mr . Posner want to get Barbara back in the fold just to show up Jean's ' school and prevent future Barbara's and many of the young men in and around town from joining the Freedom School that has some of the coolest and grooviest looking chicks this side of the Rockies in it . It's Mr . Posner's young and trouble-making son Bernard , David Roya , who really get's thing going downhill with him having the hots for Barbara and at the same time having it in for her peaceful and sensitive young Indian boyfriend Martin , Stan Rice . Martin is so respectful of Barbara that he keeps himself from having any sexual relationship with her , even though Barbara is always trying to get the meek and very shy Martin to go to bed with her , until their wedding night . The jealous and resentful Barnard is always making trouble for the local Indians together with his drinking buddy friends but it's only Billy who's able to keep him and his fellow sht-kickers in line . Bernard goes a bit too far when he attacks and brutally rapes Jean when she sunbathing nude by the lake and even worse , if he could be any worse that he already is , tracks down a crippled Martin . Bernard shoots the life-long pacifist dead with four bullets in his skull leaving his bullet-ridden floating in the river . Billy Jack finding out about Barnard despicable actions goes on a rampage and finds the lowlife creep in a cheap motel-room getting it on with an underage 13 year-old girl ! Taking a bullet from this now exposed child-molester Billy whacks the sicko right across the throat killing him . I for one was hoping that Bernard would finds himself , like Barbara did , by joining the Freedom School and learning what it's like to be a kind decent and loving human being . I had a bit of sympathy for Bernard earlier in the movie when he couldn't bring himself to shoot a number of wild horses at the insistence of his ultra-macho and domineering father Mr . Posner . It's sad that Bernard became the most hated person in the film later on where anything bad that happened to him wasn't quite good enough . Billy Jack not through with his work to clean up the town , after dispatching that lowlife pedophile Bearnard , later has it out with deputy Mike putting a bullet between his eyes . Mike's daughter Barbara , who was with Billy at the time , not as much as blinked her eyes in shock which showed how much , or how little , she thought of her dad . Surrounded by the towns police force and the entire New Mexican National Guard Billy plans to go out blazing with both ends burning but is talked out of it by a sobbing Jean . Jean tells the confused and wounded , from being shot in the ribs by Bernard , Indian half-breed that him being alive will do a lot more for her and the children of the Freedom School then ending up dead . Jean then tearfully admits to Billy that she was also in love with him . With Billy getting an air-tight guarantee in writing that the Freedom School , with Jean running it , won't be closed down by the US Government all that's left in the movie is for the unforgettably emotional ending : Billy Jack being taken into custody with the entire town giving him he heads , or fists , up to the music of the films heart-lifting theme song " One Tin Soldier " .
So just keep on dragging your red red wagon along	SPOILERS Life on the lam where one false move can be your last is depicted in Nicholas Ray's directorial debut " They Live by Night " that took some 2 years to make it to the screen in 1949 after it was finished filming in early 1947 . Breaking out of prison three hardened convicts go on a bank robbery spree that ends with a highway policeman getting gunned down later during a minor traffic accident . The cop killer Chicamaw " One Eye " Mobley , Howard De Silva , has his partner in crime young escaped murderer Arthur " Bowie " Bowers , Farley Granger , driven back to his brother's , Will Wright , home . It's there where One Eye's niece Keechie , Cathy O'Donnell , nurses the handsome and sensitive Bowie back to health . Keechie has already gotten stung by Bowie's boyish charms when he bought her a watch days before he and his partners One Eye and T-Dub , Jay C . Flipper , knocked off the Zelton County Bank in rural Texas . Now with him , not One Eye , held responsible for the traffic cops murder Bowie and Keechie decide to skip out of the country to Mexico and start a new life . As you would expect things don't go exactly as planned for the two young lovers . Using the money from the Zelton bank robbery both Bowie and Keechie , who have since been married , go from one roadside motel to another with the law not far behind . It's only when Keechie's now , like his brother , alcoholic uncle One Eye shows up that things really start to get out of hand for the two newlyweds . One Eye demanding that Bowie go on one last job , bank robbery , with both him and T-Dub has the young man refuse even with a gun pointed at his head . This leads T-Dub to do the bank robbery solo only ending up getting gunned down in the process . One Eye now helplessly addicted to hard booze ends up breaking into a liquor store one evening , in order to get himself juiced , and is shot to pieces by the arriving police . Both T-Dubs and One Eye's demise happen off screen making you wonder if the budget for the movie didn't have enough cash to have the two shoot-out events filmed ? The movie did seem to have enough money for the three escaped convicts to set on fire their getaway car that , if taken out of the movies script , would have been enough money to show both T-Dub & One Eye get their just deserts . With both Bowie & Keechie's escape to Mexico now an impossibility in that the person who can get them across the border , and who married them , Hawkin , Ian Wolf , chickened out at the very last moment . It's now just a matter of time when the law finally catches up with the two star struck lovers . SPOILERS As luck would have it both Bowie and Keechie end up at the mercy of fellow criminal Mattie Mansfield , Helen Craig , who for reasons only known to herself has it in for the very likable and inoffensive Bowie . The double-crossing Mattie at the same time wants to make a deal with the police to release her jailbird husband who , in how he's totally obvious of her presences , seems to have absolutely no use for her at all ! Very sad but predictable ending with Bowie not being able to say good-by in person , he did leave a farewell note , to Keechie as he's about to leave her and head for parts unknown in order to keep her from ending up the same way he will and eventually did .
They don't have names in here only numbers .	SPOILERS Very much like the 1978 women's movie " An Unmarried Woman " released six years later even down to it's dramatic and unexpected freeze frame ending " One is a Lonely Number " has to do with a young womens abandonment by her husband and being forced to go out in a world and face situations that she's lest prepared for . Right out of the blue English collage professor James Brower , Paul Jenkins , tells his startled young wife Aimee , Trish Van Devere , that he's divorcing her . The reason for James leaving Aimee is mental cruelty which was in her , thinking it's a piece of junk , throwing out a his rare 1st edition copy of " Paradise Lost " by John Milton ! It later turns out that James left Aimee for totally different reasons ; His affair with his cute and blond teenage secretary at the collage he teaches in . Out in the cold with bills piling up to the ceiling Aimee gets a job as a lifeguard at a local community swimming pool in San Francisco . Not at first realizing what she got involved in with the sneering and hot in the pants employment agent Sherman Cooke , Jonathan Lippe , Aimee is later shocked to find Sherman in the ladies shower , fully clothes , demanding that she take a cold shower together with him ! It's as if by just doing his job , finding a job for Aimee , Sherman want's to bed her down as a reward ! Threatened by an outraged Aimee to have him reported to the police for attempted rape as well as being spotted in the ladies shower by two unexpected visitors , a woman and her young daughter , Sherman makes a hasty retreat never to be seen again in the film . Aimee eventually gets her head together with the help of fellow divorces Gert Meredith , Janet Leigh , and Madge Frazier , Jane Elliot , who've had experience in failed marriages with Madge going through her first and Gert her fifth divorce . Aimee also gets the very needed advice and attention that she so desperately seeking from a very unexpected source ; The kind and friendly fruit & vegetable man Joseph Provo , Melvyn Douglas . It was Mr Provo , a widower after 39 years of being happily married , who set Aimee straight to what life , as well as good and cheap grade " A " # 1 produce , is all about . Aimee does find out that not every man who's interested in her sexually and romantically is also interested in marrying her . This comes as a big surprise to Aimee when her new boyfriend Howard " The Duck " Carpenter , Monte Markham , reveals to her after a roll in the hay , or the sack , that he's actually married and happily at that ! Becoming more and more independent and confident in herself Aimee eventually loses interest in her ex-husband James who's affair with his 19 year old secretary had already gone bust . This leads James , now feeling like a first class jerk , to drop his filing for divorce against Aimee wanting her back despite all the damage he caused her ! But by then Aimee being a free soul with all the eligible and married men in town wanting to date and go out with her she tells James to go take a hike and get himself lost in the woods ! Now free and full of confidence in both herself and her ability to overcome any obstacle put in her path Aimee now confronts the challenge that's been haunting her all throughout the movie ! And Aimee , true to form , passes it with flying colors !
Boris & Bela Together Again	SPOILERS Judge Thatcher , Samuel S . Hinds , pleads with the retired and highly respected surgeon Dr . Richard Vollin , Bela Lugosi , to save his pretty ballerina daughters Jean , Irene Ware , life . The great doctor goes out of retirement and not only saves Jean's life and restores her ability to walk , so she can dance again , he also falls insanely in love with her . Dr . Vollin is also obsessed with the writer Edger Allen Poe who he considers his equal as a writer with his being a man of medicine and who in the end , like Dr . Vollin in the movie , went mad . Vollin built himself a dungeon in his basement filled with of all the torture equipment that Poe wrote about in his writings . Vollin later got escaped murderer Edmond Bateman ( Karloff ) , I guess Boris was so famous by then he didn't need a first name , who he made to look even more vicious and horrific then he already was by surgically altering his looks and then used him to do his dirty work . Dr . Vollin enraged at Judge Thatcher for disapproving his daughters hand in marriage , she was already engaged to the handsome doctor Jerry Halden ( Lester Matthews ) , has a plan that he set for them at his residents by inviting them and some of their friends to stay over for the weekend . The Judge was not invited but he came anyway . What a stroke of luck for Dr . Vollin . One of the eight movie that both Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff were in , if you also count the film " Gift of gab " in which they both had cameo appearances . " The Ravan " is one of Logosi & Karloff better collaborations with a pit and pendulum scene as well as a closing or squeezing room for the lucky young and soon to be married couple Jean & Jerry at the end of the movie . Bela was really into his role here as the crazed Dr . Vollin who never takes no for an answer as he didn't with Jean's father the Judge as well as not a person to fool around with . Boris as the escaped convict Bateman was his usual crazy but likable self . Karloff or Bateman was just a victim of birth or circumstances by the way that he looked that made him the killer that he was . If he only looked like Cary Grant what a difference it would have made ! In the end Bateman redeemed himself by saving everyone from Dr . Vollin's insane and murderous plan .
No the movie is not about that popular soft drink	SPOILERS Buried under a mountain of medical bills and his funeral business not being able to dig him out from under them undertaker Vito Lucia , Tony Lo Bianco , came up with a plan to make a load of cash with the help of his two crooked pals Moon & Bo , Richard Lynch & Bill Hickman . Vito getting close with his boyhood friend Buddy Manucci , Roy Scheider , as a mob informer to win over Buddy's trust and have him tell Vito what's coming down on the streets of New York in regard to mob activities . Buddy is a cop who works in a sub rosa unite of the NYPD , the Seven Ups , that does things " their way " to clean up the streets of New York of criminals . Vito gets information from Buddy and makes it look to Buddy that he's really giving him tips about the mob and what it's up too and uses that information to tip off his hoodlum associates , Moon & Bo , to rip the mobsters off of their weekly take as well as kidnap top mob loan sharks and hold them for ransom . Everything is going well for Vito & Co . until the mob decides to retaliate and mistakenly grabs beats and kidnaps a member of the Seven Ups Ansel , Ken Kercheval , who was working undercover thinking he was one of the hoods who was kidnapping and ripping them off . Later Ansel was accidentally killed by Moon when he blasted out the trunk of the car that Ansel was locked in thinking that there was a suitcase full or cash , ransom , in it . Fast pace and exciting movie with that gritty and grimy photography of New York City that was so effective in the movie " The French Connection " which also stars both Roy Scheider & Tony Lo Bianco who are in this movie too . Incredible car chase that started in downtown Brooklyn and ended up in the wilds of New Jersey some 15 to 20 miles away with Buddy almost ending up decapitated for his heroic efforts . Roy Scheider who is not a big man is as tough and effective as any big action actor I can think off like Clint Eastwood would have been in the same movie . Scheider reminds me a lot of , he even looks a bit like him , former welterweight and middleweight champion Gene Fullmer who beat the great Sugar Ray Robinson for the middleweight championship back in 1957 and acts like him too in the movie : tough durable and destructive . Tony Lo Bianco is very good as Vito the undertaker the lowlife heel who plays off Buddy and the mob to the point that leads to Buddy's partner Ansel getting killed . Even though he's trash you can't in a way not help feeling sorry for Vito since he only wants the money he gets from the ripped offed mobsters to pay his sick wife's Rose's hospital and medical bills . Even the fact that Ansel was killed due to his actions Vito never wanted anybody to get hurt but like they say when you play with fire you end up getting burned . In the end Vito have a lot of explaining to do to the not so sympathetic and caring mobsters . The movie " The Seven Ups " has the late Bill Hickman doing the dangerous stunts with the car chases as well as act in the film . Hickman was also the stunt man in both great movies that had him doing the driving on the roads streets and highways of New York City and San Francisco " The French Connection " and " Bullitt " .
One Too Many	( Spoilers ) Strange motion picture out of the 1960's about a comic on the run from the mob who in the end gives up running and finally faces what fate , or the syndicate , has in store for him . Polish / American stand-up comic Mickey One ( Warren Beatty ) , a name that he took later in the film while on the lamb , feels he's lived beyond his means and now has to pay up to keep himself from being done in by the Detroit mobsters who he's deeply in debt to . We see at the beginning of the movie a montage of Micky One's lifestyle with money , that the mob advanced him , going up in smoke with his gambling drinking and women women women with no end in sight . Now Mickey realizes that he's got to pay up to keep from getting his arms and legs broken and goes to see his manager Rudy Lopp , Franchot Tone , to see what he owes . Micky finds out that he's squandered well over $20 , 000 . 00 of the mobs money and has no way of paying it back . Terrified and fearing that he's on the mobsters hit-list Mickey makes a run for it out of Detroit and during the next four years drifts all throughout the USA finally ending up in Chicago . Working all kinds off odd jobs one in which he disposed the garbage at a local flop-house Mickey slowly goes back to what he does best stand-up comedy . By doing that Mickey's exposing himself to the mobsters who have been out looking for him in all the major nightclubs from Detroit to Denver trying to find and even murder him . Like a man on a tightrope Mickey has to be good on the stage in order to support himself as a stand-up comic but at the same time not that good in order not to draw attention on himself and thus have himself beaten or rubbed out for his compulsive gambling and womanizing . That lead to him sticking the Detroit Mobsters with a + $20 , 000 . 00 tab . Trusting no one Mickey lives in this run down apartment building in the Chicago slums and one day a young women Jenny , Alexandra Stewart , mistakenly end up in his apartment thinking that it was vacant by paying the landlady the rent . Reluctantly letting Jenny stay with him turns out to be at first the worst and later on the best thing that happened to Mickey One in the movie . Stark and brooding " Mickey One " is one of the best example of surrealistic American cinema to come out of the 1960's or 70's . Watching the film you get the impression that your seeing a Salvador Dali painting come to life . A lot of the scenes in the film don't seem to make any sense even for a movie as surrealistic like " Mickey One " . But they somehow or another make the film move towards it's somewhat freaked-out conclusion without interfering with the movies basic plot : a man on the run for his life . The ending of the movie , with Mickey driven to the point of not caring if he lived or died anymore , is really something to watch . Beaten and battered , from a bar fight that spilled into the street the night before , Mickey goes on the stage of a swanky Chicago nightclub , the Xanadu , to do what may very well be his last performance in show business and possibly his life . Besides the aforementioned cast the movie also has veteran actors Hurd Hatfield and Jeff Corey as the Xanadu's owner and manager Castle & Fryer as well as Teddy Heart as Mickey's sad and tragic booking agent Georgie Berson .
Lights Out	SPOILERS Left for dead after he was blown out of his laboratory offices by the Durant Mob who were looking for a document that would be devastating to their boss Louis Strack , Colin Friels , a big time city land developer . Peyton Westlake , Liam Neeson , is recovered from the river and brought to the local hospital . In an effort to keep the pain of his injuries bearable the nerve endings to his brain were severed , but by doing that it greatly enhanced his emotions , love hate and rage among others . Those strong emotions soon came into play when he he broke out of the hospital looking first for his girlfriend Julie , Francs McDormand , and then the Durant mob and their boss Louis Strack to whom Julie worked for Strack's firm as his law partner . Left with his mind as well as his body horribly deformed . Westlake living in a deserted factory went back to his project of developing synthetic skin to replace the burns that he received from him being attacked by the Durant Mob . The best that he could do , like before him being burned , was that the skin would last for less then 100 minutes before it would dissolve and become useless . With an unstoppable fury Westlake / Darkman takes out his rage at the Durant Mob whom he smashes to bits and then confronts Strack and , who after telling Darkman that he doesn't have the conscience to do it , drops him some 650 feet to his death from a building site of his on the city waterfront . Strack obviously didn't know that Darkman put away Durant , Larry Drake , and his boys without any trouble to his conscience at all . Unlike most comic super hero's Darkman didn't have a secret identity and doesn't get the girl that he loves at the end of the movie . Darkman unlike most comic book hero's is not really a crime fighter . The bad guys that Darkman takes care of in the movie were for personal reasons not for the elimination of crime from society . These are the reasons that makes Darkman unique and why the audience can personally identify with Darkman more then with most of the comic book super hero's put on film : Darkman wasn't out to save the world from evil , he was out to avenge the evil that was done to him .
You tried to contrive a perfect alibi sir , and it's that perfect alibi that's gonna hang you !	SPOILERS Fitness and health guru Milo Janus , Robert Conrad , has been using his franchised gyms to reap a fortune in profits for himself . Janus has the gyms buy products and equipment from companies that he's a silent partner in with a mark up , for himself , for as much as 600 % . Confronted by one of his angry costumers Gene Stafford , Philip Bruns report him the local police bunko squad for bilking s of thousands of dollars has the devious and conniving Janus set out in murdering the outraged Stafford . Janus plans make the murder look like Stafford accidentally killed himself by overexercising . Setting up a scenario where he covers his tracks and provides himself with a perfect alibi Janus first comes to Stafford's gym when he's along at night checking the books and making a case against Janus . After trying to strangle a surprised and terrified Satfford Janus chases him all over the place finally cornering him and killing Stafford by breaking his windpipe with a steel bar . Changing the now dead Stafford into his Gym clothes Janus places him in the gym with a 180 pound bar bell hanging by his neck making it look like it slipped and crushed him to death . Janus feeling that he's now got everything under control is in for a big and unpleasant surprise when Lt . Columbo is put on the case . In no time at all Lt . Columbo sees that all is not right in Stafford's accidental death . In fact Cloumbo is positive that it was cold blooded murder and it was Janus who was the person who murdered him . Not as bumbling as he usual is Columbo got right on Janus ' back and never left up . With Columbos constant harassment of the man going on almost unabated I thought for a moment that the powerfully built hot tempered and dangerous muscle man would grab the out of shape and unarmed Columbo and ring his neck . Thus ending the Columbo series , by killing it's star , almost as soon as it began ! Putting all the pieces together Columbo sees how Janus staged a phone-call that Stafford supposedly made to his house , when Janus was throwing a party , when he was already dead . The idea hit Cloumbo when he made a call to a Lewis Lacey , Darrell Zwerling , who was working for Stafford in getting evidence against Janus and was left hanging listening to his prerecorded voice recording . This in the early 1970's when telephone voice-recordings weren't that commonplace . Columbo really got hot under the collar after launching a blistering verbal attack on the suspected murderer where he almost got his head bashed in by a " this is all the abuse I'm gonna take from you " Janus . This happened in the hospital after Stafford's estranged wife Ruth , Collins Wilcox Paxton , ended up being admitted , or a drug overdose , to after having a confrontation with Janus , and pouring a glass of water in his face , the night before at a local restaurant . Ruth was upset about how he was bilking her late husband out of his money , by forcing him to buy his cheap and overpriced products . The thing that got Janus trapped was the very thing that he thought would exonerate him of Stafford's murder the phone call . That he got from Stafford in full view of his secretary Jessica Conroy , Gretchen Corbett , at the party that he threw the evening of Stafford's murder . The shoe lace scenario that Columbo wasted so much time explaining to both Janus and the audience was ridicules and would have never , like Janus told him , stand up in court or even have Janus indited by a grand jury . It was the fact that Janus himself said , and swore out in writing , that he somehow knew that Satfford was in his gym and working out in his gym clothes at the time of his death before that fact became known . This showed that he must have been there and murdered Stafford since all the evidence proved that Stafford was working late at his office and not working out at his gym ! Stafford was undoubtedly dressed in his gym clothes by the person who murdered him and that person could have only been Milo Janus who knew that fact , and even swore to it , before anyone else did !
God Works In Mysterious Ways	( Some Spoilers ) Undoubtedly the best of the half dozen or so versions of the film released over the years which included the 1955 Liberace soap opera " Sincerely Yours " . The movie " The Man Who Played God " is about how a person who knew nothing but success all his life being forced to see the world the way the vast majority of people see it , cold cruel and unfeeling . As well as have his faith in God and himself tested to the fullest extent possible . Born into money and a world renowned concert pianist Monty Royle has never had a bad thing happen to him in all his fifty years . Having his young and pretty music student Grace Blair fall in love with him Monty tells her that if she still feels the same way about him six months hence as she does now he'll marry her . Later after an exhilarating concert at the Paris Music Hall , which brought the roof down , Monty is about to give a private performance to a European monarch when a group of terrorists , from the Kings country , detonates a bomb that causes a massive explosion outside the hall . Monty completely loses his hearing and quickly falls into a deep depression knowing that the music that he plays and loves so much , that's his only reason for living , will never be played or heard or him again . Back home in New York Monty's depression gets more and more acute and even being taught to lip-read by Dr . Charles E . Adams can't make up for his not being able to hear his beautiful music . It's then that the thought of killing himself enters Monty's head . Attempting to jump out of a window in his suite of apartments Monty is saved from killing himself by his loyal and dedicated butler Battle . Told by Battle what a sniveling coward he his by him trying to do himself in Monty tries to pull himself together as he later starts to become somewhat of a voyeur . Watching the world go by from his porch and patio window overlooking New York's Central Park . It's then when Monty comes up with this idea of reading the lips , through high powered binoculars , of the people milling in and around the park . Finding out about peoples problems and then helping them out from a distance gave Monty the feeling that he was working at the right hand of God and doing God's work for the good of all Mankind . Egotistical yes But Monty's obsession did help the people that he spied upon with money to help them out of their depressing situations in life . In one case he even prevented a couple whom the man , who was about to be arrested for embezzlement , from committing suicide . When Battle came to their rescue by paying back the stolen money , just in the nick of time , before they swallowed a poison cocktail . All this time Mildred Miller who carried a torch for Monty for years knew that Grace had fallen in love with Harold but couldn't bring herself to tell Monty since she felt that it would kill him if she did . Monty later seeing Grace and Harold , who just came back from Pasadena with his binoculars outside in the park . And to the objection of Mildred , who was with him by the window , reads Grace and Harold's lips and realizes that she's not in love with him anymore she's really in love with Harold . Monty now has the biggest decision of his life to make : keep Grace from marrying Harold , whom she's in love with , or letting her guilt-feelings about poor Monty take over her mind and have her marry him . Monty sets Grace free from the emotional tie thats between her and him by letting her know that it's all right to follow her heart and marry Harold and that he'll do nothing to stand in Grace's way . Fine movie about faith in God and in one's own ability to see things through and let the chips fall where they may no matter what the consequences turn out to be . At the start of the move " The Man Who Played God " Monty was interrupted in giving a performance to a king that cost him his hearing . When the movie ended Monty gave the greatest performance of his life at the at the quaint little Manhattan church that his late mother , Margrate Ruth Royal , attended all her life and that he donated the new church organ in her memory . Alone with only Mildred in attendance Monty gave the opening performance of the new church organ not to just any king mind you but to the King of Kings himself .
Evil has a Face	SPOILERS Unusual thriller about evil in the world today with Det . John Hobbs , Denzel Washington , targeted by this unknown and unseen force that makes it's way from person to person with just the touch of one's hand . Doing a documentary on convicted serial murderer Reese , Elias Koteas , the person who's Det . Hobbs brilliant detective work brought him into the death house awaiting execution . Reese asks for just a brief moment with Det . Hobbs and surprisingly sticks his hand out for Det . Hobbs to shake , he does and that sets off a string of events . In the end they would leads Hobbs to the deserted cabin in the woods to have it out with the Demon Azazel who , through Reese , had condemned him to death . We see Let . Hobbs at the beginning of the movie " Fallen " crawling through the snow around the cabin that he was staying at obviously dying . The movie then takes us back to happier time with Det . Hobbs at the big house , state prison , attending Reese's execution as one of the witnesses . Reese not at all afraid of what's to happen to him as he's strapped into the state gas chamber calmly sings , as the gas pellets are dropped into the acid bath , the Rolling Stones song " Time is on my Side " , yes it is . Let . Hobbs and his fellow cops later saw in the film Reese was right , dead right . The movie " Fallen " mixes the occult into a big city police drama and comes out a winner by doing it . Det . Hobbs slowly begins to notices that there's something very strange in what's happening to him . At first Hobbs feels that he's being set up to be framed , possibly by his fellow policemen , for a number of murders that has his fingerprints all over the crime scene . Hobbs tracking down a clue that leads him to unearth the files of a cop Robert Milano , the 1965 cop of the year , who like himself was somehow framed for a string of killings back in the 1960's . Milano in what seemed like , an act of depression drove out to his country home and then calmly blew his brains out . Getting in touch with the late Officer Malano's daughter Gretta , Embeth Davidzt , Hobbs finds out from her things that he'd rather not since , if believed by him , it will destroys his perception of reality . It doesn't take Hobbs that long to realize how right Gretta is with the evil directed at him , that was released by Reese , and later his family with his brother Art , Gabriel Casseus , ending up dead from a overdose of drugs . Hobbs now a rue believer knows just what he had to do to stop this sinister force that's been on earth together with man since the dawn of creation . Hobbs now a wanted man drives to the same cabin where Officer Malano killed himself some thirty years ago to finish the job that Malano started . There was a reason for Malano's madness but in the end he failed in what he set out to do then , destroy the evil demon Azazel . Hobbs made sure that this time around he , unlike Malano , would succeed . Powerhouse ending that will leave you as exhausted and out of breath as it did Det . Hobbs when the evil that hounded him throughout the film " Fallen " finally reveals itself in those cold lonely and uninhabited woods . Only to find out that he , Hobbs , not it had the best hand of cards from what it , the evil , thought was a stacked deck against him .
Dying To See This Movie	" Flatliners " is a very original , despite it's morbid theme , and in a way uplifting movie . It shows it's audience that things that we do to others in life that for the most part we may have long forgotten about will come back to haunt us in death . The difference in the film " Flatliners " is that those who died and were hunted by their past sins were given another chance to come back to life and correct or rectify them to those persons who they killed and abused . Person who were victimized by Nelson , Kifer Sutherland , who killed and David , Kevin Bacon , who abused . As well as Joe , William Baldwin , who betrayed and in the case of Rachel , Julia Roberts , drove to their death . A secret experiment was dreamed up by Nelson and his fellow medical students to see if there's really a life beyond the grave . The students put themselves under , getting clinically flat-lined , and then being brought back to life tell and record what they saw when they were " Dead " . Each student who was put under saw things that they did in life that they thought nothing of and long forgot about with the exception of Rachel . The dead and then revived students then spent the rest of the movie trying somehow to make amends for what they did in order not to have them go insane with guilt . Admittedly unrealistic the movie has the students get all the medical equipment and drugs that they needed for their experiment and preform it on each other . Right under the noses of the doctors nurses and attendants at the hospital they were at ! The students being able to put each other under , from one to five minutes , and then revive themselves was really a bit too much to take . Still you have to give " Flatliners " an + A for originality . Even though the movie had trouble convincing you that the goings on on the screen could have been at all possible in even in the most modern medical facility in the world . Still " Flatliners " does at least try to confront one of the most profound mysteries , of science and theology , in it's own very strange and peculiar way .
Serious 1933 film about the horrors and dangers of Venereal Disease that may surprise you	( Some Spoilers ) Early 1930's educational movie about the horrors of contracting a social disease and the consequences that come along with it : blindness madness loss of ones abilities to function as well as infecting other people with it , even one's unborn children , and finally death . " Damaged Lives " is far ahead of it's times in educating it's viewers about the dangers Venereal Deasise . viewed now over 70 years after it's release back in 1933 is as good , if not better , then the many films about that subject made back in the 1940's 1950's and even 1960's . Donald Bradley , Lyman Williams , is a top executive of a major shipping company who's been going study with his girlfriend Joan , Diane Sinclair , for some time . both are finally planing to get married and raise a family . Out at a party one evening Donald meets Elsie Cooper , Charlotte Merriam , and together they have one drink too many and before you know it end up spending the night together in Elsie's home . Thinking nothing of his one night stand with Elsie Donald later marries his long time love Joan and they both plan to have a child , or so they thought . At the office Donald get a panicked call from Elsie telling him to come over to her place right away about something very important . Rushing over Donald finds out , to his horror , that Elsie has a sexual infection that she got from her boyfriend Nat , Harry Myers , and that she may have given it to Donald , and he in turn may have infected his wife Joan . Telling Elsie that she's wrong about him being infected and that she should seek medical attention Elsie shoots herself as Donald is just about to leave . Getting over Elsie's tragic death Donald gets another surprise later when his doctor Dr . Bill Hill , Jason Robards Sr , comes over to his office telling him to immediately come with him to the hospital to talk to Infectious Disease Specialist Dr . Vincent Leonard , Murray Kinnell , about his wife Joan who's just been admitted there . The terrible truth about Donald and his wife Joan hits him like a bolt out of the blue and leaves him speechless , just like it did Joan earlier . Both have been infected and the infection is the dreaded and unspeakable , back in the 1930's , infection called Venereal Disease . Told by Dr . Leonard that it would take some two years of treatment for both Donald and Joan to be completely cured it leaves Joan in a state of dangerous suicidal thoughts . Later in the film Joan , feeling that she has nothing to live for , closes all the windows in her and Donald's apartment and turns on the gas stove , full blast , in order to kill herself and Donald who was asleep at the time . Honest film about the ravages of Venereal Disease and the damage that it does to those who are infected by it , both psychically as well as mentally , and how it could be cured if given immediate medical care instead of hiding it from one's doctor and keeping it hidden , for fear of shame and embarrassment , until it's too late .
A Passion for Living	SPOILERS Having been forced by the studio to make the ridicules and utterly mindless Exorcist II to get the part of psychiatrist Martin Dysart actor Richard Burton secured , from actors Marlon Brando and Jack Nicholson , one of the best and most challenging movie roles of his career . We see the story of " Equus " in flashback with Dr . Dysart , looking as mad as a hatter , recounting it and how it has effected him to the point where he , like some of his patients , needs emergency psychiatrist help . Looking and talking like a wide eyed street corner religious lunatic Dysart tells the audience about a recent case of his , stable-boy Alan Strang ( Peter Firth ) , and how it had blown his mind completely out of kilter . 17 year-old Alan had somehow lost his mind and , in the dead of night , attacked and blinded six horses under his care including the horse Nugget whom he had worshiped as if he were a God ! Alans troubles started when he was six and was taken for a ride , on a majestic-looking black stallion , by a stranger who spotted him making sand castles on the beach . Since then Alan became infatuated with the equine set to the point where horses became the centerpiece of his life . Alan was brought up in an unstable home environment with his mother Dora , Joan Plowright , a die in the wool religious fundamentalist and father Frank , Colin Blakely , a closet and rain-coated porno flick connoisseur . Because of that Alan's life went to pieces in not having , in those young and tender years of growing up , anyone to look up too . That's until Alan convinced himself that the horse , or his infatuation with the animal , is his both Lord and Savior ! As Dr . Dysart tried to get to the bottom of Alan's obsession he started having doubts about himself in that Alan , as sick as he is , has experienced a passion in living that he , in his listless an boring existence , can only dream about ! Having a loveless and childless marriage with his wife Margaret , Kate Reid , Dr . Dysart had immersed himself in both Greek and Babylonian as well as ancient Indian philosophies trying to find a reason for his both life and and the purpose he was put on this earth . The troubled and mentally unstable Alan Strang had found in his teenage years what Dr . Dysart , Alan's psychiatrist , has yet to find all his life : A passion for living ! What Dr . Dysart was now trying to do is not really cure his patient Alan Strang but really himself ! Cure himself from the chains of modern society , that the reclusive Alan was never exposed too , that had bounded him all his adult and profession life . SPOILER ALERT The mystery of Alan's sudden breakdown that lead to his blinding his boss ' Harry Dalton , Harry Andrews , prized horses slowly came to the surface in Dr . Dysart uncovering a one night affair he had with his co-worker stable-girl Jill Mason , Jenny Agutten . Not being able to get Nugget , the horse he looked up to as his Lord & Savior , out of his mind Alan was unable to consummate the affair , in Dalton's stable , with with the very willing and even aggressive Jill making him feel both embarrassed and humiliated . Going completely nuts Alan both looking and acting psychotic chases Jill , who was very sympathetic to Alan's inadequacies as a lover , out of the stable . Whipping himself up into a white heat fury because he feels that they saw him commit a sin , have sex with Jill , a naked and crazed Alan attacked the tied up and helpless horses with an iron spike binding them . The movie ends with Alan , who seemed to have somewhat recovered from his mental illness , taken away to a mental hospital for farther treatment and and observation . A now stunned and confused Dr . Dysart is left a raving madman as if , like in the movie The Exorcist , he somehow drew out Alan's illness and infected himself with it ! A tough movie to watch in that it's far too deep , in its psychological implications , for the audience to really get a gasp of . It's Richard Burton's , as well as young Peter Firth , amazing acting that keeps you riveted to the screen , large as well as small , despite having trouble keeping up with the films very complicated storyline .
The Perfect Number	SPOILERS Max Cohen , Sean Gullette , is obsessed with numbers . A mathematical genius who earned a PHD at the age of 16 has a theory about the universe and wants to prove it to his own satisfaction . 1 . Math is the language of the universe . 2 . Everything around us can be understood by numbers . 3 . If you graph a number of any system patterns emerge , therefor patterns are everything in nature . We're told by Max at the beginning of the movie that when he was a little boy his mother warned him not to stare into the sun because it would hurt his eyes , but Max did . He stared so long into the sun that he temporarily went blind . This may be the reason in the movie " Pi " why Max keeps getting terrible headaches and why he's constantly taking medication to relive them . In his apartment in New York's Chinatown Max built Euclid a powerful computer that he feels can prove his theory . Using the stock market as a model Max tries to prove that even that can be deciphered by his calculations and feeds stock quotes into Euclid to prove his point by predicting their rising and falling in the future . Patterns are everywhere in nature , Max says , even in the stock market . One afternoon when Max puts Euclid to it's final test to see if his theory is correct the computer crashes . Before it did it printed out a long string of numbers that seemed to make no sense at all to Max who threw it in the garbage . Hurt that all that he did to prove his theory went up in smoke , Max goes to see his former mathematics and psychics professor Sol Robeson , Mark Margolis , to get some support and sympathy . When Sol hears that Euclid printed a list of numbers before it crashed he gets very excited and asks Max how many numbers , 100 , 1 , 000 216 how many ? Max told Sol that it was all meaningless to him and that he threw it away . Later sitting in a diner Max runs into Lenny Meyer , Ben Shenkman , an Hasidic Jew who's also interested in numbers in the interpretation of the Kabbala . Lenny then tries to get Max interested in the mysteries of the Kabbala . Max doesn't realize at the time but later in the movie when he's saved from a gang of Wall Street goons by Lenny and his Hasidic friends that the number of God in the Talmud is exactly 216 digits ! The number that he so foolishly discarded after Euclid crashed ! The same number of digits that Sol gave him about how many numbers did his computer print out before it blew . Max , before he found out just what that number meant , starts to realize that there was something in what Euclid's last communication was but that he stupidly threw it away . Going back to the garbage where he threw the paper with the numbers away Max finds that it's long gone . Earlier in the movie " Pi " we were introduced to an executive of a Wall Street firm Marcy Dawson , Pamela Hart , who was constantly pestering Max to lend his knowledge and services to her firm . Always ignoring and trying to avoid her things changed but after the crash of Max's computer Euclid . It's when Marcy offers Max something called a Ming Mecca chip , which is classified by the US government , Max suddenly becomes interested . Max needs that chip to restart his computer and find out what that important number that he so foolishly threw away was . With everything set Max starts up Euclid and after some hesitation the elusive 216 digit number comes up on the screen but for some reason doesn't get printed so Max writes it down on a piece of paper and programs it back into the computer . With Euclid giving out information Max then sees that he can predict stock prices ahead of time . It's now that Max realizes that Sol has been keeping this information about a 216 digit number that can interpret all the patterns of the universe from him all these years . Going to Sol's apartment to confront him about what he found out and why Sol tried to keep him from finding it out , Max is told by a nurse who answered the door that Sol passed away the day before . In Sol's apartment Max sees papers on which Sol wrote about what the same elusive number , God's number , was and what it meant and it seemed that the stress of all that work on Sol's part cause his death . Max finally realized , what Sol did years ago , that there is some knowledge that is better kept to itself for it's too dangerous for anyone to pursue . Very weird and at the same time interesting film by Darren Aronofsky about math and what math has to do with the working with the universe and how someone can become so obsessed with it that it can destroy him and everyone else that he comes in contact with .
My Legs ! My Legs ! I can't feel My Legs !	SPOILERS Being considered nothing more then a sacrificial lamb being served up to the up and coming , in the minds of the American sports public , World Heavyweight Champ Detroit's " Brown Bomber " Joe Louis , Berine Casey , former World Heavyweight Champion Max Schmeling , Stephen Macht , shocked the sporting world by flooring Big Joe in the forth round with a pulverizing straight right . Slowly wearing the big guy down Schmeling cornered the " Brown Bomber " in the twelfth and finished him off with a barrage of lefts and rights putting him down for the full count . It was Joe Louis ' first defeat as a professional boxer after winning 25 bouts in a row . The place was New York's Yankee Stadium the time June 19 , 1936 . The movie " Ring of Passion " has the two fighters work their way back to a rematch two years later where at the time Joe Louis had become the Heavyweight Champion of the Word and Schmeling the # 1 contender for his title . By the time the two fighters were to meet their championship bout would become a world wide event between the grandson of a former American slave Joe Louis and the poster boy of the Aryan Master Race Max Schmeling . The politics that was involved in the Louis / Schmeling rematch was far more interesting then the match itself . Both Adolf Hitler , Barry Denner , and FDR , Stephen Roberts , took a personal interest in their fighters as if the winner would show the world at large who's form of government , Nazi Germany or the USA , is the most successful one . Schmeling for his part wanted nothing to do with Hitler and his Nazis having both a Czech wife Amy , Britt Ekland , and American Jewish manager Joe Jacobs , Mordecai Lawner , whom Hitler insisted that he , which Schmeling refused , get rid off . Louis for his part was so obsessed in avenging his defeat to Schmeling that he for the first time dropped his usual business-like attitude of dispatching , as soon and as painless as possible , his opponent in the ring and really wanted to put the hurt on him . This in affect would be in Schmeling advantage in Louis losing his cool , by mindlessly going after him , and leaving himself open to his devastating right cross . The punch that put Louis to sleep two years ago . The film accurately recreates the events of 1936-1938 in showing how the media , in both Germany and the USA , exploited the two fighters in making them bitter enemies , by planting false and misleading stories , to the point where they , at least in Joe Louis ' case , were not only out to beat but murder each other in the ring . As the historic match began Louis who despite being a notorious slow started never gave his opponent a chance to breath . With Louis looking for a quick knockout he immediately opened up on the startled , who expected the uncoiling and snake-like Louis to slowly and methodical unwind , Schmeling who was then viciously bombarded with his left-right combinations . Schmeling completely caught by surprise and back peddling was then shoved into the ropes and plummeted unmercifully by the throwing caution to the wind and rampaging " Brown Bomber " . Taking a solid shot to the kidney's , while trying to cover up in a crouching position , left Schmeling almost paralyzed as he dropped to the ground but incredibly got up , twice , to take more of Louis deadly lefts and rights . The fight was finally ended at 2 : 04 of the first round giving Louis a TKO , the referee didn't bother to count the helpless Schmeling out , as well as revenge for his one and only loss , up until that time , as a professional boxer . Schmeling paralyzed from the waist down with damaged vertebrates and kidneys was rushed to the Bronx Jewish Hospital for emergency treatment . Both Louis and Schmeling would later become the best of friends despite their bitter rivalry in the ring and later serving on opposite sides in WWII . Louis as a GI Joe spent his hitch in the US Army stateside giving moral boosting speeches , and exhibition bouts for the troops , for the US War Bond Drive . Schmeling served his country as an elite German paratrooper who was injured , when his parachute failed to open , in the battle of Crete and never saw action again . P . S The decent and hard working Max Schmeling's boxing abilities were unjustly belittled , because of his German nationality , by many unfair US sports and boxing writers in them trying to make him out to be a loyal supporter-which he wasn't-of Hitler's racist policies . In spite their best , or worst , efforts Max proved to be one of the best heavyweights boxers of his time . Max Schmeling at age 30 beat , fair & square , the legendary " Brown Bomber " at his very prime when Louis was 22 years old . That unlike the two other boxers - 29 year-old Ezzard Charles & 28 year-old Rocky Marciano-who defeated Louis when he was well past his peak , at 36 & 37 years of age , with the devastating power in both his fists being nothing more then a memory of days long gone .
You can share anything of " MINE "	( Some slight Spoilers ) Well acted and written story about the heart-breaking loneliness of being abandoned at a very young age and how it's shapes the mind to the point of conjuring up a twisted sort of pseudo-vengeance and false sense of justice on the part of the person effected . Sophie Hartley has been going through very hard and stressful times of late with her mothers unexpected death and having to look after her elderly father . But Sophie's job as a writer and illustrator of children books of-sets them keeping her mind focused on her work . Happily married to Craig with two cute and loving daughters Anna & Ruby Sophie is getting over her moms death until a number of strange things start to happen to her . things which she later strongly suspects are being orchestrated by her new next door neighbors wife , or live in girlfriend , Mara . Mara for her part is at the time working for Sophie's husband Caig , an architect , as his assistant which has Sophie strongly suspect that she's trying to steal Craig away from her . Beautiful but somewhat on the weird side Mara seems to be mimicking Sophie In everything that she does . Even wearing the same cloths that in one case when one of her dresses go missing , Sophie suspects that she stole from her home . Slowly being driven insane Sophie falls behind in her work and almost causes her daughter Ruby to overdose on cough medicine . Because her mind is so out of focus over her fear of Mara and what Mara is trying to do to her and her family . It later turns out that Mara is indeed interested in Craig and pulls out all stops one evening in his office just about throwing herself at him . With Craig at first reluctantly then gladly giving in to her advances . Sophie for her part has become so obsessed with Mara that she sneaks into her home , looking for items that she suspects Mara of stealing from her , and is arrested for breaking and entering . At her trial Sophie is ordered by the presiding judge to stay as far as 500 yards away from Mara , and her boyfriends Jimmy's , home . Losing her mind and not caring what happens to her Sophie again breaks into Mara's place looking for the family cat who was seen there and is trapped , by Mara , in the basement . This happened as both of Shphie's children , Anna & Ruby , are upstairs playing and dancing together with Mara . Trying to break out Sophie looking through a number of personal effects of Mara stored there in the basement sees the real reason for her violent dislike of her and why she's going to such great lengths to hurt and even kill Sophie . Which leads to the final and fiery confrontation between the two with both of them ending up in the hospital emergency ward . The really big surprise comes at the very end of the movie when you think that you've already found out the reasons for Mara's strange and unstable behavior . And it's about as shocking , as well as surprising , as anything you'll ever see in a surprise-ending film . Susan Sarandon and Sam Neill as Sophie and Craig Hartley are excellent as the befuddled and targeted , by Mara , couple who have no idea to what's happening to them throughout the entire movie . with Emily Blunt as the cunning and manipulative Mara pulling all the strings and driving both of them out of their minds and in the case of Sophie almost into prison or a mental institution . It's without a doubt the ending to " Irrisistable " that's so effective yet cryptic , that you have to watch it twice to really figure it out . It will shock you right down to your socks and the soles of your shoes . That and that alone is more then worth the price of admission to the theater or rental at Blockbuster or any other video store in your neighborhood .
We can't defend freedom abroad when we deny it to ourselves here at home !	Documentary-style account of the Edward R . Morrow Joseph P . McCarthy battle over the airwaves . The historical battle was over the right to be confronted by one's accuser on the issue of being a Communist or former member of a Communist , or Communist front , organization . It's October 1953 and the big news is about a US Air Force officer Let . Milo Radulovich being drummed out of the USAF because of Let . Radulovich's association with his own father John , a suspected Communist sympathizer . This story was something that was a little bit over the top in the opinion of CBS News commentator Edward R . Morrow , David Strathairn , who decided to run with the story on his weekly new program " See it Now " . It eventually turned out that John Radulovich's only sympathy with the Communist regime in his native Yougaslavia was his scribing to a newspaper , who yearly colorful calender he liked . The fact that he didn't speak or read English only Serbian , which the newspaper was printed in , was the only reason that Mr . Radulovich had anything to to with it in the first place ! Realizing that people like Wisconsin's junior Senator Joe McCarthy , convincingly and brilliantly played by himself , are a bigger danger to America's freedom and democracy then any outside Communist threat Morrow took on the case of Let . Radulovich who was being pressured by not only the USAF but Sen . McCarthy as well . The case was later dropped by the US military since it was so ridicules and un-American that it would have in fact helped the cause of Communism more then hurt it . Edward R . Morrow now turns his guns on Sen . McCarthy himself but this could very well backfire on him since McCarthy at the time was a very popular Communist fighter in the Senate . An attack on him would end up not only having Morrow smeared as a Communist , or Communist stooge , but cause his news network CBS to go bankrupt with all it's sponsors deserting it and having himself and his fellow newsmen on CBS out of a job and a career . The movie centers on two Edward R . Morrow " See it Now " shows , March 9 , & April 6 , 1954 , that in the end began the study downfall of the powerful Joseph R . McCarthy . For all intents and purposes Joseph McCarty's political career ended with him being censored by the Senate , on December 2 , 1954 , for his unprofessional-like and rude behavior . There was also of course the disastrous , for Joe McCarthy , Army-McCarthy Hearings in the spring of 1954 that the movie " Good Night and Good Luck " almost completely ignored or overlooked ? Properly because Edward R . Morrow and the staff of CBS ' " See it Now " had nothing to do with them . The battle with Joe McCarthy did in the end take a lot out of Edward R . Morrow and his colleagues . His best friend and fellow news commentator Don Hollenbeck , Ray Wise , ended up killing himself because of his wife leaving him and the brutal criticism from the press that he got for supporting Edward R . Morrow . The movie starts and end at a banquet for Morrow on October 25 , 1958 , a year after Senator Joe McCarthy's death , which he tells his audience that we can only lose our freedoms from the inside by not standing up to those in political power who want to take them away from us , under the guise of patriotism and national security . Hopefully what we learned in the early 1950's , at the hight of the Cold War , will not be forgotten by future generations of politically educated , in the words of US Constitution and Bill of Rights , and freedom loving Americans ; we can only hope and pray that Edward R . Morrow was right .
The Honeymooners It Isn't	Harry , Stephen Lange the union shop steward who's in good with the president of the dock workers union , Boyce , Jerry Orbach , In that he has a union expense account which he uses to finance his secret life . Married to his wife Mary , Maria Danziger , Harry goes out to expensive bars and nightclubs with high-class transvestites that he picks up . Seeing that Harry is abusing that privilege Boyce stops it and makes Harry pay back the money that he took from the union treasury out of his paycheck . Sick and depressed Harry gets himself drunk one night and tries to have his way with one of the local neighborhood boys . Which leads to the boys friends brutally beating Harry to the point where he was within an inch of his life from being dead and ending up being literally crucified in an empty back-lot ; This is the level of brutality in this movie . A violent brutal and at the same time shockingly honest movie about life in Brooklyn New York circa 1952 . During a long and savage dock strike on Brooklyn's heavily industrialized Bush Terminal waterfront . The film is truly disturbing with a shocking and vicious gang rape inter-cut with a baby shower for one of the unions members " Big " Joe , Burt Young , daughters child at the local union hall . These are just two of many such jolting scenes in the movie . An excellent cast with Stephen Lang , as the union shop steward who's problems are more then just the job that he has on the docks . With Jennifer Jason Leigh , as the bar girl who likes to date and then roll servicemen with the help of her friends to get their money and ends up paying for what she did in more ways then one . With Jerry Orbach as the feisty and two fisted union president who sticks to his guns and in the end gets what he wants for himself and his union members and many many more good actors and the parts that they play in the movie . " Last Exit to Brooklyn " is a very hard movie to watch but if you want a film with brutal realism and fine acting and photography as well as a story that will grip you right from the start and hold on to you long after the movie is over this is it .
Straight to the Big House	SPOILERS Being a criminal all of his adult life trying to go straight wasn't all that easy for ex-con Max Dembo , Dustin Hoffman . In the movie Max tries to make it as a law-biding citizen after doing his latest stretch , six years , in the can for burglary with a deadly weapon . Reporting to his parole officer Earl Frank , M . Emmer Walsh , you could see just how honest Max was in trying to follow all the rules to make him a decent and productive member of society . First getting himself a room at a local hotel to live and then with the help of his new and somewhat naive girlfriend Jenny , Theresa Russell , who worked for an employment agency to get a job at a neighborhood can factory Max looked like he was on his way back to civilization . But like a bird flying south for the winter Max just couldn't stay away from his fellow criminals and ex-convicts and it was that compulsion that turned out to be his downfall in the movie . Getting in touch with friend and ex-con Willy Darin , Gary Busey , to talk over old times Willy , who does some carpentry , tells Max that he'll get him a bed-board for his bed at the hotel room that Max is staying at . After putting the board in Willy takes out a spoon and fills it with dope and lights a book of matches under it and then shoots up . Max glumly tells his friend that doing that in his room with him present can get him three years in jail if his parole officer ever found out about it . Max follows the same pattern throughout the movie ; He chooses the wrong friends and those friends cost him his freedom and turn him into a criminal and fugitive from the law . Even his caring girlfriend who I at first thought would have a very good effect on Max , by making him see the light and straightening him out for her sake as well as his , did nothing at all to make Max go legit . Jenny instead looked up to Max for being outside the law as some kind of hero as well as an adventure for her that she wanted to be part of . Jenny could have , if she didn't by the time the movie was over , ended up being behind bars herself for harboring a fugitive which Max himself told her that she was doing . After breaking his parole as well as his parole officers nose and leaving him stranded on a heavily traveled LA highway with his pants down Max had only two choices left to him : jail or crime and of course Max took the latter . It was interesting to see in the movie how Max's friend Willy came full circle by being responsible for Max breaking his parole at the start of the film and then having something to do with the death of Max's friend and partner in crime , in their short career as a armed robber , Jerry Schue , Harry Dean Stanton . Jerry was gunned down by the police at he end of the film by Willy leaving both Max and Jerry holding the bag as he sped away with the getaway car instead of waiting for them after they committed a jewelry heist . Even though you couldn't really blame Willy since Max was too greedy and kept Jerry in the jewelry store long enough for the police to respond and Willy had no choice but to drive away to save himself from getting caught due to Max's uncontrollable gluttony . Unable and unwilling to take responsibility for Jerry's death Max brutally murders Willy instead who did everything right in the jewel robbery . With the assaulting of his parole officer followed by a string of armed robberies and ending with the murder of Willy as well as the shooting death of his friend Jerry who was killed by the police because of Max's compulsive stupidity he also gets his innocent girlfriend Jenny to become a fugitive from the law . It was a diamond watch that Max promised Jenny that made him forget to leave on time from the jewelry store . In the end the thought by society of Max going straight from his crooked path turned out to be a twisted idea .
Divide & Conquer	SPOILERS Socially minded 1935 drama involving the attempted breaking of a coal-miners union in Coaltown PA . by using underhanded tactics on the part of management . Getting a trouble-making mole , or provocateur , into the labor union the union busting racketeers plan to have the union workers go on a disastrous labor strike in order to break their previous labor contract . Thus lose all the pay and benefits that they got through labor-management negotiations over the last twenty years . The provocateur Croner , J . Carrol Nash , making himself out to be a man of the people , or working men , starts to get things going as soon as possible . Croner disrupts a union meeting with the miners there throwing away their union badges and walking out in disgust determined to form a rival union electing the very drunk and heart-broken Joe Radek , Paul Muni . Unknow to Radek he's Croner's and his boss ' choice for union president . Joe's been on a drinking binge since his sweetheart Anna Novak , Karen Morley , left him for another man union company policemen Slim Johnson , William Gargan , whom she took off with for Pittsburg and a better life ; Anna has this thing about a man in uniform . Joe being used by the unscrupulous and union-busting Croner & co . , and with him doing their dirty work , mindlessly starts a strike that leads the mine to be shut down . With all he workers unable to support themselves and their families make the unknowing pasty Joe Radek , Croner had since taken a powder and checked out of town , the most hated man in Coaltown . Things start to get really ugly when Croner's boss Jenkins , Purnell Pratt , sends in an army of scabs protected , from the angry unemployed miners , by company police lead by his second in command McGee , Barton MacLane . This leaves the strikers no choice , since they broke their contract , but to get back to work only with them signing away their hard fought rights and making them and their families nothing but slaves and indentured servants to " The Man " , Jenkins , and his band of strike breaking thugs . It's when Joe's former best friend Mike Shemasnski ( John Qualen ) , he had since thrown him out of his home because of his involvement with the union busting Croner , was brutally murdered by McGee that he finally came to his senses and stopped drinking . With Anna also and unexpectedly coming back to Joe , Slim & Pittsburg didn't turn out to be the bargain that she thought that they would be , Joe finally took matters into is own hands . Barricading himself in the coal mine Joe had it booby-trapped with explosives . Keeping the miners from coming back to work Joe thus throws their rights benefit's and away . Joe desperately holds off McGee and his police , in fact Joe later took Mcgee hostage , until the truth came out about the Jenkins / McGee attempt to destroy the miners union and then take it over . Making the coal mine a cash-cow for themselves and a prison for those who worked there . Tension packed final as Joe puts his life on the line holding off McGee and his " boys " who tried to smoke and blast him out of the mineshaft with tear-gas and bullets . The truth is finally brought out into the open to not only the public and local miners but the entire nation of the sleazy attempt to destroy the Coaltown Miners Workers Union by Jenkins & Co . In the end even the US Government , from the President of the United States himself on down , and Federal Courts get into the mix by restoring all the rights that Jenkins and his ilk tried to take away from the miners . And yes both Joe & Anna get married at the end of the movie and live happily ever after on a farm , that Joe bought from the late Mike Shermanski , raising both pigs and a family of little Joe's and Anna's .
I feel like a bone between two dogs !	( There are Spoilers ) With everything going south for the unhappily and soon to be breaking up married couple , after five years of trials and tabulations , Geraldine " Gerry " Jeffers , Caludette Colbert , decides to call it quits . After having paid off all her and her architect husband Tom , Joel McCrea , bills with the help of the Texas Weenie King Robert Dudley , who's hard of hearing but not sight , Gerry checks out of town on a train to Plam Beach Fla . Being a guest , who picked Gerry up as their mascot , on the train of the Ale & Quail Club things get a wee bit sticky when the drunken members decide to do their quail hunting in the train car that their in . This has the terrified conductor detach the car loaded with the drunk rowdy and dangerous troublemakers separating Gerry , who was in another car at the time , not only from the Ale & Quail members but her clothes leaving her with only a pair of pajamas on . With no clothes or money and about to be thrown off the train , she left her ticket with the Ale and Quail boys , Gerry luckily runs into , or better yet steps on his face , in the economy section of the train no less then the enormously wealthy but a bit eccentric John D , as in Rockefeller , Hackensacker the Third played by Rudy Valle . John D or Snoddles , as he's known in Palm Beach High Society , takes an immediate interest in Gerry to the point where he buys her loads of jewelry and an expensive wardrobe and then takes her on his yacht , after getting off at Jacksonville , by sea to his Palm beach estate . While all this is going on Gerry's husband Tom , also with the financial help of Texas Weenie King Dudley , gets on a plane to Plam Beach to change Gerry's mind in her leaving him for good . Sparks being to fly when Tom meets Gerry at the dock where she's with Snoodles whom she convinces that he's her brother . Snoodles has been fed a bunch of BS by Gerry about how Tom , as her husband , abused her and would like nothing better but to lay him out with a solid left hook followed by an earth shaking right uppercut to the jaw . Another thing that complicates matters even farther is Snoodles ' spoiled sister Maud also known as Princess Centomillia , Mary Astor . Maude looking for a new husband , she's already been divorced five times , gets the hots for the big strong and handsome , but not at all interested in her , Tom Jeffers . Maud , as well as Snoddles , think that Tom is Gerry's , in her trying to keep his real identity secret , brother Captain McGlue a Charles Lindberg-like glob trotting aviator ! The whole story boils down to Tom needing $99 , 000 . 00 to help build this new type of airfield , without any runways , that will not only make millions for him and those that invest in it but will help in the US military winning the war against Hitler and Tojo . The second half of the movie has both Gerry and Tom get back together again and at the same time try to tell the truth about themselves , that their hitched up o each other , to their now boy and girlfriends Snoodles and Maude . Maude in fact has decided to drop her house-guest and constant companion Toto , Sig Arno , who just tags along with her eating whatever , scraps or sandwiches , she throws at him making a complete nuisance of himself . It wasn't that much of a sacrifice for Maude to changes partners , Tom for Toto , in the middle of a dance . In the end everything works out just fine with Gerry and Tom , getting back together again , but also with Snoodles and Maude as well as Toto . Tom not only gets back with Gerry but gets the money , from Snoodles , to build his revolutionary runway-less airfield . As for Snoodles and Maude they do in fact end up getting married not to each other but to very very close members of the family ! Just guess which one ! Tom's Gerry's or theirs !
His blood will be on your hands !	SPOILERS One of the few motion pictures , directed and stared in , by Orson Wells that actually made money for the studio that financed it . " The Stranger " was also the most disliked film that Orson Wells ever directed In him feeling that he had to make it in order to prove his bank-ability to the studios . Where at the same time compromise his great artistic talents in order to make the film successful and acceptable to the movie going public ; who for years felt that Wells ' films were way over their heads for them to both grasps and understand . Having escaped Justice by slipping into the sleepy little Connecticut town of Harper fugitive Nazi war criminal Franz Kindler , Orson Wells , has in less then a year become a pillar of the community . Taking the name of Charles Rankin and becoming a full-fledged history professor at the Harper School for Boys things couldn't look better for the on the lamb Nazi war criminal . With him now about to marry Mary Longstreet , Loretta Young , who's father Adam , Philip Merivale , just happens to be a United States Supreme Court justice . Nazi hunter Mr . Wilson , Edward G . Robinson , working for the Allies War Crimes Commission decides to allow one of Kindler's cohorts and fellow Nazi war criminal Konrad Meinike , Konstantin Shayne , to escape from allied custody in Germany . Mr Wilson hopes that he'll eventually lead him to Kindler . Meinike a reformed Nazi and now replacing his fanaticism for the Hitler Regime with Christianity is a loose cannon as well as paranoid and dangerous psycho ! In him feeling that Mr . Wilson is an agent of the Devil not of the US State Department . Getting to the town of Harper Meinike noticing Mr . Wilson stalking him ends up bopping Wilson over the head , from behind , in the high school gymnasium almost cracking his skull . This act of desperation on Meinike's part not only enrages Wilson but alerts him that the elusive Franz Kindler is somewhere holed up in town ! Melinlke later finds his comrade in arms , and war crimes , Franz Kindler now being the respectable Prof . Charles Rankin ! Meinike gets on Kindler's nerves by not only being able to identify him but his annoying sermonizing in trying to convince him about saving his soul and accepting Jesus as his Lord & Saviour ! Kindler sick of Meinike trying to convert him to Christianity shuts the gabby old nut up by strangling him . Kindler , in hiding the evidence of his crime , then buries Meinike in the woods where , he hoped , nobody would find him . As luck would have it Kindler's new bride's , Mary Longstreet , dog Red found where Melinike was buried leading Kindler to poison the mutt to both keep him quite and from sniffing up evidence . Which can very well lead him to ending up dancing at the end of a rope ! All these efforts to keep the law from finally catching up with Kindler fell apart a few days later when he was having dinner with his wife Mary and company . One of the dinner guests just happened to be Mr . Wilson who's been masquerading around town as a clock expert . It's here that Kindler / Rankin showed his Nazi tendencies by innocently mentioning that the father of modern Communism Karl Marks was not German but in fact Jewish ! This had an attentive Mr . Wilson suspect that Rankin was the man , Franz Kindler , he's been looking for all these months . The fact is that Marks , an atheist , didn't consider himself either German or Jewish but an Internationalist as well as champion of the working class ! As Wilson starts to tie all the loose ends together in proving that Prof . Rankin is indeed Nazi fugitive Franz Kindler his life as well as those of Mary and her brother Noah , Richard Long , become endangered . In Kindler sinister attempting to shut them up , if they ever suspect who he is , and keep them from exposing him to the proper , the Allies War Crime Commission , authorities ! And thus end up getting everything that he so rightfully deserves ! As the noose tightens around Kindler's neck he make a final effort to escape justice in of all places the town's church bell-tower . It was there the he earlier tried to murder his wife Mary and almost ended up killing both Mr . Wilson and Noah ! But this time around his long and unbroken string of luck just happened to ran out . SPOILER ALERT The spectacular final has Kindler's in a life and death struggle with Mr . Wilson in the church bell-tower that's some 100 feet up in the air . The fight finally comes to an end with Kindler not being done in by Mr . Wilson but the church's cuckoo clock that he so loved and nurtured , spending all his free time with it , so much .
The Point of the Spear	SPOILERS With the war in Korea winding down everyone in this front-line combat platoon are looking forward to go home alive and in one piece before the final shot is fired . Everyone with the exception of Pvt . Raymond Endore , John Saxon . Endore is of the type of material that soldiers are made of . Tough ruthless and totally unfeeling , to himself or the enemy , when he's out on patrol knifing and strangling Communist Chinese and North Koreas soldiers on guard duty or in their sleep . Endore is now in danger of becoming an endangered species with the war , that he loves so much , about to end and him becoming obsolete . The movie " War Hunt " shows how those who participate in combat , Like Pvt . Endore , become so dehumanized by it to the point where they can never go back to society again . Endore had befriended this Korean , North Korean to be exact , orphan Charlie ( Tommy Matsud ) who not only looks up to him as a father figure but as a God . It's when Pvt . Loomis , Robert Redford , is assigned to Endore's squad that he starts to really lose it . Loomis want's little Charlie to grow up in an orphanage with little boys and girls like himself as friends to play and get along with instead of becoming an unfeeling killer like his hero Pvt . Endore . Despite it's shoe string budget " War Hunt " has a number of very convincing and terrifying battle scenes in it that you would have expected in a first run major Hollywood studio release . There's an nail biting Communist Chinese human wave night attack on the US , or UN , lines that has Pvt . Loomis freeze in his tracks almost ending up run through , with a bayonet , by one of the onrushing Red Chinese troopers . Endore uses Loomis ' , what he thinks , cowardice under fire to turn Charlie against him . Loomis in his first taste of hand to hand combat did in fact freeze up but later courageously made it back to his battered platoon after killing , in a brutal hand to hand confrontation , a Red Chinese soldier who tried to cut his throat . With the cease fire , that was to end the Korean War , just hours away Pvt . Endore desperate to keep the war from stopping goes out on his own , taking Charlie with him , to somehow relight the fuse . Crossing into no-mans land Endore tries restart the fighting by creating an incident in killing a Communist Chinese or North Korean soldier . It's then when Pvt . Endore buddies , who liked him so much when the war was going on , turned against him . Obscure little war drama despite it's , in years to come , well known cast of Robert Redford Tom Skerritt and of course John Saxon " War Hunt " ranks right up there as one of the best , as well as least known , anti-war films ever to come out of Hollywood . The movie doesn't at all glorify war it in fact shows how it can turn normal men into blood-thirsty and mindless killers . Pvt . Endore got to like war , and the killing that goes along with it , so much that he even tried to get little Charlie addicted to it . In the end getting shot and killed , by his own men , may have well been the best thing that happened to Pvt . Endore . I can just imagine what he would have done when he came back to the states . With the only thing , and pleasure , to look forward to being him going out at night and kill like he did in the many " war hunts " that he participated in back in Korea Endore more then likely would have resumed his murderous obsession . This time not against enemy soldiers but innocent , and unsuspecting , civilian non-combatants .
Doctor Wong I Prseume	SPOILERS Having serious marital problems the Chasseurs Llyod & Caroline , Kevin Spacey & Judy Davis , are about to call it quits when on Christmas Eve in Connecticut a true miracle happened . In the end it not only brought them back together but even straightened out their juvenile delinquent 15 year-old son from a life of crime and stays in prison . The Chasseurs were kidnapped and held captive by professional burglar Gus , Denis Leary , and it was that experience that changed their lives , for the better , forever . After seeing Dr . Wong , B . D Wong , a local marriage counselor the two seem as far form each other as ever with Caroline accusing Llyod of being under the thumb of his dominating and intrusive mother Rose , Glynis Johns . Rose holds her and Llyod in financial servitude by controlling the family's purse strings with personal 18 % loans . Llyod is also upset with Caroline for having an affair , was it the delivery boy or Baybrooks High Schools star linebacker , behind his back . Lloyd is also ticked off in Caroline's bird brained ideas in taking courses in collage about Scandinavian cooking and reading about the non-existence of one's self . As well as taking pictures of marine life that she starts but never finishes . Going back home from Dr . Wongs office Caroline decides to stop off at the supermarket and runs into fugitive from the law Gus who's on the run , with his bumbling and drunken fellow crook Murray , Richard Bright , . Having messed up a burglary at a local Baybrook home Gus got his leg almost ripped off by the guard dog , Cannibal , and his face sprayed with cat urine when he set off the house safe alarm . Taking the two , Llyod & Caroline , back to their home as hostages Gus later runs into their bratty son Jesse , Robert J . Stelnmiller , who's involved at the time in blackmailing his Commamdant of the military school that he attends Slskel , J . K Simmons . Jesse has photos of J . K being whipped and beaten up by hookers who's services that he pays for with school money . The movie quickly changes from a hostage drama to a story about a dysfunctional family trying desperately to get it's act together by , what later turns out to be , shock treatment from non other then the fugitive on the loose Gus . Gus realizes almost at once that the family are more then he can handle but knows that he's stuck with them . The only way he can get away from the police , and Chasseurs , is by checking out of town , with the help of his intoxicated cohort Murray by sea where the police have no road blocks to stop and arrest him . Funny and , in a way , touching little movie about the night before Christmas together with a drunken Santa who so smashed that he ends up falling on his head and is out cold long after the movie " The Ref " is over . Both Llyod and Caroline together with their son Jesse overcome their difficulties in their marriage and in Jesse's feeling unwanted by what they go through in the movie in regards to Gus ' kidnapping them . Jesse is so impressed with Gus that he wants to join him as a fugitive from the law but he's discouraged by him telling Jesse that it's not fun running from the police when your in your thirties instead of your teens . You actually root for Gus to get away , he does , since he's anything but a bad guy in the movie because he's so bad at being one . There's a hilarious scene with Llyod's mother and Caroline's in-laws attending the Christmas Eve party not realizing that the hosts are being held hostage by Gus who pretends to be he couples marriage counselor Doctor Wnog home at the Chasseurs for the holidays . As for blond blue eyed Dr . Wong's , or Gus , explanation for his obviously Nordic appearance he tell's Llyod's Mon and the guests at the party that his father is Irish ? With a last name like Wong ? which part of Ireland did he or his descendants come from ?
Touching little movie	Sheila : Do you like a girl who makes it right away . Stanley : Yeah if I'm the guy . The " Harrad Experiment " , which is based on the 1960's free love novel by Robert H . Rimmer , starts out with Sheila , Laurie Walters , arriving at Harrad Collage . Later as all the students are paired off in the main collage auditorium by the collage founder and dean Dr . Philip Tenhausen , James Whitmore , Shelia is alone in her dorm waiting for the boy she's to share her room with . Sheila who's very introverted and shy and as it turns out later , to one one's surprise who's watching the movie , a virgin is the only one in the collage who's partner hasn't shown up making Sheila feel even more insecure . Later that night Shelia's partner Stanley , Don Johnson , picked by the collage , through a battery of tests and interviews , arrives in her dorm room . Stanley to her surprise turns out to be the exact opposite of Sheila ! Outgoing non-inhibited about sex and having what turned out to be later in the movie a roving eye for every girl and woman on the campus . During the course of the film we see Sheila coming more and more out of her shell and learning to have a lasting relationship with Stanley . Even though Stanley cheats on her and breaks her heart a number of times . The carousing Stanly at one point of the movie had Sheila so hurt and despondent over his infidelities that I thought that she would kill herself . During the course of the movie both Shelia and Stanley learn the hard way that when it comes to living together with someone you have to accept the bad as well as the good to make it work . Stanley to his credit sadly finds out that playing the field , when it comes to relations with the opposite sex , without any commitments is not what he thought it would be . He soon realizes that it's far better to have a life long and lasting relationship with someone who loves you as much if not more then you love them then changing partners as often as you change your socks . Far better then what most critics wrote about the movie the " Harrad Experiment " is not anywhere as wild and unfeeling as they say it is . The sex and nude scenes are very tastefully done and there is genuine feelings in the relationships between the couples involved in the film : Sheila and Stanley an also Harry , Bruno Kirby , and Beth , Victoria Tompson . There's not the uncontrollable lust between the couples like you would have imagine by reading many of the reviews about the movie . In fact in one of the scenes when Stanley and Sheila are in a diner a costumer Sidney Bower , Robert Middleton , who overhears that Sheila is a student at Harrad Collage tries to pick her up . Sidney must have thought , like many reviews of the film would make readers and viewer believe , that girls attending that collage are loose and easy and would think nothing of propositioning them without getting slapped in the face ! Maybe Sidney read one of those reviews . The scenes between Sheila and Stanley are emotionally and heart-fully done and are so touching in some cases that they bring the audience almost to tears as well as those very emotional scenes between Harry and Beth . A postscript to the movie " Harrad Experiment " . Don Johnson met his future wife in the movie Melanie Griffith , who was an extra in the film . Melanie is also the daughter of Tippi Hedren who played Margaret Tenhausen the wife of the founder of Harrad Collage Philip Tenhausen .
Overlooked 1970's Crime Classic	SPOILER ALERT Canadian whodunit that was overlooked back in 1976 here in the USA as one of many " Dirty Harry " clones that were released at that time is being rediscovered as one of the best crime as well as police action dramas of the 1970's . The movie includes two great chase scenes one on foot and the other on wheels the former exciting and the latter simply amazing rivaling the chase sequences of " Bullitt " and " The French Connection " . At the start of the film we see Louise Saitta arguing with her collage professor Dr . George Tracer , just out of ear shot of the theater audience , on the Montreal University campus . Louise goes to a pay phone to call her brother Tony who's a captain on the Ottawa police force and is told that Capt . Saitta is out on assignment . Later that evening Louise partying with some friends at the campus falls sick and Dr . Tracer , who is also Louise's personal physician , is called to help . After giving her a mild stimulant Louise gets up and starts to dance with one of her friends at the party . Dr . Tracer , stunned at Louise's amazing recovery at first , realizes that Louise had played a joke to get even with him over the argument that they had earlier that afternoon . Later at the party after Louise sips some wine she suddenly collapses again and loses conciseness but this time it's no joke , it's real and despite the best efforts by Dr . Tracer to revive her Louise dies . At Louise's funeral her brother Capt . Saitta meets some of Louise's friends , Margi Cohn and her brother Terri and also Julie a blind music teacher at the collage and Louise's best friend . After the funeral at Julie's room in the college dorm Saitta is told by Julie that Louise was very depressed and despondent the week before she died . Capt . Saitta begins to suspect that there was foul play involved in his sister's death . He also notices that there's a number of photos of Louise on Julie's desk and asks Julie if he can have them . Julie tells Saitta that it would be only right for him to have the photos since Louise was his sister . From all the facts that he can gather Capt . Saitta thinks that Louise was poisoned by Dr . Tracer . There were rumors all around the collage campus that Tracer was having an affair with Louise and was afraid that she was going to go public with it because Dr . Tracer wanted it ended . The revelations of the affair would not only destroy Dr . Tracer's marriage but also his professional career . Capt Saitta and the police pay Tracer a visit at his home and ask to see the doctors bag where he has the stimulant that he gave Louise the night she died and To Tracer's surprise the bottle was missing . Capt . Saitta thinks that Dr . Tracer gave Louise a poison and later got rid of the bottle to cover up his crime . Tracer is arrested for suspicion in Louise's murder and Capt . Saitta thinks that his sister's death has been solved . Some time later a woman is found murdered and her body dumped in a junk yard . The police pathologist finds that the woman was really a man dressed in drag and is identified as Terri Cohn , a friend of Louise and one of the people that Capt . Saitta met at Louise's funeral . In Terri's handbag was a cropped photo of a women's neck wearing a blue necklace . Checking the photos Saitta thinks that the necklace photo looks very familiar and sees that it's one of the photos given to him by Julie of Louise , also found on Terri was a key to what turned out to be a locker at a Montreal bus station . It's then when Capt . Saitta went to the bus depot , to check out what was in the locker , he finds that it contained the blue necklace that was on the photo . Capt Saitta starts to realize that the necklace may be the reason for his sister's death . Saitta meets Margi about Louise's tie-in with Terri , in regard to the necklace , and gets into an argument with her over her brother Terri about why his sister would get involved with someone " like him " . Margi , defending her brother tells Saitta that he shouldn't say anything bad about her dead brother when he knows so little about his sweet and innocent little sister Louise . Checking out all the leads about the mysterious blue necklace Saitta finds out that the necklace was stolen from a rich society woman , Mrs . Wilkerson , from Toronto who was savagely murdered some time ago . Saitta also finds that whoever had the necklace was trying to fence it off for a huge amount of cash but there were no takers the necklace was just too hot to handle ! So how did Louise come into possession of that necklace ? It now finally begins to dawn on Capt . Saitta that his sister was in some way involved in that murder in Toronto of Mrs . Wilkerson . Great thriller with a great and effective music score and top-notch acting from Stuart Whitman on down makes " Strange shadows in an empty room " head and shoulders above the many " Dirty Harry " imitations of it's day . In fact it has a much deeper plot and far less violence then the " Dirty Harry " films were noted for making it a much more effective film . With the exception of the exciting chase scene , there was a far better one later in the movie , and bank shoot-out at the beginning of the film I counted five deaths in the entire movie and that included Louise Saitta who was poisoned and another person who died of an apparent suicide off camera . What makes " Strange shadows in an empty room " so effective is that it not only makes you think while your watching the movie but also long after it's over .
The House where Evil Dwells	SPOILERS Shocking and terrifying horror movie that uses it meager $350 , 000 . 00 budget to the fullest extent to scare the living hell out of it's audience . Far better then the many multi-million dollar slasher / splatter films that it's , or their , constantly compared to . Five college students take a ride out in the heavily wooded wilds of Tennessee to spend the weekend at a cabin that they rented and things start to go bad even before they reach their destination . Crossing a creaky bridge the car almost falls through the rotted woodwork and barley makes it to the other side . At the cabin the students brother and sister Ashley or " Ash " and Linda Williams , Bruce Campball & Besty Baker , together with friends Scotty Cheryl & Shelly , Richard DeManincor Ellen Sandweiss Theresa Tilly , find the place a mess . Cleaning up the place they unearth a book and tape recordings , together with a reel to reel tape recorder , that belonged to the cabin's previous owner . All this time we get to see and feel that there's something evil in and around the cabin that's just waiting to get unleashed . It's the strange book and weird sounding tape recordings that the new occupants found there that serves as the trigger or linchpin that set . the evil spirit , it into motion . Reading from the book that seems to be a hand-written copy of the notorious Satanic Book of the Dead , Necocomicon , the students then play back the tapes , that they found along with it . The tapes has the owner of the cabin explain what happened to him when he deciphered the books mysteries that must have drove him either out of his mind or in his grave or both . The former cabin owner gives out , on the tape , this eerie and blood-curdling Cathulhu chant that activates the evil that surrounds the cabin . That brings the forces of hell out of their long sleep and into the open taking over the bodies and minds of the unsuspecting students . One at a time it turns them on each other until the cabin , and the area immediately outside of it , turns into a mind-numbing and horrific slaughter-house . Not for those that are weak of heart " The Evil Dead " has an unrelenting drive to it that's never-ending . Not giving you a chance to catch your breath even once the unearthly and evil action once it's starts going and never ever stops . Even the ending , when the horrible night in the cabin is finally over , it sets you and the lone survivor of this massacre up for a nasty surprise with a jump-out-of-your-seat final . Even though some of the scenes with the Evil Force taking over the students bodies may be a bit overdone , especially in the make-up department , they still jolt you right out of your skin . You start to get the feeling , like those in the movie , that there's nothing on earth that can stop the Forces of Evil unknowingly released by the students . That's until those who released them are overcome possessed and finally consumed by them .
Second Chance	SPOILERS Getting calls all hours of the day and night from this Charlie Evens , Murray Halilton , middle-aged banker Arthur Hamilton , John Randolph , feels that the person calling him is playing some kind of joke on him . Charlie Evens a very close friend of Arthur has been dead for over a year . As the calls get more frequent and annoying for Authur Charlie , in order to convince Arthur that it's truly him , tells Arthur a number of things about him as well as himself that only the " Dead " Charlie would possibly have know . Getting interested in Charlie's stories about really being alive Arthur is told by Charlie to go to Grand Central Station . It's there that he's slipped a note by someone there giving him an address 34 Lafeyette St . With his curiosity taking over Arthur goes to the address he was given and then using the name Wilson , the name Charlie told Arthur to use , he's taken to this building . There Arthur is told by the director and founder Mr . Ruby & Will Geer , of the firm that's located there , that their involved in a secret project . The project has to do with giving people like Charlie , who feel that they have nothing to look forward to in life , a new start in life with a new and younger body . Rock Hudson is the new and reborn Antlochus " Tony " Wilson after shedding his old and worn-out body of 50 year-old banker Arthur Hamilton in " Seconds " . Though at first Tony is very happy with his new life , as an artist living in a seaside home on Malibu Beach , he starts to become a bit disturbed when he realizes that his life is nothing more then a scientific experiment with no real meaning to it . While walking along the beach Tony runs into a thirty year-old hippie and also artist Nora Marcos , Salome Jens , who at first is anything but impressed with the tall strapping and handsome Tony . Yet within minutes she fall head over heels for him and within days the two become almost inseparable . Tony trying to suppress his emotions like he did when he was the older Arthur Hamilton , while around Nora and her hippie and artist friends , is pushed by Nora to attend a wine festival that quickly turns into a wild drunken orgy . Where he as well as Nora strip off their clothes and , together with dozens of other party goers , jump into a large vat of grapes . Stomping the grapes into wine and sloppily getting gloriously drunk by drinking them . As the party goes from the festival area into Tony's home , still drunk and almost unconscious , Tony suddenly lets his real feelings out about his disenchantment with his new life and start to spurt out stories about his existence as the late Authur Hamilton . Tony doesn't realize that everyone at the party are " reborns " like himself who are , together with Nora and his butler John ( Wesley Addy ) , there to ease him into his new life as Tony Wilson and have him forget that he ever was Authur Hamilton . The film later has Tony , now determined to get a new body change , going back home to Westerchester NY to see his wife Emily , Frances Reid , for one last time telling her that he knew her late husband Arthur as an excuse to see her . Rock Hudsons brief scene with Emily is so moving and at the same time unnerving that it by itself is worth watching the movie " Seconds " . Sad and at the same time happy to see Emily , who has no idea that he's her late husband Arthur , Hudson made you feel just what was destroying Tony Wilson from within and how he knew that he can never have the life that he just threw away with Emily and his two grown children . The bleak and almost unwatchable ending may be too much for most movie-goers to sit through but it's the only ending you can expect in a movie like " Seconds " . Tired of his new life and wanting a second , or third , chance Tony is then taken back to the reborn agency's secret hospital ward to get a new and improved body . The body , to Tony's shock and surprise , that he's to get is not for himself . It's for another waiting in the wings " reborn " client who isn't as picky as Tony is and is willing to pick up , in his new and forthcoming life , what Tony is so eager and willing to throw away .
What we don't understand we want to destroy	( Some Spoilers ) Surprising effective and intelligent " Alians from Space " movie that is a couple of notches above the usual fare you got from Hollywood back then in the 1950's from these type of films . What looked like a meteor crashes into the open desert just outside of the town of Sand Rock Arizona and when a number of local residents went to see the crash site it was realized that is wasn't a meteorite but an alien space craft . Astronomer John Putnam , Richard Carlson , goes down into the crater and sees what looks like a spaceship . Before he can tell those with him on top there's an avalanche and whatever that there was down there is buried by the falling rocks and earth . Trying to tell the towns sheriff Matt Warren , Charles Drake , that there's something very strange buried in the crash site John is dismisses as a publicity seeking nut and ignored . Later there are a number of local residents who at first disappear and later when they do show up they look and sound like brain-numbed zombies . One of those Sand Rock residents is John's girlfriend Ellen Fields , Barbara Rush . Later looking for Ellen and the rest of the people taken over by the aliens John comes to this deserted mineshaft where at first he's told by the aliens , telepathically , that they mean no harm . They only wan't to repair their damaged space craft and will leave earth as soon as that happens . Sheffiff Warren who at first didn't believe John about the crashed alien craft now gets together a posse to find and kill the aliens which would force them to defend themselves and destroy the sheriff his posse and possibly even the entire town of Sand Rock . Working against the clock John gets to the aliens first and talks them into not retaliating against the threatening group of townspeople and try to leave as soon as possible after they repair their craft . Blocking the entrance to the mineshaft with explosives John gives the aliens the time they need to repair their spaceship and leave before their forced to destroy Sand Rock in order to defend themselves from the sheriffs posse and leave earth . Made originally in 3-D the movie is much better then those about invading aliens that were made back then in the 1950's with the aliens far more reasonable then the earthling . The aliens also show that there not only advanced in the fields of physics and interstellar technology but also in the field of common sense and logic as well . We do get to see a glimpse of the aliens in the movie and by the looks of them it's no wonder that they would shock and scare the hell out of anyone that saw them , like they did John , as they really were .
A Can of Worms	( There are Spoilers ) Very probably the first movie coming out of Hollywood that addressed the drug epidemic on the streets of America with both street level smartness and native intelligence , among dealers users and police , in just how illegal drugs , in this case heroin , is both marketed and sold to it's many hooked and desperate customers . A stakeout on Cole Street , known as Dope Street among the dealers and police , goes bad with one of the cops Sgt . Matthews , Matt Resnick , and the arrested drug pusher Jerome Lake , Charles Guasti , ending up shot and killed in the ensuing crossfire . Lake not being able to make his escape , in that he's handcuffed to the dead Sgt . Matthews , throws the briefcase loaded with the drugs , a two pound can of uncut and pure heroin , into the bushes . This happens just moments before Lake is gunned down by Sgt . Matthew's partner Officer Donahue ( Slate Harlow ) , and the police back-up , who's also seriously wounded in the shootout . Lake's partners Mitch Swardurski & Lenny Potter , Herman Rudin & Phllip Mansour , unable to retrieve the drugs or the suitcase , with the initials J . R . L stenciled on it , flee leaving it in the nearby bushes where it's found the next day by grocery delivery boy Julian " Vas " Vaspucci , Jonathon Haze . At his fathers grocery store Vas together with his two friends Jim Bowers & Nick Raymond , Yale Wexler & Steven Mario , open the suitcase finding samples of womens cosmetics and a strange two pound can of white powder , the pure heroin . Keping the cosmetics , Jim gives them as a present to his girlfriend Kathy ( Abby Dalton ) , the three young men throw the valuable heroin away in the garbage thinking that it's worthless powder . It's only later after selling the empty suitcase to a local pawnbroker Samuel Alber , Edward Schaaf , the trio realize , by seeing the story of the Dope or Cole Street shootout in the newspapers , that they threw away a fortune in illegal drugs ! Finding the missing can in the city dump the three now would be drug dealers get in touch with a middle man , a local heroin junkie , Danny played by Allen Kramer in order to first authenticate , by him using it , the heroin and then sell it to his friends splitting the take with his three partners in crime . What goes completely over the heads of Vas Jim and Nick , as well as Danny , is that both the mob headed by gangster Mr . Fennel , Herschel Bernardi , as well as police are out looking for them and the heroin . And in their case it would be a lot better if the cops instead of Mr . Fennel's boys got to them first ! Harrowing story of greed as well as stupidity on the part of the three young men with the can of pure heroin who were way over their heads and didn't realize it until it was almost too late . The naive trio think that they can get rich by not only selling death on the streets without the say so and approval of mobster Mr . Fennel , whom the heroin belongs to , but with the pursuing cops breathing down their necks who are out to avenge the murder of one of their own , Sgt . Matthews , over the missing drugs . Working almost as a team the police and Fennel Mob slowly track down the three by finding the suitcases where the heroin came from at Alber's pawnshop . It's then that the Mob tracks down Danny who not realizing he's the only heroin pusher in town because , with him having the missing heroin , he's the only one who has any smack , or heroin , to sell ! Predictable , but very exciting , and by the numbers final as Vas Nick and a very reluctant Jim , whom Kathy talked out this this drug dealing insanity , end up on the wrong side of the law as well as in the gun-sights of Mr . Fennel's hit men Swardurski & Potter . The final scene in a deserted L . A power plant has you on the edge of your seat in hoping that Jim , who's the one with the can of heroin , gets away from the two Mr . Fennel hit-men before they finish him off for good . But at the same time also knowing that if Jim , as well as his friends Vas and Nick , end up alive he'll have to pay for that brief moment of insanity in thinking that dealing drugs is a swell way to get rich ; rich off the sufferings and deaths of those that he sells the drugs to .
Maybe I should have shot you , they call it mercy killing	SPOLIERS " Willie Dynamite " is miles above the average " Blaxploitation " films made in the 1970's by it's not glorifying the title character in any way but showing him as a ruthless as well as tragic and misguided person . A person who's self-destructive lifestyle as a big time city pimp lead to disaster not only to himself but to all those around him : his women his friends his hangers-on and worst of all his sweet and church-going mother played by Royce Wallace . Back in those days , the 70's , Willie Dynamite , Roscoe Orman , could easily have been made to be a hero for the youth of the inner city ghettos to be looked up to and emulated . Instead the movie wisely chose to show him and his lifestyle for what it was , indifferent and unfeeling . Thats how Willie was to those women who worked the streets and hotels for him selling their hot bodies for the only thing that mattered to him the bottom line : Cold Cash . The film chronicles the rise and fall and in the end redemption of big city pimp Willie Dynamite after he saw his mother collapse in the courthouse , when she found out what Willie really did for a living , and later die in the hospital without Willie being able to tells her that he's sorry for what he did and get her forgiveness . Willie let his mom on to believe that he was a record agent not a pimp . Willie's top hooker Pashen , Joyce Walker , who wanted to get out of the hooker business and become a fashion model after she was shown the light by Cora , Diana Sands , a social worker who tried to save girls like her from being exploited by pimps like Willie . Pashen instead gets sweet-talked back into turning tricks by Willie's and ends up having her pretty face slashed while she was in the womens house of detention waiting to be bailed out by him . Diana Sands steals the movie with her sensitive portrayal of a social worker who knows all too well what life on the streets can do from her sad and abysmal life as a young women and tries to get the girls working for Willie to save themselves from that life like she did . We also see Diana change her opinion about Willie when he's destroyed by his fellow pimps as well as the law and becomes a broken and humbled person instead of the brash and arrogant pimp that she fought with throughout most of the movie . It's Cora's tender and emotional scene with Willie at the end of the film made you want to reach for your handkerchief . Finally Willie himself who went from a cold-hearted and unfeeling person who looked at both his hookers and the Johns who paid for their services only as dollar signs to where he became a sensitive and understanding person by the time the movie ended but it took a walk through hell for Willie to get to that point . The movie also has fine location filming in and around NYC with a great musical soundtrack . It would be unfair for " Willie Dynamite " to be described as a " Blaxploitation " movie ; It doesn't exploits it's audience it educates it .
Wisdom from space out of the mouths of babes	SPOILERS Despite its very low ratings from the movie critics the movie " The Space Children " is one of the most thought-provoking motion pictures to come out of Hollywood in the 1950's in its addressing the dangers of nuclear proliferation and the cause for nuclear disarmament . " The Space Children " ranks right up there with " The Day the Earth Stood Still " , which was released seven years earlier in 1951 , in making that very important point crystal clear to the movie going public . With their dad David Brewster , Dave Williams , working as an electrical technician at the Eagle Point Project young Bud & Ken , Michael Rey & Johnny Crawford , are somehow contacted through mental telepathy by this " Brain " from outer space . The two boys are told by the " Brain " to go to this secluded cave on the beach for farther instructions . At the cave both Bud and his kid brother Ken find a number of like-wise kids there who's fathers , like Bud and Ken's , are involved in the Eagle Point Project . The Eagle Point Project is being fined tuned to send a missile into space that will , after going into orbit around the earth , be able to launch a nuclear weapon anywhere on the planet in case a war breaks out between the US and the Soviet Block including Red China . The children are instructed to convince their parents working on the project to stop the launch of that missile called " The Thunderer " . The children are told telepathically that if the missile is launched there'll be dire consequences not only for the country , the US , who launches it but the entire earth as well ! The movie has the children , mostly preteen-agers , try to convince their parents to get the missile launch stopped with only Bud and Ken's dad David Brewster finally seeing the light . That's only after David was paralyzed by the " Brain " , that looks like a pipping hot blob of lava , from outer space when he tried , with a bolder , to smash it . Getting his feelings , by his son Bud touching his arm , back David desperately tries to get the missile launch called off but is declared , by those in charge of the launch , either delusional of suffering from burnout . It's then that David is ordered by the head of Project Eagle Point Lt-Col Manly , Richard Shannon , to be sent to a local military hospital for much needed rest , from the stress of his heavy workload , as well as be put under mental observation . With the Thunderer scheduled to be launched within the hour the children now on their own , with the " " Brain " directing them , enter totally unnoticed , as if their invisible , by the military sentries the super secure missile site and somehow disarm the Thunderer making it totally useless ! It's during that same time that Dr . Wahrman , Raymond Bailey , one of the top engineers at Eagle Point also realizes that what Bud and his fellow adolescents are saying is the God honest truth ! Seeing with his own eyes the kids involved in a number of strange and unexplained incidents leading up to the missile launch Dr . Wahrman came to the conclusion that their being guided from something from outer space with powers beyond his imagination ! The film has a bittersweet ending with Bud and his brother Ken as well as the rest of the children proving , by the " Brain " revealing itself to those in charge of Project Eagle Point , that their right about the dangers of testing Thunderer and the dangers of nuclear testing for strictly military purposes . What leaves the audience and the " Space Children " a bit concerned is will they-the adults running the world-now learn from what they've seen and stop nuclear testing . Or will that timely lesson have to implemented on them , with deadly force if necessary , by their space neighbors who are now monitoring them here on earth as well as in the far off and distant universe !
Black is Black	SPOILERS Coming to New York during the Christmas Holidays , from his home town Cleveland , hit-man Frank Bono played by a Robert De Niro looking Allen Baron has a job to do and has just three days to do it . Bono is to knock off Harlem numbers and drug kingpin Trolano . Going through the motions in getting the equipment necessary needed to do his job Frank through his contact in the city gets to see Big Ralph , a 350 pound soft-spoken gorilla-like man , whom he did business with before about getting him a . 38 caliber revolver and silencer . Ralph directs Frank , after he gave him $350 . 00 , to see gun-dealer Boniface at the local docks for his piece . Frank first cases out Trolanos movements to find out just when he's most vulnerable for getting hit and decides that the best time to whack him is when he's alone waiting for his girlfriend Milda in their secret love-nest : Trolano's East Harlem apartment . Going by the books in following Trolano to get a feel of just what his habits are , for the hit-job he has planned for him , Frank goes to a night-club where Trolano and his girlfriend Milda are at . Shocked to see Ralph there at the club , who immediately spots him , Frank indistinctly knows that his cover , as an unknown hit-man , has been blown ! Ralph Sensing that he's got Frank over a barrel later in the night-club mens-room attempts to shake him down for more money . It's now a whole new ball game Big Ralph tells Frank in trying to shake him down for extra cash which leads later in the movie to a ferocious encounter in Ralph's apartment . Frank , with a fire ax , catches Ralph off guard and slugs it out with the big gorilla ending up strangling , after he whacked him a few times , him to death . With he news of Ralph's murder hitting the papers and his cover being blown , in being seen together with Ralph in the night-club , Frank who's steel-like nerves are starting to break tries to have the hit on Trolano called off in his feeling that he's not up to doing the job . Frank is told in no uncertain terms by his New York contact , Creasap , that if he doesn't go through with the hit he'll end up the one being hit ! The rest of the film " Blast of Silence " has Frank go into a deep depression in both realizing that this , the Trolano hit , may very well be is last job and at the same time realizing that , with him planning to retire from the hit-man / assassination business , he has nothing to look forward to . Frank's shadowy and lonely job as a Mafia hit-man kept him from having developed any relationships or make any real friends over the years because of the dirty business that he was in . Dark and moody film noir drama with a biting narration by Lional Stander that was overlooked all these years by the movie-going public . The fact that the film hasn't been shown on TV for over 30 years and has never been released on video or DVD has now become , due to word of mouth , one of the most sought after films , through bootleg videos or DVDs , around . Frank forced to go through with the hit on Trolano is in fact signing his own death warrant not in getting whacked by Trolano's hoods , who are totally unaware of him , but those who hired him . Frank employers know that he's become a liability to them in his now being connected with Ralph's murder that , with Ralph having some connection to Trolano's mob , can connect them to it , as well as Trolanos , if Frank is arrested and forced to talk . Like narrator Lional Standler says were all born alone and we all die alone and that was the fate that awaited Frank Bono who subconsciously knew what it was going to be but still , like a moth being drawn to a flame , allowed it to happen to him at the conclusion of the movie " Blast of Silence " .
As long as he needs us will stay alive	SPOILERS Photographed in stark and heavily contrasted black and white and skillfully directed by actress Ida Lapino " The Hitch-Hiker " is among the best of the 1950's film noir suspense-dramas . Its almost total focus is on two people Roy Collins & Gilbert Bowen , Edmond O'Brien & Frank Lovejoy , involvement in a kidnap and escape attempt across the US / Mexican border . With death in the person of serial killer Emmett Myers , William Talman , riding in the backseat of their automobile . Based on the true story of serial killer Billy Cook who during his short but deadly reign , 1950-51 , of terror on the California highway system murdered six unsuspecting motorists who were unlucky enough to run into him and to give him a ride . Captured in Mexico and extradited back to the US Cook was tried and convicted of multiple murder and sentenced to death in the San Quentin gas chamber and executed on December 12 , 1952 ; some five months before the story of his violent and criminal life " The Hitch-Hiker " was released in the US movie-houses . Driving down at night to the Mexican / California border on a fishing trip Roy & Gilbert Pick up a stranger on the highway hitching a ride . Before they can ask him where he's going he , wanted serial killer Emmett Myers , pulls out a gun introduces himself as a wanted and dangerous murderer and has the two startled men take him toward the Mexican border . Myers not only plans to make his escape but , when Roy & Gilbert are no longer of any use to him , murder them . Driving through the almost empty and broiling desert it's Mayers plan to reach the coastal town of Santa Rosalia . From there Myers is get a ferry ride into Mexico proper where he can disappear from the perusing California state and Mexican police . At first going along with Myers thinking that by doing what he tells them Myers will spare their lives Joe & Gilbert soon realize that he'll murder them as soon as he's free to make his escape . The two then try to somehow storm and disarm and even , if they have to , kill the clever and cunning fugitive . Myers in fact has all the bases covered with not only his smarts and his ability to keep the two at a safe distance from him but also give them the impression that he never sleeps ! Myers ' right eye , due to some kind of birth defect , never stays closed even when he's out cold and nearly unconscious . Driving for days and avoiding the police roadblocks take a toll on Roy's car where it has to be abandoned in the desert and thus have him and his friend Gilbert and Myers travel on foot to Santa Rosalia . It's here where the movie gets a bit confusing when you start to realize that Myers by now didn't really need both Roy & Gilbert to make his way to Mexico . Myers even had Roy , who was his size and looked somewhat like him , change clothes with him to make the Mexican police think that Roy was really him the fugitive serial killer . Couldn't Myers just have murdered both Roy and Gilbert and take their money and then go to the Santa Rosalia ferry himself ? Without having them be forced to tag along with him and put himself , like he eventually did , in danger of being caught ? The ending of the movie was about the only flaw in it with Mayers totally losing control of the situation and having the Mexican police get the drop on him . This all happened when the cops saw his wanted poster and the fear on the faces of both his victims . In a wild shootout on the docks as Myers is gunned down as he tried to make his escape masquerading around as the innocent and almost hysterical Roy Collins . 38 year old actor William Talman looking his age , even though he was supposed to be ten years younger in the movie , and chillingly effective as the cold-blooded and unblinking eyed psycho Emmett Myers easily stole the acting honors in " The Hitch-Hiker " . It's hard to believe that he would later be playing the cool calm genteel and very law minded district attorney Berger , who almost never won a case , on the popular TV court show " Perry Mason " .
When people are sick you don't cure them by making them sicker !	SPOILERSYou would at first wonder why the men involved in the suicidal prison breakout in " Brute Force " were willing to risk their lives in this deadly and foolish venture with virtually no hope of surviving . Even if they made it outside the prison grounds where would they go without being hunted down and either killed or captured within hours after their escape . Yet when you see how their being treated by the vicious and sadistic captain of the guards Capt . Munsey , Hume Cronyn , you begin to realize , like the prisoners , that even death was more merciful that being alive and under his sadistic thumb . It was death , instead of freedom , that they wanted but not after giving Capt . Munsey everything that he had coming to him and giving it to Munsey in spades . Gut wrenching prison movie with Burt Lancaster as the leader of the gang of escaping convicts Joe Collins who after being framed by Munsey and put in the hole , solitary confinement , for it is now more determined then ever to break out of prison , even if it kills him . Together with a dozen or so other prisoners who are of the same opinion that he is ; a quick death before a lifetime of torture . Collins getting his cell-mates involved in the breakout has to deal with not only Capt . Munsey and his prison guards but also a rat-fink in his group . Tortured by Munsey the squealer revealed the time 12 : 15 PM and place , the prison pipeline , when and where the escape would take place . Collins , keeping this information from his fellow escapees as well as the unknown squealer , decides to go at it anyway knowing that it would be certain death for him and those involved with him in the prison break . Collins has only one thing on his mind ; to get his hands on Capt . Munsey before he gets blasted by the sharpshooters stationed on and along the prison walls . Munsey normally would have not had the power that he had at Westgate Penitentiary but because of a weak and ineffective prison administrator Warden A . J Bearns , Roman Bohner , he was in fact the man who ran the place and did it with sadistic glee . Munsey to physical torture the convicts in the way he brutalized and tortured the helpless Louis Miller , Sam Levene , in trying to find out about the impending jail-break , which Miller knew nothing about . Munsey also enjoyed to mentally the men , or prisoners , in the way he drove the meek and mosey Tim Lister , Whit Bissel , to hang himself when he falsely told him that his wife Cora , Ann Blyth , whom he ended up going to jail for , was divorcing him . Manipulating as well as brutalizing the men to do his bidding as well as for his own sadistic pleasures Capt . Munsey was even despised by his own staff the prison guards and the prison physician the kindly and sensitive Dr . Walters , Art Smith . Smith was driven to drink in order to forget what he saw in the prison infirmary of what Munsey did to the beaten down and helpless convict under his care . It turned out that the prison-break coincided with what would have been the pinnacle event in Capt . Monsey's career with poor old Warden Barnes being forced to put in his papers and retire and Munsey who wanted that job , as prison warder , more then life itself replacing him . Outraged and incensed at Capt . Munsey becoming warden and what to expect from him the men behind bars spontaneously revolted and caused Munsey to have his guards open fire on them only to give the badly wounded Joe Collins , who was shot by Munsey's guards during the confusion , just enough cover and time to stagger up to the guard tower , where Munsey was both directing the fire . A vengeful Collins put an end to Capt , now Warden , Munseys tenure as the Warden of Westgate Penitentiary which when it was all over lasted less then 15 minutes . Far ahead of its time in making a statement for prison reform " Brute Force " didn't make Joe Collins and his fellow convicts into good guys or heroic figures . Collins & Co . were were bad and violent men who were made to pay for the crimes that they committed on the outside . Still at the same time they didn't deserve to be abused and brutalized by the likes of a Capt . Munsey who , from his actions , should have been put behind bars himself together with them . P . S In the end even prison , after Collins and the men got their hands on him , would have been an all expenses paid Caribbean cruise vacation compared to what Munsey got .
Yeah , and I even lost my Cat !	SPOILERS Being awakened by his pet cat at three in the morning private eye Philip Marlow , Elliott Gould , drags himself down to the local all-night food-mart to get his kiddie it's favorite cat-food , Curry Brand , only to find out that it's all sold out . Coming back home to his shabby apartment Marlow tries to trick his cat , by putting another can of cat food into a Curry Brand can , but the cat is far to smart to fall for that trick and walks out on him . This was the start of Marlow's troubles in the movie " The Long Goodbye " where he's walked out on betrayed and doubled-crossed by almost everyone , man woman and cat , that he comes in contact with . The movie puts 1940's old fashion values of personal ethics loyalty and respect into the 1970's " Me Generation " of greed selfishness and nihilism . Marlow is contacted , as he's out looking for his cat , by long-time friend Terry Lennox , Jim Bouton , who needs his help desperately . It seems that Terry had a fight with his old lady Silvia and may have knocked her out cold . Needing a ride across the border into Mexico Marlow without as much as a thought , not knowing what condition Silvia's in , takes him there only to find out later , after Terry was safely out of the country , that she was found brutally murdered . Held in custody for three days Marlow is let out of prison after it was reported by the Mexican authorities that Terry was found dead with a suicide note by his side . Marlow is a bit puzzled in the fact that Terry would murder his wife knowing him all these years Marlow feels that his friend is totally incapable of committing such a brutal and vicious act . Almost as soon as Marlow is back home he gets a call from this Malibu socialite Elleen Wade , Nina Van Pallandt , that her husband big time writer and drinker Roger Wade , Sterling Hyden , is missing . Marlow has no trouble locating the missing Roger Wade who checked himself into a sanatorium to dry out . It turns out that Roger had been doing this kind of thing on and off for years . As Marlow starts connecting the dots he finds out that not only had both Roger & Elleen been neighbors of Terry and his wife Silvia but that Roger had been having an affair with Silvia and may well have been the one who murdered her in a drunken and violent fit . Marlow also gets in trouble with the local mob boss Marty Augustine , Mark Rydell , whom Terry had stolen $355 , 000 . 00 from when he checked out of the country . Augustine feels that Marlow knows where the money is and is determined as hell to get it back even it it kills him , that Marlow not Augustine . To show what a lowlife sicko this Augustine is director Robert Altman has a scene put in the movie where he , just to make a point , slices open his totally innocent and doting girlfriend Jo Ann's , Jo Ann Brody , face with a broken bottle . This despicable act on Augustine part just to show a shocked Marlow , and audience , that he really means business . Marlow , given a few days by Augustine to come up with his stolen cash , travels to Mexico to check on his good friend Larry's death . Having become a bit suspicious about what really happened to Larry after he got a $5 , 000 . 00 bill in the mail from Larry for helping him get away from the dangerous Augustine mob that includes Mr . Muscles himself Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger . Marlow begins to put all the pieces together and realizes that it was not writer Roger Wade who was having an affair with Silvia but the other way around . That Larry in fact was having and affair with Elleen . This revelation came to Marlow after Roger , dead drunk as usual , walked into the Pacific Ocean and drowned himself . It had to be that Roger couldn't live with himself knowing that his wife , not himself as at first Marlow suspected , and Larry were in some way responsible for Silvia's death . Things begin to crystallized for Marlow when Augustine and his boys , Big Arnold included , are about to take him apart that the stolen money , minus the $5 , 000 . 00 that Larry sent him , mysteriously showed up at Augustine's office . It's then that Marlow was allowed to leave with his most vital organ , that was just about to be amputated , in tact . Traveling back to the Mexican town where Larry was supposed to have killed himself Marlow finds him alive and living the life of Riley without a care in the world ! All this after all Marlow went trough in saving his neck from the police and Augustine mob ! Told by Larry that he's sorry for his troubles , yeah sure , and that his wife's death was an accident on his part Marlow for he first time in the movie loses it . The snickering and condescending tone of Larry's remarks not giving a damn for what he put his friend through . Smugly telling him that he's just a born loser , to him being a born winner ? , and learn to live with that fact had Marlow the only time in the movie act like the tough as nails Philip Marlow of the 1940's . A mad and outraged Marlow uses his gun , which you would have never known that he had , to put the scheming and double-crossing Larry Lennox away for good . Walking back to the bus depot to get a ride back to L . A Marlow sees Elleen , the now departed Larry's lover , driving down to see her boyfriend and noticing him Elleen senses that something terrible has happened ! As for Marlow he just walks up the road smiling and dancing with anyone he meets to the music of " Hooray for Hollywood " as the movie ends .
I'm all alibi'd up	SPOILER ALERT Having been accused of the massacre of Susan Jasper , Andrea Grimason , and her twin six-year daughters Moira & Maggie , Gabriella Henriette & Emilt Anthony , Sean Veil , Lee Evens , was set to stand trial for multiple murder . With the circus atmosphere created over the killing of the Jaspers by the media and noted police forensics profiler Saul Seger , Ian McNeice , the charges against Veil were thrown out and him freed without as much as having to stand trial . On the day that Vail was set free the husband and father of Susan Moira & Maggie the bereaved Sam Jasper ( Martin McSharry ) , who survived the massacre , overcome with grief hung himself . Vail becomes ultra-paranoid of him being set up by the police since they felt that he was guilty of the Jasper murders an got off Scot-free . It's then that Vail has every movement that he makes recorded on tape to prove where he is just in case he's to be framed by the police for another murder , like that of the Jasper family , that he didn't commit . This plan of Vail keeps the police off his back until one day , just two days before the 10th anniversary of the Jasper killings , he's hauled into the local police station for the murder of Mary Shaw , Rachel O'Riondan , who was killed outside a London Pub on the night of October , 1998 . It turned out that with all the tapes that Vail had recorded of himself since his acquittal of the Jasper murders that ones covering the time of Mary Shaw's murder were strangely and mysteriously missing from his film vault ! Was Vail set up in Mary Shaw's murder by the police with the only piece of evidence that can clear him , the October 1998 video tape cassettes , stolen by the cops themselves ! And if so was Miss . Shaw murdered by the very people , the police , who are now using her death to frame the innocent Sean Vail ! A lot like the innovated from the end to the beginning thriller " Memento " the movie " Freeze Fame " strengths lie in its use of its camera angles , as many as four in one frame , and zoom-like flashbacks then its very complicated storyline . The story itself is your usual man trying to prove his innocence against overwhelming odds type movie but with a twist . A twist that turns the entire film upside down with its unveiling the reasons just why the Jaspers were murdered . And why those murders had to be covered up to the point of having to frame an innocent man , Sean Vail , for committing them . Even though he's in fact absolved , by a judge not a jury , of the crimes that he's accused of Vail is certain that his life will never be the same again . Vail is soon proved to be right with the persons who were in charge of the Jasper murder case Det . Louis Emeric , Sean McGinley , together with police forensic profiler Saul Seager telling the public , after Vail was acquitted , that they'll do everything to have him re-arrested for the Jasper murders being that , in their minds , the case was still active . Both Emeric & Seager are so sure that Vail is guilty that they predict that he'll murder again ! With the Mary Shaw murder hanging over his head Vail , with the tapes that can exonerate him missing , is now in danger , if convicted , of being sent to prison for 30 years . This in another murder , like that of the Jaspers , he didn't commit ! It now becomes apparent to Vail at least that the Jaspers murders and that of Mary Shaw are somehow connected ! SPOILER The film " Freeze Frame " builds up to a really powerhouse ending that has all those involved in the Jasper killings the cops Sean Vail and even the reporter Katie Carter , Rachael Stirling , trying to prove Vail's innocence having deep and dark secrets in just what their involvement in them really were . Vail who's recordings of himself was to be his alibi in any future murders that he feels he's to be framed for turn out to be his own undoing in leaving them open for someone , like the vindictive police , to heist . It's in the end that not only the real reason for the Jasper , as well as Mary Shaw , murders surfaces but also who used them to frame Vail ! And possibly , with the help of his fellow convicts , have Vail murdered while behind bars in order to keep that socking truth from ever seeing the light of day !
All you have to do is Dream	SPOILERS Charming little depression era film set in New Jersey about a women who's only way of forgetting her drab hard and lonely life as a waitress and only breadwinner of her household . Who's husband Monk , Danny Alello , is a no good drunken bum who should know and appreciate how lucky he is to have such a sweet and caring women like Cecilia , Mia Farrow , for a wife . Trying to forget her troubles Cecilia spends her free time going to the neighborhood movie house , like millions of Americans did back then in the 1930's , to get lost in a dream of better times that are projected on the great sliver screen . Woody Allen and Mia Farrow were never better as a director and actress in this gem of a movie . The ending of the film , even though it's a bit downbeat , was just what the film needed when you realize that dreams are best kept to oneself and in their right place . Not to try to make them real since you'll only end up hurt and disenchanted as well as detached from the real world by thinking that they are . Mia Farrow is sweet and touching as Cecilia as she falls so madly in love with the character Tom Baxter , Jeff Daniels , of the movie " The Purple Rose of Cairo " . She goes to see the movie every night until Tom , noticing her , comes to life and jumps off the screen to the shock and surprise of Ceilia to wine and dine and start up a romance with her . Tom is charming but at the same time very naive about the real world . Since everything he knows about life is from the movie that he's in , which is G rated where everybody is both rich and happy , and not the hard truths about depression life in America . These realities confuse Tom since he never was in a movie like the world that he's in now . Tom doesn't know what a hooker is and when he's picked up by one who takes him to where she works , a bordello , Tom thinks he's at some social gathering with a number of well dolled up high class ladies . Tom is such a nice guy that when Cecilia " s husband Monk fights with him Tom after he knocks him down , with the old one two , offers Monk a hand to help him up ! Only to be kicked and punched for his noble effort . Meanwhile the actor who plays Tom Gil Shepherd tries to get Cecilia to get Tom back in the motion picture to finally end the movie so he can get back to his acting career . While back at the movie house the cast of the movie are just left stranded on the screen doing nothing and the audience is up in arms and wants their money back . In the end Tom , realizing that he's not meant to be in the real world , goes back into the film " The Purple Rose of Cairo " and when the movie is over so is Tom and Ceilia's romance . Ceilia find the truth out when she goes to the theater and sees a new movie on the screen and as we see the movie " Top Hat " Inter-cut with Cecilia and as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers dance and sing " Cheek to Cheek " . Cecilia's eyes fill up with tears and then when she realizes that her romance with Tom was a dream but by being a dream , as short as it was , it will never be forgotten and will always be with her forever like the movies that she loves so much . Beautiful little movie that really tugs on your heart strings and chokes you up in the end that proves what the saying " Big gifts come in little packages " really mean .
A man's Got To Know his limitations !	It seems that between " Dirty Harry " and " Magnum Force " Inspector " Dirty " Harry Callahan had learned the value of the Bill of Rights and the US Constitution . Unlike the first " Dirty Harry " movie where Harry was the judge jury and executioner of all those that he deemed were guilty of crimes against the people of the city of San Francisco . In " Magnum Force " Harry actually believes in letting the system do it's job and not take the law into your , or Harry's , own hands . A number of the top criminals in San Francisco from corrupt labor leaders to sadistic street pimps have been done away with by what seems to be a rouge element of the SF Police Department and Harry's boss lieut . Briggs wants to find out just who's responsible . Harry , between shooting plane hijackers and convenient store hold up men , is also interested in stopping these criminals in uniform since their breaking the law , like average criminals , and and the thought of breaking the law just gets Harry's Irish up . Inspector Harry Callahan is assigned to take part in the bust of a mob hideout and when the police operation is put into full gear something goes wrong , the mobsters are tipped off , and a policeman and a number of mobsters , most of the by Harry , are killed in the shoot-out that follows . Harry realizes that there's someone in the police force that's behind all those vigilant killings , and tipped off the gangsters in order to have them killed in the shoot-out instead of having them arrested and and brought to trial . It's decided there and then by " Dirty Harry " Callahan that not only is he going to put a stop to those killings but also to those who are doing them . By far the best of the " Dirty Harry " movies with Clint Eastwood never better in his role as " Dirty Harry " Callahan in the most action-packed and exciting " Dirty Harry " film ever made . Eastwood is much freer and less constraint then he was in the first " Dirty Harry " film . Which makes the action go faster and also make it far more exciting with a great cast and a much better action director , Ted Post . Post keep things moving when it comes to keeping the tempo of the action in the movie up and the talking and explaining down , by Harry and his fellow police officers and friends , as to why Harry is called " Dirty Harry " every ten minutes in the film , like in the first " Dirty Harry " movie . Great ending sequence at the San Francisco Navy Yard with Harry taking care of business by doing in the bad guys and making the city safe again until the next " Dirty Harry " film .
I know we have enemies but I didn't know we were that popular	Long but never boring film despite it's almost unlimited cast of characters about the infamous Watergate break-in and the cover-up that followed . A cover-up that lead to the resignation of the then President Richard M . Nixon and the conviction of dozens of his aids up to his former as well as acting , at the time , Attorney General and White House Chief of Staff . Based on the book " All the President's Men " by the two Washington Post reporters who broke the story Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward , Dustin Hoffman & Robert Redford , the film starts just three weeks before the Watergate break-in on June 1 , 1972 when President Nixon came back home to Washington D . C after his triumphant state visit to Communist China . In a Presidential Election campaign that was his to lose with President Nixon well ahead in the polls , against his Democratic challenger George McGovern , he did everything to not just win , which was a forgone conclusion , the Presidential Election but to protect those , the Watergate burglar's , who in fact put his stay in the White House in jeopardy ! What was referred to as a third rate burglary , by President Nixon and his supporters , metastasized into a cancerous growth on the presidency that destroyed not only Richard Nixon's career in politics but almost had him indited tried and convicted of possible crimes , which Nixon's successor in the White House Gerald Ford pardoned him of , against the US Constitution and Bill of Rights . The two documents that Nixon was sworn to uphold protect and defend when he was inaugurated , twice , as President of the United States of America . The film has both Woodward and Bernstein following up a number of leads that seemed to lead nowhere in who was behind the Watergate break-in . With their investigation hitting one brick wall after another in pops the mysterious and shadowy Deep Throats , Hal Holbrook , who tips off reporter Woodward to what's behind the break-in in a number of vital clues he cryptically hands him . This has both Woodward and Bernstein discover a secret slush fund run by non other then the former Attorney General in the Nixon Administration John Mitchell ! Mitchell is now in charge of CREEP-The Committee to Reelect the President-and the secret slush fund is being used to destroy any of Nixon's Democratic opponents , Ed Kennedy Ed Muskie and George McGovern , who will end up running against him for the presidency . What's even worse is that Mitchell & Co are using slush fund money and their political clout to control the F . B . I C . I . A and Justice Department , in covering up the break-in , and thus undermining the US Constitution itself ! As it eventually turned out it was Richard Nixon who did more to destroy his presidency then Woodward Bernstein and their boss at the Washington Post Ben Bradlee , Jason Robards , all put together . Instead of Nixon letting the Wateregate burglars twist in the wind and not having him stick his neck , by using his power as President , out in saving their aes-until at least after the 1972 election - the investigation of the break-in and who was behind it would have ended right there and then . The Watergate break-in would have been dismissed by the news media , including the Washington Post , as the work of a few overzealous Nixon campaign workers and nothing more . P . S What's even more ironic as well as sad , for Richard Nixon , is that after the 1972 election that Richard Nixon was reelected by the biggest vote percentage , over 60 % , in US Presidential Election History he could easily have gotten the Watergate burglars off legally by just pardoning them ! Something Richard Nixon should have seriously thought about before breaking the law and not only having the burglars face , and later serve , long prison sentences but having himself put into the position of joining them behind bars as well !
In fighting demons be careful that in the end you don't become one yourself : Friedrick Nietzsche	( There are Spoilers ) One of the most hidden fact about how war effects those who participate in it on both sides of the battle-line is the basis of the film " In the Valley of Elah " : Post Traumatic Stress Disorder . Based of the true story , shown on CBS ' 48 Hours , of the late US Army Specialist Richard Davis " In the Valley of Elah " shows how those servicemen and women who are now engaged in the fighting in Iraq , as well as Afghanistan , suffer more then just from being shot bombed and ambushed by the enemy El-Qeada and Iraqi insurgents . They suffer from their own demons that they were exposed to and took back home with them . Demons that in many ways lead to actions as destructive as those they faced on the Iraqi battlefield . Former US Army criminal investigator Sgt . Hank Deerfield , Tommy Lee Jones , is called by the MP's at the military base that his son Michael , Jonathan Tucker , is stationed at and told that if his son doesn't show up within 48 hours that he'll be declared AWOl . Hank knowing that something is wrong in that Michael being the gong-ho army man that he is would never leave his unit , here in the safe and free good old USA , this after searing 18 months in the Iraqi war-zone . Arriving at the army base Hank realizes that something isn't right with the way he's treated by Michael's fellow GI's in what exactly happened to him at the time of his disappearance . Checking out Michael's room , in the army barracks , Hank spots a cell-phone and , knowing that it's off-limits due to an army investigation , slips it into his pocket and takes it back to his hotel-room . Getting a friend of his electronic expert Rick Gonzalez to get the video , on the cell-phone video camera , cleaned up Hank sees the war in Iraq and Michael's , and his fellow GI's , participation in it . And what Hank sees greatly disturbs him . It's not long after that a badly burned decomposed and dismembered body is found just outside of the Army base . The murder victim turns out to be no other then Hank's long lost son Michael Deerfield ! With both the Army M . P's and local police not quite sure under who's jurisdiction the crime scene falls under , the body was found in pieces in both that of the US military and local police zones , the vital evidence in the crime ends up being corrupted due to both sides mishandling it . It's when Hank and local Bradford police Det . Emily Sanders , Charlize Theron , re-examine the murder scene it turns out that whoever killed Michael didn't do that good of a job at it . The badly blotched murder thus eliminates a local Mexican drug gang , who would have done a much better job in covering up the crime , that was the # 1 suspect in Michael's murder at the time . SPOILER ALERTPutting all the pieces together Hank as well as Det . Sanders come up with the shocking conclusion that Michael's murder was the result of something that he did earlier that evening . As all the evidence mounts in not just who murdered Michael but what the circumstances were to his grizzly death it becomes apparent that he himself was more responsible for his untimely death then those who inflicted it on him ! War brings the best and worse out of those who fight and suffer in it and in this case it brought out the absolute worst of Michael Deerfield . Michael Deerfield was left a mental cripple when he came back from Iraq , like so many of his comrades in arms , but was not given the treatment , by the US military , that he so desperately needed . Unhinged and with what seemed like a death wish Michaels out of control actions were guaranteed to lead him ether into a mental institution or an early grave . Hank despite denying to himself the obvious , from the cell-phone video he observed , was left broken and destroyed together with his wife and Michael's mom Joan , Susan Sarandon , when the truth finally came out . P . S Before he was murdered Michael sent his parents a package from Iraq that had deep significance to him and those he served with there . A weathered torn and bullet ridden old American flag . Hank in tears had that memory of the war , that in effect killed his son Michael , flown at the high-school that Michael attended . Fasened to the flag poll with rolls of utility tape , so it well never be taken down , Hank had the flag flying in the universal sigh of distress : Upside Down ! The distress that his and Joan's lives turned out to be after their son Michael came marching home from war !
I'd rather go to jail for 20 years then find out that my wife was a tramp !	SPOILERS Doing what amounted to one of his very best Kirk Douglas imitations actor Kirk Douglas really puts on a show as the up-tight law and order pull no punches and give no mercy Det . Jim McLeod . A cop who's got more serious and emotional problems then any of the criminals that he deals with since he , unlike them , carries a badge and is sworn to enforce the law . Brutal and unapologetic for what he does on and off the street McLeod can't differentiate between anything but pure good and pure evil with nothing in between which there's a lot in his make-up and that of his sweet and angelic wife Mary , Eleanor Parker . It's a sweltering summer afternoon at Manhattan's 21th precinct as we see a parade of buglers muggers shoplifters and embezzlers being lead in and booked . What we don't see is what's about to explode in an obscure arrest of this wanted , and disbarred , abortion doctor Karl Schneider , George Macready , who the precinct's top cop the take no BS and by the books Det . McLeod has been after for some two years . Schneider's attorney or mouth piece Endicott Sims , Warner Anderson , shows up at the precinct and tells the precinct captain , or in this case lieutenant , Monaghan ( Horace McMahon ) that his client is willing to give himself up . For some reason Sims want's the brutal and sarcastic Det . McLeod to keep both his hands as well as inciting remarks off and away from his client . It seems from what Sims is telling Let . Monaghan is that Det . McLeod has it in for ex-doctor Schneider over something that happened to his wife Mary some seven years ago long before McLeod met her . Det . McLeod has no idea of what both his boss Let . Monaghan and Doctor Schneider are talking about . Later taking the doc to be identified by one of his victims , whom he preformed an illegal abortion on , the word comes back to McLeod that she passed away which has him lose his cool and brutally beat the helpless Doctor Schneider into unconsciousness . It's later when attorney finally spills the beans about the relationship between Schneider and Mrs . Mary McLeod that the shocking truth comes out that not only destroys her marriage to Jim McLeod but literally his life as well . Having hated his old man ever since he drove his mother into a lunatic asylum , where she ended up dying , Det . McLeod had never found any room for forgiveness in his heart of hearts for any of those whom he arrested and sent away to prison . This hatred in the end consumes the detective with so much guilt on his part when he finds out that he's nothing more , with his treatment of Mary , then a carbon copy of his hated old man . McLeod ends up driving his wife Mary out of his life for a youthful indiscretion when see was barley out of her teens during the war . Finding out from attorney Sims that Mary was made pregnant by this smooth talking hoodlum , who has a striking resemblances to a youthful Humphrey Bogart , named Tami Giacoppetti ( Gerald Mohr ) and later had her baby aborted by the now brutally assaulted Doc Schneider ! This was just too much for the upright Det . McLeod who in the end has what has to be one of the most astounding emotional breakdowns even put on film in a motion pictures ! . Det . McLeod ends up not only getting shot to death , it was more like a death wish on Det . McLeod's part , by four time loser Charley Gennini ( Joseph Weisman ) but by turning his life around ; by showing kindness and forgiveness to someone who's young life he was determined to destroy for a minor infraction . Knowing that he's not going to pull through from the three bullets he got in his and that he drove his abused wife Mary away from him for good Det . McLeod , as his life slowly slips away from him , makes peace with himself and God . The dying detective tears up the report he made out on young Arthur Kindred , Craig Hill , who was arrested for embezzling his boss who was willing to drop the charges anyway . Det . McLoad give the very confused but really good kid , at the urging of Arthur's girlfriend Susan Carmichael , Cathy O'Donnel , another chance instead of ending up a hardened criminal by being put behind bars . The film " Detective Story " also has a very young Lee Grant in what I think was her first movie appearance as a babbling and man hungry , she actually thought that Crazy Charley Gennini was cute , shoplifter .
We are the beauty , everything else is just a story	SPOILERS Really deep and heavy stuff here about a number of persons invited to writer / philosopher Roland Levy's , Lance Heriksen , private island for a night . A night that they'll never forget since what Roland planned for them is to relive the most darkest secrets of their lives . Having gone through a series of personal tragedies , one having his pregnant wife get killed in a traffic accident , Roland traveled the world to find out what life is all about and why there's all this suffering in the world . Roland traveled from the wilds of darkest Africa to the dizzying heights of the Himalayas , on the Indian / Napla border , to the steaming jungles of the Amazon and finally , where he found the truth , on a cold and windy slope high up on the Andes . Roland has seen the truth , a truth he want's to share with his closest friends , the truth that finally set him free . Having dinner with his guests Roland had secretly , with the help of his two houseboys Jesus & Manola ( Lideo Baldeon & Michael Leisen ) , spiked the food . As the guests start to hallucinate and go under Roland induces them to " open up " and let it all out about the dark secrets that they kept to themselves and from everyone else including those closest and dearest to them . Whatever Roland had put into the food and drinks it starts to act a lot fasted on his guests then he expected . Before you know it two of them John , David Livingston , and Michael , Douglas O'Keefe , go into cardiac arrest and shock ; John with a massive heart attack and Michael after he foolishly tried to swim to safety , and die . Back at the island Michael's wife Liza , Stellina Rusich , cracks up when the truth comes out , due to Roland's revelations , about her involvement with John whom she was very upset with when she found out that he's one of the invited guests ; as well as his sleazy and criminal ventures in the stock market . Joel , Christopher Shyer , who at first thought that this whole party was some kind of joke on Roland's part starts to lose his eyesight and goes into a paranoiac fit , As the ghost of his father takes over Joel's mind and starts to remind him of how he treated him in the last hours of his life . Both Joel's wife Maria , Sarah-Jane Redmound , and Anne , Stefanie Von Phetter , start to see vision of Anne's sister who killed herself and whom they , in their minds , were accountable for her death . Joel with the help of Roland gets back to normal but is shocked to find that everyone on the island , minus Roland and the busboys , are dead and ready to be buried including his wife Maria ! Angered at what Roland put him , his publisher , through as well as having his wife and friends die in this crazy game that he concocted Joel has just about had it and is about to blow his brains out , with an antique gun from Roland's gun collection , that it's then that the truth is finally revealed to him ! It changes his life and what he thought was his sense of reality forever ! Yes Joel finds out to his great relief that his father , whom he feared and hated , was not really the man that he thought that he was and forgave Joel for all the bad things that he did , or thought that he did , to him in the last days of his life .
Buford : You think like a white man ! Shaft : You don't think at all !	( There are Spoilers ) Being told through the Harlem grapevine that these's a couple of Bumpy Jonas ' , Moses Gunn , boy's out looking for him black private eye John Shaft , Richard Roundtree , gets the drop on them throwing one of the " boys " through his office window killing him and hauling the other " boy " down to the 38th precinct to have a talk with him and his cop friend inspector Vic Androzzi , Charles Cioffi . The word is out that there's a war about to break out in Harlem between Bumpy Jonas ' gang and this group of radical black activists called the Lumumba's that can easily escalate into a full scale race war . The city higher ups , from the mayor on down , want to keep a lid on it at all costs with Shaft , by him being the only person that Bumpy will deal with , being the man to do it . Going to see Bumpy about what's eating him and why he's acting so combative Shaft is told that some group of neighborhood thugs have taken his " baby " or teenage daughter Marcy , Sherri Brewer , hostage and that he'll do anything , within reason , to get her back . Taking on the case for the missing or kidnapped Marcy Shaft soon finds out that the Lumumbas are totally innocent in Marcy's disappearance . It turns out that the sneaky and lying Bumpy was the one responsible for his daughters kidnapping and now want's to cover his a by putting the blame on the black activists . The plot thickens as Shaft uncovers Bumpy's activities in the hood through a number of informants and the both head and spiritual leader of the Lumumbas Ben Buford , Christopher St . John . What these informants reveal is that the greedy and power crazed Bumpy was getting a little too big for his own good by cutting out the Mob from his drug trafficking gambling and prostitution rackets in Harlem and it was the Mob , not the Lumumbas , who are responsible for Marcy's kidnapping . Groundbeaking film that has a black PI take on both the Italian Mafia the local black crime Godfather together with a number of neighborhood anti-drug political activists in cleaning up the hood almost single handedly without the help of the police . Richard Roundtree as Shaft is as cool as can be when confronted with danger , by both white and black hoodlums , as well as a dynamo in and out of bed with the ladies as he gets to the bottom of what's been going on between Bumpy and the Mob and why it's so important to find Marcy alive and unhurt in order to prevent the city from exploding . Shaft uncovers the truth about Bumpy's true motives in wanting his daughter back which has more to do with his trying to prevent the exposing of his actions in the hood then his double-crossing his silent partners the Mafia . It was Bumpy by what he's been doing to his people in selling drugs and pimping hookers and then cutting out the Mob from its share of profits is the person who really put his innocent daughters life in jeopardy . Christopher St . John as Lumumba leader Ben Buford sees right away that he's in far over his head in trying to put down the Mob all by himself but with Shaft coming to his side things just had to get better . Shaft besides his aforementioned attributes is also a glutton for punishment as we see him blown almost to bits by a number of Mafia hoodlums only to miraculously recover without any real or professional medical attention . This neighborhood quack known as Doctor Sam , Shiman Kuskin , operates on Shaft without any anesthetics or even medical equipment . Dr . Sam not only brings the almost dead private eye back to life but has him later be able to do a number of almost unbelievable acrobatic feats against the Mafia that even Batman or Spiderman couldn't duplicate . Besides the very good acting by Roundtree Gunn Cioffi & Co . and the right on target directing by Gordon Parks , who has a cameo role in the film as a slumlord , it's the heart-thumping electronic-like and adrenalin driven music , including the theme song " Shaft " , by Issac Hayes that's by far the best thing going for the film .
The truth has it's price	SPOILERS Starting out on a summer biking vacation in France Dutch couple Rax Hoffman and Saskia Wagter , Gene Bervoets & Johanna Ter Steege , have their spats as the car their driving runs out of gas , in the middle of a mountain tunnel . Rex leaving Saskia alone walks to the nearest gas station to get a jerry can of gasoline . Coming back to the stranded car Rex doesn't find Saskia and getting in the car and driving out of the tunnel he sees her waiting for him outside . You get the impression that the two are on the outs but later their back together as if nothing happened but something terrible is about to happen to them and it's strikes the unsuspecting couple at a time and place that they would least expect it to . Stopping at a crowded gas-station and food rest stop Saskia leaves Rex for what would be just a moment to buy some refreshments and is never seen or heard from again . It's as if she just stepped off the face of the earth and fell into a black hole in space . Based on the Tim Krabbe novel " The Golden Egg " the film " The Vanishing " is about how a person can come up with , and execute , the most evil acts imaginable and at the same time come across totally normal to not only himself but to everyone around him . Raymond Lemorne , Bernard-Pierre Donnadieu , is a loving family man and chemistry professor but suffers from an obsession of wanting to know if the sick acts that his mind conjurer's up can also be put into practice . Since he was 16 Lemorne has had thoughts of committing murder just to see how it feels . Now in his mid 30's he's about to make his " wish " come true at the expense of Saskia Wagter but what he didn't expect is how it would effect her friend and lover Rex Hoffman . We know from the start that Lemorne was somehow responsible for Saskia's disappearance seeing him hanging around the gas station eying her , as well as a number of other young women , before she vanished . It was the three or so years after Siskia's vanishing that got to the morbid and deranged Lemorne working overtime . It was Rex not letting Saskia's name out of the news that somehow started to get under Lemorne's skin . Finally getting up enough courage to finally face Rex back in Holland showing him proof , Saskia's car-keys , and then getting his a kicked in among other things . Lemeorne then gets the now somewhat sedated and curious young man to drive back with him to France to the gas station where Saskia was last seen alive by him some three years ago . We get a chilling minute-by-minute flashback to what happened to Saskia at the gas station from Lemorne himself as he cleverly got her to get in his car , in a crowded area in broad daylight , and then knocking her out with a chloroform-laced handkerchief and driving off with her . Rex desperately wanting to find out from Lemorne what happened to Saskia goes along with his sick game of cat and mouse that leads to this dark and deserted park outside a gas station . It's where where Lemorne gives him a cup of coffee laced with sleeping pills to put Rex , who willingly goes along with it , into the same condition that he put Saskia in three years ago . Rex at first hesitates but his curiosity gets the best of him and drinks the brew falling into a deep sleep and when he awakes he finds out the truth of what happened to his beloved Saskia but at the cost of his life . Not at all pleasant to watch " The Vanishing " is the kind of movie that leaves you both physically and mentally numb and is undoubtedly one of the most chilling horror films to come out in the last fifty or so years ; rivaling such horror classics of the 1960's and 1970's like " Psycho " and " The Exorcist " . The fact that " The Vanishing " is so unconventional in it's story-line and has such unique characters in it that it's for that and that very reason alone , more then anything else , the movie has had over the years such a disturbing and devastating effect on it's audiences .
One of Al Pacino's best roles , better then Michael Corleone in both " Godfather " movies .	SPOILERS Brutally honest and shocking movie about those in power and how they use that power to control the lives of millions of people from top elected politicians and Wall Street executives to the rank and file working man and women and how far they would go to keep and hold on to their power . Eli Wurman , Al Pacino , is a top publicity agent in New York City . Having graduated from Harvard Law School # 4 in his class he found out that doing publicity for his favorite cause , improving race relations , was more effective then being a top flight civil lawyer or advocate . One night Eli bails out one of his client's actor Cary Launer , Ryan O'Neal , lover who came to see him from California TV star Jill Hopper , Tea Leoni . Instead of driving back to Jill's hotel room she tells the limo driver to take her and Eli to Wall Street . Going into this secret club thats a cross between a high-class bordello and opium den Eli sees who he's not supposed to see , the makers and shakers in the world of power in both politics and big business , and doing what there not supposed to be doing : drugs sex and making under the table deals that affects countless lives . Jill's thrown out of the club for going there with an uninvited guest , Eli , but she also secretly took photos of the club and the people there with a hidden camera . The next morning Jill is found dead in her hotel room from an apparent drug overdose . Eli who was there with her out cold in her bathtub , and who her killer didn't see , saw what happened . Eli is really not a danger to those in power since he's obsessed with his benefit show that he has planned the next day for the improvement of race relations in the city of New York . Trying to get people of fame and power to attend his benefit gives some of them , who Eli saw at that secret club , the idea that he's blackmailing them even though Eli only wanted them to show up and make the benefit be a success . It should have dawned on Eli that his life was in danger by what and who he saw at the club the night before and the death of Jill the next morning but he's so wrapped up with his dream of racial harmony that he didn't realize just how really dangerous things were for him . Still those in power can't take any chances with him blowing their cover and exposing them and in the end they took things into their own hands and that spells D-E-A-T-H for Eli . Al Pacino's performance in " People I Know " is what I think is one the best of his career on par if not better the his fine work in both " Godfather " movies as well as his roles in " GlenGarry Glen Ross " and " Scent Of A woman " for which he won an Academy Award for best actor . For some strange reason " People I Know " has never been released theatricality but went straight to the video and DVD market like some B-Movie you would see on an airplane for free ? Besides Al Pacino there's fine performances in the movie by it top-rate cast of Kim Basinger Ryan O'Neal Richard Schiff Tea Leoni Robert Kline and Bill Nunn as a fiery Al Sharpton-like Reverend Lyle Blunt who stole almost every scene that he was in . It's Al Pacino who really carried the movie " People I Know " with his both sensitive and tragic role of Eli Wurman who was so absorbed in the good that he was trying to do that he didn't see the evil that was all around him for years that he only noticed when it was too late . I have to warn you that " People I Know " is a very dark and depressing film and it has no happy ending but it's so " ON " to whats happening in the world of politics and business today that it should be a must for every serious movie goer .
Jurisprudence	( Mild Spoilers ) Tension packed made for TV courtroom drama thats refreshingly lacking , in it's non-politically-correct script , the usual and predictable ending that were so used to seeing in these kinds of justice films . Famous Emmy Awarding winning talk show host Waynne Atwood follows her cheating husband Gregory Toland to his lovers Jane Carlisle's apartment and then catching him with his paths down blows him away with a bullet in his head . There's no doubt that Waynne shot and killed her husband since she immediately called the police and turned herself in . What the trial is all about is the mental state that she was in at the time of the shooting . At the trial Waynn's lawyer Wilfred Francicus makes the case that his client was driven to the brink of insanity by the abuse , both physically and mentally , that she suffered at the hands of her husband Greg and was not in control of her actions at the time of the shooting . The prosecution brought out the fact that Waynne was cold and calculating in her action to the point where she calmly told her rival , Jane Carlisle , for her husband's Greg's affection not to worry about being killed she thought of killing her at first but now changed her mind . This set the stage for the last half of of movie that exploded with both rage and fury in the jury room and divided the jurors , for the most part , on gender lines . The are men for conviction feeling that Waynne was totally in control of her faculties when she killed Greg . The women on the jury feel that she was driven to the point where she didn't know right from wrong and was not responsible for what she did thus she was innocent by reason of insanity . The evidence is skillfully presented and analyzed by the jurors and it later turns out that one of them , the foreman Karl Weber , is more interested in making a buck on the case , after it's over by writing a book about it , then in finding out if Waynne is innocent or guilty . The final ending doesn't come as a shock at all because we the audience see the evidence , like the jury did , and realize that the conclusion the jurors came up with was the only fair and just verdict in the Waynne Atwood / Gregopry Toland case . Kelly McGillis is wonderful as the forewoman of the jury and it was touching , as well as painful , to watch how she didn't allow her emotions to take over her logic and also how she kept the rest of the jurors from almost resorting to violence during the emotionally packed deliberations . Both Conrad Dunne & Nicky Guadagni as jurors Rafael Ramos & Beryl Granger were outstanding as the two jurors with totally different views about the case and who were involved in the most explosive scenes in the movie . Even they as divided as they were on Waynne's guilt or innocence came to the same conclusion when the evidence , that was right there in front of their noses but what they didn't at first notice , presented itself to them . Outstanding courtroom drama that's every bit as good as the 1957 Henry Fonda courtroom classic " 12 Angry Men " where in this movie it was seven women and five men who came to the very startling and righteous verdict at the end of the film .
I'm giving back to the river everything that I took from it !	SPOILERS Going to see her husband whom she never met , the marriage took place through the mail , Joanna Leininger , Elenore Parker , is on her way from her home back in New Orleans to the uncivilized jungles of South America . It's there were her husband Christopher , Charlton Heston , carved out a small patch of civilization over the last 15 years the 200 , 000 acre Leininger Plantation . It's 1901 and a lot of the Amazon basin is still unexplored by the white man but what both whites and natives begin to realize is that something big is about to happen in that part of the world but aren't at first really sure what it's going to be . The Amazon Jungle who's sounds go on non-stop with it's many species of wildlife has become eerily quite the last few days and that quite is becoming very unnerving to both the natives and Christopher and the few whites who live around the Leininger Plantation . With Joanna arriving to start a new life with her husband Christopher he at first is very unsocial towards her . Secretly feeling that she's more sophisticated them him Christopher also finds out to his utter surprise that Joanna , who's first husband is deceased , was previously married ! Being afraid to be shown up by Joanna in any conversation with her Christopher's rudeness only makes Joanna more determined to stay with him . Sensing that Christopher's really masking his insecurity by creating a cave man-like image of himself has Joanna's not taking his crude and almost childish attempted mental abuse towards her . That make Christopher grudging see that she's just as strong , if not more so , as he is . Which is why Christopher insists that she goes back home to New Orleans since his and Joanna's marriage isn't working out for like he thought and hoped that it would . Chris just can't comprehend in his mind that a woman , whom he feels is just his property and nothing else , can actually be his equal ! Finally getting Joanna to leave Chrstopher has her together with him and some of his native workers go by boat up the Rio Negra River and to civilization . It's then that the quietness that hung over the jungle for the last week or so began to hum and buzz with the void of silence now slowly being filled . At the rate of six miles a day an unstoppable and indestructible army an army of billions upon billions of soldier ants is marching through the jungle heading toward Leininger Plantation . The film " The Naked Jungle " doesn't really get started until the last half hour or so with the advent of the attacking hoards of soldier and army ants keeping the audience in the dark to what it's really all about . You at first get the idea that it's some kind of unusual love story between a man , Christopher , who never in his life knew a woman . At the same time the woman , Joanna , who's married to him is more determined then ever to show him that she can more then hold her own . Even with him having a fifteen year home-court advantage over her . Moving like a steamroller through the jungle and devouring everything in their way the ants reach the outskirts of the Leininger Plantation . It's there where Christopher Leininger together with Joanna and a few of his native workers decided to make a last stand against this vast army of invaders . Holding off the ant armies by flooding the ditches along the plantations outer perimeter and later burning everything in sight , even all the plantations furniture , in and around the plantation grounds has no effect on the swarming hoards of ants at all . The ants effectively use their very bodies and thousands of cut down leaves to form pontoon bridges and rafts . Millions of them then suicidally snuff out the fires to make it possible for billions more to make it to and over the 10 foot high concrete walls , surrounding the plantation . Reaching the very wall of the Leininger Pantation itself the ants overcome every obstacle that Christopher , and the workers still with him , put in front of them . Seeing defeat , and death , staring him in the face for the first time in his life Christopher now knows that the only way he can stop and defeat this seemingly invincible adversary is to destroy everything that he built over the last fifteen years . Christopher's almost insane plan woks to perfection with both him and Joanna , as well as the natives inside the plantation , surviving the carnage . Christopher now begin a new life far far away from the , soon to be submerged and extinct , Leininger Plantation with a new insight of what life in the outside and civilized world is really all about . A life that he so painfully learned from his caring and understanding wife Joanna Leninger .
The Fever	( There are Spoilers ) Hard hitting made for TV movie about how an addiction can not only destroy the person addicted but everyone and everything that he or she touches . Having just moved from Florida to Reno Nevada Laura Bancroft , Delta Burke , had everything going for her in being the top fund-raiser at her new job managing the Juvenile Chronic Illness Foundation . It was when Laura innocently stepped into a local Reno casino to see how things are going on there that she stepped into hell . A hell that in the end would lead Laura to not only loses her savings home job and even family but her freedom . In her desperate attempt to have action on the casino's slot machines Laura even embezzled the foundation that she headed that was to help infirmed and disabled children ! We get to see Laura slowly descend into " Gambling Hell " as , like most people who get addicted to gambling , she suffers an acute case of " Biginners Luck " . Running up a winning streak at the casino Laura feels that she somehow found the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow that she was looking for all her life . As her luck started to turn Laura instead of walking away from the one armed bandits , slot machines , went full-tilt and her bank account quickly reached zero . Trying to keep her addiction , as well as the dwindling family bank account , from her hard working husband Jim , Gerald McRaney , and daughter and son Jennifer , Ellen Page , and Tommy , Matthew Haubour , Laura started to suffer from panic attacks in their finding out the truth about her secret life . With Laura not being about to do both her job as a fund-raiser and mother both her professional and home-keeper careers went to pot along with her . Always blaming everyone else for her addiction even the sweet and elderly women Bella-Joyce Gordon-who introduced Laura to the slots , not realizing what a additive person she is , Laura ran out of people to blame for her own problems when they , those whom she tried to blamed , ran out on her . Poor Jim breaking his back working two shifts at the local taxi garage as a grease monkey was lied to and even humiliated , in what a loser he is , by an out of control Laura who treated the hard working man worst then a piece of garbage . A deranged and feeling high on the hog Laura after hitting a $50 , 000 . 00 jackpot at the casino , which she lost the very next day , not only had Jim thrown out of his own house but had both Jennifer and Tommy , knowing that their mom is quickly losing it , leave as well . With everything closing in on her and facing jail and disgrace Laura looking for a way out of the mess that she and only she put herself into choose to do herself in via carbon monoxide poisoning . It was at that time in her garage , with Laura's car fumes about to suffocate her , that Laura finally saw the light and realized that running away from her demons , gambling , will only make things worst for those she'll leave behind . It was there and then that Laura decided to both face the music , in embezzling the foundation she ran , and also do something to cure her from her gambling addiction ! Laura decided to come clean with what she did at her job and also go to GA , Gamblers Anonymous , and get her and her family's , because of her addiction , totally destroyed lives back together again . P . S Because of what gambling did to Laura Bancroft , as well as thousands of other helpless and addicted gamblers , legislation was passed to post telephone numbers of addicted gamblers self-help groups , like Gambling Anonymous , at gambling establishments like casinos or off track betting houses for anyone who seeks help . Something that wasn't around when Laura Bancroft lost control and went under when she went on the road to financial and personal destruction depicted in the movie " Going for Broke " .
I never was on the New Jersey !	SPOILERS Moments after TWA Flight 847 from Athens to Rome reached cruising level the plane was suddenly hijacked by two Arab fanatics Castro & Saiid , Eli Danker & Joseph Nasser . The two hijackers demand that some 700 suspected Arab terrorists held in Israeli jails be released or else they'll bring the plane , and it's 152 passengers and crew , down in the Mediterranean Sea by detonating a bunch of hand grenades that they have on them . The hijackers waste no time at all in brutalizing the passengers and crew and almost creating a panic . That in itself would have brought the passenger plane down without the use of explosives if it wasn't for the chief flight attendant on the plane Uli Derickson , Lindsey Wagner . Uli put herself between the hijackers in trying to keep both them and the terrified passengers from overreacting and causing the plane to tailspin and crash into the sea . The film " Flight 847 " shows the kind of courage that's so rare in most movies . In that we have Uli not only risking her life over and over again in order to keep both Castro & Saiid from bringing down the plane and killing everyone on it but trying , and with some success , to get the two desperate men to at least let a number of the passengers , women & children , on the plane go . Uli at one point refused to reveal which of the passengers , by the names on their passports , are either Isralie or Jewish . This action again had Uli risking her life knowing full well the fate that would be in store for them at the hands of the vindictive and hateful Arab hijackers ; Who's country Lebanon was bombed invaded and occupied by Israeli Army three years ago . It turned out that the person who got the worst of it among the passengers was US Navy man Robert Stethen , whom the film was dedicated to , played by Steven Eckholdt . Stethen was savagely beaten by the two hijackers so all throughout the film . Later at the Beirut Airport , battered and almost unconscious , he was shot to death and dumped out on the tarmac to show everyone , on and off the plane , that hijackers meant business . It turned out that the hatred that the two , especially Castro , had for poor Robert Stethen was that him being in the US Navy . Castro & Saiid held Stethen responsible for the bombardment of Beirut by the 16 inch guns of the US Navy's giant battleship the USS New Jersey that killed Castro's wife and infant daughter . It took all of Uli's skills as a negotiator as well as her unbelievably courage to keep all of the passengers and crew , with the exception of Robert Stethen , to get out of this hell , that turned out to be Flight 847 , alive . Even though a number were brutally beaten by the two hijackers but survived thus making the best of a very very bad situation . The hijackers were reinforced at Beirut by some dozen other members of their group and , finding out that the Israeli Army was about to air-dropped and storm the plane , had Flight 847 take off again and land in Algiers . It's there when the nightmare finally ended for Uli and the remaining 151 passengers and crew with the release of the head man of the hijack group Ali Atwa , Emile Beaucard . Atwa incidentally was apprehend before the hijacking ever took place by the Athens Airport security guards before he could ever get on the plane . One of , if not the only , few light moments in the movie was when after Uli sang a song , that both Castro & Saiid insisted on , to break the tension on the flight that Saiid was so moved by it that he asked her to marry him . Which to a shocked and surprised Uli , who was already married with a young son , would have been as bad , or even worse , then having her go down in flames together with Flight 847 in the middle of the Mediterranean . The movie " Flight 847 " didn't have the usual and predictable Hollywood happy ending with the calvary , or actors Chuck Norris & Lee Mavin , raiding to the rescue and taking out all the bad guys like in the fictitious but exciting version of Flight 847 in " The Delta Force " . It did have a true to life hero , or heroine , in the true story of a young woman who risked her life . She did that by standing down a plane full of desperate and suicidal hijackers and thus single-handedly saving the lives of practically all of the passengers and crew on board that she was responsible for without a shot , on her part , being fired . Which would be something that even the elite Delta Force couldn't do with all the state of the arts arms and unlimited supply of ammunition that they'ed have at their disposable .
A summer of madness	MAJOR SPOILERS One of the best haunted house movies ever to come out of Hollywood in some 15 years since the movie " Psycho " with its eerie mansion where the nutty Norman Bates ' murderous mom lived in . " Burnt Offerings " starts off a bit slow and doesn't really get going until the second half . But once it does hold on to your seats and start taking your high blood-pressure medication . The film is a lot like the movie " The Sentinel " that came out a year later which in fact also stared Burgess Meredith in a role very similar to the one he played in " Burnt Offerings " as the creepy Arnold Allardyce . The Rolf family are invited to stay for the summer at the old Allardyce House to look after the old and frail 85 year old Mrs . Allardyce . At first Ben or Benji Rolf , Oliver Reed , his sexy wife Marian , Karen Black , and twelve year old son David , Lee Montgomery , are tickled pink at staying at the place but later things start to go sour shortly after they all move in . Told by Arnold and his equally creepy sister Roz Allardyce , Eileen Hackett , to look after their mother who's a shut-in the Rolf's soon find that the old lady has practically barricaded herself in her room letting no one in . It's when Benji's Aunt Elizabeth , Bette Davis , shows up at the Allardyce Home that things really start to go haywire . The highly educated Benji , who's working on his PHD , starts to slowly lose his mind turning into a brutal and mindless Neanderthal type person . Grabbing little David in the swimming pool Benji tries to drown the frightened boy as if he's possessed by the Devil himself ! It's later that Benji starts to have nightmares of his own mother's funeral with this ghost-like hearse driver , Anthony James , constituently popping up in them . James in fact played the same kind of role two years earlier in his portrayal of a hopped up , on adrenaline , and sex crazed lunatic in the film " The Teacher " . Slowly but surly the Allardyce House somehow starts to come alive taking control of first Benji then Marian who becomes even more weirder , if that's at all possible , then her already totally whacked out husband . After suffering a total mental and psychical breakdown Benji , with what seems like superhuman strength , pulls himself together and comes to his senses . A now back to normal and with all his marbles Benji tells Marian to please together with him and David , Aunt Elizabeth had since passed away , leave the premises as soon as possible . That's before the what seems like possessed house sucks , like a vampire sucking out his victims blood , the life out of all of them ! SPOILER ALERT Even though the ending of the movie takes a while , more the ten minutes , to really get started it will blow you mind completely out of it's skull . Benji in trying to get his stubborn wife Marian to leave finds out the truth not just about her but whom she's been looking after all these weeks the mysterious Mrs . Allardyce ! That set off a number of shocking events that , like a major + 8 point on the Richter Scale earthquake , shakes the cursed and evil Allardyce House to its very foundations !
Your word is You	SPOILERS Spoting a yacht sailing erratically in the choppy waters off Florida the US Coast Guard has the boat boarded . On board they find that it's owner was murdered together along with his wife and two children by the group of Columbian drug traffickers who sea-jacked the craft . The man who together with his family that was murdered happened to be businessman Peter Hardin the Presdent of the United States Pres . Bennett , Donald Moffat , best friend . Outraged at what happened to his friend Pres . Bennett sets into motion a plan to get those who ordered Hardin and his family's murder with his top two advisor's Cutter & Ritter , Harris Yulin & Henry Czerny . To cover his and his advisor's behinds puts the now new CIA Deputy Director Jack Ryan , Harrison Ford , is put officially in charge . Ryan working together with the CIA comes up with the startling findings that Hardin , the presidents best friend , was a major money launder for the Cali Drug Cartel . Hardin using his business and banking expertise was skimming off the profits , that his bosses in the cartel needed to continue their operations , and that was the reason for his and his family's murder . Getting retired US Special Forces officer John Clark , Willen Defoe , to get a 12 man strike force to hit the Cali Cartel where it hurts , in it's drug processing operations , Ritter is going against Dept . director's Ryan's sworn testimony to the US Congress . Ryan testified that no US military personnel will be used to fight the Columbian drug dealers putting the unsuspecting Ryan in danger , if the operation is ever found out , of being indited for perjury , in him lying to the US Congress . As all these undercover dealings are going on the head of the Cali Cartel Ernesto Escobedo , Miguel Sandoval , chief counselor and ex-Castro intelligence agent Col . Felix Cortez , Jaquim de Almeida , is planing to set up his boss by getting him knocked off by the CIA . Cortez is also setting up rest of the Cartel leaders to be whacked by arraigning a major hit on the US governments representatives in Columbia . Later there's a Cortez sponsored attack in Bogata killing 5 Secret Service Agents and the the FBI chief Jacobs , Tom Tammi , with Cortez pining the attack on the " innocent " drug dealers . Cortez has his lover and FBI director Jacobs private secretary Moira Wolfson , Ann Magnuson , unwittingly give him the information of Jacobs whereabouts . This helps Cortez in having Jacobs trapped in a motorcade in downtown Bogata where he was gunned down . Cortez then plans to make a deal with the US , after he had the Cali Cartel leaders knocked off , to take over the cartel's operations and cut the drug supply to the US in half . Making the US government's drug fighting agency DEA and the FBI , as well as President Bennett , look like their " War on Drugs " is a big success to the American people , It turns out that Cortez's master plan miss-fires when it's discovered after a massacre of most of the cartel leaders , with the exception of Escobedo , that it wasn't a car bomb that was first reported by the news that did them in ! It was a laser-guided missile , that could have only been used by the USAF , that did the job . With the sht hitting the fan all over D . C and the members of Congress demanding to know why the US military was involved in this unauthorized " hit " two things are quickly put into motion by presidential advisor's Cutter & Ritter 1 . the US troops sent into Columbia are sold out by giving up their positions to the cartel mercenaries in order to have them all killed so they'll never live to tell the truth about their mission and 2 . Jack Ryan is saddled with the blame for the secret operation with him made , by Cutter & Ritter , to look like he authorized it which he didn't . Despite it's very complicated plot " Clear and Present Danger " is a top rate political thriller that never lets up , or lets you down , in it's nerve racking suspense . The movie ends with two great final sequences with Jack Ryan having it out in Columbia with Cortez and his hoods in order for him and Clark , the head of the sold-out US troops , to save the remaining US soldiers held captive . The ending just flipped me , as I assume everyone else who saw it , out with an incredible confrontation between Ryan and President Bennett right in the Oval Office that has to be seen to be believed ! It's here more then anywhere else in " Clear and Present Danger " where I hoped that for once , just this ONCE , that life would imitate art !
I just can't go against the cards	SPOILERS Matine idol and devilishly handsome Tryone Power as mind reader Stan Carlisle sheds his mostly good guy image in this very disturbing film noir flick where he ends up being what he's so much afraid off becoming all during the film a " Geek " or " Wild Man of Borneo " type in a carnival . Stan gets very friendly with mentalist Zenna , Joan Blondel , whom he works with and finds out that she and her alcoholic husband Pete , Ian Keith , had this secret word code that they used in their mind reading act . Getting Pete drunk one evening in order to find out what this code is Stan accidentally gives him a bottle of wood alcohol instead of moonshine that ends up killing the poor man . Stan was earlier warned by Zeena that Pete's life is going to take a drastic turn for the worst due to her reading her Tarot cards on his future and sure enough that's exactly what happened with him drinking himself to death the very next day . Torn between ambition and guilt Stan ends up leaving the carnival after he was caught having an affair with the circus strong man Bruno , Mike Mazurki , girlfriend Molly , Coleen Gray . Forced to marry Molly Stan and his new bride use the word code that both Zeena and Pate had to make headlines in the local newspapers with their new mind-reading act in the Chicago area . It's when things couldn't be better for the two mentalists that Stan overreaches himself by trying to con rich and atheistic , whom Stan made a believer , Chicago businessman Ezar Grindle , Taylor Holmes , by trying to trick him into seeing his long lost love Dorrie whom he's carried a torch for some thirty years . Molly who was forced by Stan into tricking Grindle into thinking that she was his long lost Dorrie just couldn't go through with it and blew Stan's whole charade . Knowing that it's now only a matter of time before the police catch up with him for defrauding Grindle out of $150 , 000 . 00 Stan make a bee line to psycho analyst Lilith Ritter , Helen Walker , whom he entrusted the money with . Helen in fact was a partner in crime , unlike his wife Molly , with Stan by giving him very personal and sensitive information of her client's hang ups and obsessions which included Ezar Grindle . It turned out that Stan wasn't exactly the smart cookie that we were lead to believe with him not realizing that Helen had him set up by secretly recording his conversations with her . Stan who knew that Helen recorded all her patients , which he was one of , seemed to have completely overlooked that fact and spilled his guts out revealing among other things that he was responsible for Pete's death as well as defrauding Grindle out of his money . Helen giving Stan an envelop with what was supposed to be the $150 , 000 . 00 that he left with her instead replaced it with 150 one dollar bills which had Stan , who was on his way out of town , shoot right back to her office for his money that he needed for him and Molly to stay on the lamb . Helen expecting Stan to react the way he did had already called the police which checkmated Stans plans to get the money from Helen even if he had to murder her to get it . Left on his own with Molly going back to the carnival Stan ends up back were we first saw him but this time he's almost unreorganized by everyone that he used to worked with . Needing a job and trying to get the carnival owner , who seemed to have completely forgotten who Stan is , to let him stay Stan is forced to do what he now knew he was born to be the carnival " Geek " . Shocking even now some sixty after it's release back in 1947 " Nightmare Alley " is without a doubt the most mind numbing and darkly disturbing movie to come out of Hollywood since Tod Browning's " Freaks " in 1932 . You have to give actor Tyrone Power credit for going out of his way to get the role of Stan Carsisle a part that 20th Century studio , not wanting to hurt his handsome and matine idol image , was very very reluctant to have him play . I for the life of me can't imagine an actor of Power's reputation , as a great lover and all around good guy , take a role like that back in the 1940's or 1950's . Time has shown that Tyrone Power did the right thing in playing Stan Carlisle which turned out to be the most challenging role of his career . Power not only showed that he can convincingly play a low down rascal who took advantage of everyone who trusted him but that in him paying a " Geek " Power humanized this poor and faceless creature by not only giving him a face but the sympathy of the movie audience as well .
Play it again Clint	( SPOILER ALERT ) On his night shift on KRML radio DJ Dave Garver , Clint Eastwood , has been spinning records and making fans with his easy going and sexy manor as well as his connoisseur-like knowledge of the songs and the artist who preform them . One of those fans is Evelyn Darper , Jessica Walters , who's obsessed not only with Dave but with a song that she calls and requests him to play for her almost every night " Misty " . Dave constantly giving a plug on the air for Murphy's Bar & Grill , who's owner Murf , Don Siegel , attracts Evelyn to the seaside ginmill to meet and even get an autograph of her idol all-night DJ Dave Garver . Being sweet and friendly towards her and even taking her home for a one-night stand turns the more or less shy and insecure Evelyn into an obsessive and dangerous stalker . She feels that Dave is as madly in love with her as she's with him and would go as far as murdering anyone who stands between her and him . The movie starts off with a harmless and uncommitted , even though Dave & Evelyn spend the night together the first time that they met , relationship to something so disturbing and dangerous that it drives Dave almost nuts and even violent toward the obviously sick and divorced from reality Evelyn . Following him all over Carmel and making a spectacle of herself in front of his friends and TV executives has Dave almost becoming a prisoner in his own home and radio studio unable to have any kind of social life at all unless with her . Evelyn turns violent every time she spies Dave with another woman no matter what his relationship is with her . Even his elderly maid Birdie , Clarice Taylor , who found her in Dave's home wrecking the place whom she attacks and almost cuts to pieces with a butcher knife . This after Evelyn was released from the hospital after trying to kill herself by cutting her wrists . With Dave's old flame Tobie Williams , Donna Mills , back in Carmel he tries to rekindle his relationship with her and is quite successful . It's then that the deranged Evelyn now out on parole , of the mental institution , manically plans to murder Tobie . Well written and directed , by Eastwood himself , suspense / thriller that slowly draws you in not realizing , like Dave Garver , what dangerous ground your treading on . Jessica Walters easily steals the acting honors in her multi-personality role as the love-crazed and psycho Evelyn Draper . Who's obsession with the unsuspecting DJ Dave Graver leads to madness and murder and in the end , for Evelyn , a long and hard fall off a short ledge .
Once you start you'll never be able to stop it will obsess you but it will be a " Magnificent Obsession " !	SPOILERSI give the movie " Magnificent Obsession " eight stars for it's story and at least five handkerchiefs for it's schmaltz and also appreciate it for being the movie that made Rock Hudson , Dr . Bob Merrick & Robbie Robinson , the Hollywood legend both on and off the screen that he eventually became . Living in the fast lane with fast cars and speedboats as well as women , that he drops almost as soon as he picks up , spoiled playboy Bob Merrick is anything other then what he makes himself out to be ; a spoiled and overindulgent adult who's only care in the world is himself and himself alone and what to do best with his millions in order to make himself happy . This life of fun and games comes to a crashing end for Bob when he , going at speeds up to 180 MPH , crashes his speedboat and ends up near dead in the collision . In order to save this good for nothing fun and adventure seeker , Bob Merrick , the ambulance crew that rescued him had to borrow a resuscitator from the nearby Dr . Wayne Phillips ' home the very moment that Dr . Phillips suffered a massive heart-attack killing him . A great and wonderful man , Dr . Phillips , had to die in order to save a good for nothing and self-indulgent bum , Bob Merrck , but when we go on to hear , from the people who knew him , just what a wonderful and unselfish person the doctor was he wouldn't have wanted it any other way . Leaving a wife Hellen , Jane Wyman , and step daughter Joyce , Barbara Rush , behind Dr . Phillips was found to be bankrupt even with his hospital doing round the clock business with the local inhabitants . It turns out that Dr . Phillips never charged anyone for his services that amounted in the hundreds of thousands of dollars and even more odd never , until he died and was in no position to tell anyone anything , allowed those he treated to tell anyone not even their closest relatives of his good deeds ! Merrick finds out by accident when he illegally checks out of the hospital , while still suffering from a brain concussion , that his life was saved at the expense of Dr . Phillips when he's picked up hitch-hiking by the late doctors grieving wife Helen . Confused and trying to be , for the first time in his life , humble and apologetic Bob makes a fool of himself in trying to pay off Helen with a check of $25 , 000 . 00 for all the trouble that he caused her and her step-daughter as a result of his wild lifestyle . It's later in the movie when Bob drinking and womanizing as usual at a local watering hole gets himself juiced up and then , barley being able to walk , gets in his sports car and smashed it into the fence at artist Edward Randoplph , Otto Kruger , home he finally sees the light . Letting the now drunk and black and blue Bob sleep it off Edward gives him an insight of what a kind and wonderful person Dr . Phillips was and how he effected his life , and the life of everyone else that he came into contact with , for the better . Slowly but surly the effect , of what Edward told him about Dr . Phillips , starts to take hold of Bob in him trying to makes thing better not just with Helen & Joyce but everyone else that he knows but , and this becomes his magnificent obsession . Bob does all that but at a very heavy price a price that cost Helen her sight . Causing Helen to have an accident by trying to apologize to her in jumping into a cab that she was a passenger in Helen runs out on the street and is hit by a speeding car knocking her down and blinding her . A shocked and startled Bob is really up the creek now with him having on his conscience not only Dr . Phillips death but his wife's serious injury as well ! Bob vows to do everything in his power to make things right for Hellen and everyone else that he screwed over the years and does it by becoming , what seemed to me , the reincarnation of Doctor Phillips himself : kind understanding unselfish and most of all doing everything he can to help his fellow man and woman . And on top of all that not wanting a red cent for it but also not wanting anyone else to know that he did it , for free , either . The second half of the film is a bit too schmaltzy for my taste , I have to watch my cholesterol , but still I can understand and appreciate it . The motivation that drives Bob , now using the name Robbie Robinson , in getting to help and at the same time fall in love with sightless , and she with him , Helen has him going so far as to enroll back into medical school that he once dropped out of . Becoming a top brain surgeon himself Bob gets the best brain and eye surgeons in the world to operate on Helen to give her back her sight . Bob and Helen soon realizes that it's hopeless that she'll ever see again , from what the battery of eye specialists told them , and with Helen now knowing that Robbie is really Bob , and forgives him for what he did , she checks out and ends up in a sanitarium in New Mexico dying from pneumonia . Finding out where Helen is Bob flies down from NYC , to New Mexico in a last effort to both save her life and his conscience but in the end he get's an extra bonuses in his noble and unselfish efforts . Becoming a brain surgeon and suffering from the guilt of his sorry and self-indulgent past Bob did , due to this magnificent obsession that took hold of him , what no one else in the entire world of medicine could do : He gave Helen back her sight !
A shot in the Dark	SPOILERS Practically unknown and forgotten little gem staring David Janssen as LA policeman Sgt . Tom Valens a cop who's been trying to get his nerve back since he came back on duty from an almost fatal gunshot wound . Staking out the Seacape Apartment Complex one foggy evening for an on the loose serial murder Tom and his partner Sgt . Ed Mussco , Keenan Wynn , see this man sneaking along the complex swimming pool . Valens confronting the man and telling him to halt has him pulls a gun out of his jacket and is shot dead by the the undercover policeman . Checking out his wallet the dead man turned out to be the respected Dr . James Ruston , Donald Curtis , a pillar of the community a philanthropist and champion of the poor and downtrodden in the L . A Mexican community and former Man of the Year of San Roserio to who's people he's considered to be a saint . Not finding Dr . Ruston's gun that Tom says he pulled on him has Sgt . Tom Valens suspended from the police force and set to be tried for manslaughter in Dr . Ruston's death . The movie goes through a number of side stories about Dr . Ruston and the people who knew him including Mrs . Alice Willows , Lillian Gish , who Dr . Ruston was seeing the evening that he was shot and killed . Tom trying to get to the bottom of Dr . Ruston's strange actions that night comes across in number of contradicting facts about about Dr . Ruston that has to do mostly with his trips to Baja Mexico to help the poor there every Wendsday and then his seeing Mrs . Willows , making weekly night house calls to her , the next evening on a Thusrday ? Mrs Willows seems to have a advanced case of Alzheimer's and can't help Tom in his trying to find the reasons for Dr . Ruston's visits to her besides her diabetic condition , which didn't need his immediate attention . There's also the fact that Dr . Ruston was the person who got the old and senile Mrs . Willows the apartment at the Seacape Complex ; was the man that much of a saint or were there far more cynical reasons behind his actions ? With his incitement imminent Sgt . Valens needs to find evidence to prove his innocence , by first finding Dr . Ruston's missing gun , before he's locked up behind bars . It dawns on Sgt . Valens that there's a connection to Dr . Ruston's trips to Baja that lead to his strange actions of him getting shot and killed but what exactly is it ? There's also the fact that Dr . Ruston almost broke and bankrupt three years ago is now independently wealthy with no evidence of him having falling into any large inheritance so just where did Dr , Ruston's money come from ? his many philanthropic ventures to and from Baja Mexico ? Things get even worse for Sgt , Valens when after seeing Dr . Ruston's secretary Liz Thayler , Stepanie Powers , she's later found murdered and he's the prime , and only , suspect in her death . There's also an attempt to murder Valens at his home by spiking his bottle of butter milk , medication for is ulcers because of him getting shot , and then turning on the gas range while he was out cold . With Sgt . Valens and Mrs Willows next door neighbor , and his friend and licensed pilot , Walt Cody , George Grizzaed , planing to fly down to Baja to uncover Dr . Ruston's secret activities Valens suddenly changes his mind after Liz's murder realizing that the evidence to clear himself is not in Baja Mexico but right here in L . A County . That night with an all out city and state police search for him , in both Dr . Ruston & Liz Thayers deaths , Sgt . Tom Valens goes to the spooky and deserted L . A's " Eternal Rest " Pet Cemetery to dig up the evidence that not only will clear his name , form pending manslaughter and murder charges , but his consciences as well .
Life Sex & Death in the Swinging 1970's : A True Story	SPOILERS It was not until almost the end of the movie " Looking For Mr . Goodbar " just before Theresa Dunn's , Diane Keaton , fatal encounter with Gary , Tom Berenger , that I realized why she was bent on being on the path of self-destruction both emotionally as well as physically . Theresa's fear of transmitting to her children the disease that she was suffering from and that left her emotionally as well as physically scared since she was a little girl ; Congenital Spinal Scoliosis the curvature of the spine . This revelation came out when Theresa had a violent spat with James , William Atherton , the only man in the movie who really was in love with and wanted to marry her . The other two men that Theresa had affairs with in the movie Martin , Alan Feinstein , and Tony , Richard Gere , looked at Theresa as a piece of tail who was only good for a one night stand . Who after having their way with her with put Theresa away in the drawer until the next time they felt like having a romp in the woods . Being brought up in a strict Irish-Catholic home but with a dark fear of getting married and having children Theresa choose the life that she led as a 1970's swinger by night and a teacher of deaf children by day in NYC . Her younger sister Katherine , Tuesday Weld , was also not what her father Mr . Dunn , Richard Kiley , thought a nice Catholic girl should be . Even though she kept it from her father Katherine had at least one abortion and married a man out of her faith Barney , Joel Fabiani , who was Jewish and who her father openly resented . It was Barney who later introduced Katherine into a sex and drug lifestyle and in the end left her for a much younger girl who he was shacked up with . Theresa's father was obsessive but very sympathetic in his wanting Theresa not to leave home and move in with Katherine and Barney in New York City . Still he could do nothing to stop her since she was an adult . Working as a teacher for young deaf children seemed to give Theresa the family that she was longing for but at the same time denied for herself by not wanting to be a wife and mother . The two lovers that Therea had before James were just what she wanted , persons only to have sex with and really nothing else . Martin who after he had sex with Theresa couldn't even look at or talk to her and Tony who was both a 1970's stud-type and coke-head not only got her turned on to coke but got her fired from her job as a teacher for being arrested for drug possession . The only man who could have turned Theresa's life around and who Theresa's father looked upon as his own son , James a social worker in NYC was rejected by Theresa when he , unlike Martin and Tony , showed that he really loved her and wanted to marry her and not just spend the night with Theresa and leave her the next morning . On New Years Eve Theresa was at the singles-bar celebrating the coming of the New Year when she picked up Gary , a male hustler . Gary was just attacked by a gang of thugs together with his room-mate for being in drag . The very disturbed young man was a ticking time bomb ready to explode and it was his affair with Theresa that New Years Eve night that set him off . Feeling inadequate because he couldn't preform sexually with Theresa , probably because he was almost dead drunk at the time , Gary took out his frustrations on Theresa who realized only too late what an unstable and dangerous person she was involved with and brutally slashed and strangled her to death . " Looking for Mr . Goodbar " is a dark and depressing film but it honestly reflects the world of the 1970's drug and swinging generation and the story of a young woman who's psychosis played right into that world . The movie is based on the true story of Katherine Cleary who was murdered by Joe Willie Sampson who she picked up at the Mr . Goodbar bar on New Years Eve 1973 . Sampson hanged himself in his jail cell some six months later while awaiting trial .
We didn't fight the enemy we fought ourselves , and the enemy was in us	SPOILERS " Platoon " is every bit as powerful an anti-war movie like " All Quite on the Western Front " the film is unlike that 1930's anti-war classic . Where the hero was eager to enter the war and fight and die for his country and felt that the war was justified . The hero in " Platoon " Pvt . Chris Taylor , Charlie Sheen , had no doubt at all about the war that he entered as a green replacement in the battered and bloodied Bravo Company 25th Infantry . Chris felt that the war in Vietnam was a necessary evil at best or an unnecessary waste of lives , American and Vietnamese , at worse . Volunteering for combat duty Chris felt that as a more or less privileged young American he had to pull his own weight and not stay out of the service of his country at it's time of need and dropped out of collage , were he was safe from being drafted for military service , to do that . During his time serving in one of Bravo company's platoons Chris realized that not only was he at war with the dreaded and deadly North Vietnamese regular soldiers and Vietcong troops and guerrilla fighters he was at war with the men in his own platoon as well as himself . Graphically violent as well as penetratingly thought-provoking Vietnam War film by director Oliver Stone that not only shows the war in Vietnam but any war for what it really is : Hell On Earth . Were given the story of the actions of the Bravo Company platoon from the thoughts and writings of young Pvt . Chris Taylor that takes place from the late summer of 1967 to around the time of the Tet offensive in January to March 1968 . Which witnessed some of the bloodiest fighting in the war . By the end of the movie Chris ' platoon was cut to pieces in a series of ambushes night attacks and fire fights and finally a major North Vietnamese assault that breached Bravo company's forward perimeter in the Vietnamese jungle . The enemy forces overran and virtually wiped out the entire infantry company which was saved , in a last act of desperation , by a USAF bombardment of it's own positions . The film shows that war , no matter how right or wrong it is , dehumanizes and brutalizes all those involved in it . We see Chris who went from an innocent young man who never fired a shot in anger , if at all , before he entered the US military to a hardened and cold-blooded killer in the less then six months that he was in Vietnam . There's also a powerful story between the two sergeants who ran the platoon that Chris was in . Sgt . Elias Grodin , Willem DaFoe , and Staff / Sgt . Bob Barnes , Tom Berenger . The two seemed to be more at war with each other then with the enemy Vietcong and NVR . Sgt . Grodin was on the sensitive side who tried to keep at least some of his humanity in light of the madness swirling all around him and was by far the most likable person in the movie . Staff / Sgt . Barnes was a horribly scared psychotic killer who took no prisoners , military or civilian , and was both feared and hated by almost everyone in his platoon . As brutal as Staff / Sgt . Barnes was he never the less motivated his men to fight and survive in the savage jungle combat that they encountered all through the film . It was Staff / Sgt . Barnes brutish treatment of innocent Vietnamese civilians that the platoon came in contact with that split the two , Barnes & Grodin , up into enemy camps . In one of the most gripping scenes in the movie when Sgt . Grodin was lost in the jungle after an enemy ambush he's spotted by Staff / Sgt . Barnes . You can see by the look in Sgt . Grodin's eyes how happy he is to see him and you get the impression that they'll both make up and bury the hatchet and once again become friends . Yet just by looking in the crazed stare coming out of Staff / Sgt . Barnes eyes you , and Sgt . Grodin , knew that was not to happen as he put a barrage of slugs into Grodin's chest from his M16 . " Platoon " is one of those movies about war that really hits the nail on the head about the horrors of war and that the most righteous of all wars are those wars that are never fought at all .
The Lost Weekend	SPOILERSLittle known and even less seen gem of a crime caper involving an assistant bank manager who takes it upon himself to steal his banks weekly deposits and take off to Brazil to live , with his wife and six year old daughter , happily ever after . This thought just came into assistant bank manager Jim Osborne's , Joseph Cotten , head and it just ate him up until he finally took the a first step to do it : rob his bank and take off for Brazil over the weekend . Knowing that there's no expedition treaty with Brazil Osborne planned to go there with the stolen money but what he didn't know was that his wife Laurie , Teresa Wright , was totally against his actions and Osborne was to find that out very late , when he finally told her , in the movie . You can't really say that everything went perfect for Osborne since he was almost caught a half dozen times before he even made it out of L . A with the suitcase , weighing 115 pounds , full of stolen cash amounting to some one million dollars . Taking Laurie along with him Osborne tells her that his bank is opening up a branch in Rio de Janeiro with him as the banks new manager . Osborne screws up at every turn but somehow seems to be immune from being apprehended by the police and airport security . There's one scene in the movie when his suitcase is opened by the airport police where it's discovered that he's got one million dollars in it and he's let go ! Osborne explained to airport security , as well as the custom agents , that he's taking the cash to the bank in Brazil to deposit from his bank back in L . A ! Even more surprising airport security and US customs believe him and let Osborne board his flight with the stolen cash ! This without even properly checking on Osborne bank , the manager was out playing golf at the time , to see if he's telling the truth ! With all his foul ups the one thing that Osborne did that ended up saving his neck was his not closing shut the bank vault at his bank from where he stole the million . It was that action that in the endSPOILERSmade it possible for him to put the money back so it wouldn't be found missing when the bank opened that next Monday morning with him being the prime suspect in stealing it . Osborne just about pulled off the perfect crime and was on the road to freedom , and safe from the police and FBI , as he waited for his flight in New Orleans to take him out of the country when he told Laurie what his real plans were . Laurie shocked that her husband was not only a crook but a not all there in the head walked out on him leaving Osborne to live and spend the million all by himself . Thinking it over while he went sightseeing in old New Orleans Osborne realized that what he did was truly an act of insanity and there and then decided to return the stolen money to it's proper owner ; the bank that he ripped it off from . Nail biting , if a bit far fetched , ending with Osborne racing back to the bank with the money that he took before it was discovered missing and stuffing it back into the vault before the bank manager and tellers found out that it was gone . With his conscience now cleared Osborne goes back home , he was given the day off by his boss , to get back to his wife Laurie and daughter Susan , Stephan King , and a life that he almost threw away .
If you lay a hand on me I swear you'll pay for it in your next life !	SPOILERS Nostalgic 1977 movie that's more like a 1940's film-noir crime suspense / drama with an over the hill private eye Ira Wells , Art Carney , teaming up with a middle-age hippie Margo Sperling , Lily Tomlin , to solve the murder of Ira's long-time friend of over 30 years , and also private detective , Harry Regan , Howard Duff . Harry coming to see Ira at his rooming house one evening collapses and dies right in front of him from a 45 slug in his chest . At Harry's funeral Ira gets to see his friend Charlie , Bill Macy , who has this young woman Margo Sperling with him and want's Ira to find her missing cat Winston . Having no patience to go looking for cats at his age Ira changes his mind when he finds out that Harry was on the case , in finding Winston , at the time of his murder and feels that Harry trying to find Margo's cat may have had something to do with his untimely death . Ira was right dead right . The serious Ira teaming up with spaced-out , on ideas about life not drugs , Margo realizes that Harry's murder was but a small part of a series of crimes , including at least four other killings , involving big time L . A gangster Ron Birdwell , Eugene Roche . Brdwell's wife Laura , Joanna Cassidy , has been missing for some three days and was involved with a Mr . Whiting who together with his wife both ended up dead . It takes a while for Ira to get to the bottom of what's been going on between Birdwell and the Whitings but with the help of screwy pseudo-philosophical Margo , who turns out to be a lot smarter then Ira at first thought , he puts all the pieces together . Ira comes up with not only who killed both the Whitings but who murdered his friend Harry Regan as well and , on top of all that , Ira finds Margo's cat Winston . The cat it turns out has been sitting on the evidence , a . 32 pistol , to connect all the killings as well as it being used to blackmail Laura ; in keeping her mouth shut about who's responsible for a sting of unconnected and unsolved murders in the L . A area . Art Carney giving the performance of his life as the broken down PI Ira Wells takes it on the chin and in the gut throughout the entire movie from hoodlums like Birdwell and his sadistic bodyguard Lamar , John Considine . Ira also has to puts up with the New Age Guru-like Margo , who he gets to like despite her almost talking him to death . Lily Tomlin is perfect as the over-age hippie Margo Sperling who also begins to take life seriously when she realizes that she and Ira's lives are in danger in an elaborate scheme to distance the Whiting murders away from those responsible for them and make them look like a robbery gone wrong . Ira who really got on the case to find who murdered Harry Regan finding Winston was only secondary for him and gets a lot more then he bargained for including a brutal beating by Lamar , who he later pays back with interest . In the end he finds not only who killed Harry but a new place to stay , Margo's place , after his landlady kicked him out of her house for giving her more headaches and excitement then his rent could compensate her for : $42 , 50 a month . Art Carney besides having ulcers problems in the movie as Ira Wells walked with a limp , because of a bum leg , which in real life he really had from being wounded in France , by an exploding German artillery shell in World War Two .
Double Negative	SPOILERS Attending rehearsals of her new Broadway play " Halfway to Heaven " playwright , and San Francisco heiress " Myra Hudson , Joan Crawford , like everyone else at the theater is very impressed in actor Lester Blaine , Jack Palance , readings of the script for the play . Myra as much as she likes Lester as an actor is very uncomfortable with him as playing the lead role in her play because it calls for a romantic , and extremely handsome , leading man which in Myra's mind Lester is far from being . The guy has the kind of face that can stop a runaway locomotive dead in it's tracks . Hurt and upset with the news from Myra that he just doesn't have " it " as a leading man Lester tells her off about the great lover Cassanova and how unattractive he was and that didn't prevent him from scoring with the rich and beautiful ladies of his day ; was he comparing the great Renaissance to himself ? himself to theGoing back home to Chicago to lick his wounds , or pride , Lester runs into Myra who's taking the same train back home to San Francisco . After trying to apologize about her treatment of him back in New York Mya falls in love with Lester . Before you know it their both on their way back to SF , with Lester being her constant companion at all the parties and affairs that Myra attends . After a whirl wind romance Lester and Myra tie the knot and you would think they'll live happily ever after but fate , in the form of an old flame of Lester's , stepped in . Finding out in the newspaper gossip column that her ex-boyfriend Lester Blaine had married to rich and famous playwright Myra Husdon Irene Neves , Gloria Grahame , makes her way west , from New York City , to get a piece of the action that Lester has iced her out off , Myra's Millions . Being romantically involved with Myra's lawyer's Steve Kearney , Bruce Bennett , younger brother Jr , Mike Conners , has Irene get to meet Lester at one of Myra's many parties and rekindles her affair with him . Meanwhile back at the Hudson Mansion Myra has her last will and testament redone since her lawyer Steve Kearney , who dislikes Lester and feels that he's only after Myra's money , left him almost nothing in the event of her death . At another party at Myra home Irene and Lester go into Myra's study and find the will which is to be signed that Monday , four days hence , that would put Lester out of all her money , in the event of Myra's death . What they don't realize was that Myra had just changed the will leaving Lester all her millions . Lester and Irene casually and cold-bloodily talking about killing Myra and making it look like an accident before the will is signed don't realize that their words are being recorded by a hidden voice-activated audio recording system . Later Myra , after listening to the changes in her will that she taped , hears what Lester and Irene planning to do with her . Recovering from the shock of what her husband and his lover have planned for her Myra herself plans a big surprise for the two lovebirds , and potential murderers , that's right out of one of her famous crime and mystery plays . The last twenty or so minutes of " Sudden Fear " are so terrifying and suspenseful that you just can't take your eyes off the screen for even a second . Joan Crawford is at her best as the betrayed and set up to be murdered Myra Hudson by her " beloved " husband Lester Blaine who turns the tables on both him and his lover Irene . Myra doe that by tricking them and keeping the two apart with forged , of both Lester & Irene , letters instructing them to be at places that the other doesn't know about . Thus keeping them , and their plan to murder , off balance . Getting Lester alone in Irene's apartment Myra makes her only mistake by not being able to bring herself to shoot him and frame Irene with his murder like she planned . The film reaches almost unbearable tension and heart-stopping suspense when Lester , in a state of panic , loses it when he realizes that he's being set up by Myra . Lester Jumping in his car as he tries to run Myra , who runs out of Irene's apartment , down on the dark and empty San Francisco street . By now not caring or realizing that he's blowing his chance to make Myra's death look like an accident and not only lose his only chance of inheriting Myra's money but , if successful in killing her , putting him in the San Quentin gas chamber . Irene running back to her apartment , where she was to meet Lester , and dressed in almost exactly in the same clothes that Myra is wearing is run down and killed by a frantic Lester who realizes , only too late , that he was running down the wrong woman . In an effort to avoid killing Irene , which he did anyway , Lester swerves and overturns his car killing himself . Jack Palance who became an overnight sensation after the release of the movie " Sudden Fear " in 1952 was cast three years later as the screen heart-throb and the man who makes the women of America hearts swoon , which was the exact opposite of Lester Blaine in " Sudden Fear " as Charlie Castle in " The Big Knife " . Which shows that fame and fortune , as well as a good PR man , can make anyone look like Tyrone Powers or Robert Taylor if he's skillfully packaged .
One of the most complete examples of duel personality in the history of modern science	SPOILERS It seems like forever that architect Walter Craig , Mervyn Johns , has been waking up in a cold sweat from a nightmare that he only has fleeting memories of . One cold morning Craig , as unusual , wakes up disturbed and befuddled of what he just dreamed about and after kissing his wife , Renee Gadd , goodbye . Craig drives out to the little town of Kent , out in the English countryside , to the Foley Estate to talk over with Mr . Foley , Roland Culver , about some work he's to do on his property . As Mr . Foley leads Craig into his spacious living room he meets a number of his , Foley's , friends staying over his house for the weekend . Craig's subconscious mind starts to open up as he starts to get glimpse of what's to happen as a very powerfully and frightening sense of deja vu comes over him and he starts to relive the nightmare that's been haunting him all these dark and eerie nights . Very early , if not the first , movie anthology of murder madness and the supernatural with five different stories that in the end fuse together as a real-life house of horrors for the poor confused and tormented Walter Craig . As the guests at the Foley house recall strange events in their lives Craig starts to see his nightmare come to life as he slowly begins to realize what the final and shocking outcome is going to be , where at the same time Craig knows that there's nothing that he can do to stop it ! In a series of flashbacks all the stories that the guest tell link together , like in a jigsaw puzzle , and become the nightmare that has been haunting Craig all these nights . With the exception of the golf sequence which has really nothing to do with the movie or Craig's nightmare , and seems to have been put in just to pad and lengthen the film . Each of the chapters has Craig as the main character in them but it's only at the very end that you , and Walter Craig , realize that . By far the best of the sequences has to be the one with the mysterious ventriloquist dummy and the person Maxwell Frere , Michael Redgrave , who used it in his act . I remember seeing similar sequences like that one in many movies and even in a 1960's " Twilight Zone " TV episode with Cliff Robertson but none were ever as good as this one . Craig seems to be on automatic pilot throughout the entire time he's at the Foley home as everything , and everyone , that he sees play themselves out in a surreal and frightening fashion as his minds snaps and he descends into a dark abyss of insanity and murder . The ending of " Dead of Night " is somewhat anti-climatic but does explain what is really behind Craig's strange and repeating dreams or nightmares but we in the audience , unlike Walter Craig , realize that there's really nothing that can be done to cure , or make him forget , them .
" The Detective " : One Cut Above The Rest .	WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD Tough gritty crime drama with Frank Sinatra giving his best performance since his role in " The Manchurian Candidate " in 1962 as NYC detective Joe Leland . A cop with a consciences that turns out to be his own worst enemy . Det . Leland is assigned to a case where the son of a major contributor and political king-maker in NYC was murdered in what is thought to be a crime of passion . It seems that Teddy Leikman , James Inman , was killed in his upper East-Side bachelor apartment by his gay roommate the night before and there's an all-out manhunt to catch the killer . The police check out places that Leikman usually went to like bars waterfront piers and gyms and come up with someone that was seen hanging out with Teddy most of the time a young street hustler named Felix Tesla , Tony Musante . Tracked down to Coney Island in a boardwalk hotel Felix is apprehended and taken into the police station for questioning . A the police station Det . Leland's skillful interrogation of Felix gets him to break down and confess to Leikman's murder . Later convicted of murder and sentenced to death we see Felix strapped down in the electric chair and being executed . Det . Leland is one of the witnesses to Felix's execution . Some time later a young woman Norma Maciver , Jacqueline Bisset , sees Det . Leland at the police station about the death of her husband Colin , William Windon . Colin was killed when he jumped or fell to his death from the roof of the grandstand of a racetrack and his death was determined by he police to be a suicide , Norma says that Colin was murdered and wants Det . Leland to re-open the case . Det . Leland agrees to look into Colins death thinking that it would just be a routine matter for him to confirm the original police report and put the thoughts out of Norma's mind that her husband was murdered to rest once in for all . As Det . Leland begins to investigate Colin Maciver's death he starts to realize that he was wrong , shockingly wrong , about what happened to Colin Macvier ! Even worse towards the end of the movie Det . Leland sees that in some way , in Colin Macivers suicide , he had a connection to his death that goes back to the Liekman / Tesla case that he solved some time ago ! A good and well rounder story with very good acting especially from Mr . Sinatra makes " The Detective " stand out today above the scores of crime and police movies made back in the 1960's and even much later . The film really hits the mark with a ground-breaking script about issues , like closet homosexually and police and political corruption , that just weren't addressed in motion pictures back then . there's also in the film a good supporting cast , with future stars , that's just too numerous to mention here . Not to be overlooked is Llyod Bochner , Dr . Wendell Roberts , who in a small but important role reveals the truth about Norma's husbands , Colin Maciver's , tragic death that leaves Det . Joe Leland almost speechless ! The shocking revelations that Dr . Roberts brings out has Let . Leland wonder if being a cop is worth all the dangers risks as well as surprises that the Teddy Leikman / Filex Tesla case eventually brought for him ! And most of all it has Det . Leland also wonder if police work is what he's really cut out to do !
Can I have a couple of minutes ? For you they'll hold the plane !	( Some Spoilers ) In a depressing backward but oil rich South American third-world country the lives of four persons cross from four different parts of the globe . They all , with the possible exception of professional assassin Nilo , have one thing in common ; their on the run from the law the mob and the Isareli Mossad and their lives aren't worth the raggedy and dirty clothes that their wearing . Being an exciting remake of the 1953 French Classic " Wages of Fear " the William Friedkin suspense / thriller " Sorcerer " was not the success at the box office that it should have been because a lot of moviegoers mistook it to be a sequel to Friedkin's previous horror blockbuster " The Exorcist " released four years earlier in 1973 . Looking forward to nothing but an early grave the three fugitive's Scalnon / Dominguez , Roy Scheider , Manzon / Serrar , Bruno Cremer , Kassen / Martin , Amidou , are stuck in this dingy little town of Poza Rica with no hope of ever getting out . Another outsider Nilo , Franiscc Rabal , is also in town but not as a fugitive but as a hired hit-man to do a job for his employer . At Roza Rica a major fire breaks out at the towns and country's , biggest oil well that if not put out immediately would cause the country and the US oil company that's there to go bankrupt . The only way to put out the fire and save the oil well is to get a truckload of dangerous nitroglycerin sticks that are stored in the jungle , some 200 miles away , and bring it to the oil well fire in order to detonate it and then smother and choke out the flames ; but that's easier said then done . Calling for volunteers and offering them from 8 to 10 , later as much as 20 , thousand pesos the American manager of the well as well as the oil field surrounding it Charles Corlette , Romon Bieri , get's Dominguez Serrar Martin and his friend Marquez , Karl John , to drive two trucks each loaded with three cases of nitroglycerin . But they have to drive them some 218 miles back to Roza Rica through some of the worst roads in Central and South America and one mistake can mean instant death for the person , and his partner , driving . Nerve whacking action coupled with a bone rattling soundtrack has the four drivers , Nilo who whacked Marquez earlier in the film later took his place on the truck , go through hell and high and treacherous mountain roads and low jungle swamps and streams . As they try to make it back to Roza Rica with the desperately needed nitro but not all of them do . Only Dominguez makes it back alive . You need to gulp down a bottle of extra-strong sedatives to just be able to sit through and watch some of the incredible scenes in the movie that seem to defy the laws of modern physics . With the trucks literally hanging on a string to keep them from falling off a cliff or a bridge that could barely support a 160 pound man . The film ends with Dominguez now a hero in the town and about to leave , for God's knows where , with a 40 , 000 peso certified bank check having just one last dance with the cleaning lady , who seems to be the only woman in town , to the sweet and tender music of " I'll Remember April " . It's then that his dark and terrifying past , that he left back in New Jersey , finally catches up with him .
Affront to Freedom	( There are some Spoilers ) Woody Allen as part-time bookie and all around schlemiel Howard Prince not only gets the girl of his dreams Florence Barrett , Andrea Marcovicci , in the end but also becomes a , though reluctant , hero as well . Depicting the Red Scare in America circa 1953 and how it effected those in the entertainment world we first see Howard working as a cashier . Howard also takes bets on the side as a small time bookie , at a midtown Manhattan diner . Howard is then approached by his former school and now writer friend Alfred Miller , Michael Murphy . Alfred wants Howard to put his name on a number of scripts that he wrote and now can't get anyone on the TV networks to accept . Alfred tells Howard that he'll give him 10 % of what he gets paid for the scripts and that he has a number of other writer friends that are willing to do the same thing . Howard in hock with his bookie business takes the deal that Alfred , and his friends , gave him not knowing what he's really getting into . Howard is acting as a front for Alfred & friends , a group of black-listed TV script writers , and that can put him behind bars or even worse . Force him to rat on his friends in order to save his own neck . Before you know it Howard is the toast of the TV world with his writing getting rave reviews from the critics and having Florence , a script editor at the network where Howard works , thinking that he's the reincarnation of both Walt Withman and Victor Hugo . What the movie " The Front " shows us is just how really ineffective the dreaded HAUC was in it's attempt to cleanse communists from off the TV tube and the movie's silver screen . Most of , if not all , of the people that it destroyed were nothing more that harmless dupes who for the most part didn't know the difference between communism from creationism . In fact the real communist subversives and spies came across as patriotic , if not more so , then the members of the HUAC themselves . The very fact that having any connections with a communist or pro-communist group would blow their cover had these real communist trouble-makers know enough not to be associated with them in order to throw off suspicion on themselves . The saddest example in the film of the HUAC morbid actions was the case of Hecky Brown , Zero Mostel . Hecky used to be one of the top comedians in show business . Five years ago he marched in a May Day parade and that sealed his fate . Being told by HUAC honcho Hennessey , Remak Remsay , to rat on his friends who were with him at the parade then and who work with him now which Hecky refused or could't do . Hecky innocently told Hennessey that the only reason he marched in the May Day parade was to get close and romantic with one of the sexy marchers and thats all it , his marching in the parade , was about . Forced to name names or lose his ability to make a living Hecky in the end couldn't bring himself to rat on his friends , including Howard . In no time Heckys career in show business was history . Broke alone with no means of supporting himself and his family poor Hecky checks into a midtown hotel room get himself good and dunk and then jumps out the window to his death . Howard now realizing what he got himself into . Soon he'll have to face the HUAC and either talk or take long vacation behind bars for booking bets . Thats the only criminal charge that the committee could pin on him . Coming clean with Florence Howard tells her that he's nothing but a front and phony when it come to him being TV's best writer , as well him being a socially conscious intellectual . In fact he can barley write his own name much less an award winning TV or film script . Howard tells Florence that when he's called to testifies before Hennessey and his goons on the HUAC he'll make her more proud of himself by what he tells them then all the phony-baloney BS that she believed about him in the past . Sure enough the next day Howard got the admiration and respect from Florence and everybody who ever knew him : by standing up to the HUAC and telling them just what they could do to themselves .
The Elf Who Saved Christmas	( There Are Spoilers ) Buddy the Elf , Will Ferrell , never seemed to fit in with his fellow Elfs in Santa's , Edward Anser , workshop at the North Pole . Being a couple of sizes bigger then the Elfs that he lived and worked with at the toy factory Buddy felt out of place and with his overly big hands he was clumsy in making toys as perfectly and delicately as your average Elf . Buddy considered himself to be , to the horror of his fellow Elfs , a " Cotton-Headed Ninny Muffin " . One day Buddy's dad Papa Elf , Bob Newheart , came clean with the obviously confused Buddy and let the truth come out : Buddy your not an Elf your a Human . Buddy , were told , was left at the steps of an Cathloic Orphanage to be brought up by the Nuns there . One Christman Eve Santa came to town and Buddy slipped into his bag of toys and ended up in the North Pole and was secretly made to think that he's an Elf by Santa Papa Elf and all the Elfs working there . Now with the truth about him and his real dad Walter Hobbs , James Caan , a greedy and unfeeling children's book publisher who's , O ' My God , on Santa's naughty list ! Buddy crosses the seven levels of the Candy Cane Forest and past the Sea of Twirly Swirly Gumdrops and finally goes through , on foot , the Lincoln Tunnel to the magic city , New York , to finally meet his dad who he never knew up until now . Looked at as " Some kind of Nut " at first Buddy's good and child-like nature , as well as his belief in the Christmas Spirit and Santa Claus , wins over everyone that he meets . From his dad Walter to his step-mom Emily Hobbs and younger brother Michael , Mary Steenburgen & Daniel Tay , as well as Jovie , Zooey Deschanel , the girl who he worked with as an Elf , what else , at Gimbel's Depertment Store . Through Buddy's skills as a toy maker as well as his all around good nature he made believer's of everyone in New York City that there is a Santa as well as a Christmas Spirit . Buddy did it with a little help from his newly found and made friends who at first didn't believe him and even thought that he was just a wee bit mentally unstable . Heartwarming Christmas Movie with Will Ferrell perfect as Buddy the Elf who saved Christmas with James Cann as his grouchy but later Santa believing dad . Jovie who has a beautiful singing voice but was too stage frighten to sing in front of people , she only could sing in the shower , was so motivated by Buddy's actions to open up her voice in public at New Yorks Central Park , singing a Christmas Carol , where everyone in the park joined in including Buddy's at first apprehensive dad Walter . This gave Santa's sled the power to lift it up above the clouds and fly higher then it did , with the Christmas Spirit that powered Santa's Raindeer driven Sled in everyones singing the Christmas Carol , for years .
This Is Unbelievable !	SPOILERS An anything goes wild stag party turns into a nightmare for all those involved with half of the participants ending up dead , from gunshots beatings suicide and even a heart-attack , and the other half having their lives ruined forever . It didn't have to happen this way it was just to be an evening of good natured fun for the person that the party was being thrown for " Entrepreneur of the Year " Victor Mallick , John Stockwell . Victor about to get married had everything going for him in both business and marriage but that went down the drain together with his freedom by the time the night of horrors ended . Victor now faces some seven years behind bars with his good friend and business partner attorney Michael Barnes , Mario Van Peebles , turning states evidence against him . As for that slick and slimy shyster , who's running for city council , Michael Barnes all his back-stabbing and legal maneuvering in the end will not only have his license to practice law revoked but have him end up as Victor's cell-mate . Michael as smart as he was , in saving his lousy neck , overlooked an object that recorded the entire sleazy cover-up that he orchestrated . A good old video camcorder that was accidentally left , during all the confusion , on record mode ! The party at first was going as expected with everyone getting juiced on booze and drugs until two , paid for their services , strippers Kelly together with her older sister Serena , Jenny McShane & Taylor Dayne , and their friend Stoker , William Parel , unexpectedly dropped in . Dressed as policemen the three , Kelly Serena & Stoker , ended up setting off the by now out of control and excited party-goers to the point where Kelly ended up dead with her spine broken . Trying to cover up Kelly's death , which in fact was accidental , the stag-party goer made things a lot worse in trying to protect their careers and reputations by acting like criminals more then just someone , or someones , who're victims of circumstances . A lot like the movie " 12 Angry Men " we get to see the guest of honor Victor and his drinking and partying buddies try to justify their actions that lead to Kelly's death . In justifying their actions Victor & Co . do things far worse , and with full knowledge of what their doing , then what they did to the deceased Kelly by accident ! What we get is a night of planning conniving and executing crimes that in the end would put the entire cast of characters , with the exception of those who ended up dead , behind bars for up to fifteen years . The film " Stag " shows how a group of totally innocent and , with the exception of the stag party's drug supplier ex-con Pete Webber ( Andrew McCarthy ) , upright citizens can in their unfounded fear be whipped up to commit a number of major crimes in a frantic effort to save their jobs freedoms and reputations . Webber , the drug dealer , being a career criminal was anything but concerned in murdering those who can implicate him in Kelly's death . It was fascinating to see Webber's , who should have known better , plan since the worst that he , having really nothing to lose , could get is breaking his parole not losing a six figure job in the business legal sports or entertainment world . SPOILER ALERTThe person at the party who was just there because he was Victor's good friend , not that he was a big success in anything , Gulf War Vet Dan Kane , Kevin Dillion , was the only one who seemed to have his head screwed on straight . Trying to do the right thing Ken almost gets himself shot by non-other then Victor , in trying to save his a , who didn't know who his friends really were until the police put the cuffs on him . Victor trusted his good friend and business partner Michael Barnes who's testimony sent him up the river without a paddle and , when he was to be released , job to support his very expensive lifestyle . P . S What a difference things would have been for Victor , as well as those at the stag party , if he just listened to his friend Ken . Ken , unlike Michael Barnes , looked after Victor's best interests not those of his own . In the end the almost invisible , to those at the party , camcorder , and what it recorded , was the evidence that got Ken off the hook as well as hooked Victor and his friends into the sate penitentiary .
A Study in Self-Denial	( There are Spoilers ) With no one , including members of his family , taking Kyle Hunter's , Trevor Blumas , symptoms of hurt and depression seriously Kyle ends up killing himself from carbon-monoxide poisoning one rainy evening in the family garage . Kyle's dad Michael Hunter , Andy Garcia , who should have known his problems and how serious they were since he's a collage professor in psychology , as well as threats people like Kyle all the time is so devastated by his son's death that he ends up leaving his wife Penny and daughter Selly , Chelsea Fields & Linda Cardellini , to live by himself since he couldn't face them anymore . We later learn the real reason for Kyle's suicide and it shows how right Michael was in feeling guilty about his death and what he had , unconsciously and unknowingly , to do with it . It's now three years later and Michael is getting his life back together , and putting Kyle's tragic death behind him , as he goes on the lecture circuit and is invited to speak at his alma mater Kansas University . It's at Kansas U . that Michael meets one of his former students Dr . Barbara Wagner , Teri Polo , now a licensed psychologist at the Holly Health School for Wayward Boys who asks him about seeing one of her patients 17 year-old Tommy Caffey , Vincent Kartheiser . Hesitant at first Michael agrees to talk to Tommy who's about to be released since he's doing so well , psychology and is about to reach his 18th birthday , at the school . Tommy , almost by accident , get's to know Michael's young teenage daughter Shelly who falls in love with him when she meets Tommy at a dance by the railroad yard when he was out on a night-time leave from Holly Heath . Tommy also murdered a young girl Chole , Kim Schraner , earlier that evening when she aggressively come on to him by the deserted railroad cars not knowing what kind of monster the shy sweet and good looking Tommy really is . Tommy learns all about Shelly's deceased brother Kyle and uses that knowledge to manipulate Michael into , or having his personal psychologist Dr . Wagner , give him a clean bill of health and thus release from the hated , by Tommy , institution . Tommy had developed a murderous hatred of women , or young girls , who try to be intimate with him because of what happened to his mom when he was a young boy ; she was brutally murdered by his dad Joseph Caffey , Sam Bottoms , when he found that she was having an affair with another man . The truth behind Tommy's mom's murder , and what caused his dad to keep it secret all these years , is something that Tommy has been trying to keep locked deep inside his mind and that's the reason for his dangerous psychosis that eventually leads to murder and madness . Disturbing but thought-provoking movie that has you almost as shocked as Michael is by the time it's over with Tommy skillfully getting under his skin , and sub-conscious , by morphing himself into Michael's son Kyle and , unknowingly , bringing out the truth behind Kyle's death that Michael , by his actions in trying to help his troubled son , had a lot to do with . Michael begins to realize later the reasons for Tommy knowing so much about Kyle , he's been secretly dating his daughter Shelly , and even more shocking the real reason for his mothers murder that shaped Tommy's mind and turned him into the Dr . Jeckel and Mr . Hyde that he became . The ending of the movie " The Unsaid " is a bit confusing at first with Tommy going wild in his effort to get out of the Holly Health School and almost murdering his psychologist Dr . Wagner and then taking Shelly hostage in the process . But when confronted with the truth by Michael , and seeing that he really needs help , and that a life on the outside will only end with him being either dead or on death row the movie couldn't have ended any other way .
Collateral Damage	SPOILERS Early in the film " Collateral " Vincent , Tom Cruise , the hit-man with ice water in his veins for blood tells L . A cab driver Max , Jami Foxx , that in the city of L . A people are so detached and impersonal that he heard a story once about someone dying on a L . A transit train and nobody noticed he was dead until a day and a half later . Vincent didn't know it at the time about just how prophetic he was . Nail biting big city crime thriller about an out of town hit-man commandeering a cab as a getaway car with the reluctant driver going along for the ride . The hit-man makes his rounds in taking out a conglomerate of mob bosses crooked lawyers and government protected mob witnesses . As well as about a few dozen police mobsters and FBI agents in the process . Over-the-top and exciting but never boring movie has Vincent go through both the mobsters and law enforcement officers in L . A like a mad bull in a China shop seeing red with L . A cabbie Max unwillingly tagging along . Max picked up a pretty young federal attorney at the start of the movie Annie , Jada Pinkett Smith , and Annie was so impressed by Max's driving and knowledge of the city that she gave Max her card that had her business address and phone number . Unknown to both Max and Annie at the time it turned out to be a real lifesaver . Max later picking Vincent up at the L . A airport is given $600 . 00 by Vincent for him to drive him to five different stops as he does his rounds as a hit-man for the rest of the night . That $600 . 00 didn't make up for the damage that it cost Max who's cab was totaled and who's nerves were shot to pieces by the time the night was over . Vincent does his job with style and pizazz as well as bullets by blasting people out of windows and in high-rise law offices as well as during jazz sessions and in crowded nightclubs . Towards the end of the movie there was a incredible shoot-out at an L . A Chinese night spot , the Fever , that made the shoot-out at the OK Corral look like an episode of Sesame Street . " Collateral " is the type of movie that you really can't take too seriously and have to suspend some belief watching it . The connection between Max and Vincent is a bit too contrived and very strained with Vincent putting up with all the nervous and unexpected acts that Max's does in the movie . these antics could have cost Vincent his freedom or even his life . Where at the same time we see Vincent blast away anyone in the film , who as much as looks at him a little funny , with out a show of emotion . But if Vincent did Max in right away the movie would have been over . At the same time if Max was too terrified to talk or even think and just went along with Vincent , even when he left him alone like Vincent did a few times in the movie , it would have taken away Max's personality which was what made the movie as effective as it was . " Collateral " is not a great film it has a lot of loose ends that are left untied by the time the movie is over but it keeps the pace and action moving . Especially with the sharp and funny inter-action between Max and Vincent in and out of Max's cab and on the streets freeways high rise buildings and subways of L . A . " Collateral " is sure to become one of the summer of 2004 biggest hits .
Champion of the American Working Man	( Some Spoilers ) Going through a series of financial and emotional crisis ' and left with nothing to hang on to keep him afloat 44 year-old Samuel Bicke , Sean Penn , decided to strike back at who he felt was the reason for all his troubles and frustrations : The Government of the United States and the man who represents it President Richard M . Nixon . Samuel had been going through a very hard time since he was honorably discharged from the US Army back in 1956 . Married with four children Samuel had developed severe emotional problems and was in and out of mental institutions that lead to his being separated from his wife Marie , Naoni Watts . Samuel has problems at his job as a furniture salesman as well , he can't get enough people to buy the products he selling . His boss Jack Jones , Jack Thompson , tries to motivate Samuel by getting him to read books and listen to audio tapes that he gives him about being a good salesman , but Samuel is too ethical to try to talk people into buying things that they don't want by lying about how good they are . The final straw is when Samuel gets divorce papers from his wife's lawyer through the mail and with that his entire world falls apart . Walking out on his job as a salesman Samuel has ideas about going into business with his friend Bonny Simmons , Don Cheadle , and puts in for a government loan which is later rejected , this makes Samuel feels even more strongly that the government , and President Nixon , are out to get him . Stealing some 500 tires from his brother Julius ' , Michael Wincott , car dealership and putting them into his and Bonny's business , where they sell auto parts and tires , has Bonny arrested for grand larceny , even though he had nothing to do with the crime . Samuel later gets an ear-full from Julius about how irresponsible and criminal his actions were , the only reason that Samual wasn't arrested was that Julius didn't press charges against him . Samuel was no better then president Nixon , who was well on his way to resign his office due to the Watergate scandal , whom he detested with a passion and held responsible for all the trouble that he was in . Fantasizing himself as a champion of the working men and women of America , to hide the real reason for his failures , Samuel like a modern day Don Quixote planned to get on his high horse and ride out to slay the dragon that he felt was holding him and the working people of America down : President Richard M . Nixon and thus sealed his , not President Nixon's , fate . A powerful performance by Sean Penn as the disturbed and , in the end , murderous Samuel Bicke in this true story about how a persons feelings of self-importance , coupled with his personal frustrations , made him go completely insane due to his conjured up fantasies that turned him into a mindless killer . Raving mad Samuel , with a loaded handgun and gasoline bomb , goes to the Baltimore International Airport on the morning of February 22 , 1974 to skyjack a passenger plane and , like a guided missile , commandeer it straight into the White House taking out President Nixon and anybody else who happens to be there . What turned out to be a horrible crime , two persons including the planes pilot were murdered by Samuel before he was shot by airport police and then killed himself , back on February 22 , 1974 turned out to be an unimaginable nightmare when 19 likewise madmen did , what Samuel tried to do , in a much more grandeur and deadlier fashion some 27 years later on September 11 , 2001 .
It's Not Alright !	MILD SPOILERS Johnny Smith , Christopher Walken , lives in a quiet town and teaches English literature at the local high school . Engaged to marry his sweetheart Sarah , Brooke Adams , he spends some time with her at her home one night and when he leaves her house to go home it starts raining very heavily . Driving in a blinding rainstorm his car crashes into a tractor trailer that jack-knifed up the road in front of him . Johnny lives but he paid a very heavy price for his survival . Being in a coma for five years when he wakes up out of it he finds that he lost his job his sweetheart to another man and his ability to walk normally but he gained something that for many would be considered a blessing but for johnny it turned out to be a curse . Johnny developed a power , due to his mind being in a five year coma , to see future or past events by getting the feelings of any person that he touches . " The Dead Zone " has gotten better and better with age since it was released back in 1983 . Modestly made but packing a far bigger wallop then any of the movies blockbusters about psychic phenomenon which cost " the Dead Zone " a fraction of their hundred of million dollars budgets . Feeling that he's being exploited by people because of his strange powers Johnny becomes very introverted and does everything he can to avoid people . One night after watching the TV news about the latest victim of the " Castle Rock Killer " Johnny , who at first turned down Sheriff Bannerman , Tom Skerritt , to help in the case , gets in touch with the Sheriff to assist him in finding the killer . After examining a clue that was unwitting tampered by the Sheriff Johnny struck pay-dirt which led to the killers identity and resulted in his suicide . Trying to get his life back to whatever normality that he could Johnny gets jobs tutoring children who have trouble at school learning and getting along with other students because of , in most cases , their extreme shyness . One of the children that Johnny helps adjust to his teachers and classmates is Chris Stuart , Simon Craig , who's father , Anthony Zerbe , is a big political campaign contributor . One day while helping Chris with his homework Greg Stillson , Martin Sheen , drops into the Stuart house to talk with Chris ' father about helping him in his campaign for getting elected to the senate . Stillon is planning to uses his election to the senate as a launch-board for his future run for President of the United States . When Stillson sticks out his hand to shake Johnny's he has a campaign button it in thus Johnny can't get Stillson's vibrations and see what he's all about . Later putting his arm around Chris Johnny gets vibrations that he'll drown when the ice breaks from under him in the hockey game that Chris is going to be playing with his school mates later that afternoon . Trying to get Chris ' father to postpone the hockey game the enraged Mr . Stuart fires johnny form teaching his son . Johnny made such a deep impression on Chris about what was going to happen at the lake that he didn't go and later that afternoon the ice , like Johnny said it would , broke and two of Chris ' friends fell through it and drowned . Johnny shook up with what happened to Chris ' friends at the lake walked into a campaign rally for Greg Stillson and this time when Stillson put out his hand for Johnny to shake he had nothing in it . Johnny felt Stillson's vibrations and saw what the future held for him as well as everybody else on the planet if he ever got elected president . Powerful and unforgettable film about one knowing the future and if it's possible to change future events for the better . " The Dead Zone " is what I think is Christopher Walken's best movie with Walken's acting in that film is better then in any movie that I ever saw him in .
Raven : Don't try to run ! Ellen : Who do you think I am ? Whirlway !	SPOILERS Being awakened by his alarm clock Philip Raven , Alan Ladd , checks out his shabby hotel room and notices a kitten by his window ledge . As Raven gives the hungry kitzel some milk the hotel maid Annie , Pamela Bake , comes in to clean up the place and after seeing the cat knock down the can of milk whacks it with her broom . This action sets off , what looked like at first , the serene and quite Raven so violently where he almost rips Annie's dress off . Up and out of his hotel room and on the streets of San Francisco Raven goes to see chemist Albert Baker , Frank Ferguson , about some pressing business the he has with him and passes a crippled girl , Virita Campbell , on the stairway to Bakers office . Taking a letter from Baker Raven instead of giving him the cash that he agreed to shoots Baker dead and does the same to his secretary Bennadena Hayes who just happened to be there , Raven doesn't like to leave any witnesses . As he leaves the building Raven not only doesn't shoot the crippled girl who can identify him , even though the thought didn't escape his mind , but picks up ball she was playing with and hands it back to her . As cold blooded as he is Raven still has a soft spot when it comes to those who like him are unwanted and outcasts from society , like stray and unwanted cats and the handicapped , which doesn't make him all bad . In fact Raven also has a handicap , of shorts , himself a very deformed left wrist that he got as a young boy when his violent and drunken aunt broke it with a hot iron because he stole a bar of chocolate from her ; Raven later murdered her by slitting her throat and then ending up in Juvenile Hall until he was an adult . It's when Raven got paid for knocking off Baker , his secretary was a bonus on Ravens part , that things started to get real ugly . Seeing his contact in the Baker killing Willard Gates , Laird Cregar , Raven is paid off in 100 $10 . 00 bills for the secret chemical formula he got from Baker . Unknown to Raven he was given a marked deck , or traceable currency , by Gates who knew the police and treasury agents have been alerted to and are out looking for the bills . Raven realizing that he's been set up by the back-stabbing Gates is now determined to do a hit on him . This leads to Gates ' boss , the mastermind of this whole sleazy operation , industrialist and president of the multi-million dollar chemical giant Nitro Chemicals Alvin Brewester , Tully Marshall . Dark and brutal film-noir crime suspense thriller with hit-man Philip Raven getting nightclub singer Ellen Graham , Veronica Lake , involved with him as she's mistaken to be his girlfriend by Gates ; when he saw both of them together on a train going to L . A . Raven was on that train to get to the Nitro Chemical offices where he found that Gates was employed at in order to pay him off , in hot lead , for double-crossing him . Ellen herself wasn't exactly what Raven and her boyfriend SFPD Det . Michael Crane , Preston Foster , thought that she was . Working undercover in Gates Neptune nightclub Ellen was in touch with Senator Burnett , Roger Imhof , who was investigating both him and his boss Brewster . The two are suspected in planning to sell , the formula that Ravan got from Baker , a secret and extremely lethal type of poison gas to the Japanese . It's both Gates and Brewster's treachery that make Raven , as cold blooded a killer as you'll ever see on the silver screen , a genuine all-American hero in " This Gun for Hire " . It's not that Raven wasn't paid for doing in the two traitors he also forgot that they in fact double-crossed him it was that they were selling out their country , like they did him . That really got Raven to turn on them and he did it with a sense of patriotic fervor . Gates who despite his association with the murderous and cold-blooded Brewster was in fact a refined and genteel type of person . He just couldn't stand the sight of blood or any kind of violence . Gates ends up getting violently blasted by a vengeful Raven . Brewster , desperately trying to pull a pen-gun on the hit-man ends up dropping dead from a fatal heart-attack ; I guess the strain was just too much for him . Killed in the ensuing shoot-out with the police the irony in the film is that Raven who would have been slated to go to the San Quentin gas chamber , for killing a cop . Instead Raen ended up being prised in the newspapers and radio as a hero for saving thousands of US servicemen in preventing Brewster from giving the enemy Japanese the poison gas formula to use on them .
Alibi : Latin word for elsewhere	SPOILERS Clever made for TV movie involving a top defense attorney Arthur Jamison , Anthony Hopkins , trying to figure a way in " off " his annoying and blackmailing wife Louise , Blythe Danner , and make it look like either an accident or break-in murder . We get to see the well laid plans of Arthur in action at the beginning of the film as he set up his alibi and then goes through with murdering his wife Louise in their San Francisco mansion . It's then that we see that Authur was only doing all this , murdering Louise , in his mind as he together with his alter ego or double , Donegan Smith , debate how to plug all the gaps in his murder plan . It's later that a new ingredient is added to the mix , or movie , with Jackie Willis , Swoosie Kurtz , who shows up unexpectedly at the Jamison Mansion ! Jackie wants to know if the Jamisons have the key to their next door neighbors , the Starks , home . Jackie was to water the Starks , who are away on vacation , plants and lost the key to their house . As the movie starts to unfold it becomes apparent that Jackie isn't just an innocent bystander in this bizarre murder plot but one of the main characters in it ! In fact she's both Arthur's mistress as well as Louise's co-conspirator in a murder plot to " off " her unsuspecting husband ! Even though the movie goes in and out of sub-plots in how both Arthur and his wife Louise plan to murder each other it's Jackie who holds the key to how the crime will be both committed and covered up . Playing both sides to her advantage Jackie knows , by the skillful cover-up of her relationship with the Jaminsons , that in the end no matter who of the two wannabe murders succeed she'll alway have an alibi in not being connected at the murder scene . There's also Arthur's double , or conscience , who gives him , as well as in the audience , a free lesson in the workings of law that even the very best law schools , costing as much as $25 , 000 . 00 a semester in tuition , will have a hard to to match . You learn so much about the in's and out's of criminal law in the conversations between Arthur and his double , as well as with Louise and Jackie , that you'll easily be able to pass the bar exam without as much as a sweat ! SPOILERS The movie ends as it began but with the opposite results which shows that the smartest and most thought out plans to murder someone don't always work out !
Night time's the right time	Updated version of the 1954 Alfred Hitchcock classic " Rear Window " with Christopher Reeves as quadriplegic Jason Kemp who unknowingly spies upon a violent domestic dispute by his neighbors across the yard that possibly later escalated to murder . Recovering from a car smash-up architect Jason Kemp is left without the use of his arms and legs and very bitter that his latest project was given to fellow architect Claudia Henderson , Daryl Hannah , who took over for him while he was hospitalized . Back home Jason is given all the high-tech equipment to make his life , and in-home work , a lot easier . Even his relations with Claudia starts to warm up when he realizes that she's not trying to upstage him but wants him to be part of the project that she's doing . Jason later falls in love with Claudia who among other thing made his life a lot happier by her concern and attention towards him at this very critical time in his recovery . With nothing to do with his free time Jason watches , with a zoom-video camera , what his neighbors are doing across the back-yard of his apartment building . He then soon notices this couple constantly fighting with each other . Not taking it seriously at first Jason sees that the fights are a lot more intense and violent then your average family squabbles . One evening Jason calls 911 when the husband Julian Thorpe , Richie Coaster , beats his wife Ilene , Allison Mackie , to the point where she almost loses consciousness . The next night after Julian was released from police custody Jason hears a blood-curdling scream coming from the Thorpe apartment then all is deathly quite . Spying on the Thorps the next few day , to see if everything is all right , Jason notices something very strange and disturbing . Ilene is no longer there and Julian is living with another woman , who turned out to be Ilene's sister , who stole or also took over Mrs . Thorpe's identity . Better then average made-for-TV thriller that turned out to be actor Chris Reeves ' last , and most personal , movie role . Suspenseful build-up as Thorpe slowly realizes that he's not only being spied on by Jason but that Jason knows what he did to his wife and tries to murder him to keep Jason from going to the police . The ending of " Rear Window " is a bit of a let-down but at the same time more intriguing then that of the 1954 version of the movie by leaving it , the ending , up in the air and to the imagination of the viewers . Chris Reeves was playing himself in the movie " Rear Window " as he was a real victim of a spinal-cord injury , that he suffered from a raiding accident on May 27 , 1995 , that left him paralyzed for the rest of his life until he passed away just days after his 52th birthday . Christopher Reeves made a much bigger impact on the public in the courage that he showed and energies that he gave in battling the disability that he suffered and making it , the cure for Neurolog Disease , the cause that he fought for until his death . Reeves helped create the Christoper Reeves Paralysis Foundation and thus helping , as well as inspiring , thousands of others suffering from that disabling disease with the hope that advanced medical treatments hopefully will eradicate it in the very near future . Chris showed the public , in the last nine years of his life , that he was just as much the man Superman while confined in a wheelchair in real life as the was the comic book hero Superman that he played in the movies .
A tragic death in a small town	Spoilers Sitting at the dinner table with his parents and little sister Jacob , Edward Furlong , finally opens up and tells the story of what happened between him and Martha Traverner , Alison Folland , since Martha was found dead in the snow outside of town . Jacob was on the run as a fugitive from justice for the a week until he was found and arrested at a friends house . Last seen with Martha as he picked her up where she worked at Jacey's Ice Cream Parlor in town Jacob was the prime suspect in her death . Now after being apprehended and let out on bail he had to get what happened to Martha off his chest and the story wasn't a pretty one , but it wasn't as bad as it could have been either . Jacob did indeed kill Martha but it was a tragic accident . Gripping story about a father and mothers love for their troubled son and how they went about to save him from being put behind bars for killing his girlfriend and how it destroyed their lives as well as , of course , the lives of the parents of the girl who was killed . Jacob's mother Carolyn Ryan , Meryl Streep , wanted only the truth about her son actions in regard to Martha's death to come out in court and felt that it would exonerate him . His father Ben Ryan , Liam Neeson , on he other hand wanted to do everything possible and even went as far as destroying evidence in order to protect him . Jacob in the end sided with his mother and wrote out a full confession which his father could not bring himself to sign . Jacob was 16 years old and needed his parents signature to make the confession legal , and in effect threw himself on the mercy of the court . Jacob didn't bother to defend his actions which his father and lawyer Penos Demeris , Alfred Molina , begged him to do . " Before and After " is a story that has no happy ending no matter how you look at it , for both the victim and the accused . Its realism makes the film more effective and believable then most movies about courtroom dramas which usually have cop-out and feel-good or surprise endings . The story is told in retrospect from Jacob's little sisters Judith's , Julia Weldon , point of view . You already see from the start of the movie that things were never the same for Julia and her family when the film started . Meryl Streep as the mother is both protective and at the same time confident of the court and jury that her son Jacob was to face in his trial . Liam Neeson as the father was just the opposite not trusting the jury to acquit his son no matter how strong the evidence was in Jacob's favor that Martha's death was an accident . Jacob went with his mothers feeling in telling the truth and leaving it up to the judge instead of going to trail . In the end Jacob and his family were left to see if he was right or wrong in that decision . Strong performances all around with a really powerful scene in the movie towards the end when Carolyn is confronted by Martha's mother Terry , Ann Magnuson , at the hospital where Carolyn works as a doctor . No matter how much Carolyn tries to tell Terry how sorry she is about what happened to her daughter Terry is totally unmoved to the point where Carolyn is overcome with tears . You couldn't blame Terry for feeling like she did , her daughter was dead and Carolyn's son , no matter what the outcome of the court will be , is alive . Those in the movie acted as if they really believed in what the story was trying to tell us : That a parent burying their child is the worse kind of tragedy imaginable , no matter what the circumstances of their child's death was . The film also brought out that those who have a son or daughter who was responsible for that death will have to , as well as their son or daughter , carry that guilt with them for the rest of their lives as well .
Terror and intrigue on the Chicago to L . A rail-line .	SPOILERS Tightly directed and acted Film-Noir thriller with the only thing a bit off about it is it's somewhat unrealistically surprise ending . Up until the " suprise " was sprung on you the film " The Narrow Margin " had you sitting on the edge of your seat . The movie had you wondering if mob-protected witness Mrs . Frankie Neil , Marie Windsor , would make with her life to the safety of the L . A Hall of Justice to testify against her late husband's , Frankie , mob associates ; the important and upstanding citizens , politicians police and clergy , in the community who they were paying off to do their bidding . In conjunction with the Chicago and L . A police departments L . A Det . Sgt . Walter Brown , Charles McGraw , together with local Chicago Poilce Sgt . Gus Forbes , Don Beddoe are assigned to take Mrs . Neil back to L . A to testify against the national crime syndicate . At the safe-house where Mrs . Neil is being held for her own protection there's a mob ambush of the two lawman as they were taking Mrs . Neil to the rail station with Forbes getting shot and killed . Feelng now that he has a very personal reason to get those who murdered his friend and partner Sgt . Forbes is even more determined then ever to get Mrs . Neil to L . A alive to bring down the syndicate with her explosive testimony . The train going to L . A , and all stops in between , becomes a train of horrors for Sgt . Brown an Mrs . Neil as a group of mobsters enter it on different stops to find out just where Sgt . Brown is keeping his star witness with them having no idea who she is or even looks like . Sgt . Brown plays it close to his vest by keeping Mrs . Neil hidden in a double-cabin . Later he strikes up a relationship with passenger Ann Sinclair , Jacqueline White , whom he got to meet through her bratty little boy Tommy , Gordon Gebert . , whom the mobsters mistake for Mrs . Neil ; the person that their determined to knock off . The movie moves along at a brisk pace and it's not until the big surprise towards the end that we realize that there's been an uncanny twist played on both Sgt . Brown and the mobsters by the higher ups in the L . A police department . The twist ending has to do with getting Mrs . Neil back to L . A safely . It's that twist that ironically not only throws you off but takes away from the movie's believability that it had up until then . Still " A Narrow Margin " is more then worth watching with it's tense-filled build-up and with a fight scene between Sgt . Brown and hoodlum Joe Kemp , David Clarke , in a small and claustrophobic train cabin that has to rank as one of the most exciting in motion picture history .
These are the signs by which we shall know them	SPOILERS A slew of miscalculations on the part of everyone involved makes this first major motion picture by the Coen Brothers the modern Film-Noir classic that it eventually became . Set deep in the heart of Texas the movie " Blood Simple " involves bar / nightclub owner Marty , Dan Hedaya , who suspects he wife Abby , Frances McDormand , is cheating on him . Hiring Private Investagator Loren Visser , M . Emmet Walsh , to find the proof Visser come up with a number of photos of Abby having an affair with one of Marty's workers at the nightclub Ray , John Getz , who he fires . Marty tells Ray not to step into his nightclub again , even to get his two week salary that Marty owes him , if he doesn't want to get shot and killed . Later Marty goes to Ray's house and attacks Abby who he found there , only to get his right pointer finger almost bit off by her as well as getting a hard kick by Abby to his mid-section leaving Marty gasping for air . Hurt and humiliated by what happened to him Marty again gets in contact with PI Visser . This time Marty wants Visser to murder both Abby and Ray , with their bodies never being found and offers him $10 , 000 . 00 to do the job . Visser who at first hesitated agrees to do the " hit " on the two lovers but what Marty doesn't know is that the " hit " that Visser is planing is going to be on him . Visser plans to frame Marty's wife Abby and her boyfriend Ray for Martys murder with him taking of with Marty's $10 , 000 . 00 . What Visser doesn't realize is that in real life nothing happens the way it's planned and his plan in the end backfires on him with fatal results . Strange and haunting crime / drama where those on screen have no idea of whats happening in the movie , unlike the audience , even when the film is finally over . There's long stretches of time , as much as ten minutes , in the film " Blood Simple " where there's no dialog at all but it's that very reason that makes the movie so effective . Dan Hedaya is both creepy and weird as bar owner Marty in wanting to have his wife Abby and her lover Ray iced for good . M . Emmet Walsh is as sleazy as they come as the Private Eye who's manipulating Marty as well as Abby and Ray in his sinister plan to commit the " Perfect Crime " at their expense . John Getz as Ray is caught up with the goings on behind the scenes by the manipulative Visser and induced to commit a murder that he really had nothing to do with but unknowing finished the job that Visser started . Frances McDormand as Abby is totally confused when Ray , thinking that she killed Marty , tries to tell her that he covered up the murder not knowing that she had nothing to do with it . Solid murder drama that shows that a good and imaginative script thats skillfully directed with a cast of unknowns can achieve as much if not more , without the tons of cash dumped into it by a major Hollywood studio .
Frobidden Fruit	( There are Spoilers ) Heart wrenchingly effective 1930's tear-jerker that grabs you right from the start and never lets go until the ending credits . With you hoping some way that for once , no matter how corny and unbelievable , that there will be a Hollywood-style happy ending . 25 year-old Barbara Stanwyck plays the young librarian Lulu Smith who just had enough of the dull and boring country life that she's been leading and decides to take her life savings , $1 , 200 . 00 , and go on a Caribbean cruise . Meeting this middle-aged man Bob Grover , Adolphe Menjou , when he got his cabin room mixed up with hers Lulu ends up spending her vacation time in Havana with Bob who together paint the town red . Back in the states the two fall madly in love with each other but when it comes to tie the knot Bob has a confession to make to Lulu . The fact is that he's not only married but involved in the states politics where leaving his crippled and loving wife Helen , Dorothy Peterson , would destroy his political career . In one of the most amazing and explosive scenes involving a breakup of a couple Lulu practically throws Bob out of her apartment as he , knowing that he's the guilty party , pleads for forgiveness telling an hurt and outraged Lulu that his door will always be opened to her . Time marches on as Bob becomes the states elected Attorney General . Lulu alone and almost homeless has Bob's baby , Roberta , whom she at first refuses to see in the maternity ward because the child reminds her of him . Still holding a flame for Lulu Bob tracks her down and finds out that she's alone , living with her and his three year-old daughter Roberta . He then continues his secret and illicit affair with her where at the same time puts on a false face , to the public , that he's a happily married man . The bottom falls out of both Bob and Lulu's secret relationship when the sleaze-ball editor of that yellow rag " The Record " Al Holland , Ralph Bellamy , spots little Roberta with Lulu . Bob who's political career , for some reason or another , Holland's determined to destroy and smells , with the rat-like instincts that he has , a big and provocative story at Bob Grover's expense . Being told by Lulu , whom the creep secretly has the hots for , that she's the governess of Roberta who's Bob and Helen's adopted daughter Holland go back to his office to get the truth about just who little Reborta is . This has her real mother Lulu , who get a job at the paper as it's lovelorn communists , go check out the mothers background which just happens to be herself ! In the end the you know what hits the fan with Bob , even though he's dying from an incurable and unnamed illness , getting elected governor of the state . Holland whom Lulu married , in order to keep the slime ball from exposing her and her and Bob's 19 year-old daughter Roberta , gets the official hospital records that his wife Lulu is both Roberta's mother and that Bob is her dad . Even more explosive Roberta was the results of an illicit affair between the two ! Instead of acting like a normal and feeling human being and keeping it all quite Holland runs out as if his pants were on fire to get the big story to hit the streets , via his paper , that morning . Instead the lowlife creep gets blasted by his now totally hysterical , from him beating her up and about to expose Roberta , wife Lulu . Really touching final with a dying governor Bob Grover pardoning his lover and mother of his daughter Lulu from a life-sentence , for gunning down Al Holland , and leaving half of his estate in her name . Lulu now old and with her deciding to keep the truth from Roberta , as well as the widowed Mrs . Grover , to herself and alone in the world does whats best for everyone . Not wanting to destroy Bob's reputation , by him being a man who cheated on his wife , Lulu both honorably and unselfishly tears up Bob's hand written last will and testament , throwing it in a city garbage can as he movie ends . Schmaltzy yet powerful film about a love that wasn't meant to be . In the end it showed those involved in it , Lulu & Bob , that the truth as painful as it would be , like Castor or Cod Liver oil , would have been the best medicine to cure it . The truth in the end would have saved both their lives , and ironically even Bob's wife Helen , from the destruction that was to later engulf them by keeping it a secret .
Blood Money	Tense and riveting drama that focuses completely on the family of the kidnapped victim . You never see the kidnapper or kidnappers during the entire film . Eight year-old Andy Stannard , Bobby Clark , is abducted on his way to school and his parents David & Edith , Glenn Ford & Donna Reed , later get the shocking news that he's missing from the school principle . Getting a phone call from the kidnapper to pay a ransom of $500 , 000 . 00 in cash for Andy's release David , the president and owner of the Stannard Vacuum Cleaner Company , comes up with the cash and is more then ready to pay it to save his son Andy . Then something deep in his gut , as well as the towns police chief Jim Backett ( Robert Keith ) , tells him that the chances of him getting Andy back safe and sound are the same if he pays the ransom or if he doesn't . The story of the infamous Lindberg kidnapping back in 1932 came up where even when the ransom was paid the Lindberg baby was still found murdered months later . David on a calculating and dangerous hunch going to publicly plead for and pay the ransom to save Andy goes instead on the on TV station and gives the abductor of his son , as well as everyone watching , the shock of their life . Powerful performances by both Glenn Ford and Donna Reed as the distraught parents trying to save their son but going in two different directions to do it , which led to Andy's mom losing control and ending up bedridden and on sedatives . David himself later felt that he made a wrong and fatal decision on his part but had to live with it . David's speech on TV addressing the kidnapper , or kidnappers , of his son was so gripping and stunning that for a moment I forgot that I was watching a movie but a real news broadcast , of a parent asking for his son to be returned to him from his abductor . Heart wrenching and absorbing with unbearable suspense and being on the razors edge that has your on the verge of , like what happened to Andy's mom , emotionally breaking down . The film switches from the public in total sympathy and support with the Stannard's to turning against the father for not wanting to give into the kidnappers demands . David plays his hunch that as long as Andy is alive their safe from him , who a pretty rough and tough guy on his own , and the electric chair when their caught and convicted . The ending of the movie has you , a well as David and Edith , unable to hold back your emotion and keep the tears from flowing . One of the best films about a child , or any other kind of , abduction with an ending that you'll never forget .
The Grand Hotel : People come people go and what they do that's their business .	( There are Spoilers ) Being told by his doctor that he hasn't got long to live meek and kindly bookkeeper Otto Kringelein , Lionel Barrymore , decides to go out in grand fashion . Taking his life's savings with him , some 11 , 000 Marks , Otto is to spends his last days on earth in the most expensive hotel in Berlin the aptly named " Grand Hotel " . It's at the Grand Hotel Otto gets to meet his abusive boss , at the textile factory , Preysing , Wallace Beery , who treats him with total destine . Preysing is certain that the only way Otto can afford to stay at that swanky and expensive joint is that he embezzled his business . Otto gets his by now hot in the collar boss even madder at him by stealing his pretty stenographer Flaemmchen or Flaem for short , Joan Crawford , who sees what a creep her , like Otto's , boss the Iron Prussian-like Preysing really is . The movie " Grand Hotel " also has as one of its guests the flat broke and compulsive gambler Baron Felix Von Geigern , John Barrymore . Baron Felix lost his entire fortune playing baccarat and is now in danger of getting his legs broken if he doesn't come up with the cash , 5 , 000 Marks , that he owes the " Boys " who've been backing up his losing bets . Baron Felix now on his last legs which he'll need crutches for if the " Boys " don't get their money is planning to rob the Great Grusinskaya , Greta Garbo , the worlds greatest ballerina who's also a guest at the hotel . The Baron concocts a plan to rob the Great Grusinskaya of her pearl necklace while she's at the Berlin Theater doing her thing : Dancing her heart out for the audience there . Baron Felix who's only friend on earth up to that time is his cute and faithful Dachshund Adolphus , or Adolph for short , will later " make it " with that cold fish of a woman Grusinskaya while in the process of burglarizing her hotel suite ! Catching Baron Felix off guard , by coming back to her suite early , Grusinskya is charmed by the handsome rogue who sweet talks her right out of her dance costume and into her bed ; With him joining it . It's later that the Baron after confessing his love for Grusinskaya , and returning her stolen pearl necklace , decides to use the naive Otto in a card game of baccarat he set up . This is done by Baron Felix in order to get back the money he owes the " Boys " before the " Boys " who've just about had it with him , in his stalling to pay them back their money , end up making him a cripple . The card game goes good for first-time gambler , beginners luck ? , Otto who breaks the bank walking away with another , to his already 11 , 0000 , 3 , 500 Marks . With time running out on him in paying the " Boys " back their money a desperate Baron Felix grabs Otto's , who's dead drunk for drinking champaign , wallet with some 15 , 000 Marks for him to finally pay back the " Boys " before they pay him , in working the Baron over , back with compounded interest and fractures . SPOILERSIt's then that Baron Felix finally sees the light and gives up his life of a cat burglar and con-artist but only after one last fling , in robbing Preysing room , which turned out to be fatal for him . Despite the major and established stars in the film , Greta Garbo the Barrymores and Wallace Beery , it was Joan Crawford , compared to the quality of acting talent she was up against , in a more or less supporting role who stole the films acting honors . Being both wholesome and sensuous Miss . Crawford was able to put the grubby and aggressive Preysing in his place . This was by showing him that the person whom he held in contempt , and was a rival for her affections , the sweet and soft speaking Otto was a bigger success , as a human being , that he'll ever be . In the end the so sure of himself Preysing ended up being lead out of the Grand Hotel in handcuffs and going to jail for crimes committed by him on and off the premises . As for the meek and sensitive Otto , whom Preysing stepped on for some 30 years , he also left with Flaem for Paris to spend his last , and extremely happy , days with her at that city's " Grand Hotel " .
A single death is a tragedy ; a million is a statistic : Joseph Stalin	( Some Spoilers ) When a Polish prostitute is found brutally murdered in German occupied Warsaw German intelligence officer Major Grau , Omar Sharif , becomes obsessed in solving her murder . It's that the murdered woman Maria Covyenska was working undercover for German intelligence in finding and identifying Polish and Jewish guerrilla fighter . What's far far worse , in Maj . Grau mind , is that the person who murdered Maria was positively identified by an eye witness In him having a red stripe down his military trousers which is only worn by member of the German General Staff ! Maj . Grau narrows the killer down to three persons who , besides being German Army Generals stationed in Warsaw , can't explain their whereabouts on the night of December 12 , 1942 which just happened to be the evening Miss . Covyenska was murdered ! The three suspected generals are Gen . Tanz , Peter O'Tool , and Generals Kahenberg , Donald Plesence , and Von Seiditz-Gabler , Charles Gray . Even though it's supposed to be a surprise we get to know who the killer is just by his unsavory actions both on and off the battle field and with those he deals with , German as well as Poles and Russians . Maj . Grau runs into the killer some two years later in Paris who commits the very same kind of crime and has his aid Lance Cpl . Kurt Hartmann , Tom Courter , set up and framed for it . It's during that fateful summer of 1944 that Maj . Grau ends up getting involved with the other two suspected generals , guess who , in a plot to assassinate German Dictator Adolph Hitler ! Maj . Grau also ends up making a fatal mistake , in him mistakenly feeling that the assassination was successful , in jumping the gun in trying to arrest the psycho killer German General . Now twenty two years after the war ended Maj . Grau's friend in the French Resistance the former Insp . Morand , Philipe Nolret , who now works for Interpol finds an important link to both the Warsaw and Paris killings in the brutal and recent murder of a German prostitute in Hamburg . There's just one hitch to Insp . Morand's uncovering just who the killer is ! The only man who can identify him Lance Cpl . Hartmann who's been missing , or dead , since he was forced to desert his German Army unit back in 1944 . That's when Hartmann was to face a firing squad for a murder that he didn't commit but was framed for it by the person who did ! The man who Insp . Marand is curtain is responsible in the murders of not only three prostitutes but his good fiend the late Maj . Grau himself ! Even though we in the audience already knew who the killer is well before he was discovered by both Maj . Grau and Insp . Morand it's still a big surprise when he's finally exposed at the end of the movie . Not in who the killer is but what he does when he sees that his act as a fine and upright German patriot and General , the youngest in the German Army at the time he committed his horrific crimes , is about to be exposed ! Being outed as a mad dog killer to the many admiring German soldiers , in the elite Thor & Hammer Division , who served under him was the final straw that broke the camel's , or General's , back . That was far worse to him then facing a rampaging armored division of the Red Army !
As God is my Witness , I Saw The THING !	SPOILER ALERT Superior 1950's horror / science fiction movie involving electronic whiz Andre Delambra , David Hedison , who after inventing , secretly in his basement , a contraption which he called a " Disintegrater Intergreater " . Which was capable of transporting , through the miracle of tele-transportation , objects from one point to another over hundreds if not thousands of miles in an instant . Andre got so carried away with his new found , or invented , toy that he used it on himself with disastrous results . Andre is found at his family owned plant , Delambra Electronics , with his head and left hand cashed under the weight of a powerful hydraulic press by the night watchman Gaston , Troben Meyer , with his wife Helene , Patrica Owens , fleeing the scene . Helene calls her brother-in-law Fancois , Vincent Price , and tells him that she just killed his bother Andra . Francois at first thinking that Helene's is playing some kind of sick joke on him is later contacted by Gaston telling him the very same story with Helene being at the scene of the crime . Which makes Francois realize that Helene is either mad or a cold blooded and unrepentant murderess . Coming on the scene is police inspector , and good friend of the Delmbra's , Charas , Herbert Marshall , who's very concerned about Helene's state of mind after finding out , at the Delambra Plant , that indeed her husband Andre was killed . It takes a while for the story that Helene tells about her husbands demise , since it's so unbelievable , that we have to sit through a long flash-back that takes up almost half of the movie " The Fly " to find out what lead to Andre's tragic death and it's a real whopper . Andre having invented his transportation device got so carried away with it that , like a little boy with a new toy to play with , he started transporting everything in sight . Not satisfied with just transporting objects like ash trays and newspapers Andre started transporting living things like a hamster and the family cat Dandilo who for some reason , it's never explained in the movie , disappeared into the ether never to be seen or heard from again . Finally trying the device on himself Andre didn't notice that there was a fly in the machine with him and when he , and the fly , went from point A to Point B he ended up with the flies head and left hand and the Fly with Andre's same , head and left hand , body parts . That made it very difficult for Andre to go out in public , looking like the Flyman , or even show himself to his wife Helene and year-old son Philippe , Charles Herbert . With the only chance of getting back to normal being capturing the fly , with Andre's head and hand , and putting it and himself back in the transportation device then having his , and the flies , body parts reassembled back again to their rightful owner . It turned that butterfingers Helene screws it all up by letting the fly , with Andre's body parts , escape from the house through a broken window . Helene who at first was very hesitant to have Andre done away with , Andre communicates with her by typing out messages on a typewriter , which was his wish suddenly changed her mind when she saw him in his fly , or insect , state of existence . That was after she unconsciously pulled off the black tablecloth , that he had covering , his face ! Then and only then did Helene go along with his wild and insane idea of having him and his experiments and papers , which Andre destroyed , blotted out of existence . So that no one can experience the horrors that he just did . Nobody in their right mind listening to Helene's story , that includes Francois and Inspetor Charas , can believe what's she's saying is true . As she's slated to be taken away to a mental institution for the criminally insane little Philippe runs into the house excitedly telling his uncle and the inspector that he just saw the fly , with Andre's body parts , stuck in a spider web ! Rushing out to the park where Philippe said he saw the disable fly both Francois and Inspector Charas indeed see that Helene was right ! Inspector Charas who saved the fly , or Andre , from a fate worse then death itself is now forced to drop all charges against Helene , since like he said he's just as guilty as she is ! It turned out that Helene killed a man with the head and arm of a fly and Inspector Charas killed a fly with the head and arm of a Human Being ! Oh The Humanity !
What about the cops ! do they do anything ? Yeah their enforcing the parking laws !	SPOILERS Paul Kersey , Charles Bronson , travels to the East New York section of Brooklyn NY to see an old army buddy of his Charly , Francis Drake , only to find him dying from a beating he got from a gang of thugs for not paying them their weekly protection money . Paul is arrested by the police for Charly's murder because he had a handgun on him , even though Charly was beaten not shot to death , and thrown into a lock-up at the local police 74th precinct . Paul is later attacked by both the prisoners , for standing up to them , and the Police Chief Richard Shriker , Ed Lauter , for giving him lip . Released because of the hard work done for Paul by civil rights attorney Kathryan Davis , Deborah Raffin , with Chief Shriker then planing to use him , clandestinely , against the local neighborhood thugs . Paul then goes back to East New York to see what he can do to help those friends of Charly still living and having to put up with the record crime rate there . By the time that the movie is over there won't one one street gang member left standing and making trouble for the people of that ravaged locality . In the most ferocious and explosive " Death Wish " movie of them all Paul Kersey , who for some reason calls himself Paul Kimble in this film , takes on an entire army of New York street gangs in the burnt-out and devastated battleground of East New York with an arsenal that has just about everything , short of nuclear weapons . The action in " Death Wish 3 " is reminiscent of the battle of Stalingrad during the fall and winter of with street-to-street house-to-house and hand-to-hand fighting that left the borough of Brooklyn looking in 1985 like the city of Berlin did in 1945 . With hundreds of street gang member civilians and cops dead and wounded in it's smoldering ruins . The local police who were not up to the job to stop the ravaging street gangs on the loose in the streets of Brooklyn gave Paul the green light , through Chief Shriker , to take on the gang members by himself ; That's as long as they , the police , get the credit for Paul's successful combat operations against them . Taking out a number of vicious street gang members notably " The Giggler " , Kirk Taylor , things turn bad when Paul's lady friend and civil lawyer Kathryan gets killed by gang leader Fraker , Gavan O'Herlihy , and a fellow thug . The two thugs knock Kathryan out and then shove her car into a busy intersection where she was killed in a head-on collision . Paul escapes after he was put into protective custody by Chief Shriker from the re-enforced street gangs after Fraker got hundreds of fellow " gansters " from all over NYC to join him in his war against the good people of East New York . Back in the " Hood " Paul inspires , through his heroic actions , the entire neighborhood to rise up and take on the gangs and even , for once , the totally useless police joined in the fight . Increidable final sequence that rivals anything that you'll see in any major war movie made in or out of Hollywood as full-scale war rages on the battered and bloodied streets of Brooklyn . Paul and his friends and neighbors , as well as the cops , take on the massive hoards of New York street gangs with everything from nail-boards to sticks and stones to heavy machine guns and anti-tank and armor piercing rocket launchers . The final confrontation in the movie has head gang leader Fraker at first surviving a barrage of bullets from Paul's . 38 police special , by wearing a bullet-proof vest , getting pulverized into smatterings by a blast from Paul's bazooka . The rocket launching bazooka that Paul used to pulverize the startled Faker was a WMD , weapon of mass destruction , powerful enough to take down a giant B52 bomber ! Charles Bronson as the big city vigilante Paul Kersey showed again , like he did in his two previous " Death Wish " films , that when you mess with him and those dear and near to him you've opened the very gates of Hell on yourself .
Chronicle of a sad and tortured Soul	SPOILERS Extremely depressing movie about a meek and lonely man . Who after what should have been his greatest achievement ends up involved with a young woman and her sleazy boyfriend . The two take advantage of the poor slob to the point where his life , by the time the movie is just about over , is no longer worth living . Christopher Cross , Edard G . Robinson , has worked as a cashier for the J . J Hogarth Brokerage House for 25 years . At a party , with him as the guest of honor , Chris is Given a gold chain watch by his boss J . J Hogarth , Russell Hicks , for his loyal and dedicated service for the firm . Going home that evening Chris sees a man beating this young woman and runs to her rescue knocking the assailant down and out with his umbrella . Getting away before the police get there it later turns out that the man Johnny Prince , Dan Duryea , is the woman's Kitty March , Joan Bennett , boyfriend who has a habit of smacking her around and is also a cheap con-artist . Chris taking Kitty back to her apartment soon falls in love with her not realizing what he's getting into . Kitty , like her boyfriend Johnny is also into conning people out of their money and she sees in the love-sick Chris a real pasty who may have a load of cash that she can cheat him out of . Modestly telling Kitty that he paints , Chris is too embarrassed to tell her that he's a cashier , she gets the bright idea that he's a famous but naive artist who's paintings can sell for hundreds , if not thousands , of dollars on the open market . Together with " smarty paths " Johnny " lazey legs " Kitty , cute little pet names the two give each other , plan to take the starry-eyed old geezer for a ride . Chris has one problem he's married to Adele , Rosalind Ivan , who's anything but a wife but more like a jailer to him . Adela can't stand Chris ' cheapness and even worse hates the very sight of his many paintings that clutter their apartment . Adele even threatens to give them to the junk-man with the rest of the junk in the neighborhood that he picks up . Kitty taking advantage of the meek and kindly Chris has him go as far as embezzle him employer , J . J Hogarth , of some $1 , 200 . 00 to pay for her , and secretly Johnny's , apartment in Greenwich Village . Johnny soon gets the idea of selling Chris ' paintings , that he has stored in Kitty's apartment , for cash thinking he can get as much as $25 . 00 apiece for them . To his surprise Johnny finds out that art expert and columnist David Jeneway , Jess Balker , had seen them and is completely agog over the paintings and is willing to pay as much as $5000 . 00 for each , which are in the dozens , of them . With Johnny giving Kitty credit for the paintings she quickly becomes one of the great young artists of modern times with the real artist , Christopher Cross , having no idea of what's been happening to his paintings that he left for safe keeping with Kitty . It's Chris ' wife Adele who finds out about what's been happening with his artwork when one afternoon she sees in the window of the expensive Dellarove Art Gallery his paintings selling for $500 . 00 with Kitty March's name on them . Adele accusing Chris of plagiarizing Kitty's paintings has him go to her Grennwich Village pad only to find out that his painting are gone . Still Chris forgives Kitty for selling them and even gives her credit for them being as valuable and famous as they are because of her looks , yes Kitty is very beautiful , not his painting talent ! What a first class jerk ! Lighting strikes Chris later when his wife's late husband detective Sgt . Higgens ( Charles Kemper ) comes out of hiding , he faked his death five years ago to keep from going to jail for police corruption , and shows up out of the blue trying to blackmail Chris into keeping his being alive from Adele . Wanting Chris to pay him off to keep quiet , and not ruin his marriage to Adele , Higgens doesn't realize that he's been heaven sent for Chris and how now Chris can have his marriage to the pain in the butt Adele annulled , which he eventually does , and be free of her for good . Free and now safe to marry Kitty Chris goes into her apartment to tell her the good news only to find out that she has a boyfriend and what exactly she thinks of him . In that he's a jerk and unattractive moron who's too stupid to know it for himself . Which leads Chris into losing it and attacking and killing Kitty with an icepick . Fate , like the Lord for those who believe , works in strange ways and in the case of Christopher Cross it put everything right in a very ironic and deadly way . Johnny ends up in the Sing Sing electric chair for Kitty's murder , which he was innocent of , and Chris lose everything , his job his wife his home his self-respect . In the end Chris is left to roam the cold and unfriendly streets of NYC and see what a fool he was by letting his emotions override his common sense and have his life destroyed by a pretty face but with a cold and devious heart .
Watery Graves	MAJOR SPOILERS Water has a lot to do with the film " Scream or Twist , the two different titles of the movie , of Fear " in connecting the dots to this stunningly effective thriller . The movie starts out with a drowning in a glacier lake in the Swiss Alps where the victim turns out to be a Miss . Maggie Frensham . We later realize Maggie was the disabled , being crippled in a riding accident , Penny Appleby , Susan Strasberg , best friend when she arrived at her fathers villa on the French Rivera . Penny had received a letter from her father Mr . Appleby asking her to come home since he hasn't seen or written her for some ten years since her accident . Obviously feeling guilty in not having any contact with Penny her father wants to make it up with her now knowing that he according to his physician the creepy-looking Dr . Gerrard , Christopher Lee , doesn't have that much time left . As soon as Penny arrives at the Appleby Villa she's met by both her step-mother Jane , Ann Todd , and the family butler and chauffeur Robert , Robert Lewis , who both are a bit uneasy at her arriving there . It seems that Penny's father had just left on a business trip . This seemed a bit odd to Penny since she felt that her arriving at the villa , after her father asked her to come , would have been far more important then any business matters that needed attending by him . Getting acquainted with her step-mother Jane , whom she just met for the first time , it becomes apparent to Penny that she and her father weren't exactly getting along that well especially when the family physician Dr . Gerrard arrives for dinner . It looks as if both the doctor and Jane were more then just neighbors or good friends in the way they act towards each other . It's then when Penny get's suspicious to what Jane told her about her father is true in that he just happened to leave the day that she showed up at his home . It's later that evening when Penny goes out for some fresh sea air in her wheelchair and stops in the summerhouse that she gets the shock of her life in seeing her father , who's supposed to be out of town , sitting there on a chair with a candle lit under his feet looking like a dummy in a wax museum . The movie keeps you guessing to just what's going on in the Appleby villa with old man Appleby popping up every now and then and disappearing like a puff of smoke . It's also very strange that Penny is the only one who sees him which makes it look like she's going insane . It's only later when the kind and understanding , as well as handsome , butler Robert takes Penny's assertions seriously that we begin to she that she's in fact telling the truth about her father ghostly appearances . Putting on a pair of swimming trunks Robert skindiving into the villa's swimming pool , after searching out the entire villa for the old guy , finds a drowned Mr . Appleby stuck or purposely hidden at the bottom of the pool . It's then that it becomes apparent that not only was he murdered , possibly by his wife Jane and her secret lover Dr . Gerrard , but that Penny's , who's to inherit the Appleby millions , life is also in danger and may very well be the killers next victim . It's now up to Robert , together with a terrified Penny , to go to the local police to report Mr . Appleby's murder and that's when things really start to get out of hand in the movie and at the same time crystallized . The two bodies of water at the beginning and end the film , the glacial lake in Switzerland and the Mediterranean Sea off the Rivera , soon revile their secret . A secret that ties all the loose ends in the movie together that completely went over the head , or heads , of Mr . Appleby's killers until it both shocking and devastatingly struck them .
He saw the face of God !	SPOILERS Institutionalized in Saint Mary's Catholic hospital after she had a complete emotional breakdown suddenly last summer Cathy Holly , Elizabeth Taylor , has become so incorrigible that her aunt Violet Venable , Katherine Hepburn , had to get in touch with the famous neurosurgeon Dr . Ckrowicz , Montgomery Clift . Violet got a hold of Dr . Ckrowicz in order to have him preform a lobotomy on Cathy to order to keep her from hurting herself or anyone else . With the medical facility , The Lions View Asylum , in New Orleans in desperate need of money to stay afloat Mrs . Venable is willing to donate one million dollars to it if Dr . Cukrowicz preforms the lobotomy on Cathy . Putting medical ethics before money to the great distress of Lions View founder and chief administrator Dr . Hockstader , Albert Dekker , Dr . Cukrowicz holds off the operation until he's positive that Cathy should have it . It's during that critical time that he gets to the bottom of what caused Cathy to not only have a breakdown but what were the reasons for it ! And why her aunt is so desperately trying to keep it a secret . Since he was a young boy Sebastian Venable , ? ? ? , has been spending his summers together with his mother Violet in and around the secluded and sun drenched islands of the North and Central Atlantic . Being shy and unable to makes friends easily Violet would go out to the local beaches and bars and pick up young people to come over and entertainer Sebastian . Sebastian was anything but a swinger and he just wanted to have young people around him to make him feel wanted and paid big money for that type of action . Suddenly last summer , the summer of 1937 , Sebastian broke with tradition and instead of having his mother go with him on his yearly summer vacation he insisted that his cousin Cathy Holly take her place . Sebastian & Cathy were to spend that faithful summer on the little island of Cabeza De Lobo . What happened that summer to Sebastian had been locked up deep inside Cathy's brain and it was those terrible events on Cabeza De Lobo , that lead to her son's tragic death , that Violet wanted Cathy to never remember again . The movie " Suddendly Last Summer " really gets to the meat of the matter when Dr . Cukrowicz gives Cathy an injection of truth serum and regresses her back to that terrible summer of 1937 in Cabeza De Lobo . Slowly the story about Sebastian's secret life comes to the surface . A life where he used those women closes to him , Violet & Cathy , to act as bait in improving his social and personal life . Sabastian did that , using Violet & Cathy , in order to attract young boys and men to go to his hotel room so he could have a good time partying with them . After a while thing got so out of hand with the number of people swarming around Sebastian , and wanting money from him for their services , that it had him suffer a sever panic attack . Breaking and running from the hungry mob , in the broiling summer heat , and having a weak heart Sebastian collapsed on the dusty streets and before the local police could come to his rescue he was literally ripped to pieces by the hungry out of control hoard . It was sad that Sebastian had to end up that way since up until then he followed a life long philosophy , which he believed was God's grand design in creating the universe , in letting things happen no matter how good or ad they turned out to be . It was in Sabastians hackneyed philosophy that it was God that let things happen no matter how bad and unpleasant they were and not to try to change them . Yet this time Sabastian panicked and ran and that emboldened the mob , sensing his fear , to attack run down and murder as well as shockingly cannibalize him . With that strong dose of shock therapy , that caused her to remember what happened that summer , it had Cathy snap out of her self-imposed world of denial and at the same time caused Violet to lose her mind and go into a state of dementia . It got that Violet didn't know if she were awake or asleep dreaming that her dear and darling son Sebastian was still alive and with her . In fact as she was being lead away to the asylum , that she had Cathy committed into , Violet's mind was so destroyed that she mistakenly thought that Dr . Cukrowicz was her dead and beloved son Sebastian .
I will perfect my own race of people ! A race of Atomic Supermen that will conquer the Woooorrrrrlllld !	Tragic story of a great genius who was born way before his time and who's time came after he sadly left us . Like Franz Kafka and Vincent Van Gogh Ed Wood , Johnny Depp , was never recognized as the genius that he was until he had to die and then be discovered my millions of film lovers . Who for the most part were born long after he wrote directed and starred in his last film . Following his life long dream of making movies Ed Wood started out as man with ideas that were just to far out for anyone in the Hollywood of the early 1950's to take seriously . It was in 1952 when Ed saw a story in the newspapers about former combat veteran Chris Jorgenson having a sex change operation . Ed , being a closet transvestite , decided to do a movie about it . Going from studio to studio all Ed got was the run around and door slammed , or laugh at , in his face . It wasn't until he ran into washed up movie horror king Bela Lugosi ( Martin Laundau ) , fitting himself for a coffin at a L . A funeral home , that things started to turn around for the young and hungry director . The movie " Ed Wood " centers around the friendship that was developed by Ed Wood and , at the time , the highly morphine addicted Bela Lugosi . Bela who hadn't made a movie in four years was now on his last legs and it was Ed who gave him the chance to revived his career which he did in three unforgettable films that Wood directed : 1 . " Glen or Glenda " 2 . " Bride of the Monster " and 3 . In a cameo role in what many people consider to be Wood's " Citizan Kane " the film that they broke the mold after he made it " Plan 9 from Outer Space " . Were also introduced in " Ed Wood " to Ed's two wives Doloros Fuller , Sarah Jessica Parker , who left Ed when he gave her a supporting , not leading , role in his classic " Bride of the Monster " and also Kathy O'Hara , Patricia Arquette , who met Ed when he was at the hospital having his friend Bela dry out and kick his drug habit . Kathy turned out to be Ed's real and true love of his life who , unlike Dolores , stood by him through thick and thin and never left his side up until he suddenly collapsed and died from a heart-attack on the evening of December 10 , 1978 . Having his first big success with " Glen and Glenda " in 1953 Ed set out to do films that would give his friend Bela Lugosi , who was the puppet master in that film , something to really stick his teeth into and came up with " Bride of the Monster " in 1954 . Getting together a number of aspiring actors and actresses , like Tony McCoy Loretta King & 400 pound ex professional wrestler Tor Johnson , to play in the movie it took almost a year until Ed could get the money to finally finish the project . " Bride of the Monster " was not the smashing success , financially not artistically , that Ed hoped it would be but watching it now , like those who were lucky or brave enough to see it back then in 1955 , it really stood the test of time after all these years . Seeing the great Bela Lugosi in what turned out to be his last speaking role and very possibly the signature performance of his career , as the insane and at the same time sympathetic Dr . Eric Vornoff , that's filled with so much tension electricity and passion that it completely blows away anyone who watches it . Bela delivering his unforgettable " I Have'a no Home " speech to his bitter rival in the movie Professor Strowski has to be seen , and heard , to be believed . Not to take anything away from actor Martin Landau , who received a Academy Award for his part as Bela Lugosi , you have to see Bela himself in the movie " Bride of the Monster " to really appreciate what a great actor he really was and , with Ed Wood's writing and directing , again became in the twilight of his magnificent film career . Even Marlon Brando at his absolute best couldn't duplicate Bela's unbelievable performance in that movie ! With no worlds left to conquer , after classics like " Bride of the Monster " " jailbate " " The Violent Years " and " Glen or Glenda " already in the can , Ed went out to make the movie that he would forever be identified with " Plan 9 from Outer Space " . Sadly enough he wouldn't have Bela Lugosi , who died just as the filming began , to star in it . Touching funny as well as heart-breaking story of the Great Ed Wood Jr who had to die , after being laughed snickered and scorned at while he was still alive , to be recognized and become the film and movie genius that he is today . The movie wisely ends just as Ed has his greatest success at the opening of his forgotten , and now rediscovered , anti-war and anti-nuclear testing sci-fi classic " Plan 9 from Outer Space " . It was fitting to end the movie " Ed Wood " before we saw him , and his great talents , go downhill leaving him a broken and forgotten man who was left to sneaking out of one apartment and into another to prevent himself from being arrested and thrown into jail for not paying his rent . It's even sadder that Ed Wood didn't live long enough , he died at age 54 , to get the appreciation that he so rightfully deserved to get from the movie going public . If there is a life beyond death I can see Ed there now looking down and basking in the love and critical acclaim , from both the public and critics , that he's getting now in death that eluded him all those years in Hollywood where he slaved and grabbed to get his movies made and distributed while he was alive .
When you watch this movie try to remember that truth is stranger then fiction	" Arlington Road " is a very interesting movie both historically as well as cinematically . Made after the Oklahoma City bombing and before the attacks on NYC and Washington D . C . you get a feeling watching the movie of how the world has changed for all of us since the Cold War ended back in 1991 . Of all the movies about the USSR and to a lesser extent Communist China none of them had a Russian or Chinese leader , even in fiction , as ruthless and suicidal as the real persons who were behind and participated in those two attacks in real life . Michael Farady , Jeff Bridges , who one morning driving home sees a young boy badly hurt on the street and puts the boy in his car driving to the hospital where the doctors save the boy's life . It turns out that the boy's parents live across the street from Michael on Arlington Road . Michael being the good neighbor that he is goes out the way to be friendly with the boy's parents and they Oliver and Cheyrl Lang , Tim Robbins and Joan Cusack , treat Michael like a member of the family , after all he saved their son's Bradley , Manson Gamble , life . Michael also has a young son of his own Grant , Spencer Clark , and is living on and off with his girlfriend Hope , Brooke Wolf , as well as teaches at a local university about contemporary American History . What fascinates Michael most are terrorists and what makes them tick and Michaels especially interested in the home grown type . It turns out that Michael's wife Leah , laura Poe , was an FBI agent who was killed in a Ruby Ridge like shoot-out with white separatists a few years back and that's was kindle his strange interest in them . Without going into any more details about the plot the movie starts to increase in it's level of paranoia as it moves to it's shocking nail biting final . Michael who in the beginning of the film was both cool and logical , as well as personable and friendly , is driven to the the verge of having a complete and total nervous and physical collapse . A lot of people who commented on " Arlington Road " said that the story is illogical and contrived and most of all the story is totally unbelievable and I would in some ways agree with them . I for one don't think that " Arlington Road " was any more contrived then many other movies that are said to be based on a true story , which " Arlington Road " wasn't , and you hardly hear that many people complain about them . " Arlington Road " is far more believable a story as fiction if you compared it to or Oklahoma City which were sadly true . The scariest and most spine tingling scene in the movie , for me at least , had nothing to do with the scenes what most people who saw the film were shocked and terrified of . It had to do with what FBI agent Caver , Robert Gossett , said to Michael just before the movies heart-dropping and totally unexpected ending : " The Only One Unauthorized To Be Here Is YOU ! "
Blood Sweat & Tears	SPOILERS Hard hitting yet sensitive story about a blue collar family living in a working class neighborhood in the Bronx NY and the ups and downs that they go through in the movie . The movie has to do with an Italian / American family , the De Coco's . The De Coco's have a son that's torn between being a construction worker and working as a recreational assistant at a local hospital . In hospital Stony want's to work with and help young children who have severe emotional problems like his little brother Albert , Michael Hershewe . Powerhouse performances by Tony Lo Bianco , Tommy De Coco , Paul Sorvino , Chubby De Coco and a very young and electrifying Richard Gere as Stony De Coco in one of his first major movie roles that showed the great talent that he had long before he became a top Hollywood super-star . Stony at first trying to live and work like his father Tommy and uncle Chubby wanted him to he then begins to slowly lose his interest . Being the sensitive type Stony finds it hard to live up to his father Tommy macho image and how that mindset effects his little brother Albert who's suffering from emotional problems due to having sever eating disorders . There's also Tommy's womanizing that leads his wife Marie , Lelia Goldoni , to try to have an affair with that weirdo Jackie , Raymond Singer , who lives in her apartment building who always had eyes for her . When Tommy finds out about this supposed affair , from a phone call from Jackie's mother , he goes haywire and almost kills Marie and ends up himself in the hospital with what seemed like an emotional breakdown . Stony seeing what this type of lifestyle was doing to his parents leaves his job as a construction worker , that his father Tommy broke his back to get him , and decides to leave with his younger brother Albert for good . Stony in an attempt to say goodbye has an emotionally packed confrontation with his father , Tommy , and uncle , Chubby , that was the best of so many great scenes in the movie . Simple yet powerful movies about people that Hollywood doesn't make too many movies about these days . Another great scene in " Bloodbrothers " was a talk between Chubby and his friend and bar owner Banion , Kenneth McMillan , on how he threw his son Paulie , Bruce French , out of the house when he found out that he was gay . Chubby tried to get both father and son back together later by going to Buccellati jewelry on Fifth Avenue where Paulie worked to get him to attend his fathers birthday party . Chubby loses it when Paulie not only refused to show up at the party but didn't even want to sign a birthday card for his father that Chubby gave him . You could see the two different worlds that both Chubby and Paulie lived in and how they just couldn't come to any common ground on just a simple matter like that . And there was also a moving story by Chubby that he told Banion in regard to his son Paulie , that Banion felt he lost because of his gay lifestyle , about his own son , the son that Chubby lost who tragically died in infancy . Almost in tears Chubby tells how he loved and looked after his nephew Stony as that son who he lost and never lived to see grow up . Also very good in the movie are Stony's two girlfriends Cherie and Annette , Kristine De Bell & Marilu Henner , who more then anything exemplified the two worlds that Stony was torn between . " Bloodbrothers " is a forgotten movie until you see it and realize that it was one of the most underrated motion pictures of the 1970's . A touching moving and tragic film with a great and stirring musical score that shows that there is nothing uninteresting about working people when it's a movie about working people as good as " Bloodbrothers " .
Checkmate	SPOILERS Like the champion chess games that we see private detective Harry Moseby , Gene Hackman , play and replay in the film " Night Moves " the case that he's taken on to find former Hollywood starlet Arleen Iverson's , Janet Ward , 16 year-old runaway daughter Delly , Melanie Griffith , has a number of important moves that he , like the chess-masters who he's studying , completely overlooked . On the first night on the job on the Delly Grastner case Harry catches his wife Ellen , Susan Clark , leaving an art movie with the co-owner of her antique shop Charles , Ben Archibek , and takes off with a stranger ( to Harry ) the limping Marty Heller , Harris Yulin , and then make out with him in the back of his car . This complicates his job as a private eye with Harry now more interested in finding out why Ellen is cheating on him instead of finding the elusive Delly . It later turns out that Ellen was going to tell Herry about her affair but he beat her to it by confronting Marty at his beach-front house ; Ellen later sadly tell him that he's married to his job not to her . Puttng Ellen's affair behind him Harry tracks down Delly's boyfriend Quinten , James Woods , a mechanic who works on movie sets and was the last person to have seen Delly . Getting Quinten to open up , by almost cracking his skull , and later having a talk with both stuntman Marve Ellman and stunt-coordinator Joey Ziegler , Ed Binn , it becomes obvious to Harry that Delly went east , to Key West Florida . Delly left to get away from her abusing mom to her step-father Tom Iverson , John Crawford , who runs a charter boat for tourist there with his co-worker and mistress Paula , Jennifer Warren . Things start to come together when Harry easily finds Delly staying at Iverson's place and even more surprising Delly , with very little encouragement , agrees to fly back to L . A to be re-united with her hated mother Arleen Iverson . The night before she was to be returned back home Delly skinny-dipping off her step-fathers glass-bottom boat finds the remains of a crashed aircraft with a dead body inside . The crash victim later turns out to be Hollywood stuntman Marve Ellman . Back in California Delly is killed days later at a movie set in a staged car crash and Harry feels that Quinten , who serviced the car , was responsible for her death . It starts to become evident that the whole story behind Delly's death has to do with Delly somehow getting involved , by running away to her step-father in Key West , in something that has to do with Tom Iverson and possibly his lover Paula . The two were connected in an illegal smuggling operation out of Tom's home on the Florida keys and that Delly being there brought attention to it by Harry tracking her down and finding her there . The movie " Night Moves " unwinds slowly from an missing person case to a multi-million dollar smuggling operation involving Yucatan artifacts that has a number of Hollywood-types , who end up dead , involved in it . Harry , who during the movie has an affair with Paula and at the same time gets Ellen to come back to him doesn't know what he up against and is slowly made to understand just who his friends and enemies really are in the film by all the chess pieces falling into place .
By far Sal Mineo's finest and at the same time most haunting performance	SPOILERS Sal Mineo lets it all hang out in this psychological thriller as the sex crazed and obsessed busboy Larry Sherman who's fixated on beautiful Norah Dain , played by tall and leggy Juliet Prowse , a disk jockey in the midtown Manhattan disco that he works at . Larry had it rough in his attempts in striking up relationships with women over the years which for the most parts ended up just being one night affairs . Shy and a bit insecure in his ability in trying to make it with the fairer sex Larry opts to just roam the city's red light district sneaking in and out of X-rated book stores and peep shows for his personal and adult entertainment . The only women that Larry feels comfortable with is hookers-who's only interest in him is how much he can pay them-whom he can barley afford due to his meager salary as a minimum wage , who depends on tips for a living , busboy . Larry's second passion in getting himself off is spying on women with his binoculars from his apartment window . It just so happens that Norah lives across the street from Larry's apartment in a walk-up she just recently sublet from a friend of hers ! We also get a glimpse of one of the many reasons that makes Larry tick very early in the movie as we see Larry having sex with-what seems to be-a hooker as his little sister Edi , Margot Bennett , catches him in the act . Shocked at what she sees Edi slips and falls down a flight of stairs , with her precious little Teddy Bear in hand , cracking her skull and leaving her brain damaged . Feeling responsible for Edi's condition Larry has completely taken control of her life having Edi locked up in a closet and away from any , other then himself , human contact . Larry feels that Edi , who's now 19 , will end up turning tricks like most of the women that he associates with ! While not being occupied with Edi and not being that stable of a person himself Larry's obsession with Norah now goes from just spying on her to calling Norah up at all hours of the day and night and terrorizing her with obscene-mostly huffing and puffing-phone calls . It's when Larry starts to get personal with Norah and knowing things about her-like where she works and lives-that makes her feel threatened by his constant and unwanted phone calls . It's then that Norah goes to the police to see what they can do , after finding out just who he is , to stop and arrest the heavy breathing creep . Putting Police Let . Dave Madden , Jan Murray , on the case has Norah feel that he himself is some kind of sex pervert in his obsession of sex crime victims who's conversations he secretly records , without their knowledge , and endlessly plays back and listens to in his apartment ! All this while Let . Madden has his 15 year-old daughter Pam , played by Diane Moore who's actually Jan Murray's real life daughter , listening in ! One afternoon as Larry is pumping himself up in the local gym he spots Norah in a sexy bathing suit who by inviting him to take a swim with her in the pool makes Larry more crazier then ever and almost unable to control himself ! Later we get to see Larry do what he does best by making a B-line to Times Square and immersing himself in all the X-rated books magazines and peep shows available to him . That's Larry's way of cooling off his libido and keeping him from doing anything crazy . But in fact it , the X-rated books magazines and scantly clad women , get Larry even more turned on towards Norah whom he thinks , after the incident at the gym , is hot for him ! Shocking and extremely sexually explicit for its time the film " Who Killed Teddy Bear " and its star Sal Mineo are some ten years ahead of the equally shocking psychological thriller " Taxi Driver " with Robert De Niro playing the crazed and sex obsessed cab driver Travis Bickle ! A part very similar to Mineo's Larry Sherman ! In fact Sal Mineo is far more believable then De Niro in that the film doesn't clean up his acts of violence and depravity like the movie " Taxi Driver " did with Robert De Niro's Travis Bickle ! In making him a hero at the conclusion of the film ! Even though Robert De Niro / Travis Bickel slaughtered a pimp and John in order to rescue the woman he was obsessed with : The 14 year-old hooker Iris . This action in his mind and in the minds of those who made the movie supposedly proved to the audience that the mentally unstable and criminally driven Bickle was actually fit to live in a civilized society ! SPOILERS The films ending has Larry really lose it as Norah , not realizing that he's the person who's been unmercifully harassing her on the phone , invites him to dance with her at the now deserted disco . Larry's insecurities , in feeling that he's not up to it , take over as he viciously attacks and rapes the unsuspecting and terrified Norah . Let . Madden who had his suspicions about Larry's , whom he met with Edi in Central Park , mental state soon realizes , by checking Larry's apartment , that he's making the obscene calls and rushes down to the disco where both Larry and Norah are ! Not all that surprise of an ending with Larry paying for his crimes which includes the murder of his and Noarh's boss at the disco lesbian Elaine Stritch , Marian Freeman , who had earlier made an unwanted pass at a totally turned off Noarh . It turned out that Larry's ultimated fate was for him to end up in a place that he's very familiar and at home with : The sleazy and red light Times Square District of New York City .
Bablyon on the Patomac	SPOILERS Back-stabbing skulduggery and blackmail is the menu in " Advise and Concent " . The film takes place in Washington D . C circa 1962 and has to do with the attempt to confirm Prof . Robert A . Leffingwell , Henry Fonda , as the new head of the State Depertment and the nations Secretary of Defense . Being a life long friend of the President , Franchot Tone , Leffingwell is at first a shoo-in to get confirmed . It's when Sen . Cooley , Charles Laughton , starts to put the screws on Leffingwell that things start to go downhill for both him and the President who's behind Leffingwell getting the post . Having him investigated by a senate sub-committee headed by Utah Senator Brigham Anderson , Don Murray , Leffingwell perjured himself by telling the committee that he never had anything to do with Herbert Gelman , Burgess Meredith , a former communist party member . Gelman said under oath that Leffingwell was a member of a secret communist cell back in Chicago some twenty years ago when he was teaching at the university of Chicago . Sen . Cooley skillfully uses Sen . Anderson to do his dirty in getting Leffingwell conformation shot down by leaking information to him on Leffingwell past association with members of the communist party . With Leffingwelll's nomination now in doubt rumors start to surface about Sen . Andersons past . Leffingwell's fanatical supporters , from possibly the president on down , are spreading a story about Sen . Andersons involvement with Ray Shaff , John Granger . Shaft and Anderson were both stationed in Hawaii back in 1952 when they were in the US Army . With his wife Ellen , Inga Swenson , getting mysterious and threatening phone calls every hour of the day and night about his relationship with Ray Shaff Sen . Anderson takes a flight to NYC where Shaff lives . It's there's where he'll finally find out what the rumors are all about . In New York Anderson is surprised to find in what was supposed to be Ray Shaff's apartment this gorilla-like individual who called himself Manuel , Larry Tucker . Anderson is totally unaware that Manuel is a pimp and is using Shaff , and probably other young gay men , to hustle for him . With Anderson not really getting anywhere with Manuel about Shaff he slips him a $20 . 00 bill thinking that it would open Manuel up and tell him where Shaff is . Manuel thinking that the $20 . 00 is for Anderson to " party " with Shaff directs Anderson to the 602 club in the West Village . Going to the 602 club Anderson is shocked to find out that it's a gay bar and pick-up joint ! Shaff spotting Anderson tries to explain that he was threatened by persons high in government to " out " him which finally has Anderson realize what all the rumors about him and Shaff really were ! Whatever Anderson had to do with Shaff ten years ago was just a drunken one night stand . Anderson never realized what happened with him and Shaff that night anyway since he was too drunk and out of it to even notice . Now it's all coming back to him and Anderson sees that innocent , to Anderson at the time , encounter with Shaff is going to destroy both his political career as well as marriage ! Broken and defeated Anderson flies back to D . C and after locking himself in his senate office commits suicide by silting his throat . With Sen . Anderson now out of the way it looks like Leffingwell's conformation by the senate is a forgone conclusion . The vote come down to 47 for conformation and 47 against , with 6 abstentions , which is just a vote short of confirming Leffingwell . It's now up to the vice-president Hudson , Lew Ayres , to break the deadlock and get Leffingwell confirmed . It's then when the President who so much wanted Leffingwell as his new secretary of state makes a complete turnaround . The President relives VP . Hudson from his commitment to vote yes and lets him vote his conscience ! Hudson cast a no vote putting and end to Leffingwell's , and the Presidents , attempt by his supporters to get him the post of Secretary of State . The big surprise in the movie is not really VP Hudson's vote , it's how the President allowed VP Hudson to change it !
Come to me Max . . Come to Nicki	SPOILERS Far out 1983 film about a number of industrialists and politicians led by the CEO of the Pentagon contracted company Spectacular Optical Barry Convex , Leslie Carlson , trying to manipulate the publics minds with a device called Videodrome . Videodrome works by showing very graphic images of sex and violence , which in this case are real not staged or faked , that trigger and then open up the subconscious mind and nervous system to a TV signal that at first distorts the sense of reality of those watching and then leaves them open to be controlled and used by those broadcasting the signal . In the end the signal cause a brain tumor that kills whoever has been exposed to it . Max Renn , James Woods , runs a Toronto TV station Civic TV channel 83 and is looking for new shows to improve his TV ratings . Going to his friends Harlan , Peter Dvorsky , TV satellite studios Max comes across a clip of a TV show that Harlan taped of extreme sex and violence . Taken back at first Max becomes very interested in what he saw and is told by Harlan that it's an underground show originating from Pittsburgh called Videodrome . Later spending the night with his girlfriend Nicki , Bebbi Harry , Max at Nicki's insistence watch a video tape of Videodrome . Nicki begins to get very weird burning herself with a cigarette and having a surprised and shocked Max pierce both her ears . Later Nicki tells Max that she's leaving Toronto for a new job , she's going to Pittsburgh to work for a TV show called Videodrome . Max by now is starting to get hallucinations and feels that he's losing his mind . Trying to find out about whats causing his hallucinations Max goes to Cathode Ray Mission run by Prof . Brian O'Blivion , who is one of the inventors of Videodrome , and his daughter Bianca , Jack Creley & Sonja Smits that he finds out from Bianca that her father died and after seeing a tape of Prof . O'Blivion that Bianca gave him . It's then that Max now realizes that he's doomed by being exposed to the Videodrome shows that he's been watching , Max also finds out later that Nicki was murdered on that show . Hysterical with fear Max goes to his friend Harlan to find out if he's also suffering for the Videodrome signal only to find out that Harlan is in with Barry Convex in this whole conspiracy and that what has happened to him in his exposer to Videodrome was no accident . Fine Sci-Fi thriller with solid performances by James Woods & Debbi Harry with a very good supporting cast of characters . Max goes through hell and high water as he's programed by Barry Convex and Harlan to do their dirty work but is later De-programed by Biance to turn the tables on them . In the end Max destroys Convex / Harlan & Co . as well as himself who's already dying from the deadly brain tumor that the Videodrome signal afflicted him with . Top special effects with pulsating video tapes and VCR's and flat TV images morphing into three dimensional realities has you , as well as Max , feeling that your suffering from Videodrome induced hallucinations . " Videodrome " holds together very well and even the tragic end of both it's top characters Max and Nicki leaves you with a feeling of hope for the future not despair like most Sci-Fi movies like " Videodrome " usually do .
In Is Own Words	Insider documentary of the life of former Defense Secretary of the United States Robert Strange McNamara . Who served under both the JFK & LBJ administrations from 1961 to 1968 as well as being the president of the World Bank for thirteen years from 1968 to 1981 . Robert McNamara candidly and honestly talks about his life and actions as a man of power in both the political and industrial world and about his life that began when he was born on June 9 , 1916 in San Francisco Calif . Growing up during the Great Depression of the 1930's and early 40's McNamara became the youngest assistant professor in the history of Harvard . With the start of WWII and Americas entry into it in late 1941 he worked in the office of the US Army Statistical Control and was confronted with how to win the war in the Pacific with the use of air power . Getting to know Gen . Curtis LeMay of the USAAF McNamara and his team of statisticians together with Gen LeMay devised a plan for the massive B29 bombers , who were built to fly as high as 30 , 000 feet over their targets , to fly under 5 , 000 feet . Since Japans anti-aircraft defenses were destroyed to the point where they were almost non-existent at that time , late 1944 . The low flying tactic's of B-29's were used in order to be more accurate in dropping incendiary or fire bombs on Japan . The results were devastating with the giant and deadly B29's in just under ten months , from November 1944 to early August 1945 , burning out as much as to 90 % of 67 major Japanese cities and killing well over 600 , 000 , some experts of WWII put the dead to be well over a million , Japanese civilians during that time . That's even before the dropping of the Atomic Bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki on August 6th and 9th 1945 . McNamara says that talking with Gen . LeMay about the bombings of Japan that the general honestly told him that what he and McNamara did was enough to convict them as war criminals in an international court of law ! Like the Germans and Japanese government and military officials were in the war crime trials in Nuremberg and Tokyo . The only difference between Gen . LeMay & McNamara and the Germans & Japanese was that they were on the winning side of the war and could not be called to answer for what they did by the defeated Axis powers . McNamara also brings out a shocking revelation about the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis in a talk he had with the Cuban President Fidel Castro in Havana in 1992 . Castro told him that he had at that time , October 1962 , on the Island of Cuba 162 Soviet Nuclear warheads that Soviet Premier Krushcheve had already placed there . With 94 of them that were already mounted on Soviet rockets ready to be launched and targeted for major US cities . At that time the US president John F . Kennedy thought that the Soviets rockets or missiles only had conventional warheads and that the " Nukes " were on their way to Cuba via the Red Navy which was blocked from entering the Island by the US Atlantic flee . In fact we were much closer to Nuclear Armageddon then we realized back then . The last half of the film is about Robert McNamara's involvement in the war in Vietnam . What really astounded me was how as early as October 2 , 1963 , less then two months before he was assassinated , Pres . Kennedy told McNamara that the war was not winnable and planed to totally withdraw US troops from South Vietnam , there were 16 , 000 there at that time , by Feb . 1965 after the 1964 election if he were re-elected . Even in his talks with Pres . Lyndon B . Johnson as early as Feb . 1964 the talk was that the war , like Pres . Kennedy said before , was a lost cause . Still LBJ and McNamara continued pushing it to the point where it ended up costing the US military over 60 , 000 dead and missing and over 350 , 000 wounded by the time the war ended for the US in Jan . 1973 . With over 3 . 5 million Vietnamese lives , both from North and South Vietnam , by the time the Communist North Vietnamese captured Saigon on April 30-May 1 , 1975 . Getting all these personal insights and information from someone who had a lot to do with the conduct of the war in Vietnam as well as the planning for it like Robert McNamara is a real eye-opener . Hopefully we can learn like he did that the road to hell is paved with good intentions not all but , like in Vietnam , most of the time .
Urban Battleground	Charles Bronson was already a major movie star in 1974 in Europe and a top action actor in the USA but it was " Death Wish " released that year that made him the super star that he became . What's so unusual is that in the movie " Death Wish " he played a man who was a pacifist all of his life , he served in the Korean War as a conscientious objector , who then turned into the vigilante executioner ! A role which Bronson has become known for and identified with more then any of the scores of actions roles that he made during his long film career . Bronson as well as director Michael Winner and writer Brian Garfield touched a raw nerve in " Death Wish " with the American people in big cities under siege like no other movie ever did before and , now some 30 years later , after . Since " Death Wish " there must have been made over a hundred films with it's theme but none had the impact that " Death Wish " with Charles Bronson had . A group of tugs get Joanna Kersey's , Hope Lange , address from a delivery slip of a local grocery store and acting as if their delivering her groceries break into Joanna's apartment and savagely attack her and beat and rape her daughter Carol , Kathleen Tolan . Paul Kersey , Charles Bronson , comes home to learn that his wife and daughter are in the hospital rushes over to see how they are . Kersey finds out that his wife is dead and his daughter is mentally destroyed and needs to be institutionalized for life . The whole world around Paul Kersey falls apart like a house of cards and he's left alone with everything that he loved dead or as good as dead . Some time later going to Arizona to do his job as a land developer for his firm in NYC he's given a . 32 handgun as a gift by the person that he worked for Ames Janichill , Stuart Margolis , for the great job that he did for him . One night back home in New York City taking a stroll in the park with the gun on him Kersey is accosted by a local junkie who pulls a handgun on him but Kersey draws first and shoots and kills him . Sick at first over what he did , killed a human being , Kersey like a wild beast from the jungle tasting blood for the fist time begins to roam the streets of New York at night for prey . A vengeful Kersey goes out looking for criminals to put out of commission , like those who killed and raped his wife and daughter , as some kind of revenge and retribution against them . In the process Kersey puts the criminals of the city of New York into a state of absolute terror and panic . In his guerrilla-like actions Kersey knocks off some dozen of them sending the the city's crime rate falling as much as 70 % ! All this with the ineffective , in stopping crime , police being more interested in stopping " The Vigilante " then stopping the criminals ! The movie " Death Wish " hit a raw nerve with the public as well as the local politicians and police because it showed how , in the movie at least , one man with a gun and knowing how to use it can make a difference when it comes to stopping crime . The story is not that unlikely as those against it would want the public to believe . There's been many times when average people took to protecting themselves , with firearms , and did a much better job then the police ; which is just what Paul Kersey did in the movie . That may have been one of the reasons that those in authority were so much against the film . When Bernie Goetz in December 1984 gunned down four muggers , much like Charles Bronson did in the movie " Death Wish " , who tried to attack him in the New York subway crime dropped a lot more then if one hundred policemen were put on the trains . Nobody can doubt now that Charles Bronson's " Death Wish " was not only a major milestone in films about urban crime but also a major milestone in what the public thinks about crime and what's best to do to stop it .
The man's betrayed you . . He's sewn up his veins and opened up yours !	( There May be Spoilers ) Freed after doing a six-month stretch in a federal prison for contempt of congress Hollywood writer / directer Herbert Biberman , Jeff Goldblum , as well as his actress wife Gale Sondergaard , Greta Scacchi , future in the world of the movies and theater in America is all but over . Being the most out-spoken of the so-called " Hollywood Ten " Herbert was especially singled out by the US State Department with him having his passport revoked making it impossible for Herbert to even get work as a writer and director of movies in friendly countries overseas . Herbert is in for one the biggest surprises of his life later in the movie when his friend and fellow Hollywood Ten , and fellow prisoner , film director Edward Dmytryk , Sean Chapman , became a friendly witness to the HUAC Committee and ratted out six fellow travelers , members or former members of the Communist party , with him being one of them . This just about sealed Herbert's coffin with no way from him to redeemed himself from his past activities and being branded a " Dirty Commie Rat " for the rest of his life . It so happened that the year 1954 was a year of destiny for both Herbert Biberman and Edward Dmytryk with both of them directing a movie of high quality that stood the test of time over the years . Edward Dmytryk directed " The Caine Mutiny " for a major Hollywood studio with top stars like Humpret Bogart Van Johnson and Fred MacMurray . Herbert Biberman directed a film about the true story of a labor strike in Silver City New Mexico by low-paid and overworked Mexican zinc mill workers with a cast of non-actors but the very workers and their families as the stars . Baseicaly a movie within a movie " One of the Hollywood Ten " zeros in on the efforts it took to film and later release the ground-breaking " Salt of the Earth " and how the FBI together with a bunch of paid-off local goons tried to prevent that film from ever seeing the light of day . Herbert who was socially conscious all his life and joined the Communist party back in the 1930's . Not because Herbert had any love for Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union but believed , unrealistically , that Communisum was the only way that those hundreds of millions exploited by the big corporations can get their share of the wealth that they provided for them with their hard and back-breaking labor which they got paid next to nothing for . The filming of the movie " Salt of the Earth " was constantly harassed by the US government with it's star Mexican peasant Rosaura Reweitas , Angela Molina , being kicked out of the US , on a bogus passport violation . This had Herbret film Rosaura's scenes in Mexico and had them smuggled back into the US to be edited into the movie . Rosaura final scene in the film is so touching simple and powerful that it ranks right up there with the final scene in " Grapes of Warth " with Henry Fonda . It took until 1965 , over ten years , for " Salt of the Earth " to be released in the United States . " salt of the Earth " showed the American people how the mass hysteria of the late 1940's and 50's Communist witch hunts did far more damage to the American way of life and US Consitution then what all the subversive activities of all the Soviet agents in the US combined could have done .
The only thing that will slow them down is how many people they kill	SPOILERS Breaking out of the San Carlos Indian Reservation Ulzana , Joaquim Martinez , and eight of his fellow Apaches go on a blood curdling rampage against the white homesteaders in the area . The US Calvary gets their best Indian fighter McIntosh , Burt Lancaster , and his Apache scout Ke-Ni-Tay , Jorge Luke , to help them track down Ulzana and his raiders before they have the entire reservation rise up and join them . Using guerrilla-like tactics Ulzana despite being vastly outnumbered by the US Calvary seems to be getting his way who by now has terrorized not only the homesteaders but the US Calvary itself with his hit and run attacks . The movie " Ulzana's Raid " pulls no punches in how it depicts the Apaches in their treatment of those unfortunate enough to end up being captured by them . There's one shocking scene when the Apaches attack a wagon with a mother and son riding in it as the calvary man guarding it takes off leaving the terrified woman and boy behind . The trooper Horowitz , Dean Smith , suddenly turns and looks like he's about to save the woman Mrs . Ginsford , Margare Fairchild , and her ten year-old son Bobby then without a second thought pulls out his revolver and shoots Mrs . Ginsford dead ! It was his way of preventing the poor woman from suffering a fate worse then death at the hands of the oncoming Apaches . Horowitz himself seeing that there's no hope of him escaping blows his brains out and ends up with the Apaches sadistically tearing out his heart and gleefully playing catch with it ! As for Bobby he's left alive by his mother and Horowitz's killers to be traumatized for the rest of his life in what he just experienced which was anything but an act of mercy on their part . The US calvary troop lead by Lt . Garnett DeBuin , Bruce Davidson , makes slow but steady progress against Ulzana's raiders who are drawing the cavalrymen deeper into the desert in order to ambush them . As Lt . DeBuin , who's a very devote Christian , and his men come across what Ulzana did he starts to hate not only Ulzana and his gang of raiders in particular but all Apaches in general . Never seeing the savagery that he experienced in tracking down Ulzana Lt . DeBuin in fact becomes far more hateful against the Indians then McIntosh who's known the Apaches all his life ! In fact McIntosh's wife is a full-blooded Apache Indian . At first Lt . DeBuin was anything but impressed with either McIntosh or his Apache scout Ke-Ni-Tay in feeling that they were no better in some ways then the gang of Apache raiders they were tracking down . Not being outraged at Ulzana had the young Lt . DeBuin think that McIntosh was in some way excusing what he and his men did . It was later that McIntosh enlightened the young lieutenant in telling him that hating what Ulzana and his men , as well as the entire Apache tribe , did was like hating the desert for not having water . Let . DeBuin also didn't realize that it was the US government who by how it treated the Apache as well as all the other Indian tribes that in more ways then one created men like Ulzana . The movie ends with Ulzana being trapped in a canyon with McIntosh and his men holding him off while Lt . DeBuin and the US Calvary comes to their rescue . The green and untested Lt . DeBuin had spread his men too thin and their rescue effort came up short with all of McIntosh's , with the exception of Ke-Ni-Tay , men ending up dead or wounded . Ulzana's men are all killed during the ambush he planed on McIntosh with him seeing that it's all over he lets himself get shot and killed by his brother-in-law who just happened to be Ke-Ni-Tay . McIntosh badly wounded in the fighting is left at his own request to die together with his men and as he takes out a cigarette and is about to have a last drag " Ulzana's Raid " goes into freeze frames and ends . One of the very few realistic westerns to come out in years that lets the chips fall where they may in how things were in the war between the White Man and the American Indian back in the late 19th century . We see that both sides were anything but civilized in treating each other and that's what also had Lt . DeBuin finally realize in what he so blindly overlooked in the Apaches , as well as all the other Indian Tribes , that he was dealing with on both sides of the battle-line .
The day the dam broke	( There are Spoilers ) It's Los Angeles 1937 where there's a major controversy over a dam being built outside of city limits . The dam is to divert precious water from the valley that will in effect drive the farmers there into bankruptcy and foreclosure of their homes and farmland . Private Eye J . J Jake Gittes , Jack Nicholson , unknowingly gets involved with this water scheme by being contacted by this woman , Diane Ladd , claiming to be the wife of L . A's Power & Water Commissioner Hollis I . Mulwary , Darrell Zwerling . Claiming that her husband is cheating on her " Mrs . Evelyn Mulwary " has Gittes get the goods on him by photographing Mr . Mulwary with this young woman , Belinda Palmer , with the photos ending up in the local papers . It's later when Gittes is contacted by the real Mrs . Evelyn Mulwary , Faye Dunnaway , that he realizes that he's been taken for a sucker by whoever this woman the fake Mrs . Mulwary , who turned out to be a Mrs . Ida Sessions , is and the person who hired her ! " Chinatown " then has a number of surprises hit both PI Gittes and its audience in that Mrs . Mulwary is the estranged daughter of L . A power broker Noah Cross , John Huston . Cross made his millions in real estate and land development with the help of Hollis Mulwary his son-in-law . It's not long after that Mr . Mulwary ends up dead in the L . A reservoir with the L . A coroner concluding that his death was either an accident or suicide ! Gittes knowing that Mr . Mulwary was actually murdered in that he opposed Cross ' plan to build a dam that will in fact threaten the people , mostly farmers , who live around it goes out of his way to find out who in fact did murder Mr . Mulwary . Gittes suspicions are confirmed in the fact that Mr . Mulwary's lungs were filled with salt water making it impossible that he drowned in the fresh water L . A reservoir . the kicker to this whole shady project , the building of the dam , is soon discovered , with the help of Mrs . Sessions , by PI Gittes in that Cross and his stooges in the L . A City government are buying up the land that's to be irrigated by the dam dirt cheap from the hard pressed farmers . With a bill later in the year to be voted on by the people of L . A , that's sure to pass , the valley will become part of Los Angeles proper and be worth some 30 million dollars ! A fraction of what Cross & Co . bought it for ! The crooked land deal angle of " Chinatown " is really secondary to what the real deal in the movie is and that has to do with the mysterious young woman whom the late Mr . Hollis Mulwary was involved with . It's that young woman that's been kept secret by both Mr . Cross and his daughter Evelyn Mulwary from PI Gittes . In the end she's the reason for both Cross & Evelyn's strange and unnatural actions in the film . That's until her true identity is revealed at the conclusion of the movie which just about blew Gittes mind ! Dark and suspenseful film noir with Jack Nicholson at his best as PI Gittes finding out that he bit off far more the he can chew in taking on the powerful and at the same time degenerate Noah Cross . Gittes should have known better that he just can't win in his fight with Cross and the people that he controlled , that included the entire LAPD . It was Gittes ' cockiness in that he could derail Cross ' plan that lead to the tragedy at the end of the movie that took place in the Chinatown section of L . A . Director Roman Polaski beside making one of the classic film noir films of the post WWII Hollywood era also had a cameo appearance in the movie paying one of Cross ' knife wielding hoods . Polanski was the person who sliced open Gittes nose having him go through almost the entire movie with a massive bandage on his face . That bandage , covering almost half his face , was a tempting target for anyone who got psychically involved , like the farmers in the valley , with him in the movie .
The flesh is weak but the soul is eternal	( There are Spoilers ) Voodoo and Satanic inspired film-noir detective story that at first starts out as a run of the mill missing person investigation by Brooklyn private dick Harry Angel , Mickey Rourke , that leads him to New Orleans and Algeries LA . and the discovery that the person he's looking for is not at all dead or brain-dead , as he was lead to believe . The person in question is very alive and well and in full control of his mental facilities . Contacted by a Mr . Winesap , Dann Florek , to take a case of a client of his Angel meets him at this Harlem church that seems to practice Voodoo blood sacrifices instead of Christian ethics . Meeting Winsap together with his really strange and creepy-looking client a Mr . Louis Cyphre , Robert De Niro , makes Angel's blood run cold but when he's offered $5 , 000 . 00 for his services , from Cyphre , he immediately agrees to take the job . Told by Cyphre that he's looking for this former night-club and USO crooner a Johnny Favorite aka John Liebing who was badly injured in the last war in the battle of North Africa . Being told by Cyphre that Favorite suffered severe brain damage and was brought back to the states and admitted to this private sanitarium , The Sarah Dodd Harvest Memorial Clinic , outside the town of Poughkeepsie in upstate New York . As Cyphre goes on with his story he tells Angel that it was always believed that Favorite was a patient at the clinic until recently when he went to visit him finding out , now twelve years later in 1955 , that he either escaped or was smuggled out of the sanitarium back in 1943 and has never been seen or heard from since . You get a very uncomfortable chill up your spine , like Angel does , when Cyphre tells him that he's looking for Favorite for one and one reason only : to have him pay off a debt that he owes him and get the impression from Cyphre's tone of voice that the debt is to be paid not in money but in blood ! Eerie and nerve-racking thriller with Harry Angel trying to track down and find , dead or alive , the very illusive Johnny Favorite with the leads he comes up with in his investigation back in NYC has Angel traveling to New Orleans . Tracking down the daughter of Mrs . Proudfoot , Johnny Favorite's lover in New Orleans during the war , 17 year-old Epiphany , Lisa Bonet , Angel gets involved with a number of strange and terrifying Voodoo cults . It turns out that Epiphany , like her late mom , is a high Voodoo priestess . The involvement with Epiphany and her fellow cultists results in Angel being hit or exposed to some kind of Voodoo hex that drives him to the brink of insanity if not beyond it . As Angel slowly uncovers the mystery of just who this Johnny Favorite really is and if he's still alive everyone he comes in contact with in his investigation ends up brutally murdered in what seems like a number of blood curdling and gruesome Voodoo rituals . Angel finally gets to the bottom of what all this Johnny Favorite business really is all about when he gets in touch with a Mr . Ethan Kursemark , Stocker Fontelieu , who like his late daughter Margaret , Charlotte Rampling , is an expert as well as practitioner of the Black Arts . It was Margaret who Angel first got in contact with in New Orleans that resulted , from her talking to him , in her murder where her heart was ripped out of her body ! It's after his talk with Ethan , and later with Cyphre himself , that Angel realizes the real reason why he was picked by Cyphre to investigate Johnny Favorites strange disappearance in that he himself had a lot to do with it ! As the shocking truth about Angel's strange connection to Favorite comes out from his subconscious mind Angel loses it ending up mumbling to , and trying to convince , himself that it's all just a bad dream or nightmare , as the movie ends , but knowing full well deep down and in his soul that it's Not ! it's the Real McCoy !
The first step is always the hardest	( Mild Spoilers ) Powerful drama , even though a bit dated now , about veterans who lost their ability to walk due to injuries on and off the battlefield trying to adjust to a new world . As well as renewing their relationships with those that they left behind , friends families and sweethearts , who in some cases try to forget that they ever existed . Taking a bullet in his back as he lead his troops into a German-occupied French village Let . Ken Wilcheck , Marlon Brando , is left paralyzed from the waist down . Given the bad news from his doctor Dr . Brock , Everett Stone , that he'll never walk again leaves Ken Wilcheck a stunned and broken man . The depression and self loathing for himself engulfs Ken in the realization that he'll never be a real man again . Ken's back at home sweetheart Elly Wilosek , Teresa Wright , who waited four years for him to return and who loves him even more then she did when he was healthy is now totally shunned by him . The battle that Ken Wilcheck , as well as the crippled veterans in the veterans hospital with him , had off the battlefield was as , if not more , emotional and heart-wrenching as any of the battles that he fought on it . Ken ends up fighting against himself and those , like Elly and Dr . Brock , who tried to help him in facing the real world which took everything out of him and almost cost , in him getting himself drunk and smashing himself up in a car crash , Ken his life . The movie " The Men " shows what men like Ken Wilcheck go through and how , in their own unique and individual ways , try to overcome the almost insurmountable obstacles in their path ; by at first putting their permanent injuries behind them and then going back to a normal life . Ken himself is at first not willing to accept what fate gave to him and just lays in his hospital bed waiting to die or rot away . It's Elly who more then anyone else who gets him to overcome his deep depression . Since , unlike his fellow disabled veterans , she has her life ahead of her as a healthy and non-disabled young woman . Elly is more then willing to give up what any young woman would want more then anything else ; a handsome , not that Ken isn't , and healthy husband and family in order to spend the rest of her life with him . Elly herself is confronted with Ken's condition by her parents Mr . & Mrs . Wilosek , Howard St . John & Dorothy Tree , who are anything but overjoyed in her wanting to marry the disabled veteran which makes her even more determined to tie the knot with him . That in some way , after she and Ken are married , almost destroyed their marriage as soon as it began . Being overly self-conscious and trying to baby Ken , instead of treating like a husband . Elly unknowingly makes it plain to Ken that she made a big mistake in marrying him which the sensitive as well as heart-broken Ken senses . That has the by now emotionally destroyed veteran leave her and go back to the hospital where her just was discharged from never wanting to see Elly again . Depressed and drunk Ken almost gets himself as well as his fellow disabled vet Leo , Richard Erdman , killed when the two went out to paint the town red , as well as get smashed on booze . Elly later tries to apologize , going to see Ken at the hospital , in what she did in making her now estranged husband run out on her . But as always it was up to Ken to make the first move and in the end he did it like the man , even though for a long time in the movie he had his doubts , that he always was . P . S One of the most poignant as well as explosive moments in the movie that really brought out the " Thin Red Line " that disable vets like Ken had to " walk " on when dealing with people in everyday life came very unexpectedly in " The Men " . This happened when both Ken and Leo are approached in a bar by a somewhat drunk patron , Ray Teal . Teal who after telling the two what a great job , in getting themselves shot and almost killed , and service that they both did for their country is then stunned to almost being speechless . That's when Ken , sick and tired of being patronized by him , told the guy if he would be happy to have him marry his daughter ! You can just imagine what happened after that !
Better Late Then Never	SPOLILERS Gangster Eddie Kagle , Paul Muni , serving his latest stretch in prison , is released and picked up by his fellow hood Smiley Williams , Hardie Albright . Smiley took over the criminal operation that Eddie ran while he was in the pen . Driving back to St . Louis Eddie tells Smiley what a good job he did while he was away and how thing are going to get even better now that he's back where , all of a sudden and without warning , Smiley pulls out a gun and blows Eddie away ! Waking up in the " Hot Spot " it becomes evident to Eddie that he's dead by talking to some of the residents there . The place is run by this guy called Mephistopheiese or Nick for short who feels that it's not hot enough for him , it's only about 180 degrees , and wants to know why the heat isn't being turned up . Nick's is told by one of his henchmen that there aren't enough workers to shovel the coal into the furnaces because not enough people are qualified to be sent " Down There " due to this Judge Fredrick Parker who's turning people " Up There " into good and decent citizens . It turns out that Eddie is a dead ringer for the judge and Nick gets the bright idea to send Eddie back to the living to replace him and do his , Nick's , dirty work . Eddie of course wants to take care of Smiley who not only double-crossed him but sent him down " There " . Taking over the Judges body something happens to Eddie that both he as well as Nick never expected . Eddie becomes a good and decent person and even worse Eddie likes what he became ! " Angle on my shoulder " is one of those life after death movies made in the 1940's like " Here Comes Mr . Jordan " and " A Guy Named Joe " where Eddie becomes the good Judge Fredrick and makes up for his life of crime and redeems his soul by doing it . Eddie ends up seeing that it's far better to help people then hurt them even that dirty double-crossing rat Smiley , who I think that Eddie subconsciously thanks for giving him the chance to see the light , by him blowing his brains out . This new revelation on Eddie's part sets up the whole movie of him coming back to be the good person that he became . Seeing that his plan is fast falling apart Nick in a last and desperate act tries to get Eddie to marry Barbara , Anne Baxter , Judge Fredrick's fiance , in order to get Eddie to do something bad , steal the Judge's girl and to break the hold that the Angle on Eddie's shoulder has on him . Eddie not falling for Nick's underhanded tactics gets wise to his plan at the last moment and tells him he'd rather go back to " Helltown " with him then take Judge Fredrick's girl away from him and agrees to give the Judge back his body . Nick outraged at Eddie for making him look like a jerk tells Eddie that he's really going to give him the " business " when they get back " Down there " But Eddie pulls a ace from up his sleeve and tells Nick that he has " The goods " on him by him making Nick look like a fool and sap in Eddie doing just the opposite that Nick wanted him to do when he took over the good Judge's body . This revelation would expose what an incompetent dope Nick is and make him the laughing stock down there where he's looked upon as being the Big Cheese . Realizing that he's been had Nick reluctantly agrees to share the action and makes Eddie co-partner in his underworld-wide operation .
Andre to Wally : Do you really want to hear about all this ?	Former Broadway writer and now actor , whenever he can find work , Wally Shawn was very apprehensive at the news of his friend Avant-Grade director Andre Gregory inviting him for dinner that evening at a swanky upper East-Side restaurant to talk over old times . It was Andre who gave Wally his first big break on Broadway by directing a play that he wrote . Times of late have not been kind to the two with Wally not finding anyone to accept his plays or give him work as an actor and Andre now going through a serious and almost suicidal depression . Andre dropped out of sight altogether in his own personal journey of self-discovery in his attempt in trying to find out what life is all about . In his five year journey Andre came to the conclusion that the world's a giant stage and we all are given parts , like actors and actresses , to play on it . In the end were to be judged how good or bad we were by how we preformed the parts that we were given . At first you don't know what to make of the movie " My Dinner with Andre " . The two friends just chit-chat about mundane things like latest plays opening on Broadway and what to order for dinner , roast quail with wild rice a bowl of steaming hot potato soup and a fish pate appetizer . But as they being bringing out their innermost thought about themselves and those close to them , between gulps of wine and soup , the movie takes on a whole new and different flavor . In that the audience becomes not just an observer but a vital part of their conversation . We , and Wally , learn from Andre that his wanting to find himself and his reason for living had lead him over the last few years to travel to a number of exotic and far flung places that opened his eyes to a world he never knew existed ! From an unknown and almost mystical Polish forest to the hot and burning sands of the vast Sahara Desert and a sub-freezing and almost impassable Tibetan mountain wilderness . With Andre finally ending up in this quaint and magical little Scottish commune town called Findhorn . Over these five years Andre says that he had a whole new emotional and educational experience that he wants to share with his friend Wally . But only in his own down beat way of telling it . This gets so hung up with the futility of life that Andre in effect turns off , instead of turning on , Wally to his new found insights . It's when both Andre and Wally begin to exchange opinions later in the movie , Andre did most of the talking during the first half , that the two make contact with each other and draw the audience into their conversation . Very esoteric at times but never at all boring or confusing " My Dinner with Andre " is a two hour talk between two friends about a whole list of subjects . Their conversation keeps you glued , and listening , to the screen about how were losing our souls and identities to a both modern and indifferent , to the individual , world . In the end both Wally and Andre even though they have different opinions on how man can find his way back to nature , as well as recovering his long lost sense of reality . Both Andre and Wally agree that opening up one's mind by letting out what one feels deep down inside of him , or her , and not being afraid or embarrassed in doing it is the bases of man going forward and improving the broken society that we all now , in the 1980's , lives in . The two diners , Andre & Wally , philosophical sparring on issues like life and death and what existence is all about gets a bit redundant at times in them trying to find fault in on how valid or false they are . But as they each get to see how their views on the many different subjects they discuss start to coincide with each other they , and we that are watching , realize that their on the same wavelength . The two end their dinner not just quenching their appetites but their minds as well by exchanging ideas and opinions and coming to an incisive and thought-provoking conclusion about almost everything there is to know about themselves and those around them . The very interesting film ends on an optimistic note as a now less skeptical and far more optimistic Wally says it , on a cab ride back home as the movie ends , from from what he learned from " My Dinner with Andre " .
Rock & Roll is here to Stay it will never Die	Looking more like a young and slimmed down Rush Limbaugh then the legendary pioneer Rock & Roll DJ the late Tim Mcintire , who ironically died in 1986 at almost the same age that Freed passed away some twenty years earlier . " American Hot Wax " is tragic as well as prophetic story about Alan Freed who more then anyone else put Rock & Roll on the map and made the saying , like the song says , " Rock & Roll is here to Stay " a reality . Mcintire in the best performance of his career gives it all he's got as Alan Freed and comes across , despite his obvious non-resemblance to Alan Freed , as good as Freed ever was on the silver screen in a number of films that he stared in . The movie starts at the hight of Freed's popularity in 1959 as he's getting together a number of top Rock & Roll singers and groups to appear at the Brooklyn Paramount for his first anniversary Rock & Roll show . The local authorities as well as the big wigs in the record industry have had in in for Freed since he came on the scene back in 1952 in Clevelend . It was then when Freed first coined the word Rock & Roll and , according to them and the blue noses of that time , corrupted the American youth with that wild and uncontrollable music . The movie has the theater raided by the police because it was declared a fire hazard and Freed arrested and the entertainers dragged off the stage as the thousands of Rock & Roll fans go wild . The movie " American Hot Wax " briefly touched on the payola scandal of 1959-1960 that in reality was the real reason for Freed's downfall not the wild scene at the Brooklyn Paramount at the end of the movie . Freed never played a record that he didn't like payola or not and took money to play the records that he liked unsolicited thinking that it was just part of being a DJ on the radio . The fact that Alan Freed wouldn't sign a statement that he never took payola , which was untrue , had him fired from the WABC radio station that he worked for in 1960 . Later Freed , after having brief jobs as a DJ in L . A and Miami on stations KDAY & WQAM , was blackballed out of the music business altogether . Hit with charges by the IRS in March 1964 for back taxes Alan Freed , who was already at that time both unemployed and unemployable , went into a tailspin as his drinking got out of hand and he died in a California hospital , broke and forgotten , of kidney failure on January 20 , 1965 , Freed was 43 years old . There was one irony to Freed's life , and death , that really sticks out and makes you think if there's truly such a thing as fate and destiny . Exactly three months to the day that Alan Freed died on April 19 , 1965 the radio station that Alan Freed made synonymous with himself and into the flagship radio station in playing the music that he loved and died for in the fabulous 1950's . Freed's old station 1010 WINS New York changed it's policy of playing Rock & Roll , or any other type of , music by becoming the first radio station in the nation to go all news all the time , an all-news network , which it still is today . April 19 , 1965 was for all intents and purposes " The Day the Music Died " on 1010 WINS .
High drama in a New York City courtroom with a man's life hanging in the balance	SPOILERS Given what at first glance seems to be an open and shut case by The State of New York vrs George Savoca in the murder , by Mr . Savoca stabbing , of his father . As the foreman of the Jury juror # 1 Martin Balsam takes a vote from the 12 jurors including himself he gets an 11 to 1 vote for the conviction of Mr . Savoca . The lone dissenter is Juror # 8 Henry Fonda who wants the defendant , who if convicted automatically gets the death penalty , to at least have his case reviewed and debated before he and the rest of the Jurors make a decision that may very well cost Mr . Savoca his life . At first the debate goes nowhere until it becomes clear that the switchblade that Savoca was accused of using to murdered his father was not that unique . The fact that Juror # 8 produced an exact same switchblade that he bought in a store some two blocks from the Savoca's home changed all that . Slowly one after another the men on the jury change their vote with Juror # 9 and # 5 Joseph Sweeney and Jack Klugman being the first two to change their vote from conviction to acquittal . The entire murder case hinged on the two eye witnesses , a lame old man and a near-sighted middle-aged woman , to the murder who lived across the street from the building where the murder was committed . The witnesses testimony was taken apart by both juror # 8 and # 9 when it was discovered that the old man couldn't have gotten , as he testified at the murder trial , as fast to the window to see the murder committed . As for the woman who was asleep , the murder was committed after midnight , she could not have gotten out of bed and seen , from some 60 feet away , through the windows of a passing fast moving subway train the killing without having her glasses on . The film " 12 angry Men " ends with the only holdout of the jurors to acquit Juror # 3 Lee J . Cobb breaking down and finally voting to acquit Mr . Savoca . Fine courtroom drama that is as thought-provoking now as it was back then on the screen in 1957 with every one involved giving Academy Award caliber performances even though there were a number of factors that were overlooked by the jurors that may well have proved Mr . Savoca guilt . The knife that killed Savoca's , the same kind of knife that Savoca said that he had but lost the night of the murder , father was found on the street outside his apartment . Even though Juror # 8 bought an exact copy of the switchblade knife , that Savoca was said to have used , in a store not far from him home it still didn't prove his innocence . The fact that Savoca couldn't explain where he was convincingly the time that his father was murdered , he claimed he was in a movie-house where no one working there or any customer could identify him . Being the one and only suspect in his fathers murder with a motive to boot , he got into a fierce fight with his father and said that he was going to kill him a few hours before Savoca's father was murdered . It was the eye witness testimony that failed to convince the jurors that had them vote to acquit him . As convincing as the movie was in the jury acquitting Savoca in real life the jury would have in all probability have ended up by not coming to a verdict and ending up a hung jury . Two of the jurors # 10 and # 7 Ed Begley , Sr . and Jack Warden were more or less motivated to vote for acquittal by being intimidated and pressured by their fellow jurors then by the testimony . Juror # 3 Lee J . Cobb was so unstable and emotionally screwed up that it's a wonder that he ever got on the jury in the first place unless he was such a good actor that he fooled the State prosecutor when he was paneled by him .
There are some mysteries that are best kept secret	( There are Spoilers ) At an obscure little village on the foothills of the mighty Himalayas world renowned British botanist Dr . John Rollason , Peter Cushing , and his fellow botanist wife Helen , Maureen Connell , are out studying the rare plants that are only indigenous in that part of the world . Unknown to Helen John is planing to go up high in the Himalayas with a team of mountain climbers from the United States headed by Dr . Tom Friend , Forrest Tucker , to find the both illusive and legendary Yeti or Abominable Snowman . intelligence and at the same time though-provoking movie by the up and coming British Hammer Studios that treats the subject matter , the Yeti , in a philosophical not horror-like or threatening way with the Yeti coming across far more human then the humans themselves who are out to either capture him alive . Going against the pleas of his wife Helen and the advice of the local Lahma , Arnold Marle , John together with Tom and his crew of mountain climbers Ed Shelley and Andrew McNee , Robert brown & Michael Brill , and their Sherpa guide Kusang , Wolf Morris , go out in the dead of the Himalayan winter . In an effort to see if all the rumors about the Yeti are true or legend the team finds to their surprise that whatever they heard or read about the snowman don't even scratch the surface . His existence becomes a fact and whats more it turns out that the Yeti's are more human in their behavior towards them and that they , John Tom & Co , are the brutal and uncivilized savages that they depict the Yeti's of being . Tom having gone on earlier climbs in the Himalayas burying hundreds of pounds of food and supplies along the route that he and John are now taking has it all planned perfectly with the winter snows coming . This would force the Yeti's , if there's any , out of their high mountain habitats and into the lower regions of the Himalayas . The fact that Tom has a small team of climbers , five including himself , they wouldn't be that of an intimidating presence to the Yeti's , where they would avoid them , making it more then likely that he and his small team of mountain climbers would run into them . What Tom as well as John & Co , with the possible exception of Kusang , doesn't know is that the Yeti is far more formidable in his powers of mind control or mind manipulation then in his massive strength and ability to scale heights with ease that the most experienced mountain climbers wouldn't even dare to attempt . Making their way up the the 20 , 000 foot level of the mountain the climbers set camp with one of them , McNee , having his ankle badly injured in the climb . It's that very evening that the Yeti's make themselves know by wailing in the night and later one of them tires to enter McNee's , who is somehow hypnotized by the wails , tent . Chasing the Yeti out into the snow Ed Shelley fires a number of shots killing him . McKnee now under some kind of trance walks out of his tent and walking on the dangerous and shifting snows along a steep ridge falls to his death . With the body of a 10 foot 700 pound Yeti secured and rapped up the mountain climbing team now plans to go back to the village and report it's amazing find to the world . A sudden storm then hits the area causing the team to shack up for the night until it blows over . It's then when strange things begin to happen with the Yeti's determined to recover their fellow , and dead , mountain snowman and at the same time after both Ed and Tom are killed from fright and paranoia , but not by the Yeti's , and Kusang after seeing a Yeti flipping out and running for his life down the mountain . It's then that John realizes what the Lhama told him about leaving the secret of the Yeti's existence to himself . John finally gets to see the Yeti's face to face in the last few minutes of the movie and instead of dropping dead from fright at the very sight of them he's almost put into a serene and tranquil state of mind by the humanity that he sees in their eyes . Knowing that they , unlike those who are out to kill and capture them , meant no harm and John turned out to be right . John ended up owing his life to the Yeti's and with that gained a new found respect , or even love , for them to the point where he kept their existence to himself . Telling Helen and the Lahma , who really knew better , back in the village that he found nothing up there in order to prevent other expeditions from climbing up the steep and dangerous Himalayas and not only ending up like his fellow mountain climbers did . In the end the Yeti's is allowed to live in both peace and safety from the inhumanity of the arrogant and unfeeling humans who's greed and sense of superiority over all those , lesser species of life , around them that would lead to their own comeuppance .
Murder is never perfect , it always comes apart sooner or later	( There are Spoilers ) Prefusely Bleeding from a gunshot wound insurance salesman Walter Neff , Fred MacMurray , instead of getting immediate medical attention drives to the Pacific All Risk Building in downtown L . A . After staggering into his office Walter sits down and pops a blank cylinder into his dicta-phone and spills his guts out about what a fool he was over a woman who in the end painted Walter into a corner that if he survives his wounds he'll end up facing either life in prison or the California gas chamber . Walter at first wasn't all that impressed with Phillis Dietrichson , Barbara Stanwyck , when two months earlier he showed up at her home to renew her husbands , Tom Powers , auto insurance . Phillis started to probe Walter about insuring Mr . Dietrichson for as much as $50 , 000 . 00 without him even knowing about it . Walter started to smell a rat , or murder , on Phillis ' part and told her to take a hike ; if only he would have let it end then and there . The poor man didn't realize just how cold blooded and manipulative Phillis was and in the end Walter's mistake would cost him very dearly . With Phillis showing up at Walter's apartment and giving him a long cock and bull story about how she loves him and what a rat her husband is . It didn't take long for him to take the bait and fall right in line with her . Walter gets Mr . Dietrichson insured for $50 , 000 . 00 with a double indemnity clause , making it a grand total of $100 , 000 . 00 , if Mr . Dietrichson gets killed in an accident . Mr . Dietrichson for his part is easily fooled by both Walter and Phillis into signing the policy thinking that it's to insure his car not is life . The two would-be murders , Walter & Phillis , wait for the right time to get Mr . Deitrichson alone and finish him off making it look accidental . That time comes when he suffers a broken leg at his job in the oil fields . Planning to drive to Palo Alto for a get-together with fellow oil executives Mr . Dietrichson is forced to take the train and it's on the train where Walter and Phillis plan for him to have a fatal accident . That's after they murder Mr . Dietrichson beforehand and then have Walter impersonate him . Everything goes like clockwork with Mr . Dietrichson murdered , by Walter , in route to the train station and then later dumped on the tracks . Walter in a leg cast , and wearing the same clothes that Mr . Dieterichson was wearing , puts on a show on the train trying to convince everybody on it that he was Phillis's husband . It's only after Mr . Dieterichson's death that things started unraveling for the two schemers . This unraveling would lead to Walter finally getting wise to Phillis in what she really had planned for him as well as her step-daughter Lola , Jane Heather , and Lola's boyfriend as well as Phillis ' lover Nino Zachetti ( Byron Barr ) but by then it was too late . Walters best friend and insurance investigator at Pacific All Risk Barton Keys , Edward G . Robinson , who at first bought the story of Mr . Deitrichson's accidentally death started to look deep into the matter . The " little man " inside his gut , who was never wrong in all the time he investigated claims , wouldn't let Keyes rest and that lead Keyes , like a determined bull-dog , to keep the Dietrichson case open until he finally broke it . Keyes for his part had no idea that Walter had anything to do with Mr . Dietrichson's death , or murder , being that Walter covered his tracks so well . Keyes felt certain that it was Nino in concert with Phillis that did her old man in . Walter started to get very guilt-ridden over Nino being set up , unknowingly , by Keyes to take the the rap for a crime that he committed . At the same time Walter felt guilty in sweet and innocent Lola , who had nothing but hatred and contempt for her step-mother , taking him into her confidence after he , not Nino , brutally and cold-blooded murdered her dad ! Thinking that he's home free with Nino and Phillis about to be arrested and charged with the murder of Mr . Dietrichson Walter foolishly , or was it his guilty conscience , confronted Phillis at her house that evening only to have himself blasted by Phillis . Phillis for the first time in the movie , showing that she was really in love with Walter can't bring herself to finish him off with a second and fatal shot which turned out to be a fatal mistake on Phillis ' part . It's now after 400 : AM and Keyes shows up at Walter's office with the police and ambulance not far behind . Walter trying to get a head start from the police in order to cross the US / Mexican border falls right on his face before he can even reach the elevator . It's then when we , and Walter , begin to realize that Keyes may well have known that Walter was the one , not Nino , who together with Phillis tried to pull off the perfect crime . Because Keyes was so close to Walter , much closer then even Walter realized , he didn't have the heart and mind to suspect and have him arrested for murder . It was Walter himself who solved his friends Keyes very pressing and emotional problem by implicating , with his voluntarily taped or recored confession , himself !
I Gogol a poor peasant conquered The World of SCIENCE . . . Why can't I conquer The World of LOVE !	SPOILERS Peter Lorre as the brilliant but love-sick Dr . Gogol who goes mad , madly in love , with the object of his obsession the beautiful actress Yvonne , Frances Drake , that in the end lead to his death and the destruction of his life work as a world famous surgeon . Blinded by his love for Yvonne Dr . Gogol attended all her performances at the Theater of Horrors . Later Dr . Gogol got the shock of his life when after her last show when he came to see her back stage when Yvonne told him that she was quitting acting . Even worse that she's secretly married to the handsome world famous concert pianist Stephen Orlac , Colin Clive . Gogol loses it when his beloved Yvonne left him for another man , Yvonne never really had anything to do with Gogol romantically , that he goes into a deep depression with the only thing that he has left of Yvonne is her wax statue in the theater lobby that he bought when her show folded . When later in the movie her husband Stephen is badly hurt in a rail accident Yvonne , against her better judgment , gets in touch with Dr . Gogol to save Stephen's precious hands that were badly mangled in the accident . Dr . Gogol secretly attached the hands of a knife wilding murderer who was executed just that morning on to Stephen wrists . Stephen soon realizes that the hands that he has are not his hands . They don't play the piano like he used to and they seem to have a very strong liking to throw knives . Dr . Gogol's depression gets rekindled when Yvonne realizes that he purposely put the killer's hands on her husband and lets him have it . Later Gogol , in a fit of anger , goes to Stephen's father jewelry store and knifes him to death and leaves clues to implicate Stephen , who had a fight with his father just the day before , for the murder . Gogol thinks that Steven's fathers murder would break up his and Yvonne's marriage by putting Stephen behind bars and , in Gogol's sick mind , give his a second chance with Yvonne . One of Peter Lorre's best performances as the heart-sick and eventually insane Dr . Gogol as he desperately tries to win over Yvonne's heart but ends up destroying himself . Crazed and heavily drunk in the end Dr . Gogol can't function anymore as the great surgeon that he once was and it's truly tragic to see his sad and cataclysmic downfall . I felt even more sympathy for Dr . Gogol then I did for King Kong in his sorrowful and forbidden love for Yvonne and just , no matter what Gogol did , couldn't dislike him . Love is a very strange force of nature it can bring the best as well as the worst out of all of us . In the sad case of Dr . Gogol it destroyed a brilliant surgeon who could have saved the lives , and limbs , of hundreds of people and the love and gratitude that Dr . Gogol would have gotten from those that he would have saved with his God-given talent , as a man of medicine , would have far more made up for the love that Yvonne denied him .
Will Tomorrow See Another " Day " ?	SPOILER ALERT Solid newspaper drama that has a two tier storyline involving the hard hitting no nonsense managing editor Ed Hutcheson , Humphrey Bogart , of the big city newspaper " The Day " . Hutcheson is involved in a number of crisis in the 87 minute film including his wife Nora , Kim Hunter , leaving him for another man her boss at the advertising agency Lewis Shaefer , Phillip Terry , with his newspaper about to be bought up with it's 1 , 500 employees . Hutcheson himself is also giving the pink slip and at the same time , with time running out , tries to get the goods on big time mobster Thomas Rienzi , Martin Gable . Rienzi had his estranged girlfriend former fashion model Sally Schmidt , Ann McCrea , murdered as well as have his thugs work over Hutcheson's star reporter George Borrows , Warren Stevens , who was about to break to case wide open . Knowing that there's little or no chance to save his newspaper " The Day " editor Hutcheson takes on a local murder case as the papers last headline story that in the end leads straight to city Mafiso chief Thomas Rienzi . Sally Schmidt , known as Bessie Gardner , had a falling out with her hoodlum boyfriend and was later found floating in the river . Sally had secretly put some $200 , 000 . 00 of Rienzi's hot money away in a bank safe deposit box that he was to use in fixing the city and state elections . Given the story Day reporter George Borrows ends up badly beaten by the Rienzi Mob which has Hutcheson go all out to get the mob chief at the expense of his own life and safety . With the help of a number of contacts in the State Boxing Commission Hutcheson gets to smoke out Sally's brother Herman , Joe de Santis , who unwittingly set poor Sally up for a mob hit . Rienzi in an effort to shut Herman up has a number of his hoods impersonate policemen as they kidnap Herman right out of the Day editor room and have him gunned down , and falling to his death on the news printing machines , as he tried to escape . With nothing on Thomas Rienzi Hutcheson is about to close the paper after the last and final edition but it's then when elderly Mrs . Schmidt , Kasia Orzazewski , Sally and Herman's mom shows up at the Day offices with enough evidence , that Sally secretly left her , to put the grinning and feeling secure Thomas Rienzi and his gang away for the rest of their lives . One of Humphrey Bogart's most underrated and forgotten films . " Deadline USA " is by far one , if not , the best motion picture about not only the newspaper business but free speech ever to come out of Hollywood in the last 50 or so years . We see in the film how the news is handled , by trying to ascertain and then confirm it , by a top and respected city daily . it was very sad to see SPOILERthat in the end Hutcheson lost his battle to keep " The Day " from going under by it being swallowed up by it's competition the tabloid newspaper " The Standard " . Hutchenson getting the big mob boss Thomas Rienzi put out of action and behind bars was more then worth his courageous but losing effort .
Is this the right Mrs . Wright I'm talking to ?	( Some Spoilers ) Bittersweet yet funny little short in how to coup with a personal tragedy under the most depressing of circumstances . Young cub reporter Niall , Thomas Nelstrop , is given the task to do a story for his newspaper-the Examiner-on the death of a local teenager-Michael Wright-who was killed in a car accident the previous evening . We had earlier seen Niall attending his mother's funeral which had the young man's mind , who was crying uncontrollably , on other things besides his work as a reporter for the town's newspaper . Knowing from his previous work that the young man isn't exactly up up par in conducting interviews Niall's colleague Tammy , Sally Bretton , walks him through in how to correctly , and sensitively , interview Michael's mom Mrs . Wright , April Nicholson . Tammy keeps stressing to a very attentive Niall who , if his interview sells papers , may well get a promotion out of all this that it's important to use the word " Tribute " in telling Mrs Wright about the story he plans to write about her deceased son . Going to Mrs . Wright's house and trying to be as cool and professional as possible Niall to his complete surprise gets the exact opposite response from the grieving mother ! Mrs Wright doesn't seem to care , or know , if her dear and beloved son is dead or alive in fact she invites a startled Niall to a home cooked meal that she had prepared for him ! You at first think that your watching an episode of the " Twilight Zone " in how everything seems to be completely out of whack with reality . It's later that it becomes apparent that a tragic event like the loss of a family member , in this case a son , can drastically distort a person's thinking in trying to blot out that tragedy . SPOILER ALERT Mrs . Wright handled the death of her son the only way she could and that was by making believe in her mind that it never happened . If both Niall and Tammy ever went through the terrible experience of what Mrs . Wright did they , instead of being shocked and bewildered by her actions , may have very well understood her .
Crazy Harry	SPOILERS Pretty good made for TV murder mystery that has a man driven to murder his wife because she's can't take his schemings and wheeling and dealing at his job as a real-estate salesman . The scheming just about bankrupted both her as well as him . Mindlessly maxing out all his wife's , Connie , credit cards as well as his and Connie's joint bank account Harry Cardell goes all out buying this patch of land outside of L . A thinking that it will be developed into a 40 million dollar shopping center . Jumping with joy at the big deal he just pulled off Harry thinking he'll make a cool 250 thousand in no time at all finds out that the land he just bought is , instead of being a multi-million shopping center , going to be used as a toxic dump worth 30 thousand dollar ! The man isn't only broke but some , not counting the interest , 50 thousand in the hole . Carrie not wanting to have her , and Harry's , two young children , Benji and Jefnnifer , grow up without a father puts up with the now manic depress and abusive Harry instead of leaving him . This leads to the horrors that he later inflicts on her because he just can't handle the mess that he made for himself and his family . Right away you see that Harry is a bit unstable when he not only invites his strung out and pot smoking daughter , from another marriage , Nancy but her gang of over-aged hippies lead by her boyfriend Jason , better known as Mr . Pink , to the house . They not only light up and shoot illegal drugs but expose his and Carrie's children , Benj & Jennie , to them and their very unsocial and criminal antics . Harry's behavior becomes so overbearing that Carrie finally decides to leave him and take Benji and Jennie with her which makes Harry , if he wasn't already , an uncontrollable lunatic , even more nutty . Stalking Carrie and the children at their new address Harry after trying unsuccessfully to act his age gives up being normal altogether and in a last act of desperation , in keeping his family together , then plans to in fact destroy it . By having Carrie knocked off by a hired mob hit-man and make it look like it was a blotched burglary attempt . Getting friendly with Albert , the security guard at Carrie's housing development , Harry has the poor slob go back to his old neighborhood , one of the toughest and crime-ridden in the city , and find one of his old and gangster friends , a guy named Eddie , who's more then willing to do the job for him but at the cost of 10 thousand dollars . Harry strapped for cash , that he needs to pay Eddie for whacking his wife , gets second thoughts about going through with the hit not that he feels any kind of sympathy for Carrie or even her and his children who would be left without a mother , if his plan goes through , but just wants to keep the cash for himself . Harry decides to do the hit himself for free ! It turns out that Harry's alternate plan didn't go that well with hit-man Eddie who's determined to do the hit , and thus collect his ten grand , himself . Eddie Threatens to do in Harry , at no charge , if he back out has a reluctant Harry let everything go according to schedule . Being the deranged and out of touch with reality psycho that he is Harry never sees what was so obvious to anyone watching the movie and pays for it , big time , in the end . Really a Ben Gazzara , who plays Crazy Harry Cardell , movie with his acting far outshining everyone else in it . Harry goes completely wacko and loses it so bad that he seems to be in another plane or realm of existence during the entire time he's on the screen . An excellent study of madness in the modern world " Downpayment to Murder " is far better then I at first thought . Thinking the film was just another of the many imitations of " Double Indemnity " but after watching the film and Gazzara's unprecedented , as a man totally detached from reality , performance I have to say that it was well worth the 90 or so minutes I spent watching it .
Drifting Winds	Clint Eastwood revives his signature role as " The Man with no Name " as he seems to come out of nowhere from the distant prairie and descends upon the sleepy little town of Largo and after that things there will never be the same again for the people who live there . A film that has a lot more to it then what you see at first with Eastwood not being that mysterious and having a past which is seen in flashback every so often in the movie . Styled a lot like " High Noon " but with a twist that builds up slowly at first then takes off like a loose bronco to it's dramatic and fiery conclusion . " High Plains Drifter " doesn't follow the well worn standard western scenario which is why it make it unique and thought-provoking at the same time . Eastwood was never better here as the cool yet pragmatic stranger who's very anonymity makes him both mysterious and threatening to everyone he ruins into , friend or foe . Over the years since " High Plains Drifter " was released , back in 1973 , it has reached cult statues and Eastwood has never made another western as good and as " High Plains Drifter " and that includes " The Unforgiven " . Eastwood is more then a match against those out to get him but what they , his enemies as well as the audience , don't know until the very end of the movie is that Clint has something , besides his quick guns and steel nerves , that is far beyond that of mortal man .
I don't like having a girlfriend that's married	SPOILERS " The Lady from Shanghai " is undoubtedly Orson Wells ' best Film-Noir movie even though at the time of it's release back in 1947 he was very upset with how the studio , Columbia Pictures , edited the films final print without his knowledge or permission . Michael O'Hara , Orson Wells , gets caught up with events in " The Lady from Shanghai " that slowly spin out of control and ends up facing the San Quinten gas chamber for a murder that he didn't commit . One evening in New York's Central Park seaman Michael O'Hara runs into , and later rescues from a gang of muggers , mysterious and alluring Rosalie Bannister , Rita Hayworth . During a chit-chat with Rosalie before she drives off he innocently tells her that he served time in a Spanish prison for killing a man which , with the fact that he knows how to sail a yacht , greatly interests her . Later at the ship-yard Rosalie's husband the famous defense attorney Authur Bannister , Everet Stone , unexpectedly shows up looking for Michael . Bannister offers Michael a job to sail him and his wife Rosalie on their Yacht down to the Caribbean and finally back to their west coast home in San Francisco . Some time later sailing off shore of a small Caribbiean island George Grisby , Glenn Anders , unexpectedly rows aboard and Michael somehow realizes that the trip that he's on isn't exactly the pleasure cruise that he thought it would be . Grimsby turns out to be Authur Bannister's law partner as well as a private detective who's checking on Rosalie to see if she's cheating on her husband . Before sailing back to San Francisco Michael feeling very uneasy about the whole arraignment on the boat thinks of quiting but he's fallen so much in love with Rosalie that his emotions overrule his intuitions . That miscalculation on his part soon leads Michael right into the trap that was set for him by one or all of the three on board . When back in SF the Bannister butler Sidney Broome , Ted De Corsia , is murdered and then his killer non-other Grisby is also found dead with him having a signed confession by Michael to his murder ! The frame up is now complete and with the false and concocted evidence on him being air tight and unshakable Michaels worst fears became a reality . Authur Bannister volunteering to defend Michael seems to also be in on the frame that's pointing him straight into the California gas chamber . During his trial Michael starts to feel , by the way Bannisers is conducting his defense , that's exactly what he's doing . Breaking away from the court police before the verdict is even reached Michael is now an innocent man on the run and no one to turn to . Ending up in an empty and deserted carnival fun-house , on the San Francisco waterfront , Michael tries to find the one person who could exonerate him of Grisby's , and possibly Broome's , murder : the murderer himself . Wells has trouble trying to stick to an Irish brogue that he uses on and off in the film and the bleach blond Rita Hayworth is at the top of her game . Everet Stone as the secretive and sinister Authur Bannister gives one of the best performances of his long stage and screen career who you don't realize until the last , and shattering , scene in the film just what or what not he has to do with Micael's frame-up . The now classic ending in the fun-house's Hall of Mirrors has been copied countless times over the years but never equaled even with the advancement of computer-enhanced special effects . It's not the effects in that scene it's the acting by Wells Hayworth and Stone and direction , also by by Wells , that makes it so memorable .
Atomic Age Wolfman	SPOILERS Updating the werewolf story to fit into the post WWII nuclear world " The Werewolf " is a much better movie about that subject then the many werewolf and wolf-man movies made since the movie that started those kinds of horror films " The Wolfman " with Lon Chaney Jr . back in 1941 . An unfortunate individual Duncan Marsh , Steven Ritch , survives a serious car crash and is later taken from the local Mountainquest Hospital where he's being treated for his injuries by two scientists Dr . Emery Forrest & Dr . Morgan Chambers , S . John Launer & George Lynn . At their laboratory the scientists use Marsh to experiment with in order to create a vaccine for nuclear fall-out and radioactivity so that they and those that they see fit to survive a nuclear war can immunize themselves from what they feel is a coming atomic conflict . Marsh is injected with a serum of chemicals and blood from a radioactively infected wolf that they had experimented with . This turned Marsh into a vicious wolf-like monster whenever he gets frightened or feels threatened . Breaking out of the laboratory and escaping into the woods Mrash makes it down to the town of Mountainquest where he stops off at a local bar to warm up by buying himself a drink . Marsh is spotted by local bar patron Joe Mitchell , Charles Horvath , cashing a $20 . 00 bill and is later followed outside in the dark by Mitchell with the intention of mugging him . Cornered in a dark alley Mitchell starts to work over the much smaller and thinner Marsh as he attempts to rob him . Then within seconds , off camera , Mrash changes into a animal-like monster ripping into the startled and surprised mugger who realized , only too late , that he was starting up with someone or something that was a lot more formidable then just your average mugging victim with Marsh tearing Mitchall's throat out and killing him . On the run in the cold and frozen woods outside Mountainquest Marsh hides inside a hidden cave as the towns sheriff Jack Haines , Don Megowan , and a group of townspeople go out looking to find and either capture or kill him . Things now start to happen fast and furious for the people who are now looking for Marsh for other reasons besides his killing of Mitchell . Doctors Forrest and Chambers hear the news about the killing and realize that it was Mrash who committed it . Together the two doctors drive down to the town of Mountainquest to help in finding the killer but really wanting to kill Marsh to keep him quite about the experiments that they preformed on him . Marsh's wife Helen , Eleanore Tanin , and his son Chris , Kim Charney , also drive down to Mountainquest to find out what happened to their husband and father after his car accident since he left the hospital and was never seen or heard of again . With the help of Helen and little Chris the sheriff and a number of the townspeople get Marsh to give himself up alive and he's put into the towns jail to be questioned about Mitchell's death as well as treated for the injuries he suffered when he stepped into a bear-trap in the forest . That night the two scientists Forrest & Chambers sneak into the jail cell where Marsh is in and try to murder him to keep his mouth shut about what they did with and to him . Marsh terrified at the sight of them turns into the monster that they turned him into and tears into both of them ripping them to pieces . On the loose and badly wounded with no chance of being taking alive Marsh is trapped on a highway bridge where he's shot and killed by Sheriff Haines and his posse . As Marsh lays dying he turns back into the human being that he once was , before he was experimented with by the two somewhat mad scientists , as he dies in peace . Steven Ritch as Duncan Marsh makes the Werewolf both terrifying and well as sympathetic at the same time and you never for one second have any bad feeling towards him since you know that he couldn't help what he was doing because he was turned into a vicious animal for reasons beyond his control . Don Megowan as Sheriff Haines is also very good as the understanding lawman who also felt that Marsh was not responsible for his actions and needed medical help but at the same time knew that he may very well have to kill him to protect the people of Mountainquest . The film comes across as pretty effective as it does not try to be supernatural in it's subject matter like it could very well have become , there's no full moons or silver bullets to activate or kill the werewolf in this movie . Both Joyce Holden and Ken Christy as Amy Standish and Dr . Jonas Gilchrist are fine in supporting roles . The two try to help Marsh but are rebuffed by him due to his paranoid fear of people in the medical profession because of the experiments preformed on him by the two scientists who turned him into the monster that he became . " The Werewolf's " very scenic on location black and white photography as well as it very innovative story is one of the many reasons to watch this film .
Dear Hunter :	SPOILERS The movie " The Deer Hunter " opens in the small Russian / American Orthodox community of Clairton Penn . back in 1967 with Steven , John Savage , getting married to Angela , Rutanya Alda . The next day Steven and his two close friends Michael & Nick , Robert De Niro & Christopher Walken , spend their their last day together hunting deer in the Pennsylvania woods before being drafted into the US Army . Michael is a crack shot when it comes to bringing down a deer and proves it when he's the only one of the group that also included fellow steel workers Stanley and Axel , John Cazale & Chuck Aspegren . living by the rule " One shot is what it's all about " Michael puts that into practice in his hunting deers , he never has to shoot twice to make a kill . Later in the movie Michael sees that that motto of his can also effect him and his friends just like the deers he's been hunting all his adult life . Sent to Vietnam as a member the elite 101th Airborne we see Michael run into both Nick and Steven during a communist assault on a village that their defending . A moment later the three , together with a number of Vietnamese villages , having been captured by the Viet Cong are being used in a morbid game of Russian Roulette by their Communist Vietcong captors . Steven who refused to play the Vetcong death game is thrown into a underwater cage in the Mekong River where he's attacked by dozens of hungry and vicious water rats who almost chew his legs off . Both Michael & Nick are a bit luckier by playing Russian Roulett since Michael takes the chance by encouraging the Vietcong leader to put three bullets into the gun chamber not the usual one ! Michael playing the odds that his chances , together with Nick , is he'll have if he's lucky three slugs to put between his commie torturers eyes and be able to put them out and escape with both Nick & Steven . As dangerous as an idea was it worked with the Vietcong getting all that's coming to them , in bullets and rifle butts , from a mad as hell Michael and even madder Nick . If was later that the three friends are separated during the fighting and Michael is the only one who comes back home to Clairton Penn . in more or less one piece . Michael later finds Steven in a veterans hospital with both his legs amputated from the wounds he suffered in the Vietnam War and that Nick is categorized by he US Army as either AWOL dead or missing in South VietnamSearching for Nick , whom he promised to never leave behind , Michael finds that Steven at the Vet . hospital has been secretly getting scores of $100 . 00 bills over the last few months from someone in Saigon ? That someone turned out to be the missing Nick ! Michael travels 12 , 000 miles back to Vietnam to find and rescue Nick but there's just two hitches ; first being able to get into South Vietnem with the country about to fall to the Communist North Vietnamese and second finding Nick and then seeing if he want's to be rescued and brought home in the first place . Gut-wrenching movie about friendship in war and in peacetime with Michael trying to put the pieces of his life back together after he was tortured and de-humanized by his war experiences . Michael became so disgusted and angry with killing that when out hunting he couldn't even lift his rifle to aim at and shoot a deer back home in Penn . , a sport which he used to enjoy more then anything else . Going back to " Nam " in the spring of 1975 as the US supported South Vietnamese government was on the brink of being overthrown , with what little US personnel left at the US embassy in Saigon about to be air-lifted out of the country , Michael finds Nick playing for high stakes , his life , the brutal and inhuman game that took away his sanity while being held captive by the Vietcong years ago ; Russian Roulette . Almost unwatchable final 15 minutes as Michael tries to get poor and heavily drug addicted Nick to come back home with him . Michael even goes as far as of playing a game of " Spin the Bullet " himself to get Nick out of his self-destructive state . Nick had been lucky all these months in the gambling dens of Siagon winning thousands of dollars defying the odds of getting his brains blown out . This time , like Michael always said , " One shot is what It's all about " and it was that one and last shot or bullet that eventually did Nick in . One of the best movies about war ever made that shows it for what it is " Hell on Earth " with a young , 28 year old , and at the time unknown Meryl Streep as Nick's , and and now Michael , long suffering girlfriend Linda . Linda together with Michael Steven and his wife Angela , and all of the friends that Nick left behind in Clairton , attending Nick's funeral sadly say goodbye to him . Later Nicks friends and family solemnly sitting together at the dinner table end the film singling " God Bless America " in what has to be one of the most touching and heart-rendering scenes ever put on film . P . S Michael did indeed keep his promise to Nick , he didn't leave him behind .
Stanley Kubrick deals with murderous obsessions in this 1955 Film-Noir Classic	Spoilers Stanley Kubrick's debut film about obsession and murder on the gritty and dangerous streets of midtown Manhattan and the empty and deserted factory lofts along the Brooklyn waterfront . With a number of fine performances by Jamie Smith & Gloria Price as the two unlikely lovebirds Davy Gordon & Irene Kane and especially Frank Silvera as Irene's jealous and obsessive former boyfriend Vicent Rapallo . Who runs the Pleasureland Dance-Hall where Irene works as a dance partner for the customers who go there for their nightly entertainment . Davy who's a professional boxer just came back from the sports arena after getting his brains scrambled by the up and coming world welterweight contender 22 year-old " Kid " Rodriguez , who knocked him out cold in the first round of their match . With his boxing career on the ropes the 29 year-old washed-up fighter was nursing his wounds when he hears a scream across the other side of his apartment building . With the women , Irene , in question being beaten up by her boyfriend , Vincent , and comes to the women's rescue as Vincent flees the scene . Irene had just broken up with Vincent who's also a part-time hoodlum as well as dance-hall manager . After spending the next morning with Davy , who had breakfast in her apartment , Irene decides to leave New York City with him for Seattle . It's there where she can live and find work together with Davy on his uncle's horse farm . Davy and Irene plan to meet after they both get paid at Penn . Station in mid-town Manhattan for a train to Washington State . Davy gets in touch with his fight manager Albert , Jerry Jarret , and tells Jerry to meet him at the Pleasureland Dance-Hall to pick up his check for his fight with " Kid " Rodriguez . Meanwhile Irene also goes to the dance-hall to get her severance pay from her former boyfriend Vincent . After having it out with him , when he begged her to please stay , Vincent sends two of his thugs outside the dance-hall to kidnap Irene and also work over Davy who's expected to meet her outside the place . Instead they mistake Jerry for Davy and end up beating him to death as they grab and take off with the terrified Irene . Davy getting to the dance-hall late , due to him chasing these two wackos who stole his scarf , goes home and takes his belongings to go to the train station the next morning thinking that Irene left and deserted him . Checking Irene's apartment Davy finds it empty but as he's there he sees outside the window into his apartment two police officers talking with his super about him being suspected of murdering his manager Jerry earlier that night . Realizing now what really happened and him being framed for Jerry's murder Davy get's a taxi to Vincent's place at the dance-hall . After taking him hostage Davy has Vincent drive him to a Brooklyn warehouse where his two hoods , who murdered Jerry , Mike Dana & Felice Oriandi are holding Irene captive . Exciting final with Davy battling both Vicent and his two henchmen with a real knock around battle with Vincent in a garment factory loft filled with mannequins that are used as deadly weapons in the fighting ; together with axes and steel-hooked poles , with Vicent ending up dead and Davy arrested for murder . Davy is later vindicated at the police station for Vicent's death due to self-defense but Irene whom Davy rescued leaves the precinct without going with him to the train station to leave for Seattle , as she said earlier she would . We see this all in a flashback by Davy , reflecting on what he went through the last three days . Feeling hurt and dejected as Davy's about to get on the train by himself he spots running to the train station Irene ! The film ends with Davy now knowing that he's not alone as he and Irene both kiss and leave for Seattle together like they planned to do in the first place . Stanley Kubrick showed in his first major motion picture " Killer's Kiss " just what the movie going public could expect from him in the future when he has more money and experience to put into the movies . Movies that he'll make and direct . And after some 44 years up until his death in 1999 the movie going public were never disappointed in any of his cinematic efforts .
Oh My God . . He Jumped !	SPOILERS Leaving the Scores nightclub after a bachelor party for a fellow three seven precinct cop young Murrary " Superboy " Babitch , Michael Rapaport , gets in his car and drives to the George Washington Bridge on his way home to Garrison NJ . As Babitch enters the bridge he's side-swiped by a car with two coke-heads that almost up-ends him . Moving along side the out-of-control car one of the occupants pull out what looks like a shotgun , it turned out to be a steering wheel club . As Babitch hits the breaks the car speeds away only to get blasted by Babitch from behind killing the two in the getaway car . As the police and ambulance crews come on the scene they find that the two who Babitch shot dead were unarmed and that he may well be not only thrown out of the NYPD but have to serve time for homicide which cause Babitch to get very emotional . Before you know it he jumps to his death off the bridge , or did he ? His body was never found . Speeding through the town of Garrison the next day NYPD policemen Ray Dolan & Jack Rucker , Harvey Keitel & Robert Patrick , are stooped by the towns Sheriff Freddy Heflin and his deputy Cindy Betts , Sylvester Stallone and Janeane Garofalo . After Deputy Betts is given a lecture by the two cop on how she should be out looking to arrest criminals not giving tickets to fellow cops Freddy lets them leave without being ticketed . As the car drives away Freddy notices that the " dead " Babitch is in the back seat and that he's very much alive . Police corruption and murder is the main theme of " Cop Land " with a cover up of a cop's suicide that unearths all the dirt that was swept under the rug in Garrison and in the 37th precinct over the last ten years . Financing the three seven precinct's cops houses in Garrison with low or no interest loans and the forgiving and forgetting about paying them off had the entire precinct working for the mob . Thus allowing the mob to push drugs and launder the drug money within it's , the three seven precinct , jurisdiction . Not believing that Babitch is dead Interanal Affair let . Moe Tilden , Robert De Niro , starts to put the heat on the cops who are sticking to the story of Babtich sudden demise . Tildon starts to make some headway in the case which makes Donlan & Co . very nervous . They realize that they have to provide a body for the police investigation of Babitch's death to close the case . That body was to be that of Babitch himself ! Top notch police drama with Sylvester Stallone giving the best performance of his career as the sad-sack Freddy Heflin . Freddy because of an ear injury couldn't make the grade as a real cop and always looked up to the men of the three seven as his hero's . That's until he found out that they were anything but . With Babitch on the run after Dolan & Co . tried to murder him Freddy finds him hiding in a water tower with Figgys ( Ray Liotta ) , another cop from Garrison , providing him with food and water . Friggy's also has it in for Dolan and his fellow corrupt cops for the murder of his partner Glenn Tunney three years ago . Tunney was about to talk to a grand jury about police corruption and was mysteriously found murdered in his prison cell before he could testify . Figgsy correctly suspected it was Dolan who had Tunney done in . Freddy realizing that he has to talk to let . Tliden about what he knows but is told that the investigation was shut down by the mayor due to the pressure of the NYPD union . Which was ironic since the fact that it was Dolan , and his fellow cops , attempt to murder Babtich that made Freddy see the light ! In the end Freddy had the whole bunch of dirty cops gunned down in a wild shoot-out . Freddy pull it all off with the help of Figgsy , in a " High Noon " like shootout on the , up until then , quite streets and crime-free and peaceful Garrison NJ . It turned out that if the criminal cops just waited another day or so they would have gotten away Scott-free with no one , like Sheriff Freddy Heflin , being motivated to uncover their criminal actions . The movie " Cop Land " was a bit uneven and some of the plot-lines just didn't tie all the loose ends in the film together . The acting , especially that of Sylvester Stallone , more then made up for that and that's what makes " Cop Land " one of the best movie about police corruption ever made .
Seven ! seven people are dead and the police are driving away !	SPOILER ALERT Having spent the last seven years behind bars for an armed robbery of over $80 , 000 . 00 six foot six 250 pound Moose Malloy , Jack O'Halloran , is out on parole and the first order of business for the big guy is to find his girlfriend and partner in crime Velma Velanto . Checking out a dime a dance club for Velma Moose spots private investigator Phillip Marlow , Robert Mitchum , picking up a runaway from Carmel who's parents hired him to find . Moose see's what he needs to find his Velma and with a little preservation and $50 . 00 , pulse him and Marlow ducking a few stray bullets , hires him . At first it looks like a simple missing person investigation for PI Marlow but as he gets more and more into the case he finds that Velma is poison to anyone who ever knew her and even later anyone who knew Velma or her whereabouts ends up dead . Moose for his part is a marked man and he knows it just for bringing up the unpleasant subject of his former girlfriend Velma who those mostly in the entertainment world , Velma was a singer and dancer when she was involved with Moose , seem very reluctant to talk about . The movie " Fearwell my Lovely " has a number of false leads and dead ends that has Phillip Marlow going around in circles trying to track down Velma and ending up slugged beaten drugged and almost shot for his efforts . Marlow's involvement with Moose Malloy also has the local police on his back with the Moose breaking his parole by strangling a nightclub owner , when he pulled a gun on him , and beating up the bar bouncer . The movie starts to go in a different direction when Marlow somehow gets involved with a Lindsey Marriott , Jack O'Leary , who's a friend and gofer of L . A power broker Judge Baxter Wilson Grayle , Jim Thompson , beautiful wife and socialite Helen Grayle , Charlotte Rampling , who's valuable jade necklace was stolen . In what's obviously a set-up Marriott ends up shot to death with Marlow knocked cold when the two drive out in the L . A canyons to retrieve the necklace for a ransom of $15 , 000 . 00 . It's then when Marlow is told by friend and L . A police Let . Nulty , John Ireland , to drop the case involving Moose and the murdered Marriott , which obviously have a connection to each other , even though it now escalated from missing person to murder . Determined to find the missing Velma for Moose and Marroitt's murderer , both his clients , Marlow gets drawn deeper and deeper into the abyss as he ends up being kidnapped doped up and worked over by the notorious L . A madam Francse Amthor , Kate Murthaug , goons Cowboy Nick & Jonnie , Burton Gillaim Joe Spinell & Sylvester Stallone . With now seven people murdered because of the search for the elusive Velma Velanto , dead or alive , Marlow comes to the realization that it's not Velma that's the reason for all these killings but whatever person she's now ! That's the reason those involved in this string of killings will do everything in their power to keep that truth from coming out and seeing the light of day . All the roads to Valma's whereabouts and identity leads to top L . A hoodlum Laird Brunette , Anthony Zerbe , who's gambling boat " The Lido " is off limits to both the local police , because of him paying them off , and federal authorities . It's there where Marlow Malloy and Marlow's close friend and news vendor Georgie , Jimmy Archer , travel on a rented speedboat to not only find out just who and what this Velma Valento is but why so many people had to die to keep her identity secret .
Winning is easy losing is complicated , It's a lifetime's work	( There are Spoilers ) with everything seemingly coming down on his head Broadway playwright Nicky Regan , Michael Keaton , has found out that he has an added crisis to his already hectic and troubled life . New York Times play reviewer and critic Steven Schwimmer , Robert Downey Jr . Schwimmer's word can make or beak a Broadway play and he's the person that's going to review his that evening ! Nicky is also saddled with a failing marriage with his now separated wife Lillian , Catherine O'Hara , due to his affair with , Lillians , gynecologist Joanna Brorne , Bebe Neuwirth . All that is driving his teenage daughter Laurel , Ari Graynor , to become so upset that she's seriously thinking of getting professional help . It just turns out that opening night for Nicky's play at the Music Box coincides with the sixth game of the 1986 World Series , October 25 , with Nicky's beloved Boston Red Sox leading three games to two . With the sixth game possibly being the series clincher for Boston . If they win it would be the first World Series title for the luckless Bosox since 1918 . Witty and at the same time heart wrenching movie about a person who completely lost his grip on reality and in the end has a mind-snapping experience that almost causes him to commit murder . Even though those in the theater district would gladly give him a ticker tape parade , and the key to the city , if he succeeded . The movie " Game 6 " slowly works it way toward the showdown at Shea Stadium between the New York Mets and Boston Red Sox that's a do or die game for the Mets . At first just a sidelight with Nicky jumping from cab to cab trying to get everything ready for his big opening night act , or play , he becomes obsessed with the ballgame . It's as if the outcome of the game would make him forget his personal troubles . Which among other headache his leading man in the play Peter Redmond , Harris Yulin , is suffering from memory loss due to a parasite embedded in his brain ! That Redmond he picked up in far-off Borneo during location filming of a movie he stared in . Egged on to murder Schwimmer by fellow playwright Elliot Litvak , Griffin Dunne , who's professional and personal life he destroyed , Nicky tries to keep himself from going off the deep end and do in the nasty and abusive Broadway critic . Taking a cab to a sports bar Nicky plans to watch the Met / Red Sox World Series game . The dramatic conclusion of the 6th game just left Nicky in such a state of shock that for a while his brain didn't respond to what his eyes were seeing thinking that it was his Red Sox who won , and won the 1986 World Series not the New York Mets ! The New York Mets now on a roll overcame a three run deficit in the next evening in the seventh and final game of the World Series and ended up beating the now stunned and shell-shocked Bosox 8 to 5 . With nothing left to live for Nicky gets a gun and goes gunning for Schwimmer at his secret and unknown hideout by the New York docks . When he finally finds him , together with his daughter Laurel , Nicky realizes that him and Schwimmer have a lot more in common with each other then with almost any one else ; their fanatical Boston Red Sox fans and both grew up in Boston just blocks away from each other and the Red Sox home court Fenwway Park ! Whats more to Nicky's complete surprise Schwimmer did like his play very much and is to give it in his newspaper column one of his rare , as a Boston Red Sox World Series Championship , good reviews . Strange to say the least " Game 6 " has so many interesting characters in it , including the dozen or so off-the-wall and zany taxi drivers , that you never get tired watching it . Even when it's over with Nicky now happily back driving a cab , like he did before he became a big time playwright , you just want it to keep going on and feel a bit cheated when the closing credits start rolling down , or is it up , the screen .
This is my first affair , so please be kind	Spoliers Coming of age movie with the stately and beautiful Deboarh Karr , Laura Reynolds , as the ignored and frustrated wife of he-man and collage athletic director Bill Reynolds , Leif Erickson . Laura's concern for young 18 year-old collage freshman Tom Lee , John Karr , leads to her bringing him out of his shell and making Tom see that love can be sweet tender and touchings . Not the hell that he's been taught , by his hard driving and insensitive father Herb Lee , Edward Andrews , and the collage students who feel that being a man is judged by how many women one seduces and beds down . With an added prologue and epilogue inserted into the movie having Tom get married , that was needed to get the green light by the Hollywood watchdog Hayes Commission , after his stay in collage . " Tea and Sympathy " is a heart rendering story about a young man trying to fit into the 1950's post-WWII mans society by going so far as almost killing himself . after he's made to look like a complete fool in trying to make it with a the local town fast & easy girl Ellie Martin , Norma Crane . An affair that ended up with him being kicked out of collage . Having grown up without a mother and domineering father Tom was influenced by the house maid who taught the young boy cooking sewing and listening to folk music on the radio and phonograph player . Mr . Lee wanting to make a " Man " out of his son Tom had him accepted into his alma mater Clinton Collage and put under the tutelage of his old friend and classmate Bill Reynolds who's in charge of mens athletics . Excelling in tennis which is considered by the students , Clinton seems to be an all-male collage , as a sissy sport Tom is also very apt in sewing gardening and other womens activities that has him become the butt of everyones jokes . Tom is also singled out for special and humiliating treatment by the students that has Bill's wife Laura go out of her way to help Tom overcome his shyness with women that's the root cause of all these degrading actions against him . Laura who lost her first husband John , he was 18 when he was killed in action , in the Second World War sees in Tom what she saw in John a scared little boy who's being driven to destruction by his abusive and bullying fellow students . Like her husband was driven to lose his life by trying to be a hero to prove himself to his comrades on the battlefield that he was a real man . Bill is just as bad as the students who constantly abuse Tom by not only letting it happen but by encouraging then to do it . It's also evident that Bill is hiding his lack of being a husband to Laura by going out with " the boys " in sporting events and on mountain climbing trips every chance he gets . Leaving Laura alone and without male companionship for weeks at a time . Laura and Tom slowly gravitate to each other seeking out the love and understanding that they don't get from those their so dearly dependent on . That leads to the sparks between them that ends with Tom showing his affection towards Laura , and she toward him , that he kept hidden deep inside of him for almost the entire movie . Even with the script heavily censored " Tea and Sympathy " still grabs you and doesn't let go as Tom is almost brought to a nervous breakdown , much less suicide . In him trying to prove to himself and the students who so brutally and unmercifully pester him in that he's unworthy of being a member of their fraternity . It's Laura who's kindness and understanding that in the end , when Tom is at his lowest point mentally and emotionally , brings the best out of him but leads to the Reynolds splitting up never to see each other again . It's hard to sit through " Tea and Sympathy " without your heart swelling up and skipping a beat or two . With a tender and sensitive performance by Deborah Karr as Laura Reynolds and John Karr's portrayal of the confused and introverted Tom Lee . The movie was a landmark in films of the post WWII era in showing a leading man more in tuned and accepting , and not being embarrassed by , his deepest and most inner feelings . Then falsely trying to prove himself , like Bill Reynolds did with his overly macho act , in order to keep them from himself and those abound him .
Where As Once I Was Blind , Now I Can See	SPOILERS Multi-millionaire investment banker Nicholas Van Orton , Michael Douglas , has worked his way up to the top in the ruthless and dog eat dog world of high finance and and corporate investments that he lost all contact with his feeling for his fellow human beings . Approching his 48th birthday Nick is very unsteady about his future in that back in 1959 when he father was 48 he committed suicide by jumping to his death after he was wiped out financially in the stock market . Meeting his younger brother Conrad ( Sean Penn ) , who had just been released from a substance abuse rehabilitation center , at a local members-only restaurant in San Francisco Nick is given a strange birthday present by him ; an all-expense paid invitation to be involved in a game sponsored by this agency called CRS . Nick promises Conrad that he'll look into to it and that's all . Nick did apply to be in the game and the game , and what Nick lived through playing it , changed his life and attitude of himself and his fellow human beings forever as well as for the better . Things happen so fast and so unexpectedly that you , like Nick , never have time to get a grip of what's going on , not only to him but those he's involved with . Nick ends up getting into a number of life threatening situations in both San Francisco and later after waking up in a cemetery , in a coffin , across the border in Mexico . Starting with a wild scene in a restaurant as Nick gets involved with a waitress Christine , Deborah Kara Unger , who spilled a glass of water on him . Nick and Christine end up being chased all over San Francisco by these unknown gunmen with Nick losing her and then later , after finding Christine , Nick also finds out that she's involved in whatever is happening to him . Nick , battered bloodied and totally confused makes his way back hitch-hiking from Mexico all the way to San Francisco . Finding his way to the offices of CRS Nick not only to get a double-shock to his system he's also hit by the true reasons that all these dangerous and near-fatal events were happening to him all throughout the movie ! You have at some times in the move " The Game " to suspend reality to fully enjoy it . Which isn't that hard with the story keeping you so involved to what's happening that you easily overlook it's many inconsistencies . Every move that Nick makes seems to be monitored by the goons at CRS . Just when he thinks that he's finally got a handle to what happening to him and how to stop it , even at the cost of his life , the biggest surprise in a movie full of surprises hits him like a ton of brick . This happens after he falls some 30 floors and crashes through the skylight of a restaurant ! It's there where everyone involved in the game being played on Nick are ready to wish him a happy 48th birthday . You have to click on your seat-belt and put on your crash helmet to be able watch and sit through the movie but in the end you'll feel that it was more then worth it . The film makes it worth your while by getting , Nick and everyone in it , what has to be one of the most heart-stopping and hair-rising rides of your life .
" Resistance to tyrants is obedience to God " : Thomas Jefferson	SPOILERS Almost forgotten film about the White Terror that was unleashed on the Cuban people by the brutal and Fascist Gerardo Machado regime that lasted seven years from 1925 to 1933 when Marchado was finally driven from power in a popular and spontaneous revolution . Because of its more or less anti-corporate message , Dictator Marcado was fully supported by the US government and big business , the film " We Were Strangers " didn't get the credit or recognition that it deserved being considered pro-Communist . The film was soon put on the shelf gathering dust never to see the light of day until some thirty after it's release back in 1949 . Having her brother Manalo , Tito Renaldo , a student activist gunned down on the very steps of Havana University turned the meek and God-fearing bank clerk China Valde , Jennifer Jones , into a fiery revolutionary against the government . China joined up with a number of Cuban freedom fighters lead by American Tony Fenner , John Garfield , who masquerades around on the island as a talent scout looking for the latest in both Cuban music and dance crazes that he could bring back to America . We soon learn that Tony Fenner is really a Cuban exile named Antoino Ferrer who's father , together with his family , fled Cuba in 1925 when Machado took over . Trying to get things going in overthrowing the Machado regime Tony who's been heavily financed by Cuban exiles , like himself , back in New York City's Spanish Harlem gets a number of his Cuban friends and fellow revolutionaries in Havana together to dig a tunnel under the Havana Cemetery . It's there they would plant some hundred pounds of explosives setting them off when a Cuban government big shot , that Tony & Co . plan to assassinate , is being laid to rest With Machado and his henchmen , political and military , in attendance thus decapitating the Machado dictatorship . China has a far more personal reason in her covert actions in that the head of the hated Cuban Gestapo-like secret police Armondo Ariete , Pedro Armenda , was the person who gunned down , as we saw earlier in the movie , her brother Manolo . Ariete has , not knowing that he murdered her brother , been trying to make it with China since he saw her at the bank where he was checking on Cuban / USA bank money transactions . The transactions that Tony and his Cuban freedom fighters are heavily , in order to keep their resistance movement alive , involved in . Beautifully photographed in black and white " We Were Strangers " has a strikingly sharp , and dark , film-noir quality to it with Tony and his gang of revolutionaries breaking their backs , and almost suffocating from the stench , in digging underneath and planting a giant land-mine in the middle of the Havana Cemetery . Only to have the planned funeral of Machado henchman Acento Contreras ( Fred Godoy ) , who Tony and his gang assassinated , transfered to another cemetery outside he city because Acento's sisters wanted to have a little privacy in their brothers final send-off . Despite a number of setbacks , like the Acento Contreras fiasco , by Tony and his revolutionary gang the Cuban people themselves later took to the streets and drove Machado from power but not before Tony , or Antiono Ferrer , Fenner's lost his life as he was gunned in a wild shootout with the police and Cuban militia at the end of the film . It was ruthless tyrants like Gerardo Machado , and the US support of them , that made it possible for future dictators like Fidel Castro to gain control of the countries that they were driven out of . Being in league , and in bed , with dictators like Marchado and later Batista didn't play to well with the majority of the Cuban people who greatly suffered under them . In the end it not only turned them against the US but also , like in the case of Fidel Castro , welcomed Soviet support that also endangered the security of those very countries , like the USA , who during the hight of the Cold War whole heartily as well as foolishly supported them .
A Copper ! A Copper ! How do you like that boys ! A Copper !	( Some Spoilers ) It's ironic that one of Mad Dog Cody Jarrett's , James Cagney , favorite bedtime story that his Ma , Margaret Wycherly , would lullaby him to sleep with when he was a little was the story of the Trojan Horse . It turned out to be a Trojan Horse in the person of undercover Federal Treasury Agent Hank Fallon / Vic Pardo , Edmond O'Brien , that infiltrated his gang and in the end had Cody done in but without one of the most explosive endings in motion picture history . On the run from the law for a train robbery , that netted him and his gang $300 , 000 . 00 , and quadruple murder Cody wisely takes the rap for a crime that he didn't commit a hotel holdup in Sprinfield Illinois . Cody does that in order to avoid , after being apprehended by the police , the San Quinten gas chamber . The Feds , FBI and US Treasury , knowing that Cody was responsible for the train robbery , but can't prove it , have undercover agent Hank Fallon become Cody's cell-mate in the Illinois State Penitentiary . Expecting to be out in less then a year Cody gets very apprehensive when his Ma comes to visit him in prison . Ma Jarrett tells her psychotic son that his second in command Big Ed Somers , Steve Cochran , and two-timing wife Verna , Virginia Mayo , are not only screwing behind his back but that Big Ed plans to take over his gang by having him have and unfortunate accident while he's behind bars . Cody was almost killed when one of Big Ed's men Roy Parker , Paul Guilfoyle , had a motor slip , on purpose , and almost crush him to death with his friend and cell-mate Fallon / Pardo saving his life in just the nick of time . It's then that Cody realizes just what a pair of murderous rat finks his wife Verna and her boyfriend Big Ed really are . Cody also knows that his Ma is in danger of getting killed herself if she , like she told him , tries to take the two on singled handedly . It's a short time later when Cody finds out through the prison grapevine that his Ma was dead shot in the back and killed but by his old lady Verna , not Big Ed like he was later made by a terrified Verna to believe . That has Cody crashes out of prison with Fellon / Pardo and a number of his fellow gang members . Cody does take care of business by taking Parker , who tried to murder him , along for the ride to later face his psychotic and cold blooded vengeance in the trunk of the escaped convicts getaway car . Back at the hideout Cody corners , with the help of Verna , a piing in his pants Big Ed blasting him to pieces without realizing , dead men tell no tales , that it was Verna who set Big Ed up who was the one who did his Ma in . Planning a payroll robbery of an oil refinery and chemical plant in San Pedro Cody uses the old Trojan Horse trick to infiltrate the plant , in an empty 5 , 000 gallon oil truck . Cody doesn't realize that there's a Trojan Horse in his gang Treasury Agent Hank Fallon / Vic Pardo who tipped off the police to reel him and his gang members in . Fallon for his part is exposed as a " Copper " by one of Cody's men Bob Creel , Ian MacDoald , who recognized him as being the guy who once set , like he's now doing to Cody , him up . In one of his most electrifying and maniacal roles ever James Cagney lets it all out , with bullets flying in all directions , as he goes completely berserk in the film " White Heat " final gut and oil spilling climax . With his gang wiped out Cody climbs on top of an giant oil refinery tank and has it out with the police and federal agents . Knowing that there's no way but up , in a flaming oil & chemical explosion , for him Cody insanely as well as bravely holds off dozens of scared to death , and hiding in every crack and crevasse that they can find , lawmen in a final last stand against justice . Cody during the shootout takes some half dozen slugs from a high powered rifle fired by his former prison buddy Vic Pardo / Hank Fallon who had since turned ran and joined the rescuing police . In a last act of defiance Cody standing upright and looking his enemies straight in the eye , unlike them scurrying for cover and hiding below , fires his last bullets into the oil tank igniting it and all the other oil tanks in the refinery blowing them as well as himself to kingdom come . P . S I can just imagine what Arthur " Cody " Jarrett's crazed actions in destroying about a quarter of the US oil supply did to oil and chemical futures on the commodity and foreign exchanges .
Now I can finally end it all !	Gut wrenching documentary about people deciding to end their lives by taking that final plunge off the rust colored Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco Harbor . The filmmaker , Eric Steel , of the movie " The Bridge " spent months filming the Golden Gate and caught , for the most part by accident , on film some two dozen people jump to their deaths , and one who survived , off it . The movie centers on one of those unfortunates who ended up killing themselves a troubled and mentally unbalanced young man named Gene Sprangue . We get to see Gene all throughout the movie walking back and forth , like a caged tiger , along the public walkway on the bridge as if he's not quite sure what to do with himself . It's very evident what Gene's fate will be by his friends being on and off interviewed in the movie on what a tragic life he lead and why he's not here with them anymore . As the movie is about to come to an end we finally get to see Gene , who stopped walking around in circles , casually step up on the railing of the bridge and then without as much as moving a muscle free fall , not jump , straight down to the raging waters below . Falling the 220 some feet to the bottom of the bridge the 34 year-old Gene hits the water with such a sudden and an explosive like impact that he's never seen again until , off camera , his broken and shattered body is fished out of the water by a SFPD or Coast Guard patrol boat . Luckily not all the suicide attempts off the Golden Gate Bridge were successful in the movie with young Kevin Hines , also caught on camera , crossing himself and them jumping off a ledge to what looked like certain death . Kevin had his Guardian Angle , in the form of a harbor seal , with him who kept the dazed and badly injured young man from going under , and drowning , long enough in order for him to be rescued by the Coast Guard . The shocking scenes in the movie of people jumping to their deaths was reminiscent to those horrific videos of persons jumping out the the top floors of the World Trade Center on September 11 , 2001 . The only difference is that the bridge jumpers did themselves in freely and voluntarily where those of the WTC jumped to their deaths in order to keep themselves from being slowly roasted alive from the flames that were about to engulf them . There was also the fact that the bridge jumpers never gave any inclination , which made it almost impossible to stop them , until the very last moment that they were determined to kill themselves ! This made their deaths far more unexpected as well as shocking , to those unsuspecting people on the bridge with them , then those at the Trade Center who's immediate fate , in having no chance at all to survive , was a foregone conclusion . Since its opening to the public on May 27 , 1937 the Golden Gate Bridge has had some 1 , 200 persons choose to end their lives by jumping off it . The film " The Bridge " documents those who jumped or fell to their deaths off the Golden Gate in 2004 alone that number some two dozen very disturbed and unstable individuals . Many of them had given up on life a long time before they decided to take their own lives with " The Bridge " being their only way out of the misery and suffering that they found themselves in . It in the end was the Golden Gate Bridge itself that , like a fire attracting a moth , first attracted its victims-the suicide jumpers-to it's 220 foot walkway and then have them end it all by becoming a part , in the over 1 , 200 people ended their lives on it , of its dark and troubled history .
Who the Fk is the Colonel !	The HBO film " Recount " takes us all back to a time that most of us would rather forget . Those wild crazy and confusing days back in the autumn of 2000 when for some 35 days after the Presidential Election nobody knew who was to be our next and 43th President of the United States . In the late evening of Election Day November 7 , 2000 it looked like , with it being called by most of the news pundits on TV , that Vice President Al Gore had won Florida with its 25 electoral votes and just about clinched the presidency . In less then a hour later it was announced by FOX News that Florida was still up in the air giving Gore's opponent Texas Governor Gerorge W . Bush a new lease on life in him getting into the White House . By the early morning of November 8 , 2000 it was announced that GW Bush in fact had taken Florida and the presidency . But as the vote was examined , on internet news sites , by Gore's campaign workers it was noted that over 170 , 000 votes in the Sunshine State had either been thrown out or not counted at all ! This made Bush's victory in Florida of about 1 , 800 votes , out of a total of over 6 , 000 , 000 , over Gore look if not fishy a bit suspicious at the least ! Not all all conceding , which he at first did , Gore has his campaign workers go into full political guerrilla warfare mode in trying to get to the bottom of what exactly happened to the missing 170 , 000 votes that , if they all were counted , would very possibly have given him the keys to the White House . The film " Recount " canonicals the grueling 36 days after the 2000 Election that had the Republicans and Democrats slug it out in court as well as on the streets in trying to get their man to be confirmed as president . With the Republicans having their ace in the hole in Florida's Secretary of State Katherine Harris , Laura Dern , being the person to do the confirming . Harris is not only a Repubican but GW Bush's campaign manager , appointed by GW's brother Florida Governor Jeb Bush , in the state of Florida ! So we all , Democrat Republican and Independent , knew just where her sympathies lie . Heading the Gore team is disgruntled , he was canned by Gore earlier in the campaign , Ron Kline , Kevin Spacey , as well as former President Bill Clinton cabinet member Warren Christopher , John Hurt . Unlike the hard hitting and take no prisoners , or BS , from the Republicans Ron Kline his good friend and fellow Democrat party strategist Christopher wasn't exactly up to the task facing him . That's in Christopher opting in trying to be Mr . Clean instead of fighting the dirty game of politics that Kline was more then ready and willing to conduct . And at the same time what the determined and no holds bar Republicans headed by GW Bush family lawyer James Baker , Tom Wilkinson , was more then willing to pursue . The grueling court battles over the vote count had Bush's lead of some 1 , 800 votes cut to just over 500 with the Democrats foolishly throwing away their , and Al Gore's , chance to win the election by opting in having the votes counted in only four of Florida's 67 voting districts . This had tens of thousands of possible Gore votes not only thrown away but disfranchising those who voted ! In an unprecedented move the US Supreme Court stepped in , with Baker and Co . urging , and settled the dispute by stopping the vote count , with some tens of thousands of Florida voters votes left in limbo ! The Court of the Land declared GW Bush the winner with a whopping 537 vote over Al Gore in the state of Florida with the vast majority of the uncounted vote left uncounted ! What made this decision so obnoxious was that the court declared that it's actions are only in regard to the 2000 Election , in getting GW Bush the presidency , and will never be done again even under the exact same circumstances ! In short it was a one shot deal to get Bush Jr . elected before the vote count , that still had some two days left to be counted , went against him ! The Republican Party that always prided itself in championing " States Rights " went against that very principle by getting GW Bush the Presidency of the United States . With the Florida Supreme Court ruling in the Democrats favor in continuing the vote count Baker & Co . went over their heads in having the US Supreme Court overrule them . This in a " State Rights " case that they the US Supreme Court , who's job is only to interpret the US Constitution , had no business at all in handling ! P . S As for loser Al Gore he went on to bigger and better things . Gore ended up winning both a Nobel Peace Prize and Academy Award in his life long crusade to educated the American public , as well as people of the world , to the world-wide threats that face our planet in the very real dangers of " Global Warming " .
Some things need getting rid of !	SPOILER ALERT Drinking himself into a drunken stupor US Army Sgt . Waters , Adolph Caesar , staggered out of Big Mary's Place and was later found by the Tynin Bridge beaten and shot to death . With Sgt . Waters being black it was immediately suspected that he was murdered by either members of the KKK or local townspeople who , in the deep south in 1944 , didn't take too kindly in blacks , even servicemen , being in their town . There was also the fear that the black soldiers , from an all black army garrison , stationed outside of Tynin would take matters in their own hands in revenge of their fellow black Sgt . Waters being murdered by , as suspected , some of Tynin's racist citizens . Sending a US Army black officer to investigate the Waters murder was thought , by the Pentagon , to be the best way to defuse this very dangerous and explosive situation . As things turned out it was , the Waters murder , far more shocking as well as racist then anyone could have imagined ! With the racism being instigated my the murder victim himself the late Sgt . Waters ! Powerhouse movie that has black US Army Captain Davenport , Howard E . Rolins Jr , go against type in what his white superior officers expected him to do , white wash his investigation , and get to the meat of the matter in Sgt . Waters ' murder . As he uncovered the circumstance's that lead to Waters murder Capt . Davenport became to realize that it was his actions towards the black troops that he commanded , not that of local white racists , that lead to his ignoble demise . As Capt . Davenport found out there was very bitter hatred towards the black troops stationed outside of Tynin but it was Sgt . Waters own racism , towards some of his men , that eventually lead to his murder . Being a spit & polish as well as educated career man Sgt . Waters look down on some his fellow blacks in them dragging top notch soldiers like himself down . SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON Using his # 1 suck up Pvt . Wilkie , Art Evens , to do his dirty work Sgt . Waters framed Pvt . C . J Memphis , Larry Riley , in a triple murder on the army base . Knowing that the charge wouldn't stick , were not even sure if anyone was murdered in the first place , Waters then getting C . J to take a swing at him , knocking Waters flat on his butt , was a charge-striking a superior officer-which did . With the good natured C . J now locked up in the stockade a vengeful and sadistic Waters paid him a visit telling C . J that he's to do at least five years for belting him . This lead to a despondent and terrified , in being behind bars , C . J into hanging himself the following evening ! It was the unexpected suicide of C . J that lead Sgt . Waters to go on a drinking binge that lead to him ending up murdered ! The big question in Capt . Davenport's mind is who among the black troops on the base murdered him ! More then anything else the movie " A Soldier's Story " shows that racism comes in all shapes sizes as well as colors . The bitter racism that Sgt . Waters had for poor C . J Memphis was far more vicious then the racism that the local whites had for him or any other black for that matter . Just because C . J was good natured and didn't have a chip on his shoulder like the infuriated Sgt . Waters did lead to Waters framing him for a number of murders that C . J didn't commit . The chip that Sgt . Waters carried all his adult life was that he couldn't accept the fact that he was black and thus put down by the society that he grew up in . And it was that sick and dangerous distortion of reality that lead not only to Sgt . Waters feelings of insecurity but the racism that he developed over the years against his own , like in the case of C . J Memphis , people ! And in the end it was Sgt . Waters ' own men whom he commanded that made him pay for it !
You got him just were you want him , he's gonna make all the mistakes I did !	( Some Spoilers ) Deep and intricate Film-Noir that makes a complete 360 degree turn from start to finish . Young Nancy Monkes , Laraine Day , was given a locket by her friend Karen Willis , Gloria Donovan , and was soon made to give it back by Karen's mom Mrs . Willis , Katherin Emery . Later the locket was lost and Nancy was suspected of stealing it . Mrs . Monkes , Helen Thimig , Nancy's mom who worked as a maid for the Willis household finds the missing locket , stuck in little Karen's dress , and returns it to Mrs Willis who then accuses both Nancy of stealing it and Mrs . Monkes of trying to cover up Nancy's transgression . Outraged of her daughter being accused of a crime and letting Mrs . Willis have it leads to Mrs . Monkes losing her job and Nancy suffering deep psychological scares for the rest of her life . Nancy became a kleptomaniac and her actions destroyed the lives of four men that she knew . One whom's she obviously murdered one who was executed for that murder one who committed suicide and another who went mad and ended up in a sanitarium losing his license as both a doctor and psychiatrist . The movie " the Locket " starts with what should be the happiest day in Nancy's life , as she's about to get married to John , Gene Raymond , and ends with the secret of that " locket " and everything that it had to do with Nancy's past come crashing down on her . Harry Blair , Brian Aherne , goes to see John to tell him the truth about his future wife only to be told to either get out or be thrown out of the wedding ceremony which Harry wasn't even invited to . It's then for some strange reason that Harry knew what Nancy's birthday was , November 3 , got John's attention . Telling his story Harry goes back to 1938 when he first met Nancy in Miami but there was more to the story between him and Nancy , much much more . It turns out that Nancy had a previous lover before she met Harry an artist named Norman Clyde , Robert Mitchum , who together with Nancy covered up a murder that she may have committed . A helpless Kleptomaniac Nancy had a habit of stealing jewelry at high society parties that she and Norman attended . At one of those parties she was caught stealing by one of the persons there her boss Drew Bonner , Richardo Contez , who was later found shot to death . Coming on the scene of Bonner's shooting was Myron Dexter , David Thursby , and with Dexter being the only person found at the murder site he was arrested convicted and sentenced to be executed at New York's Sing Sing prison . Sick and guilt-ridden Norman came to see and plead with Dr . Harry Blair to get his wife Nancy to come clean with the state D . A about Bonner's murder . Norman telling him that Dexter , an Innocent man , is to be executed within 24 hours . When confronted with Normans story , as well as Norman himself , Nancy just shrugs it off telling Harry that Clyde is just jealous of her leaving him . Norman after a good night sleep , from taking the pills that Dr . Blair gave him , comes back to Dr . Blair's office the next day and is unusually clam even though the man who's life he tried to save had been snuffed out by the state of New York the night before . Knowing that he did everything possible that he could and with his consciences clear Norman , after having a casual talk with Dr . Blair , calmly walks out of his office and then jumps out of a window in the doctor's waiting room falling to his death on the streets below . Harry Blair continuing his story telling John that he later realized , during his stay with Nancy in WWII London , that everything that Norman told him about her was true which lead him to suffer a complete mental and physical breakdown . This left Harry institutionalized for almost five years . John , despite of what Harry told him , still determined to go through with his wedding to Nancy has the surprise of his life when his mother presents her with the very same locket that started Nancy's slow decent into madness ! It was that reminder , of years past , that brought her back to reality and at the same time forced her to face all the damage that she did , to everyone who ever knew or loved her , over the years .
4 + 4 = a hard 8	( Spoilers ) The film " Hard Eight " or " Sydney " , take your pick , begins at this little out of the way diner-Jack's Coffe Shop - outside Reno city limits . It's there where Sydney , Philip Baker Hall , spots this lonely and disheveled young man John , John C . Reily , sitting outside looking as if he needs a meal and a place to stay for the night . In what seems like an act of kindness Sydney offers a startled and confused John not only a cup of coffee and cigarette but also offers to help him make some money at the Reno Casino with this rate card trick that he developed over the years . John who at first thought that the overly friendly Sydney was gay and looking for action , with him , soon realizes that he's genuinely honest in what he's doing . Sydney also agrees to help John pay for his mother's funeral expenses , that amounted to $6 , 000 . 00 , which was the reason he went to Reno and ended up broke , when Sydny found him , playing Black Jack and Roulette . The movie then goes two years into the future where we see John now a " Big Macher " - or big shot in Yiddish-at the casino who's now friends with the head of security Jimmy , Samuel L . Jackson . Syndey who's still around helping John out gets very bad vibes as soon as he lays eye on the so sure of himself Jimmy and for good reasons . Jimmy is on to Syndey in what he did in the past and is planning to blackmail him for it ! It's also around this time that John gets involved with casino cocktail waitress Clementine , Gwyneth Paltrow , whom he later marries . It's this combination of characters , Sydney John Jimmy & Clementine , that will set off a series of emotional and even deadly explosions for the remainder of the movie . SPOILER ALERT We later learn what's the reason for Sydney's a strange attraction towards John from his friend Jimmy himself ! Jimmy a cool operator from the east coast , Atlantic City to be exact , has the goods on Sydney and is planing to blackmail him , for $10 , 000 . 00 , in order to keep his mouth shut ! What goods Jimmy has on Sydney has to do with John's late father who was involved with him back east ! Slow moving with almost no action at all , until the last five or so minutes , " Hard Eight " or " Sydney " is about as good a movie about human relationships and gambling that you'll ever see on the both big and small screen . It's when Sidney is confronted with the truth , by Jimmy , that he's been keeping secret all these years about his past life as a gangster that he's finally forced to resort to violence . Not only in preventing himself from being blackmailed but from preventing his good friend John from knowing the truth about himself and the real reason he feels so obligated to help him ! We soon get to see the reasons why Sydney is what he makes himself out to be , without giving away the reasons for it , in why he goes so far out on a limb to help John and later his newlywed wife Clementine . And the reasons for Sydney doing that are about as honorable and unselfish as they can get !
Where was Bernie Goetz when we really needed him	SPOILERS Until I saw the movie " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " in the late 1980's I never saw a major movie out of Hollywood more vicious and disturbing then " The Incident " . Two brutal and vicious thugs Joe Ferrone & Arti Connors , Tony Musante & Martin Sheen , after brutally murdering a man , Ben Levi , coming home from work at night get on a New York City subway train and terrorize all the passengers on it . Like in most New York City movies the train contains every nationality age and social group and even sexual preference on it and Joe & Arti treat them all just about equally . What was very phony about the movie is that the subway car had something like a dozen passengers on it and nobody or no group of the passengers tried at attack and subdue the two thugs that until the very end . The thugs didn't even show or pull out any weapons and when they did the only weapon they had was a switchblade knife . Even more so they not only brutalized everyone on the subway car they nauseatingly humiliated all the women who were on the train in full sight of their husbands or boyfriends ! with the men doing absolutely nothing to help them ! I couldn't help wondering what the wives and girlfriends of these wimps did after this hell was over did they still stay with them ? Another thing that was a little bit off was that both Joe & Arti went from person or couple to couple abusing and humiliating each one as it they were working on an assembly line . The two jumped on a poor gay man Ken , Robert Fields , and brutalized him so badly that he looked like he lost his mind and was left in a catatonic state with nobody on the train lifting as much as a finger to help the poor man . There was also a black couple Arnold and Joan Robinson , Brock Peters and Ruby Dee , who were about to leave the train on their stop at 125th street in Harlem but Arnold insisted that his wife stay with him on the train so he can see the " show " , how stupid can one get ? Being the only two blacks on the train Arnold was especially singled out by the two white thugs for special treatment . The big strapping black militant was left whimpering and crying like a baby in front of his wife Joan and a train full of whites whom Arnold showed earlier in the movie nothing but hatred contempt and scorn for . The outrages continued until Felix , Beau Bridges , A GI on leave with a broken arm in the big city just couldn't take it any more when Joe started molesting Mr . & Mrs . Wilks Ed McMahon & Diana Vander Vilis , young daughter . Felix finally took the law into his own hands by smashing Joe's face in with his plaster cast that he had on his broken arm , that it took a dentist to pull all of Joe's teeth out of it . Felix then cornered and kicked Arti so hard between his legs that if he were a football he would have traveled at least fifty yards for a field goal with Felix getting a knife right in his gut , and as usual in this movie , with nobody coming to his aid until it was too late or better yet until the police finally came to the " rescue " . Seventeen years later , after the movie " The Incident " was released , on the early afternoon of December 22 , 1984 another " Incident " happened on the Subway in New York City that was like the movie but with a much better ending . Bernie Goetz was on a crowded # 2 subway train minding his own business when he was confronted by four muggers wanting his wallet . Bernie then pulled something out of his jacket pocket but it wasn't a Christmas gift and put the four would-be subway Christmas shoppers out of action for a long long time . I always thought that Bernie saw the movie " The Incident " and knew what just to expect on the NYC subway and also made sure that he would be ready for it when it came .
What good is a dream when your too old to enjoy it !	SPOILERS Being that " Sorry Wrong Number " was originally a 22 minute radio suspense / thriller staring Agnes Moorehead as the tragic and doomed Leona Stevenson . It had to have incorporated into it a number of multiple flashbacks , including a very long and effective flashback within a flashback , to put on enough running time for it to be a full-length motion picture it still packs quite a wallop with an almost unbearable and heart-stopping ending . Trying to get in touch with her husband Henry J . Stevenson , Burt Lancaster , the vice president of her fathers James B . Cotterell , Ed Begely , giant pharmaceutical conglomerate Leona , Barbara Stanwyck , overhears on his office phone , that was left off the hook , a conversation between two men planning a murder someone that very evening . Bed-ridden with a heart condition Leona calls the police to stop the murder from happening . Leona doesn't know until it's too late that the murder victim is her and the person behind it is non other then her dear and loving husband Henry J . Stevenson . Marrying into money Henry always felt that he was nothing but a leach and would never get anywhere as long his father-in-law and wife , Mr . Cotterell & Leona , controlled his life and finances . Given the job as vice president of the Cotterell Corp . all Henry did was fill out forms and attend board meeting , with him having nothing to say about the future of the corporation . Henry feels that he's nothing more then an overpaid and glorified paper pusher . Henry wanted to make it big in the world of business but he wanted to do it all by himself not on the coat-tails of his very successful father-in-law Mr . Cotterell . That cause tensions between him and Leona to the point where she suffered a number of heart attacks that left her an bed-ridden invalid . It was then that Henry came up with this bright idea to siphon off shipments of Cotterell products to his middle man and Chicago mobster Morano , William Conrad , with the help of a Cotterell employee scientist and researcher Waldo Evens , Harold Vermilyea . Reluctant at first Waldo agreed to go along with Henry's plan and it all worked to perfection , splitting the ill-gotten cash with Henry & Marona , until six month later . Thats when Evens was transfered from the Chicago area to Bayonne N . J and that's when thing started to go sour for him and Henry . Henry trying to ice out Marono by telling him that he's out of the deal and the criminal drug smuggling business was actually into it and into it so over his head that the NYC District Attorney office were alerted and began to investigate him . Marono also was on to Henry's actions and found the secret hideout on New York's Staten Island that he was using as a smuggling point in his , and Evens ' , operation . Gotten to by the Marono Mob Henry is told to come up with the stolen $200 , 000 . 00 in cash , plus interest , from their operation if he , and Evens , wanted to live . Reluctantly Henry agrees to have Leona murdered to collect the insurance money on her life in order to spear his own . But what Henry didn't know as the evening of Leona's planned murder came was that his whole plan had been exposed and put out of operation . With Marono & Co . being arrested by the FBI & NYPD and the hideout in Staten Island burned down by Evens making Leona's murder , and his involvement in it , not a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for Henry & Co . but a one way ticket to the Sing Sing electric chair . Powerhouse ending with death lurking just outside her bedroom as Leona desperately tries to call for help with the only means of communications left open to her , her bedside telephone . With Henry on the phone trying to check that everything is going smoothly in his wife's planned demise he soon realizes , by talking to Leona , that his plan was kaput and had been blown . Henry now knows that the murder of Leona will only result in his being sent to the Sing Sing death-house if it succeeds . With her life slowly ticking away as the hired killer gets closer to his helpless quarry for the kill all Leona can do to save her life is alert her neighbors , and police outside , by screaming her lungs out for help . But even that's been taken care off by the killer with the exact time of the New York subway roaring across the 59th Sreet Bridge , at the very moment of his attack . Drowning out her last desperate and ear-splitting screams .
This world that I am a part of that I helped shaped will come to an end tonight with me	SPOILERS Futuristic drama set in 2020 Great Britian about a totalitarian government being confronted by a dark clothed freedom fighter determined to bring it down that it ends up costing him his life . Making himself know to the British people on midnight November 5 , V , Hugo Weaving , first rescues young British national TV employee Evey , Natalie Portman , from two government security men who are about to have her arrested for being outside on the street after curfew . V takes Evey with him on a rooftop as the Old Baily building in London is blown to pieces by explosives that he planted there to the music of Tchaikovsky's 1812 overture . That results in the British dictator Chancellor Adam Sutler , John Hurt , having a fit ordering his entire army of security , as well as the British military , to find who ever did it and then bring him to justice ; Which is a a trial conducted by the state without a jury . The next day V breaks into the government controlled TV studio in London and after dispatching a squad of security men goes on the air telling the Britsh people that he'll be at war with Sutler's regime with the final reckoning coming next November 5 " Guy Fawkes Day " . It's then when he'll destroy the British Parliament building that Fawkes attempted , but failed , to do back in 1605 . The movie " V for Vendetta " mirrors what's happening now in the world with terrorism the weapon of choice by the likes of Osama Bin-Ladin & Co . and has V using these same hit-and-run tactics against the British Government that he feels has betrayed and enslaved the British people . Enormously successful in his battle against the Sutler regime V nevertheless is a one man army with no one , but Evey , joining him in his fight . Which makes him a bit more then just a human being but someone with superhuman powers who can take on dozens of opponents and defeat them without as much as breaking into a sweat . We get to know V's background in a number of flashbacks that indicate that he was the subject of a government experiment that went wrong that left him scared for life . wearing a Guy Fawkes mask and Zorro-like hat V strikes us as someone out of the 18th not 21th century . We also get some idea of how a totalitarian regime like Adam Sutler's took over the government with flashbacks about a deadly biological attack on Britian that resulted in over 100 , 000 deaths . Were also given the impression that it was the Sutler Regime itself that engineered that attack , making it look like it was the work of Islamic terrorists , in order to get the British people through their representatives in the Parliament to give up their rights and make Sutler a total dictator who answers to no one and to no laws . As November 5 gets closer by the day It's not V but Chancellor Sutler and his underlings who start to panic as the mysterious masked maestro knocks off key members of his regime including the " Voice of London " Lewis Profhero , Roger Allen , who we later find out was the commandant of a brutal government concentration camp where V was later almost killed in a chemical explosion . Using the London tube , or subway , V has a plan to use a train-load of explosives that will go under the Parliament building at precisely midnight November 5 and blow the place straight to hell but Sutler won't be there . He's deposed by his handlers lead by the secretive behind the scenes Cheedy , Tim Pigoff-Smith , who together with his henchmen ends up confronting V in a battle that the result will be the future course of Britsh , as well as American , history . Thought-provoking film with a really surprise ending , that takes up the movies last fifteen or so minutes , that has you thinking about that famous saying about Freedom & Equality ; " Freedom is not Free and Free men are not Equal " . That so perfectly describes the movies sheep-like and ignorant British people in the quotes beginning statement and the courageous and principled masked avenger and freedom fighter V for Vendetta in the quotes end .
The lady with the little dog	( There are Spoilers ) 15 year-old Michael Berg , David Cross , is suddenly taken ill on the streets of Neustadt Germany and nurses back to help by a total stranger who seems to have no one but herself to look after . The time is spring 1958 and the stranger in question is 36 year old trolley ticket stamper Hanna Schmitz , Kate Winslet . It's later when Michael was fully recovered , from Scarlett Fever , that he came back to thank Hanna for all she did for him that he started to fall in love with her . So much so that the two had a hot and sizzling love affair throughout the entire summer of 1958 until Hanna , by leaving town , broke it off . It's now eight years later , 1965 , and Michael now in law collage is sent together with his fellow law students by his teacher Prof . Rohl , Bruno Ganz , to see how the law is administrated in the new German Republic . The trial that Michael is to attend and study has to do with a number of former SS women guards at the notorious Aushwitz concentration camp . To Michael's shock and utter surprise the major defendant at the trail is non other then his former lover , and the women who saved his life , Hanna Schmitz ! All this is recounted in 1995 by a grown up , and now a lawyer in Berlin , Michael Berg , played by a middle age Ralph Fiennes . Michael has been haunted all his adult life in not being able to come to Hanna's aid like she did for him when she needed him most , at her trial , with vital information that would have well speared her a lifetime behind bars in a German prison . Not that Hanna was totally innocent of the charges against her in having sent a number of unfit for work women inmates to their ultimate deaths at the Auschwitz concentration camp . But it was the major charge against Hanna that she took full responsibility for , and given the harshest sentence by the court , that she in fact had nothing at all to do with . Hanna's personally writing out and signing the order that caused the deaths of hundreds of Jewish women held captive in an abandoned church . Hanna as we , as well as Michael who would read books for her , all could see very early in the movie was a functional illiterate . There was no way Hanna could write out a long two or three page order that in effect sent some 300 women prisoners to their death in a locked up church , that was later fire bombed by allied aircraft , since she couldn't even write her own name ! The most shocking thing of all is that Hanna felt no remorse in the crimes that she committed during the war , she was only doing her job , but felt greatly embarrassed to the point of getting life , instead of four years , behind bars in her keeping the public from knowing that she couldn't either read or write ! It took years for Michael to get up enough courage to finally go and see Hanna in prison which by then , with Michael's corresponding with her through the mail , she did teach herself to read and write . But by that time Hanna also realized what a monster she was during the war and even with her about to be paroled from prison , after some 20 years behind bars , she came to realize that there was no life left for her outside or behind prison bars . Academy Award caliber performances by both Ralph Fiennes and 18 year old David Kross as Michael Berg as well as the multi-talented Kate Winslet as the confused , in what she did in the war , and tragic , in what she ultimately did to herself , Hanna Schmitz . There's also worth mentioning in the movie actress Lena Olin playing both Rose and her daughter , some twenty years later , Ilana Mather . It was to Ilana , who's mother was the only survivor of the bombed out church , that Hanna through Michael , as her personal lawyer , left all her earthly belongings . Even though Ilana couldn't keep the money that Hanna left for her , she told Michael to donate it to a hospital burn unit , she did in fact take the colorful tea tin that it was kept in . It reminded Ilana of better times when as a young girl she kept her valuables in a similarly tea tin before the outset of WWII .
Mind Tricks	( There are Spoilers ) Teaching psychology at the Hempwell Medical Center Prof . Norman Taylor , Peter Wyngard , is making his way up the ladder of success so fast at the school that his co-educators are a bit jealous of his amazing climb . Having a logical mind and not believing in magic or any other mumbo jumbo Prof . doesn't realize that his wife Tansy has been dappling in the black arts since they were on vacation some time ago in the Caribbean . After a Friday night bridge party at the Taylor home Norman discovers that Tansy has a bunch of charms and totems hidden all over the house that she uses to cast spells on and for persons that she knows including himself . Shocked to find out that Tansy is practicing Witchcraft Norman has her burn all the artifacts , involving that ancient superstition , and put the thought of casting spells and bringing good or bad luck to people that she knows in the fireplace together with them . As Norman begins the week things start to suddenly go wrong , terribly wrong , for him at work as well as at home . Accused of forcing himself on one of his students Margaret Abbott , Judith Stott , Norman is later confronted by her boyfriend Fred Jennings , Bill Mitchall , who's been having trouble with Norman in his class , who pulls a gun on him . Getting everything straighten out by having Margrate confess that she made the story up and disarming the hot-headed Paul doesn't stop Tansy from leaving a tape recorded massage for Norman . In the tape Margaret tells him that she's going to have herself killed by the evil spirits that he released , by burning all her magic charms , to prevent him from being taken away from her forever by taking his place . Almost getting killed in a traffic accident in getting to the seaside retreat , that he and Tansy have outside of town , Norman feels that he's too late to stop his wife from drowning herself since it was already past 12 midnight , the time Tansy left on the tape that she's to die . Norman is now so possessed by what has been happening to him since that night of revelations about the powers of Witchcraft that he actually makes some kind of ceremony , with a photo of Tansy and candles , to break the deadly spell that he unleashed on her as well as himself and amazingly it works . Intelligent and at the same time disturbing movie about the black arts and how they play with one's mind even if he's as logical and unfettered as prof . Norman Taylor . Norman after taking a wet and comatose Tansy home is later attacked by her getting . That had him go back to the collage that evening , on a hunch , to find out just what's been causing all these strange happenings to him and his wife . It becomes obvious that there's someone there who's been casting evil spells on him and Tansy that the magic charms , that Tasy made , have been counteracting but with them now gone there's nothing on earth left to stop them from destroying his and Tansy's lives . With the person in question knowing about Norman's accident , that wasn't reported in the news , and then building a house of Tarot Cards and setting it on fire begins to get the best of Norman's fragile mind and subconscious as he starts to see a demon , in the form of giant eagle , attacking him . Rushing to his house Norman does see it on fire , just as the the Torot Cards predicted , and saves Tansy's life but the person who conjured up all this evil on him and Tansy has a quick and stunning reversal of fortune as the movie ends . You never really know if what was happening to Norman and Tansy is real or just their imagination but that's exactly what made the movie " Burn Whitch Burn " or " Night of the Eagle " work so well . Like the great Lawton / Tourneur film-noir horror movies of the 1940's " Burn Whitch Burn " lets your mind , not the special effects , do the thinking and thus literally scares the hell out of you .
This is what I get for liking a guy too much !	SPOILERS First of the great 1930's gangster movies that set the standers for the hundreds that followed it over the next 70 years . Basically a rag to riches , if that's the word for it , story about a local hood Cesar Enrico " Rico " Bandello , Edward G . Robinson , making it to the top of a big city crime syndicate only to fall from power and back into oblivion , and eventual death . All this more because of his own arrogance and stupidity then that of the police and D . A's office . Starting out in life as a petty hood and stickup man Rico decided to make it big by becoming a member of the Sam Vellori , Stanley Field , Mob as a combination muscle & hit-man . Making waves in the crime world by his brutal actions in getting the job done Rico is given the honor to rip off the Bronze Peacock nightclub on New Years Eve run by Vellori's biggest mob rival Little Arnie Lorch , Maurice Black . Rico get's his former partner in crime and now song and dance man at the club Joe Massara , Douglas Fairbanks Jr , to reluctantly get him and his hoods into the place to rob it . Inside things go terribly wrong when it turns out that the state Crime Commissioner Alvin McClure , Lenders Stevens , was there , with friends , and gets shot and killed by Rico during the robbery . With Vellori panicking over the fallout of Commissioner McClure's murder Rico is anything but shy about his action and ruthlessness takes over Vellori's Mob knowing that the only person who can finger him in is the one person in the world he can trust with his life and freedom his best friend Joe Massara . Going for the " Big Boy's " , Sidney Blackman , job as the top mobster in town Rico quickly consolidates his power and is about to make his move only to have his best friend , Joe Massara , stymie his grandiose master plan . Joe being the only person Rico can trust is a bit hesitant to join him as his second in command of his criminal organization and that drives Rico almost out of his bird . Having become an entertainer and becoming romantically involved with his dancing partner Olga Stassoff , Glenda Farrell , has made Joe soft in the head weak in the stomach and unwilling to leave Olga for a life of crime , with Rico & friends . Rico coming to Joe's place with his fellow hood Otero , George E . Stone , to talk some sense into Joe and get him to leave Olga for him and his crime syndicate . This all leads to a wild shooting , by Otero , that leaves Joe wounded and Olga , who got the eye-witness account from Joe , later spilling the beans to the police about Rico being responsible for Commissioner McClure murder . It was interesting to see that Joe wouldn't implicate his friend Rico in the McClure murder and at the same time Rico didn't have the nerve to shoot Joe when he had the chance to . This showed that the two were still very close with each other even though they went , a while ago , their own separate ways . On the run from the police Otero ends up getting shot and killed but Rico escapes laving him the most wanted man in America . Being on the lamb and living in a skid row flop house Rico is goaded into coming out into the open by his nemesis in the movie " Little Caesar " Police Sgt . Flaherty , Thomas E . Jackson . feeling insulted by Flahertys remarks Rico stupidly , like Flaherty hoped , calls his office threatening to get even with him for putting down the " Big Man " . Having Rico's pay phone traced has the police rush over to the flop house within minutes with Rico checking out from his . 15 a night bed before they could put the cuffs on him . Trapped with nowhere to go or hide in an alley Rico shoots it out with the perusing police and gets plugged with a hail of lead falling dead in the streets . It's then when Rico utters his famous last words " Mother of Mercy , Is This The End Of Rico ? " . P . S Cesar Enrico Bandello was shot and killed behind a giant poster of his best friend Joe Massara and his dancing partner Olga Strassoff advertising their latest song and dance act at the Grand Thetaer " Tipsy Topsy Turvy " .
Death is for others not ourselves	Count Zaroff , Leslie Banks , was brought up in Czarist Russia and instilled by his father with a passion that took over his life , the passion of the hunt . when his country was taken over by the Communists in 1917 the Count escaped with most of his riches intact and while in exile found hunting his only reason for living . After hunting down and killing big game for over a decade on three continents Zaroff found it to be to boring and predictable and bought a deserted Portuguese island with a massive castle in the South Pacific to spend his time and thoughts . It's there where the Count found the perfect adversary the one that would put all his great hunting skills to the test . Something so dangerous that all the animals in the jungle cringe with fear at just the scent and sight of it , the worlds most dangerous game . Timeless classic that has been imitated dozens of times over the last 70 years and still holds up well since it's release in 1932 when we had propeller planes to 2004 where we now have inter-planetary rockets . For the most dangerous game then is still what it is now : MAN . Big game hunter Bob Rainford , Joel McCrea , who washed up on the island when his ship hit a coral reef and his love interest in the movie Eve , Fray Wray , a previous ship-wreck survivor , are given until sunrise to survive Count Zaroff's attempt to hunt them down in this deadly game of cat and mouse . You realize that the Count is no more of a villain then Bob is a good guy for they both like to hunt and kill game that are no threat to them until they make them a treat by their actions . Tense and terrifying movie with the Count pulling out all stops to get both Bob and Eva . With at first a bow and arrow then a high powered rifle and finally a pack of blood-thirsty hunting dogs with the hunted on the run through the dangerous canyons and thickets of the Counts island . With their only hope for survival is the rays of the morning sunrise in this both thought-provoking as well as exciting film . P . S The same sets of the film " The Most Dangerous Game " was used a year later in the all-time movie classic " King Kong " .
Here Come Da Judge . . Here Come Da Judge	SPOILERS Taking a long needed vacation from his duties as a United States Supreme Court Justice the Honorable Judge John Josephus Grant , Frank Morgan , goes to the little sleepy town of Crownport to among other things go duck hunting . What the judge doesn't realize is what a den of corruption and thievery that town is . As soon as the judge went out hunting he was a victim of a shake-down by the towns game warden Warren Todd , Olin Howlin . Todd with the help of Crownport Judge Austin Harkley , Porter Hall , fleeced the startled judge of $100 . 00 in fines for not having a Crownport hunting license even though he had a state hunting license . The judge didn't even have a chance to get off one shot before he was stopped by Game Warden Todd . Judge Grant decides to remain undercover and clean up the town of Crownport and finds help in a honest but bumbling politician running for mayor Bill Adams , Richard Carlson . The judge also calls his private secretary Lucy Gilbert , Jean Rogers , to come over to lend him and Bill a hand . That Lucy can really swing a mean and heavy law book when things get out of hand in the film . The mayor of the town of Crownport James Connison , Robert Barrat , is a sleazy shyster who uses all the power of his office as well as a gang of head breaking goons to keep everyone in order . Now he's having trouble with Bill running against him for mayor and does everything he can to sabotage his campaign . First he has Bill evicted from his offices because of a health hazard which was that Bill had some wood there and it was determined by Connison's health inspectors that the lumber would attract termites . Next the mayor has his goons assault Bill and when he fights back , very badly , he's arrested for disturbing the peace and thrown in jail . Lucy is also arrested with Bill on trumped up charges as she defended herself as well as Bill with a heavy law book that she broke a couple of Connison's goons heads with . Meanwhile judge Grant slowly works his magic or better yet knowledge of the law , behind the scenes , to build an air-tight case against the Connison mob . The goons working for him begin to chicken out as they realize that their slowly getting their necks in a ringer by the skillful and wily Judge Grant . There's also a romance developed in the movie between Bill and Lucy and at the end of the film they get married and guess just who's the justice of the peace at their wedding ? With the noose tightening around Mayor Connison's neck his goons and even his hand picked stooge of a judge Judge Harkley desert him . Connison , being the arrogant and power hungry jerk that he is , is the last one to realize that he's been set up and shot down . At a town hall meeting where Connison thinks that he's about to be anointed mayor he's exposed as a crooked politician and a man who betrayed the trust that the good people of Crownport gave to him . It's there when Judge Grant finally reveals who he is , not just a stranger in town but the United States Supreme Court Justice John Josephus Grant . Mayor Connison who thought all this time that he was running the show is practically run out of town and ends up , together with his goon squad , behind bars . " A Stranger in Town " gives the audience a fine civic lesson about the responsibilities of being a good American citizen which Judge Grant brings out at the end of the movie with a stirring speech about what America really stands for and what the saying " The Land of the Free and The Home of the Brave " really means . Worth watching now as it was back then in 1943 about an America that was meant to be in the nation that our founding fathers fought and died for back during the American Revolutionary War .
Top Psychological Thriller ; When the analyzer becomes the analyzed	M . Night Shyamaina's " The Sixth Sense " has come a long way since movies about psychological issues hit the big screen back in 1945 with Alfred Hitchcock's " Spellbound " and shows how much we learned about the subject since then . Dr . Malcolm Crowe , Bruce Willis , is on top of the world a success in his chosen profession , child psychology , and married to a beautiful and caring wife Anna , Olivia Williams . At the beginning of the film Dr . and Mrs . Crowe down in the living room drinking themselves almost drunk with wine . Celebrating Dr . Crowe being awarded the Mayor's Citation for Professional Excellence Award from the city of Philadelphia . Going up the stairs to the bedroom Dr . Crowe sees that the window is broken and there's someone in the house . When he looks towards the bathroom Dr . Crowe sees that the light is turned on and there's someone in there . Dr . Crowe trying to get the intruder who's very emotionally disturbed at ease by talking to him finds out that he was one of his patients that he treated who went wrong Vincent Gray , Donnie Wahlberg . Before Dr . Crowe can go any further Vincent pulls out a gun and shoots him point blank and then turns the gun on himself . The movie then jumps some six months later when Dr . Crowe recovered and back on the job is assigned to his first patient since being shot . He's to treat a six year-old boy Cole Sear , Haley Joel Osment , who's having problems at school and at home . Cole can't get along not only with his classmates and his teachers but also with his single parent mother Lynn Sear , Toni Collette . Cole withdrawn and quite and he gets scared and frightened for apparently no reason when he's looking at seemingly harmless people and places or at nothing at all . Dr . Crowe starts to talk to Cole as he tries to analyze him and to the Dr . ' s surprise little Cole seems to come out of his shell . Cole not only responds to him in an unafraid manner to which he doesn't do to any of his classmates and teachers , whom he knows a lot more the Dr . Crowe , he also also confides in him to what his fears are . Young Cole has hallucinations that , as he tells a very interested and concerned Dr . Crowe , he " sees dead people " . He sees them everywhere , in school , in the streets even at home . He sees them everywhere he looks and there are some that don't even know that there dead . Dr . Crowe at first feels that he's getting through to young Cole and puts all of his attention and efforts to curing him of his psychosis . What he doesn't realize is that the attention that he's paying to Cole is jeopardizing his whole life by neglecting his wife and his friends . As well any other cases of child psychological disorders that he may have to examine and cure in the future . You begin to wonder why Dr . Crowe is paying so much attention to Cole ? Is it that Cole reminds him of Vincent Gray whom he failed so many years ago which ended with him being shot and Vincent killing himself . Is Dr . Crowe afraid that young Cole if not cured will end up the same way ? Did that terrible incident at the beginning of the movie damage Dr . Crowe so severely that it completely wrecked his ability as a child psychologist to do his work and made him need psychological help himself ? What really surprised me about " The Sixth Sense " was the quality of Bruce Willis acting in the movie even more then the already legendary , although it's been only four years since the film was released back in 1999 , surprise ending . Bruce Willis carried the movie with an academy award caliber performance without a shoot-out explosion or car chase or almost any action at all which Bruce Willis movies are noted for . Willis played the exact opposite a role that he would usually play and excelled in it . You also have to give top acting credit to the young Haley Joel Osment who played the young boy Cole Sear who held his own and sometime even eclipsed Willis in every scene that they were in together . If " The Sixth Sense " showed anything besides being a top psychological thriller is that when Bruce Willis is too old and unconvincing to play action hero parts he'll still have a very bright future in films that would only require acting .
Suppressed emotions explode on screen in this early Robert Altman Classic	SPOILERS Feeling alone and needing companionship as well as love Frances Austen , Sandy Dennis , keeps all these emotions inside as she goes through life as a popular young single lady who has many high class friends . But for reasons of her own deep insecurity she keeps them at arms length . As for Frances male friends non are anywhere near her age so that she won't have any reason to have any romantic involvement with them . One early evening as Frances was entertaining some of her friends she spots outside her apartment window a young man , Michael Burns , sitting alone in the cold pouring rain . Feeling that he's homeless and alone after her friends leave Frances goes outside to the park and offers the young man shelter at her place until the rain subsides and even to stay over for the night at a guest bedroom that she has . You can see right away that Frances is more interested in just having the young mans safely out of the cold and rain then she wants to have him as a friend lover or even play-toy all for herself and as the movie progresses you see that you were right . A really amazing performance by Sandy Dennis that in a way is very much like that of Kathy Bates ' Academy Award performance in the movie " Misery " that was made in 1990 some twenty one years later . Frances thinking that the young man was alone and homeless and , later when she meets him , mute sees the perfect person for her to have as a true friend . He's in no way her equal or better then her like the friends that she has , doctors lawyers Indian chiefs , and thus is totally dependent on her . It later turns out that the young man is not the lonely and homeless person that Frances thought that he is . It's when she slowly finds out that he really doesn't need her as well as him manipulating her instead the other way around it sets off something in Frances ' mind that turns out to be a compulsion of murderous proportions . A really weird film by director Robert Altman that goes deep into the depths of loneliness and depression of the human mind . Actress Sandy Dennis is perfect as the Dr . Jekyll and Miss . Hyde personality in her acting as the lonely but at the same time dangerous Frances Austen and it's a pity that not only didn't she get an Academy Award for her role in the film but wasn't even nominated for it . Like most Robert Altman movies there seems to be a lot of improvisation among the actors in the movie and ad lib dialog especially between the young man's sister Nina , Susanne Benton , and her boyfriend Nick , David Garfield . The only thing in the movie that I found confusing is when we see Frances go to a city clinic to have a full gynecological exam and tells the doctor that she expects to get married very soon . Was her husband to be the young man staying at her apartment ? But besides that the movie sticks to the story pretty well and the ending is a real shock to the audience as well as the young man . When he finally , in the end , realizes that Frances is not only a bit off-the-wall but murderously insane as well .
" Put on a happy face "	SPOILERS In dept story about a number of New Yorkers who's lives touch each other during the course of the movie and how it in the end changes their lives forever . Even though the movie seems complicated it has a simple and basic answer to a hard and unfeeling world : That faith and optimism are the best reasons to get through life no matter how difficult it is . The movie moves back and forth in time with Gene English , Alan Arkin , and Troy , Matthew McConaughey , in the bar scene at the start and end of the film . Gene runs an insurance office that's in danger of being downsized because of a bad rating it got from an research agency . Gene also has problems with his son Ronnie , Alex Burnes , who's a drug addict and is in and out of court for committing act of larceny to support his habit . On top of all that Gene also has a broken marriage and all those things makes him very unhappy and sarcastic with the people that work in his office , especially those who seem to have a better outlook on life then Gene does . When Gene's told by higher ups to cut down on his staff by letting go those who he feels that he can do without Gene cut the most happiest and optimistic person in the office Wade Bowman , William Wise . Wade to Gene's surprise take it a lot easier then he expected him to , which makes Gene almost wish that he would be more like Wade . Later after Gene's told that there was a vice-president slot opened for him to fill he himself was laid-off . What Gene saw in Wade and how Wade later in the movie got back on his feet by not feeling sorry for himself and with , Wade not knowing it , Gene's help Gene's outlook on life changed for the better . Which made him a wiser if less richer person and seemed to help Gene overcome his sarcasm and bitterness that made him almost impossible to get along with . There's Walker , John Turturro , a collage psychics professor who's cheating on his wife Patricia , Amy Irving , by having an affair with Helen , Barbara Sukowa . Helen is also married and a teacher in the collage where Walker works . When Patricia finds out about Walker's affair she leaves him . Walker also loses Helen when she goes back to her husband to keep him from killing himself after he also found out about her and Walker . Hurt and bitter Walker seems to take out his troubles and frustrations on one of his students Chris Hammond , Rob McElhenney , who ask for help from Walker because of problems that he has at home as well as in school . Being cold and sarcastic toward Hammond's pleas for help and understanding leads Hammond to commit suicide . This has Walker see what his being so self-centered and selfish and thinking only about himself and what's best only for himself can do to all those around him . Troy is a hot shot DA who just won a big case . After celebrating in a local bar with a couple of drinks Troy hits a young woman Beatrice , Clea Du Vall , with his car and leaves her for dead instead of trying to get help . Troy becomes so overcome with guilt over what he did that his whole outlook on him being a DA and putting people away in jail takes a whole new meaning to him . Troy loses his ability to do his job and wants only to find the women that he left for dead and make up for what he did to her . Beatrice the woman who Troy ran over is a sweet and quiet girl who works as a cleaning lady and whatever free time she has goes to church to sing in the church quire . Beatrice always believed that people are good and feels that there are miracles in the world . In a lot of ways Beatrice didn't grow up and develop the cynicism that most people develop by seeing the world for what it or what we feel it is : A cold and unforgiving place . Beatrice loses that child-like belief after her accident and later , which to Beatrice was even worse , after she was released from the hospital . It was then that a person that she worked for accused Beatrice of stealing his expensive watch which to his shock and embarrassment she showed him where she put it , in his dresser draw . Hurt and depressed by losing her faith in all that's good in the world and in peoples goodness one cold afternoon Beatrice just wanted to step off the sidewalk , and into the dangerous city traffic , and end it all . It's then when she saw a man across the street looking at her with a smile on his face , and as if he read her mind subconsciously , telling her that there's still good in the world and that her life is unique and worth living and not to foolishly throw it away . Like a miracle this man restored her faith and got Beatrice out of her depression that almost drove her to kill herself . Wade Bowman who always saw the good and positive side of life no matter how bad things got for him and not only uplifted himself but also uplifted everyone else , no matter how down and out they were , who came in contact with him had me thinking . This made me start to wonder who just was that man who's smile cut through all the cold and selfishness that gave Beatrice back her faith in human values and goodness . This when she thought that it was no longer true and valid after what she went through ? I just wonder who that man was ?
Isen't somebody going to come . . . and take him away ?	( There are Spoilers ) The movie " Touch of Evil " explodes in your face right at the opening scene when prominent Los Robles citizen and building magnet Rudy Linnekar and his date local stripper Zita are blown to pieces when their car detonates just as it crosses the Mexican / USA border . At the scene in Mexican are the two newlyweds Narcotics Agent Miguel " Mike " Vargas and his pretty American wife Susie who witnessed the entire horrifying event . Vargas is the star witness in a major drug trial in Mexico City involving drug kingpin " Big Boss " Grandi who's brother Joe lives , with a number of his nephews , in Los Robles and is suspected in the bombing . Being that the murder happened at the border it bring in local Los Robles US police Chief Capt . Hank Quinland who likes doing things " His Way " and resents Vargas , a Mexican , being on the case . Quinlan is somewhat of a legend in Los Robles being that he solved almost all the major crimes in the town over the last thirty years . what people don't know is that he solved them by planting and rigging evidence and then having scores of suspects , many of them innocent , sentenced to prison or even executed . Quinlan plants a number of dynamite sticks on Manelo Sanchez who was dating Rudy Linneker's daughter Marcia and who may have had a motive to kill Rudy since he was violently against his young and beautiful daughter marrying a Mexican . Mike Vargas being on the scene makes it possible and convenient for both Hank Quinlan and Joe Grandi to get together to frame him and his wife in a drug scam . This is to get Vargas out of the way of both their corrupt operations in and out of town ; Quinlan's illegal police practices and Grandi's attempt to get his brother off from being convicted , in Mexico City where he standing trial . That only happen by making Vargas look guilty as a drug supplier for his drug addicted wife that would destroy him as a credible witness against his drug dealing brother . It's this evil alliance between Quinlan and Grandi that leads to the horror and murder that happens to Vargas his wife Susie and in the end Quinlan's partner in crime Grandi in the film and destroys their plan to frame the Vargas ' . Orsen Wells , who was 42 at the time , looks at least 15 years older then he really is as the corrupt and murderous lowlife Hank Quinlan . Wells projects an evil just by his grotesque and unkempt appearance that makes you cringe in your seat just at the very sight of him . Constantly stuffing himself with candy bars and washing them down with either booze or coffee or both , while smoking a cigar , makes him look as if he hasn't slept or bathed in weeks and looking like someone that come out of your worst nightmare . Charlton Heston is both tough and touching as Mexican Norcotics Agent Miguel " Mike " Vargas a marked man who's both trying to find his kidnapped wife and at the same trying to avoid getting murdered by Grandi's boys and framed by Quinlan . Quinlan has Mrs . Vargas shot up with truth serum to made it look like illegal drugs and places her in Grandi's " Ritz Hotel " to later be found and arrested for drug use and drug possession . Quinlan then double-crosses the startled Grandi by brutally murdering him and leaving him there in the hotel room with the unconscious Mrs . Vargas . So that a murder rap , that he's planting on her , can be added on to her indictment . Vargas gets help from an unlikely source Los Robles Police Sergeant Pete Menzies who's Quinlan's second in command , and a life-long admirer of him , after he found Quinlan's cane at the murder scene and realizing that he was setting up and framing the Vargas for Joe Grandi's murder . Setting Quinlan up by having Menzies wire himself with a tape-recorder Varges gets the evidence that he needs to have Quinlan indited for his crimes and prove that he and his wife , Susie , were framed by the corrupt cop . But in the end it wasn't necessary since both Quinlan and Menzies ended up dead shooting each other . The irony in the whole story is that even though Quinlan framed Sanchez , for the bombing murder of Rudy Linnekar and his girlfriend Zita , it later turned out that for once that Quinlan was right as Sanchez himself confessed to the two murders at the end of the movie . Fascinating Film-Noir Classic about sleaze corruption and murder with an added surprise by having actress Marlene Dietrich as Quinlan's old flame and local fortune teller Tana who was romantically involved with him years ago ; when he was a lot lighter sober and much more presentable and a lot less squalid .
The Evil That Men Do	SPOILERS Powerhouse movie that shows how men in desperate situations can go so far as sacrifice their best friends and family members and not realize what monsters that they are by doing it . Until like in the case of bull-like Gypo Noland , Victor Mclaglen , it's too much too late . It's 1922 and the hight of the Black & Tan Irish revolt against the mighty British Empire with the Tans , British occupying troops , on the lookout for wanted Irish Republican rebel Frankie McPhillip , Wallace Ford , wanted for the killing of a Briish soldier . Gypo a good , really the best , friend of the fugitive McPhillip is down on his luck not having a job with his girlfriend Katie , Margot Grahame , forced to turn tricks in the Dublin red-light district in order to pay her rent . After an outraged Gypo worked over a potential John who want's to spend a few hours with Katie , for a shilling or two , an angry Katie tells the not so bright Gyro that he's preventing her for supporting herself with the only bankable asset she has , her body . Katie also tells Gypo that he should wake up to reality and realize what a desperate situation that she's in . Telling the mind-numbed Gypo that it would only cost ten pound sterling for her to go to America , and get out of the poverty of Ireland , Gypo suddenly remembers a poster of his good friend Frankie McPhillip that he just saw announcing a reward of 20 pound sterling . Thats enough money for both him and Kaite to travel to America . Gypo going to a local Dublin flop house and soup kitchen to get a free meal is startled to run into his friend Frankie McPhillip . Frankie tells him that he snuck into Dublin to see both his mother Mrs . McPhillip and sister Mary , Una O'Connor & Heather Angel , and if he can make sure that everything is safe for him to go home and later leave for his Irish Republican unit outside the city . All Gypo can see in Frankie's face is the 20 pound sterling reward for him being turned into the police ! Without as much of a second thought , after he assured Frankie that everything is all right , Gypo secretly goes to the police and informs on his friend who's later shot and killed in a police and Tan shootout in his moms house . With the deed done the chief of police hands over the 20 pound sterling , much like thirty pieces of silver , to an almost emotionless Gypo who takes it and sneaks out the back door of the police station so that one one can see him . You can see in the police chief's face and actions that he has nothing but utter contempt for Gypo's betrayal of his friend Frankie McPhillip . Even though he was wanted for murder and an enemy of the British Empire . That's how low traitors or informers are held even by those whom they secretly work for . Gypo turns out to be his own worst enemy after his betrayal of Frankie as his conscience takes control of his mind . Gypo sees and hears everyone , including his unsuspecting girlfriend Katie , pointing a finger and implicating him in Frankie's betrayal and death at the hands of the British authorities . Gypo's guilty mind has him getting himself royally and gloriously drunk , on the reward money , that by the time he's forced to to admit his crime to his Irish Republican Army colleagues , who had the almost dead drunk and slobbering Gypo on trial , the money was just about gone in his partying drinking and whoring . Whatever good feelings , if that's possible , that you had for the weak minded and strong shouldered Gypo was completely demolished when in an act of total desperation , in order to keep from getting shot , he falsely implicate an innocent man Mulligan , Donald Meek , in his crime of informing on his friend Frankie McPhillip . Which is quickly exposed as a total fabrication by non other then the guilt-ridden Gypo himself . The dye is then cast as straws are drawn for who would be the one to put a bullet in Gypo's head for the final gut spilling chapter of this heart wrenching and unforgettable Crime & Punishment classic .
Snowblind	SPOILERS The weird kidnap plan in the movie " Fargo " was hatched at the " King of Clubs " bar in Fargo ND . Ex-cons Carl Showalter & Gaear Grimsrud , Steve Buscemi & Peter Stormare , meet with Brainerd Minn . , The home of Paul Bunyan & the Blue Ox , car executive Jerry Lundergaard , William H . Macy , in this half-baked plan to kidnap his wife Jean , Kristin Rudrud . All this in order to secure a $80 , 000 . 00 ransom from her dad Wade Gustafson , Harve Presnell , who's one of the richest men in Brainerd . Jerry and the two hoods were brought together by a mutual friend ex-con Shep Proudfoot , Steve Reevis , who not only spent time with both Carl & Gaear in the Stillwaters State Pen but also works as a car mechanic at the dealership that Jerry is working at and who his father-in-law Wade owns . Like the off-the-wall misfits that they are the plan goes to pot as soon as it's executed with a bungled kidnapping of Jean and later that evening the murder of a state trooper , James Saulke , and two windlessness who happened to come on the scene , J . Todd Anderson & Michelle Suzanne LeDoux , by the somewhat unstable Gear . Jerry needs the $40 , 000 . 00 , his half in the deal , to replace money that he embezzled from the car dealership that he's working at . As the movie " Fargo " go along it's marry way it , the money that Jerry embezzled , rises to almost $400 , 000 . 00 . After the murdered bodies of the three victims of Gaear's rampage are discovered the police chief of Brainerd Marge Gunderson , Frances McDormand , is called into the case . Marge slowly gets all the evidence together and puts it in place thus cracking the murder / kidnap mystery wide open . Marge is a lot like TV's Let . Colombo , at first you don't for a moment realize that she's a policewomen much less the Chief of police in Brainerd County . Later her street , or lets say country , smarts and bulldog determination makes you as well as everyone else watching the movie believers long before the film " Fargo " is over . Homely looking with an enormous appetite , due to her being pregnant , Marge slowly gets to the bottom of the murder mystery by zeroing in on Jerry who she felt was keeping some very important information for her . He doesn't realize that a car , a tan Ciera that was spotted at the murder scene , is missing from his car lot and that one of his workers Shep was in cohorts by phone with the two ex-cons ! Shep received a phone call from the bar-motel where the two were staying at . Jerry tries to be cute even with his fellow partners in crime by upping the ransom to one million dollars without them knowing about it and insisting that he deliver the goods , the one million dollar ransom , by himself ; so he can keep most of the money to cover his string embezzlement's at the car dealership . The entire scheme backfires when Wade insists that he handle the ransom pay-off , after all it's his money , that leads to him to getting shot and killed by an outraged Carl who was in turn is shot in the jaw by Wade before he died . At the hideout with Gaear and the kidnapped Jean , Carl also tried to cheat Gaear out of the Million by giving him only $40 , 000 . 00 of the ransom , It's hen when Carl finds thats Gaear murdered Jean and ends up getting split in half and murdered himself with an ax by his insane partner . Meanwhile Marge closes in on the gang and has Jerry on the run and out of the state , he's later arrested by the cops at a motel in Bismarck ND . Gaear is also captured by Marge as he tried to hide the evidence of his crimes , the bodies of Jean & Carl , by chopping them to pieces with a wood-chopping machine . Even though the movie " Fargo " has it's share of thrills and excitement it also has it's touching moments too . One of the most moving scenes in the movie has to do with Marge meeting an old high school friend of hers at a local Minneapolis hotel restaurant Mike Yanagita , Steve Park . Mike goes into a whole song and dance about him working for the Honeywell Corp . as an engineer and how he lost his wife Linda , who Marge also knew from high school , to leukemia . Unable to talk anymore Mike begins to break down right in front of the startled policewomen sobbing uncontrollably . Later Marge found out that Mike was never married and doesn't work for the Honeywell Corp . and has been living with his parents since he left high school . If Mike was honest about his feelings to Marge , as well as any of his other friends , he would have easily gotten the sympathy that he wanted instead of being a phony to both Marge as well as to himself .
Something about life that you won't learn in school or college	SPOILER ALERT Dark and gruesome but at the same time extremely realistic movie about the use and addiction to drugs both legal and illegal and the tragic results to those involved . The movie " Requiem for a Dream " doesn't take place in the ghettos of the inner cities that we're used to seeing stories like this but in the middle-class and mostly Jewish neighborhood of Conley Island in Brooklyn NY . The story of " Requiem for a Dream " centers around four people , Sara , Eilen Byrson , her son Harry , Jared Leto , his girlfriend Marion , Jennifer Connelly , and Harry's best friend Tyrone , Marlon Wayans . Sara lives by herself with her son Harry in a high rise apartment in Conley Island . Widowed she watches TV and wants to be a contestant on a show that she loves but feels that she's too heavy and not attractive looking enough to be on TV and have all her friends see her . Sara's son Harry is a local neighborhood hustler who steals TV's or whatever else he can get his hands on to make some money to get himself through the day . Harry's girlfriend Marion seems to come from a good family but she's in love with Harry and as we all know that " Love is Blind " . Marion doesn't seem to care what Harry is doing and where he might well end up , she just want's to be with him , and feels that they both together will somehow make a go of their lives because Harry has a good mind for business and will work himself up the ladder at whatever vocation he takes up . One day Harry's best friend Tayrone comes up with an idea that they can all make lot's of money by selling drugs and that he has a connection that will get them started in the venture . Meanwhile Harry's mom Sara gets a reply to an application that she sent to the TV show that she watches all day and night that she's been accepted to be on the show as a contestant . Sara starts trying to lose weigh by taking pills that she buys over the counter or what her doctor prescribes to her and in no time all she becomes addicted to them . Harry Tyrone as well as Marion at first are making big money in their drug business but after a while with the threat of the police as well as other rivals drug dealers , and not to mention the addicts that they deal with , their drug business starts to dry up . Before long all three like most drug dealers also become addicted to the very drugs that they were selling . Darren Aronosfsky's " Requiem for a Dream " is one of the most depressing as well as realistic movies about urban life in regards to drug addiction that's ever been filmed . I have to remind the readers that it takes a very strong stomach to be able to sit through and watch the movie . In the end we see what drugs can do the the human mind body and spirit and it isn't very pretty . Hollywood has come a long way in the making of movies about drug addiction since the Frank Sinatra Film " Man with the Golden Arm " back in 1955 . " Requiem for a Dream " is a movie everyone should see regardless of it's really disturbing bleak and down right pit-in-hell ending . If it were made back in 1955 when " Man with the Golden Arm " was released and if millions of people saw it back then the drug problems of today would be a hell of a lot smaller .
It can happen to anyone ! It happened to a sister of the President of the United States !	SOME SPOILERSHard hitting as well as moving story about a subject matter that at the time , 1963 , was almost never mentioned even by those affected by it afflicting a family member , much less made into a major motion picture : mental retardation . As the movie " A Child Is Waiting " begins we see 12 year-old Reuben , Bruce Ritchey , left alone by his father Mr . Ted Widdicombe , Steven Hill , at the steps of a school for the mentally retarded Looking terribly confused and feeling lost . Reuben is borderline retarded which is the worst kind of mental retardation that a young boy like him can suffer from . Since even though Reuben has the mind of a five year old he can still understand that he's different from other normal boys and girls that he went to school with . Even worse Reuben can understand that he's been abandoned by those who love him his parents Ted and Sophie Widdicombe , Gena Rowland . The school is run by psychiatrist Dr . Ben Clark , Burt Lancaster , who can be both as sensitive as a Mother Theresa as well as tough as a US Marine drill sergeant to the boys and girls in the school . It's later when Jean Hansen , Judy Garland , shows up for a job as a music teacher that little Reuben takes a very strong liking toward her . Miss . Hansen immediately connects with Reuben as a surrogate mother who by paying too much attention towards him has her ignoring the other children that's in her class . The movie goes deep into exploring as well as enlightening the audience on what mental retardation not only is but also how so many people back in the early 1960's . The film shows how Miss . Hansen has good but at the same time naively misplaced feeling for those suffering from the disability . Dr . Clark sees right away that Miss . Hansen's feeling for Reuben will only drive him more into the shell that he's already in and warns her not to , which she does anyway , have his mother come over to see him . which ends with Reuben having an emotional breakdown and then running away from the school grounds . Reuben being found by the local police and brought back to the school has a very distraught Miss . Hansen , who holds herself responsible for what he did , offered to resign . Instead she's graciously given a second chance by Dr . Clark to stay on . Miss . Hansen stopped babying Reuben and started treating him like all the other students in her class and with that he stopped feeling like he was helpless and unable to function on the outside , as well as in the school , on his own . That lead the young boy to finally open up and be able to communicate with both his teachers and the other students in the school . A difficult movie to watch but that in no way takes away the powerful impact that " A Child Is Waiting " has on those watching it . Were and Miss . Hansen are shown by Dr . Clark what happens to children who are overly protected from the world and people around them by those who love them by not letting them go out in the world and live meaningful lives to what ever level their limited mental capacity will bring them . There's a very disturbing but effective scene in an adult sanitarium for the mentally retarded where we see the unfortunates there who were coddled by their parents , like Miss . Hansen was coddling Reuben , who were left on heir own when their parents died or were to old and infirm to take care of them anymore . Unlike young children like Reuben they became so severely retarded that there was no chance for them to ever recover . Director John Cassavetes is seen as one of the sanitarium inmates walking around aimlessly waving his hands and talking to himself in an Alfred Hitchcock-like cameo in the film . Burt Lancaster is at his usual best as the hard but well meaning Dr . Clark . Newcomer 12 year-old Bruce Ritchey is both touching and tragic as the retarded young boy who finds a home and family at the school that makes him for the first time in his short life really feel wanted . But it's the former child star and singing sensation Judy Garland as the very sensitive and understanding but somewhat naive music teacher Miss . Hansen who want's to find a meaning and reason to her life , by helping others . Judy Garland's Miss . Hansen really stands out in the movie as she learns that love if used with emotion not wisdom can be like a double-edge sword . Love for it to work effectively , like with Reuben , you have to let you mind override your feelings for it to succeed on whom ever your directing it on .
I thought that they were just gonna lean on him a little not knock him off !	SPOILERS The Hoboken docks were coming under the scrutiny of a major Federal Crime Commission to investigate the mob connections of local 374 the longshoreman union in the area and it's president Michael J . Skelly aka Johnny Friendly , Lee J . Cobb . It's when longshoreman Joey Doyle agreed to testify against Friendly that things started to get real ugly . Getting Joey's friend and fellow longshoreman Terry Malloy , Marlon Brando , to unwitting set him up by getting Joey to go on the roof of his apartment house , to get one of his lost pigeons , Friendly's thugs grabbed and threw Joey down off the roof killing him . Terry would be haunted by Joey's death in his being an accomplice in it . Later when he meets Joey's sister Edie , Eva Marie Saint , and falls in love with her Terry's guilt eventually leads him to do what Joey was expected to do , by the crime commission and Johnny Friendly , testify in open court against Friendly and his mobsters that are running the docks . One of the great human dramas coming out of Hollywood in the turbulent 1950's that had as it's hero a man who would do the unthinkable by testifying against his fellow workers , no matter how mobbed up and corrupt they are , and in the end almost pay with his life for doing it . Johnny Friendly and his mobsters were the reason that what Terry did what he was forced to do after he had struggle with his conscience almost through the entire movie . Terry who at first was a 100 % union man and who's belief in not talking to the commission was the only and right thing to do started to see the light when he got to know Joey's grieving sister Edie and her dad Pop Doyle , John Hamilton . Being the last person to see Joey alive Terry was called to testify to the commission about Joey's " accidental " death . As Johnny Friendly got paranoid about Terry's relationship with Edie , Terry's hesitation in keeping quite about it lead to an explosive taxi cab meeting with his older brother Charley " The Gent " Malloy , Rod Steiger , Johnny Friendly's mouthpiece and right hand man . Not wanting to turn his younger brother over to Friendly's thugs who would murder him Charley in return ended up dead for not being able to guarantee his silence . " On the Waterfront " brings out human emotions at their rawest with Marlon Brando's Academy Award performance as Terry Malloy who becomes an outcast from his union and even his life long friends in and out of the docks for being a rat , squealer , against those he worked with . There was a lot more to Terry's actions then trying to gain favor with the commission , which could really do nothing for him . It comes out in the movie that Friendly & Co . were anything but helpful to those that they represented by taking their union dues and then shaking them down , by kicking back a sizable amount of their paychecks , just to get work on the docks . Friendly in the end made the biggest mistake of his life by instead of laying low and riding out the storm of the crime commissions investigation of his corrupt union decided to quite anyone on the docks who was willing to testify . Terry with the support of both Edie and longshoreman fiery preacher Father Barry , Kal Malden , in the end did talk and implicate Friendly and his thugs . This only lead to Terry being beaten almost to death in the movie's final showdown between him and Johnny Friendly . The cowardly Johnny Friendly not being able to take on Terry all by himself also needed a number of his strong-arm men that included three ex-heavyweights , Tony Gelento Abe Simon & Tami Mauriello , who challenged the great Joe Louis for the heavyweight championship to do the job for him . Terry beaten to the point where he could hardly stand on his feet staggers toward the dock work area with the now admiring longshoremen , who at first wouldn't even talk to him , not willing to go back to work unless Terry was there with them The film ends with the dock workers filing in after Terry as he makes it inside and collapses . Excellent performances all around with a young Eva Marie Saint in her first movie role holding her own against her Academy Award winning co-star Marlon Brando as the sweet innocent and courageous Edie Doyle . It was Edie who saw through the fake and phony toughness of Terry Malloy in his trying to be macho but realizing that he was much tougher when he showed his true feelings in his sensitivity to those being abused , and even murdered , around him and willing to put an end , at the cost of risking his life , to it .
THEE Classic Modern Horror Movie	" The Exorcist " is a film that goes full-circle from modern Twentieth Century medicine to the church exorcism of the middle ages , all within the two hours that it's on the screen . The movie revolves around three characters in it : Father Merrin , Max Von Sydow , Father Karras , Jason Miller , and Regan MacNeil , Linda Blair . Father Merrin unsuspectingly releases the devil from an ancient archaeological dig that he's in charge of in northern Iraq which ends up possessing little Regan MacNeil in Georgetown USA . Father Karras is the priest who suggested that an exorcism was warranted after examining Regan , with Karras being a trained psychiatrist , and seeing that she's beyond all known psychiatric and medical help . Father Merrin seems guilt-stricken in the beginning of the movie when he realized that he released a demonic spirit into the world by unearthing it from the ruins of his expedition . When he's contacted by the church later in the movie to preform an exorcism Father Marrin sees his chance to correct what he unwitting did by driving the evil spirit out of little Regan's body that he feels that he was responsible for . Father Karras , who is losing his faith in his religion , who's also guilt-ridden over his mothers death sees in saving Regan from her demonic possession , which he became convinced of after examining her , as a restoration of his faith . Karras also feels that the exorcism will make up for him not being more attentive to his mother who died and wasn't found in her NYC apartment until days later . Regan MacNeil , who by being the innocent victim of demonic possession , brought both priests together in a common case to exorcise the devil out of her body and in that way redeem themselves of their guilty consciences . The final half hour of the film " The Exorcist " is one of the most memorable as well as heart stopping chapters in movie history . Both Fathers Merrin and Karras heroically succeed is casting the devil out of Regan but at a frightful price to themselves . " The Exorcist " is truly one of the greatest horror movies of all time even with some awful drawbacks . The dubbing of Regan's voice as that of the devil comes across like the very bad dubbing of English dialog in a Japanese monster movie . Regan's head-turning scenes in the movie are more comical then scary . The ending of the movie leaves you up in the air to who won the battle , in Regans bedroom , between good and evil ? the priest or the devil ? . Still if imitation is a form of success then " The Exorcist " which had hundreds of imitators over the last thirty years is undeniably one of the great , as well as influential , films of all times .
If people thought about all the things that could happen they'd never do anything !	SPOILERS The film " The Clock " ends where it began at the vast spacious and impersonal Pennsylvania Train Station in NYC as we see Alice , Judy Garland , disappear as the camera pull away and she's become just a small speck in the mass of humanity milling around there . During the proceeding 48 hours Alice met by chance a young soldier Joe , Robert Walker , on a two-day pass before he's to be shipped over the Atlantic to England and eventually to the bloody battlegrounds in France and Germany to fight in the European Theater of War . During that time Alice and Joe fall in love have a whirlwind romance take a night-time sight-seeing ride of the city on a milk truck with milkman Al Henry ( James Gleason ) , whom they helped in making his early morning deliveries . Later after getting married the two leave each other , Joe for the European battlefield and Alice for her home and job , knowing that it was fate that brought them together and it will be fate , that in the end , will bring them back together again after the war is over . A very cute and adorable 22 year-old Judy Garland in her first adult , as well as non-singing , role playing Alice the type of girl that every GI would want to have waiting for them back home . Robert Walker is very effective as the naive and befuddled small town boy in the big city who finds , among the millions of people living and working there , the one girl that he's always been looking for to bring home and meet the parents as well as marry . Touching little wartime romance involving two persons from totally different backgrounds and localities who would have never met if it wasn't for circumstances beyond their control , WWII , that in a strange and mysterious way brought them together more then anything else ever could . Besides the touching and poignant story and wonderful chemistry between the two top stars , Judy Garland & Robert Walker , " The Clock " was beautifully photographed with a stunning and nostalgic look at war-time , 1945 , New York City . The film also brought out the people who lived there and how the war affected them and those that went " Over There " as well as those who were soon to go " Over There " to fight , and possibly die , " Over There " . There was a very touching scene at a almost empty church with Alice and Joe quietly taking the vows of matrimony that would bring you , like it did them , to tears . This after the chaotic scene at the Justice of the Peace office in City Hall that had Alice wondering if she did , in marrying Joe , the right thing in the first place P . S She Did .
Beauty is as Beauty does	( Some Spoilers ) Heart-felt and touching movie based on the Anna Sewell story of a majestic prince of a horse who both reveled and suffered through a slew of owners , good and bad , and in the end came back to the one person who saved his life twice . Once from a deadly case of chills and later from a raging barn fire , and who reluctantly had to give him away Joe Green , both Andrews Knott as a teenager and Ian Kelsey as a young man , to live out the remainder of his life in a peaceful and loving home . Written by Miss . Sewell as a statement against animal cruelty back in 19th century England the story about Black Beauty has become since it was published in 1877 , a year before Anna Sewell death , one of the most beloved and read children , as well as adult , stories about horses ever penned . Folded at Farmer Gray's , Sean Bean , farm out of the mare Duchess the young colt grew up to be a striking black horse , with a white heart-shaped star on his forehead . The horse could run with the grace of an champion Olympic track and field runner and with such blinding speed that it seemed as if he had wings attached to his hoofs . Given away to Squire Gordon , Peter Davidson , and his wife , Rosalind Ayers , the horse named by Mrs . Gordon " Black Beauty " had the happiest times of his life with both John Manly , Jim Carter , and young Joe Green taking care of and looking after him . It was later when Mistress Gordon's health was failing that she and her husband Squire Gordon had to move out of England to a much warmer climate , on the European continent , that life started turning bleak for the black stallion . This decision to move lead to the Gordon's dispersement of their farm and all it's horses which included Black Beauty . Sold to the snobbish and unfeeling Lady Wexmire , Eleanor Bron , who among other things had the horse , as well as the reddish or chestnut mare and white pony Ginger and Merrylegs who were also sold to her along with Black Beauty . Forced to wear a torturous bearing rein , to make him look royal & regal , almost drove the proud and handsome equine insane with pain . With his knees damaged from the constant riding and jumping for the sporting events Lady Wexmire's entered him into Black Beauty , along with Ginger , were auctioned off as horses to work for for Hansen Cabs , or taxis , in London . It wasn't easy for Black Beauty to adjust to the hard cobble stone and big city streets after roaming and running on the grass and rolling hills of rural England all his life It's with the love and guidance of his new owner London Cabbie Jerry Barker , David Thewlis , that Beauty did his best and provided Jerry and his family a decent income to live on . Poor Ginger who already had a weak and damaged heart wasn't that lucky dying from the stress of pulling a cab though the London streets . It wasn't long before Jerry himself came down with pneumonia that caused him to give up riding his horse-drawn Hansen Cab and , sadly , his faithful friend Black Beauty as the big bay horse was once again auctioned off , this time to a grain dealer outside of London . Working as a pack-horse pulling wagon-loads of grain from one town to another it took less the a year for Beauty to completely break down and no longer be useful to his new owner , or anyone else , and was just about ready to end up as either glue or pet food . Beauty reached the end of the line with no one wanting the once strikingly handsome but now old lame and broken down back equine . At a horse auction , which looked like curtains for him , Black Beauty spotted Joe who at first didn't recognize him but later when he heard Beauty's distinctive wail knew that he had at last found his long lost friend that Joe so long ago promised he'd never leave or ever forget . Black Beauty was happily bought by the now adult Joe Green and given a place to stay at his farm to live out his last days as happily as his did his early years together with Joe . Sweet and touching movie about friendships between man and animal , as well as man and his fellow man . The movie shows how all creatures on God's good earth both big and small human and animal are all endowed with a God-given heart and soul that when treated with both love kindness and understanding can overcome any obstacle , no matter how big and formidable it is , that's placed before them .
No if's why's or bone's about it !	( Some Spoilers ) With things looking up for nerdy paleontologist Dr . David " Bone " Huxley , Cary Grant , all of a sudden out of the blue , or better yet the green , nutty socialite Susan Vance , Katharine Hepburn , walked into his life ! And Bone or David's life would never be the same again ! Having finally found the last piece of a four year jigsaw puzzle , a full skeleton of a 100 foot long brontosaurus , the elusive inter-coastal clavicle bone David is happy as a little boy to hear that the rich and animal loving Elizabeth Random Mary Robson , is to give his money starved museum a $1 , 000 , 000 . 00 grant to keep it aloft . It's the screwy Susan , who just happens to be Mrs . Random's niece , who turns things upside down for David by not only getting him on the outs with his stuffy and narrow minded , in her obsession with the museum , fiance Alice Swallow , Virginia Walker , but her Aunt Elizabeth as well ! David is also driven insane during the entire film by Susan's pet leopard " Baby " . Baby happens to be a gift from Susan's brother the " Frank Buck " like big game hunter Michael to her Aunt Elizabeth . It's Susan's job to see that Baby gets to her Aunt Elizabeth by the very next evening which incidentally coincides with the luckless David's scheduled marriage to Alice Swallow ! Laugh a minute screwball comedy with both David and Susan getting caught up with getting Baby safely back home , to Aunt Elizabeth , and at the same time David's precious one of a kind inter-coastal clavicle bone stolen by the , Aunt Elizabeth , family dog George ! Both David & Susan run themselves silly chasing George all over Aunt Elizabeth's 26 acer estate trying to got George to dig up the bone , the inter-coastal clavicle , that he buried there . It's really Baby who steals the movie from right under it's two legendary stars Cary Grant & Katharine Hepburn's noses in the few scenes he's together with them . Baby has the time of his life driving everyone in the movie either crazy of fearing for their lives . It's later that the tame and lovable Baby is mistaken for an escaped , from a local carnival , and vicious leopard who's anything but the friendly type kitty cat that Baby is ! And it's then when things in the film , if they didn't already , really start to go bananas ! One of the best screwball comedies of all times with both Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn , in what was to be her first of many comedy roles , at their very comedic best . Remade some 45 years later with Ryan O'Neal and Barbara Streisand in Peter Bogdanovich's hysterical and modernized " What's up Doc " the movie " Bringing up Baby " is still the one screwball comedy that all other screwball comedy's are measured by . And as far as I can see will never be equaled much lass eclipsed by any of them . P . S The lovable and mischievously cute leopard Baby didn't look like a leopard at all looking more like a baby or very young jaguar . With his bull-like neck and muscular jaws , the most powerful of all the big jungle cats , and body as well as his over-sized and diamond or rosette-like spots inside of spots coat Baby had far more of a Jaugar then a leopard , who's far thinner and more streamlined , appearance . In fact Baby was said to have been captured by Susan's brother in the Amazon jungles of South America where jaguars , not African or Asian leopards , are in abundance !
The Mark of Cain	SPOILERS Ground-breaking Fritz Lang crime drama , that's also considered by many to be the very first film-noir , about a serial child murder terrorizing the streets of Weimar Germanys Berlin . Baffled by the elusive killer and unable to catch or track him down the Berlin police start to put pressure on the city's beggars pickpockets and just all around quality of life offenders thinking they may be able to break open the case for them . Feeling the heat and resenting to be lumped in with someone as loathsome as a child murderer the Berlin underworld headed by it's chief crime boss Schranker , Gustaf Grundgens , decide to solve the case themselves . In them having much more persons to be used as block watchers and a better understanding of what's going down or happening on the street . It's not that long that they eventually get a bead on who the killer is by non other then a blind bagger , Georg John , who recognizes the murderer by a tune he whistled " In the Hall of the Mountain King " . Just moments before he abducted and later killed his latest victim the nine years old girl Elsie Beckmann , Inge Landgut . The killer out on the street again to find his next victim befriends a little girl , much the same way he did Elise , and as he and the girl walk by John who's selling balloons he whistles the very same tune unknowingly identify himself . Branded by one of his pursuers with the chalk mark of a murder , the letter M , and chased by a band of the local criminals into an empty office building . The now revealed child murderer Hans Beckert , Peter Lorre , is then captured and bought to this deserted distillery on the edge of town to stand trial for murder with both his defender , Rudolf Blomner , jury and possible executions being the criminal element of the city . Gripping and thought-provoking film that has Beckert stand before a jury of his peers , criminals , and plead for his life not protesting his innocence but explaining to them his uncontrollable blood lust that had taken control of him and forced him to commit murder . There's a time during Beckert's trial that you , and the criminals who are standing in judgment of him , are moved by his tortured tearful and yes honest summation . Beckert's defender Blomner brings out that his client is as much a victim of his crimes as the persons , mostly young girls , that he murdered in that he wasn't in control of his actions when he committed his crimes . Thus making a very good insanity defense on his behalf . The persons in the distillery soon have enough of Beckert's monologue and feel that his crimes , despite his diminished mental capacity when he committed them , were deserving of the death penalty and then stormed after the terrified and repentant killer . It's then that Beckert is saved by the Berlin police who came just in the nick of time to keep him from joining his victims . Very unusual movie for it's time , 1931 , that actually tries to understand the pathology of a brutal and monstrous murderer by showing it's audience that he can easily come across as normal any one of us when he's not perpetrating his crimes . Peter Lorre as the child murderer Hans Beckert was so unoffensive and harmless looking , with a baby face and chubby appearance , that it was very easy for him to win over the confidence of the many young girls that he eventually killed . It's that what made him both so effective and dangerous as well as undetectable at the same time . Fritz Lang got the idea for the movie " M " from the real life story of German serial killer Peter Kurten who was known as the Vampire of Dusseldorf . Kurten murdered nine persons during his 1929-1930 reign of terror in that city ending up being captured by the police and put on trial for his life . Convicted of mass murder Kurten was sentenced to death , by guillotine , and despite the protests of many anti-death penalty groups in Germany as well as all over Europe to spear his life Kurten was executed in the city of Cologne on July 2 , 1931 Just two month after the movie " M " premiered . Kurten said that he got a morbid thrill when he raped mutilated and murdered his victims , sometimes ever drinking their blood . In the end he got the biggest thrill of his life when he got it in the neck and then later was made to face up to what he did , in the next world , when he finally met his maker on Judgment Day .
A Bullitt For Steve	SPOILERS Even though the movie " Bullitt " is known for it's legendary car chase scene , this in 1968 when everything was done for real not in a studio with computer enhanced imagery , the movie is also a very fine crime / drama straight out of todays headlines and has a very good and brainy plot too . Senator Walter Chalmers is holding a special Senate Commission on Organized Crime in America in San Francisco and has a very important witness Johnny Ross , Pat Renella , coming from Chicago to testify . Chalmers Wants to make sure that Ross is protected from the mob who beside testifying against it has also stolen $2 , 000 , 000 . 00 dollars from them and they want him dead and will go to any lengths to get him . Ross is assigned a unit from the SFPD headed by Let . Frank Bullitt , Steve McQueen , for around the clock protection at an undisclosed hotel . Just before Ross entered the hotel he made a number of Phone calls one was to a hotel in San Mateo Calif . Later back in his hotel room with Sgt . Stanton , Carl Reindel guarding him Ross slides open the lock on the door and just then two men enter the hotel room and blast both Ross and Sgt . Stanton away ; at the hospital Sgt . Stanton survives but Ross dies on the operating table . Let . Bullitt wisely decides to keep Ross ' death secret from Senator Chalmers as well as the media by having Ross ' body put on ice in the hospital morgue , unidentified , under a John Doe . With Ross ' death kept under cover Let . Bullitt checks out Ross ' phone calls , before he entered the hotel room , and finds that the call to the San Mateo hotel was to a woman who registered under the named of Dorothy Simmons . With the Senate Commission hearing the next day Bullitt begins to realize that this dead hood Johnny Ross may not the person that he seems to be . As Let . Bullitt gets closer to the truth about the whole Ross business his life becomes endangered by the two killers , Paul Genge and Bill Hickman , who killed Johnny Ross in his hotel room . This sets the scene for the thrilling and exciting car chase that the movie is noted for . Setting him up for an ambush on a deserted San Francisco street Bullitt turns the tables on the killers by backtracking and then surprises and chases them into a hot corner . We have the two killers and Let . Bullitt flooring the gas peddle and tearing up the roads and highway in and around San Francisco and the Bay Area . The exciting car chase comes to an end when , after trying to shoot at Bullitt's car with a shotgun , the killers auto loses control and smashes into a gas station with both of the killers ending dead and burned to a crisp . Back at the police station Bullitt starts to check out the mysterious Mrs . Simmons , the woman who Ross called before he was killed , at her hotel room in San Mateo and finds her murdered . Looking at Mrs . Simmons ' luggage Let . Bullitt and the police find out that she was really a Mrs . Renick and was scheduled to leave San Francisco , with her husband Edward , on a plane trip to Italy ? whats going on here ? Checking Mrs . Renick aka Simmons husbands passport photo Bullitt realizes that Johnny Ross who was killed at the hotel room was really her husband Edward Renick a car dealer from Chicago with no mob connections . Renick must have been paid off by the real Johnny Ross , Felice Orlandi , to impersonate him with Ross taking Renick's passport and identity and checking out of the country and away from the law and the mob who were both looking for him ! Ross must have also double-crossed both Renick and his wife by having them murdered . With the real Johnny Ross now heading for the San Francisco International Airport to make his getaway Let . Frank Bullitt is the only one who has a chance to stop him and as it gets closer for Ross ' flight to take off for Italy the chances of him getting caught are getting slimmer by the minute . Terrific police / action / drama with an ending at the airport , thats as good as the great car chase seen earlier in the film , that left everyone gasping . Also good in the film is Jackie Bisset as Let . Frank Bullitt's girlfriend Cathy who had trouble accepting Frank's job as a policeman especially by seeing up front and personal , the murdered Mrs . Simmons / Renick , what that job did to him as well as what it was doing to her her by living with him .
Life & Death on the mean streets in " The City of God "	SPOILERS The movie " The City of God " starts where it ends with a bloody showdown between the Li'lZe mob and their very young allies " The Young Runts " having it out with the Carrot and Ned Knockout gang . Sandwiched between those two scenes are a number of brutal killings that dull your senses and condition you for the movies ferocious and climactic bloodbath . Savage and surrealistic movie about life and death in the slums of Rio de Janeiro and how great the odds are for anybody surviving in that " Hell on Earth " . The movie starts out with eight young men growing up in " The City of God " with only one of them remaining alive by the time the movie is over . Rocket is by far the most sympathetic of those in the movie as he tries all throughout the film , and in the end succeeds , in overcoming the odds against him to become a productive and law-abiding citizen but also a top Brazilian newspaper photographer . I felt that it was Ned Knockout who was the best example of how those mean and deadly " City of God " streets drive both young and old alike into a life of crime and violence even , unlike Rcket , if they do their best to avoid it . Ned a quiet and peaceful young man was publicly humiliated by the brutal and vicious thug in the movie Li'lZe . Not having tortured Ned enough Li'lZe and his gang came to Ned's home where they murdered his brother Gelson when he tried to defend and protect Ned . This tragedy was compounded when Ned in a rage killed a number of the Li'lze mob and then joined up with the Carrot gang to battle the Li'lZe mob and their Young Runt allies . During a bank robbery by the Carrot mob Ned shot and killed a bank guard who's son Max later joined the Carrot mob to avenge his fathers death . In the final street battle in the movie Ned is shot and killed by the son of the man that he murdered Max as he was trying to save his , Max's , life . All this after Ned was shot and badly wounded by the Li'lZe mob . Both Ned and Max were at first innocent bystanders who turned to crime because of circumstances beyond their control and ended up both killing and getting killed in the whirlpool of violence that engulfed the " City of God " . The movie plays like one of those 1930's and 40's Warner Brothers crime movies where neighborhood crime becomes a part of the lives of those who live there and the theater audience can only accept the violence on the screen since there's no way for those in the movie to get out of that brutal environment . The acting in the film by mostly a cast of unknowns is surprisingly good with a very skillful directing effort by L . Mireiles . Mireiles keeps the story flowing smoothly and keeps the violence in check and at the same time makes it very effective and realistic . The ending of the movie with Li'lZe getting blasted to pieces by a group of the members of " The Young Runts " his allies who turned on him , many of them then under 12 year old , showed how the cycle of death and violence continues . A none ending cycle of death and destruction that effects those living on the mean streets and knowing nothing else . Even at a very young and impressionable age in the pitiless and merciless horror called " The City of God " .
The only thing thats standing between your skull and a baseball bat is my word	SPOILERS Terribly depressing character study of a degenerate gambler who's luck hit rock bottom with him getting into the hole for $44 , 000 . 00 to the mob who's been bankrolling his action . James Caan in one of his most memorable roles as Axel Freed a collage English professor , at the prestigious Fordham University in New York City , who's gambling his life away in his almost suicidal attempt to make the big score . Axel is not a total loser in the movie , he does have his share of big hits in the film , but like almost all gamblers he plays to lose more then to win by going against his better judgment , it makes things more challenging and exciting that way for him . It's when he bets and ends up broke that Alex has to go to local mob Shylock's to get cash , to continue his insane betting , that has him at the brink of having his arms legs and head disjointed and broken or busted . Because of the subject matter as well as the fine acting from Mr . Caan and the rest of the cast the movie really grabs you and leaves you feeling almost as depressed and despondent as Axel is in it . You really feel for the man since he has an almost incurable disease , compulsive gambling , thats slowly turning this very likable and friendly person into an uncontrollable monster . Axel is not only destroying himself but his widowed mom Naomie Freed , Jacqueline Brooks . Naomie cashes out her life savings of almost $50 , 000 . 00 to pay off her sons debts to the mob . As soon as Axel gets the money his mother gave him to practically save his life and limbs he immediately gambles it away on a number of basketball games ! This puts him into even more of a hole with the gangsters then he already was in . At the same time Alexs actions has his shocked girlfriend Billie , Lauren Hutton , walk out on him in total disgust . Walking aimlessly in the park Axel is grabbed by two mobsters and taken to a mob hideout in the city . Given one last chance to pay up or else they come up with what even Axel feels is something thats not worth his life to do . He's told to get one of his students Spencer , Carl W . Crudup , who's a top basketball player for the collage team to shave points in a big game that he's playing in that evening with Axel giving him $5 , 000 . 00 to do it . This act of corrupting an innocent person to save his hide for the troubles that he got himself into was the straw that broke the camels back for the now extremely tormented Axel and finally opened his eyes , to not only what he was doing to himself but to those around him as well . With his debts now finally paid off and the mob off his back Axel instead of being relived becomes suicidal and at the end of the movie gambles with the most prized and valuable item in his possession : His Life .
I've done a lot of bad things in my life Joey , maybe now I'ts coming back to me	( There Are Spoilers ) Unlike most professional prize-fighters who keep their aggressions inside of the boxing-ring and outside of it would rather walk away from a fight then participate or provoke one boxer , and later Middleweight Champion , Jake La Matta , Robert Di Niro , was the exact opposite . Brutal rude petty and jealous and combative of anyone who as much as looked at his pretty wife Vickie , Cathy Moriarty , La Matta did more fighting outside the ring then in it . Fighting his way up the ranks to get a shot at the title 20 year-old La Matta is defeated for the first time in his career on September 24 , 1941 in Cleveland after he knocked his opponent Jimmy Reeves , Flyod Anderson , out cold . Reeves was saved from being counted out by the bell and was declared the winner which started a full-scale riot in the Cleveland arena . Quickly recovering from his loss La Matta went on to defeat the undefeated Sugar Ray Robinson ( Johnny Barnes ) , who bet La Matta twice before , on February 26 , 1943 in a 10 round decision in Detroit , Robinson's home town . Assured that he'd get a shot at the Middleweight Title LaMatta had to wait some six years , and throw a fight to journeyman boxer Billy Fox ( Eddie Mustafa Muhammad ) in New York on November 11 , 1947 , to get it . The movie " Raging Bull " concentrates more on Jake LaMatta's personal then professional boxing life and we see just what kind of a Neanderthal and brute he was to the people he came in contact with especially his wife Vickie and younger brother Joey , Joe Pesci . Suffering from an inferior complex and afraid that Vickie would leave him for another man , like he left his first wife for Vickie , La Matta constantly beat and berated Vickie to the point of not just slapping her around but catching Vickie flush right in the face with one of his punches that knocked her out . Even Joey wasn't speared from Jake's brutality and suspicions of fooling around with Vickie when he savagely attacked and bet him , right in front of Joey's wife and children . This lead Joey to never talk to Jake again until almost ten years later . La Matta finally got a shot at the title on June 16 , 1949 in Detroit and defeated the Middleweight Champ Frenchman Marcel Cerdan , Louis Raftis , when he couldn't answer the bell for the 10th round . Defending his hard won title a year later against fellow Frenchman Laurent Dauthuille ( Johnny Turner ) , Cerdan died in a plane crash before his re-match with La Matta , on September 13 , 1950 in NYC Jake was about to lose the fight on points . It's then that he exploded with a fury of punches in the 15th round and knocked out Dauthuille with only 13 seconds left in the fight . For all intents and purposes Jake La Matta's boxing career ended , he official retired in 1954 , on February 14 , 1951 , known in the boxing world as the St . Valentine Day massacre . It's then when he fought and lost his Middleweight crown to his arch-rival Sugar Ray Robinson in a brutal 13 round battle . La Matta bloodied and beaten was still standing on his feet when the fight was stopped by the ring referee . No longer able to box professionally La Matta opened up a nightclub , the Jake La Matta , in Miami Florida but trouble still followed him . La Matta was busted on a vice rap , that landed him in the Dade County Jail . This happened when he allowed a 14 year-old girl Mary Albee , who told LaMatta that she was 21 , drink at his club and then introduced her to a number of his friends . The movie " Raging Bull " ends in NYC in 1964 with a pudgy and punch-drunk Jake La Matta , alone with everyone that he knew in his hay-day as a boxing champ deserting him , rehearsing his nightclub act which is nothing more then a parody of his life . An amazing Acadamy Award performance by Robert Di Niro as the edgy and uncontrollable Jake La Matta who had to gain some 50 pounds , going from a fighting trim of 165 to over 200 lbs , to make the role of Jake La Matta believable . The film " Raging Bull " also made a star out of the 36 year-old Joe Pesci who was about to call it quits on his acting career until Robert Di Niro himself demanded that he play his tragic , and somewhat unusable , brother Joey .
Learning to accept success is harder then learning to accept failure	SPOILERS Hard knuckle drama about the dog eat dog world of those who run corporate American . Being highly successful in charge of industrial relations in Mansfield Ohio at a company that the giant Ramsey Corp . swallowed up Fred Staples , Van Heflin , is picked by the corporation's president Walter Ramsey , Everett Slaone , himself to replace 40 year Ramsey employee and vice president William Briggs , Ed Begley . Staples become a very good friend of Briggs and he's even well liked by Briggs teenage son Paul , Ronnie Welsh , and both him and Briggs work together coming up with a recommendation at how to improve the earnings of the Ramsey Corp . By then Staples already learned he was to replace Briggs at the company and told Briggs as a friend to retire and enjoy his life and not stay at Ramsey's . Briggs begins to be constantly harassed and brow beaten by Ramsey who wan't him to resign or retire since he doesn't have the heart , surprisingly he does have one , to fire him after forty years on the job . When presented with the Briggs / Staples list of recommendation at a conference meeting Ramsey purposely ignores Briggs on his input in the paper of recommendations . This soon leads to an explosive exchange between Briggs and Ramsey with Staples feeling that he was part in Ramesy's plan to drive his good friend Briggs out of the Ramsey Corp . Briggs cruelly broken by Ramsey's verbal barrage and left humiliated in front of all the Ramsey Corp . walks out , in a daze , of the conference room and collapses from the ordeal that he just went through and later dies in the hospital . Staples is left shocked and enraged at Ramsey at how he treated Briggs at the conference meeting and has just about had it in working for him . The next day Staples goes to Ramsey's office to hand in his resignation and give Ramsey a piece of his mind as well as a knuckle sandwich . After having it out with Ramsey Staples begins to realize that it was Briggs by not standing up to Ramsey and telling him off like he just did that lead to him having the stress of working in the pressure cooker that was his job as vice president of the Ramsey Corp that in the end eventually killed him . Powerful and penetrating movie that really stood the test of time about the goings on in the corporate world . Everett Sloane was perfect as the corporate Mogul Walter Ramsey who put his personal feeling aside when it came to running a business and in the end you , like Staples , realized that in some way there was a method to his madness . Even though you couldn't forgive Ramsey for driving Brigg to his death you at the same time understood that Briggs was behind the times and his old ideas of running a Wall Street mega-cooperation had long become obsolete like he did . Briggs should have listened to Staples ' advice when he told him to retire and get away from this presser cooker of a job that was destroying what was left of his his life . Van Heflin was as good as Sloane as the somewhat naive small town company executive Fred Staples who came to realize that in the big leagues , Wall Street , the game of making money is played hard with no room for charitable feeling for those who don't measure up to the task which sadly his friend Briggs didn't . Ed Bagley was tragic as the behind the times vice president Williams Briggs of a corporation that was changing with the times , in it's effort to survive , but was unable to see it . One of Rod Serling best works that combined the world of big business with that of naive idealism and came up with the screenplay " Patterns " .
Hold up your badge so they'll know your a policeman	SPOILERS With big time L . A hoodlum Mickey Cohen , Paul Guilfoyle , sent up the river in a federal penitentiary on a tax-evasion rap a vacuum had been created in the city's organized crime hierarchy . Hoodlums descend on L . A , like a hoard of locusts , from all over the country in order to fill it . The L . A police Department has the head of the organized crime task force Capt . Dudley , James Cromwell , given the assignment to keep the city from having another Mickey Cohen take over the mob . Capt . Dudley does it with both " swift and merciless " justice in many cases not caring a lick about the law , that he was sworn to uphold , to do it . Hard and brutal movie about a brutal time post-war L . A . With the city trying to clean up it's shoddy image by having , among other things , a Dragnet-like TV show " Badge of Honor " with L . A cop Det . Sgt . Jack Vincennes , Kevin Spacey , as the shows technical adviser . " Badge of Honor " shows how efficient and honest the city's cops are where at the same time in real life L . A has one of the worst records of police corruption of all the major cities in the United States . An epidemic of corruption that reaches into the very highest echelons of the city government and the District Attorneys office . Straight as an arrow cop , one of the very few on the force , Det . Ed Exley , Guy Pearnce , gets a call at the local precinct about a robbery at the Nite Owl Diner . With no one available he answers the call himself by driving over to see what he could do . What Exley didn't know at the time was that he would get caught up in not only a mass murder but a cover up of the killings . That cover up would go straight up to the LAPD office that's in charge of combating organized crime headed by the very highly decorated and greatly admired Capt . Dudley . The film " L . A Confidential " has both the clean cut and soft spoken Det . Exley and his rival on the force the brutal and Neanderthal-like Officer Bud White , Russell Crowe , end up working together to crack the Nite Owl murder case . This even after it was solved with Det . Exley getting all the credit and a promotion in solving it . White and Exley who had no use or love for each other slowly came to the realization that they were both being manipulated by forces beyond their control . With big time pimp and highly successful L . A businessman Pirice Patchett , David Stratharin , being one of those pulling the strings . Patchett running a high-class call girl operation called Fleur-de-lis has his hookers made to look like movie stars . One of them ended up among those murdered at the Nite Owl a Rita Heyworth-look alike named Susan Lefferts , Amber Smith . Also among the dead at the now-infamous eatery was Det . Sgt . Dick Stensland , Graham Beckel . Sgt . Stensland used to be Officer White's partner before he was drummed out of the department for abusing prisoners in his custody . Pinning the Nite Owl killings on a trio of inner city hoodlum Sugar Ray Cullins , Jeremiah Birkett , and his two partners in crime Louis Fontaine & Ty Jones , Salim Grant & Kareem Washington , had the case just about solved . Later with the three accused murderers escaping from the precinct lock-up and ending up shot and killed by the perusing cops , which included the now promoted Det . Let Exley , just about iced the case . It's then that strange things started to happen , with a number of former Mickey Cohen associates getting rubbed out , that Det . Sgt Vincennes began to check out the deceased and disgraced Det . Sgt . Slensland's record . Vincennes finds a number of cases that he was on back in 1939-41 that has him linked to Capt . Dudly and another drummed out of the department corrupt cop Leland " Buzz " Meeks , Darrell Sandeen . These decade old cases had to do with getting paid off by the Cohen mob to look the other way on their criminal activities . All this investigating on Det . Sgt . Vinceenes ' part eventually lead to his murder . Everything started to crystallized before the Det . Sgt . Vincennes eyes in the mob-LAPD connection that now involves a massive and secret attempt to take over Mickey Cohen's criminal empire . An empire of gambling drugs prostitution and murder for hire , or Murder Inc , by non-other then elements in the LAPD itself ! The crooked L . A cops used , when murder would blow their cover , the sleazy and powerful Pierce Patchett and equally squalid Hush-Hush magazine editor Sid Hodges , Danny DeVito , to do their dirty work . This involved Patchett's Fleur-de-lis call girls getting involved , and being photographed , with anyone who's a threat to the corrupt cops operations . One of those blackmail was non-other then the L . A District Attorney Ellis Loew , Ron Rifkin . Penetrating and powerful film with the beautiful Kim Besinger as Veronica Lake-Look alike Lynn Bracken getting involved with both Officer White and Det . Let . Exley . Both cops end up pooling their talents , of brute force and keen brains , to try to break the reign of terror and corruption that infiltrated the LAPD .
The Devil's Apprentice	( There are Spoilers ) After the 1973 release of the devilishly inspired movie " The Exorcist " scores of films about the Devil were cranked out of the movie studios in Hollywood and overseas to take advantage , in their box office sales , of that ground-breaking horror classic . It wasn't until three later in 1976 that a movie came along that not only matched " The Exorcist " in sheer Satanic inspired terror but actually eclipsed it in it's storyline The movie has the Devil comes back on earth to usher in the End of Times that would effect the entire human race not just the little 12 year-old girl that the Devil possessed and took control of in that 1973 block-buster . Rushing to a Catholic Church run hospital in Rome where his wife Katie , Lee Remick , was about to give birth US diplomat Robert Thorn , Gregory Peck , is told by one of the men involved in Katie's hospitalization and delivery Father Spiletto , Martin Benson , that his and Katie's son was born dead . A shocked and heart-broken Robert is then told that his and Katie's dead son was replaced with a newborn baby boy who was born with his mother dying in childbirth . Robert knowing that Katie always wanted to have a child and that the news that her baby was delivered stillborn , and that she'll never be able to have children again , would kill her goes along with Father Spiletto and keeps the truth from Katie . The time of the Thorns adopted sons birth was recorded in the hospital at exactly 6 : 06AM Rome time the date was June the sixth or and the Thorns named their son Damien , Harvey Stephens , With Robert later appointed to be the Ambassador to the Court of Saint James , Great Britain , things couldn't have been better for him and his wife and young son . Suddenly at Damien's fifth birthday party strange things began to happen that lead Robert to later believe , as the evidence piled up to the point where he could no longer ignore it , that whoever his sons real parents were they weren't human and even more shocking not of this earth ! All this weirdness starts with Damien's nanny , Holly Palance , jumping to her death at his fifth birthday party , with a rope tied around her neck . Strange tings continue to happen with Damien exhibiting such subconscious terror that when taken to a local zoo with his mom the animals go completely berserk with fear at the very sight of the young boy . Robert is later contacted by a catholic priest Father Brenner , Patrick Thoughton , who claimed that he was at the hospital the night that Damien was born . Robert is told that Damien's birth mother was not a human being and his father was non-other then the Devil himself ! In short Damien is the Beast predicted in the Bible to bring about the end of the world , and human race , in the climatic engagement between Good and Evil thats so frightfully described in the battle of Armageddon . What even more convinced Robert about Damien's dark background was when Father Brenner was killed , just after he got in contact with him about the truth of Damien's strange and demonic powers . Father Brenner's impending death was predicted by a number of photos of him taken by free-lance photographer Keith Jennings , David Warner , that indicated , like they had with the deceased Damien's nanny , that he was somehow marked for death ! Damien in the meantime was being protected from harm and exposer of his identity by his new nanny Mrs . Baylock , Billie Whitelaw , a fanatical crypto-Satanist and this vicious large and sentry-like Devil Dog that Robert , who was very intimidated by , seemed to have to way of keeping out of the house ! Following up a number of clues to Damien's true identify both Robert and Jennings go to the cemetery where Damien's true mother is buried . The two are shocked to find , like what Father Brenner told Robert , that Damien's mother wasn't human ! Just as Robert and Jennings are about to leave a number of wild Devil Dogs , much like the one protecting Damien , suddenly appear out of nowhere attacking and driving both of them out of the grave yard and surviving from being torn to pieces by climbing over the cemetery's iron fence . Robert and Jennins go to the Holy Land in Israel at an excavation site outside of Jerusalem's to see archaeologist Carl Bugenhagen , Leo McKern , about the true reason behind Damien's connection to the Thorns . Bugenhagen after confirming Roberts darkest fears gives him a number of knives that will put an end to Damien and the nightmare he's creating . Robert is again shocked down to his socks and soul when Jennings who tells him that he would eventually suffer an untimely and sudden death from a photo indicating it that he took of himself ! Sure enough Jennings is later decapitated in a freak accident in the Holy City . Now almost a firm believer in that Damien is in fact the Antichrist of the book of Revelation Robert has one and only one doubt left to overcome and that's the Devil's mark , the number 666 , that's to reveal Damien's true and horrifying identity . Coming home to the US Ambassadors residence outside of London Robert finds the " mark " secretly hidden under Damien's hair where he's suddenly and ferociously attacked from behind by Mrs . Baylock . The movie quickly moves to it's final and almost unwatchable and , in the case of whats expected of Robert Thorn to do , unbearable ending ! Superior horror film that hasn't aged one bit since it's released thirty years ago with a really unique and unnerving soundtrack that's effectively used throughout the film , as well as in the opening and closing credits . A both original and eerie Latin Satanic Chant entitled " Hail Satan " !
Deadlier then the Male	( There are Spoilers ) Obsessed with guns since he was a little boy Bert Tare , John Dall , never developed the killer instinct that goes in many instances along with them . Having shot and killed a chick as a boy Bert never shot a gun in anger or at anyone , animal or human , again even though he served in the US military in WWII . This was all to change dramatically when one evening Bart went with his two friends Dave & Clyde to a local carnival . Seeing trick-shooter Laurie Starr , Peggy Commins , on the stage Bart felt that he could out-shoot her and when her manager Packett , or Pakey , challenged anyone in the audience to come up on the stage and try to beat Laurie at her own game for a prize of $500 . 00 Bart jumped at the offer and incredibly won . The movie " Gun Crazy " has both Bert & Laurie at first work as a team at Packett's carnival until they fall in love with each other , this has Packett , after almost getting blown away by Bert , have them fired . Getting married and living more or less on the road the two master marksmen come to the conclusion , Laurie eagerly but Bart reluctantly , that the only way that can make a go of it in life is to pool their talents and become hoodlums and armed robbers . Even though the two lovebirds fit together like a bullet in a gun-chamber it's Laurie who has the killer instinct having murdered a man in a holdup , together with Packett , some time back and that gave her a taste for blood that would eventually lead to her and her husband Bart's doom . Razor sharp black-and white film noir photography together with some of the most innovated camera work , just watch the documentary-style driving scenes in the film , make " Gun Crazy " one of the best as well as underrated American movie ever to be released in the 1940's or 1950's . Running up a string of bank robberies as well as one kidnapping both Bart and Lourie decide to call it quits only after the " big one " a robbery of a meat packing plants payroll that would put them on easy street for the rest of their lives . Planned to be an inside job with both Bart and Laurie getting employed at the plant it ends up with two people , a manager and security guard , getting murdered by a kill-crazy Laurie . Making their way to the West Coast the two now-retired armed robbers settle down and live of their ill-gotten gains . Unknown to them the loot that they heisted from the meat plan was in E-numbered sequences which had the police and treasury department zeroing in on not only where they were , by spending it , but who they are by checking on who was doing the spending . Now known to the police and FBI with their photos plastered all over post offices police stations the two are on the run again . With no where left for them to go Burt & Laurie finally end up at Bart's sister Ruby's , together with her young children , home in the little town of Cashville on the US / Mexican border . Getting a tip , from neighbor , that both Bart & Laurie are holed up at Ruby's place Bart's childhood friends Clyder now the town sheriff and Dave a local reporter come to the house , unarmed , to plead with both Bart and his wife Laurie to give themselves up and avoid a bloodbath . Clyde & Dave's humane offer is turned down by a tearful Bart as he and Laurie get back on the road , with Ruby's car , to make a mad dash towards the Mexican border . Jetting wildly and dangerously into the treacherous San Lorenzo Mountain range , and through a number of police road-blocks , the two fugitives car breaks down with them now making their escape on foot to freedom , across the border into Mexico , only to be trapped and cornered by the police at a swampy area as they finally realize that they reached the end of their line . Eerie and mirage-like ending with both , again , Clyde and Dave appearing out of the dream-like mist offering Bart & Laurie another chance to give themselves up only to have a scared and hysterical Laurie reverting back to type , as an unrepentant blood thirsty killer . Laurie's desperate actions causes her husband and partner in crime to , for the first time since he was a little boy , aim and shoot to kill at something , other then an inanimate object or target , that's alive and finally end it once in for all for both Laurie as well as himself .
An unbreakable bond between man and his best friend	SPOILERS Just before the winter season hits the frozen continent a sled team mushes out to the 8913 foot Mt . Melborne on the shores of the frozen Ross Sea . With the guide Jerry Shepard , Paul Walker , rescuing his passenger archaeologist Dr . David McClaren , Bruce Greenwood , from a dangerous fall through the melting ice they make it to Mt . Melbourne in three days . Dr . McClaren Finding what he's been looking for a meteor rock , that came from the planet Mercury , that's been embedded into the mountains icy sloops for thousands of years . The two men and their dogs make their way back to the camp base some 100 miles ways away but run into the worst late autumn storm in memory causing Dr . McClaren to again almost lose his life in a fall through the icy Ross Sea only to be saved by a courageous sled dog Maya . The sled dog crawled up to him with a rope to fasten himself with , as well as the rest of the dog team and Jerry . Back and safe at the home base the storm gains more and more momentum as it's decided by the US Navy to abandon the site and go back to Camp McMurdo on the Antarctic coast and then head for home in ice-free waters until next spring when the weather is more favorable for man and dog in Antarctica . It's also decided by the top US Navy brass that's kept from Jerry , who's been hospitalized with frost bite , and the men and women at the base site that the sled dogs be left behind because there's no room on the plane to evacuate them and thus have the dogs face curtain death . Based on a true story about an Japanese Arctic expediting back in the winter of 1957-58 " Eight Below " is more then your average dog or animal film . The movie is about the bound that man's best friend has with man that caused both the abandoned sled dogs to survive a brutal Antarctic winter and have Jerry and Dr . McClaren as well as Katie & Charlie Cooper , Moon Bloodgood & Jason Briggs , go to the ends of the earth order to save them . Left on their own the dogs break away from their steel leases , that tied them down to the frozen ground , and became a wolf pack hunting down game and caring for each other , or those too weak to keep up , throughout the cold and deadly winter that lay ahead . Facing minus 80 degreed weather and blinding snowstorms the dogs led by the deviled-eyed , but sweet and loving , Max had to also overcome the eerie Arctic night with the stunning , but terrifying to the dogs , Arora Australus or Southern Lights . The Arora caused one of the sled dogs Dewy , who was spoked by the lights , to fell to his death trying to run away from them . Back home in the USA Jerry is heart-broken about the dogs that he was forced to leave behind and tries to get Dr . McClaren to organize an expedition back to where the dogs were left . To see if any of them are still alive and even recover those who perished and bring them back home for burial . Finally getting an icebreaker to take Jerry and his crew Dr . McClaren Katie and Charlie back to their frozen and deserted scientific base camp the ship could only go so far , within 100 miles of the station . Before it was in danger of being locked and frozen in by the massive ice flows from the recored breaking Antarctic winter and had to take off for the camp on a helicopter piloted by Katie . Just when everyone gave up on the dogs being alive the impossible happened when five of the surviving sled dogs led by Max appear out of the white wilderness like ghosts out of the past ! to the almost unbelievable sock and surprises of Jerry and Dr . McClaren , who's life they saved , as well as Katie & Jerry . With all the dogs safely on the snow-cat , or snowmobile , Max the leader of the pack for some reason refused to go along and for good reason . He couldn't leave behind Maya who was lying on the brink of death beyond the snow bank . Max lead a confused and unsuspecting Jerry to her to bring the freezing and almost dead sled dog back home with him . Max saw two of his fellow sled dogs , Dewy and old Jack , succumb to the Arctic winter and was not going to let Maya behind to die . Like he and his fellow sled dogs were , by the US Navy , and showed that he had the courage and humanity that's , for the most part , only written about in books and shown in films . beautifully photographed in Canada Greenland and Norway " Eight Below " is a movie for all ages to watch and enjoy as well as cry over . The movie shows what drove a man like Jerry Shepard to the edge of death and back to save those that he cared about and felt helpless in having to leave them behind , his eight sled dogs that were like family to him . The thought that was embedded in his mind throughout the entire move : " You gotta take chances for those things that you most care about " . Thats what kept Jerry from trying to put out of his mind the dogs that he so loved and gave him the courage to do the impossible in finding them but it was the sled dogs led by Max who made the impossible happen .
The only way to successfully defeat evil is to expose it	SPOILERS John Garfield as big time mob lawyer Joe Morse at his best in a Cain and Able like story about the numbers racket in New York City . Where his brother Leo , Thomas Gomez , has a small neighborhood numbers bank that gets wiped out on July 4th when the number 776 which was heavily bet comes out not by chance but by design . In a fix engineered by Joe's mobster client Ben Tucker , Roy Roberts , in an attempt to corner and take over the numbers business in the city . Joe being helpless to get Leo out of the numbers business before 776 hit because of a combination of Leo's honesty to pay off those who played the number at his establishment . Joe's affiliation with Tucker made it impossible for him to tell Leo the real reason for him to close up on July 4th without reviling Tucker's criminal activities . On the evening of July 4th all hell breaks loose with all the small numbers banks all over the city going bust by not being able to pay off those thousands who played number 776 . Joe trying to get Leo back on his feet by getting him a job with the Tucker mob sees that Leo would rather be broke then be involved with organized crime . Leo cares more about the people who worked for him , who ended up broke and in jail , then himself making a lot more then he did when he was a small time numbers banker . With Leo wanting out of the business before he corrupts himself by working for the mob he's kidnapped by the Ficco gang , Tucker's muscle men . Leo's accountant Freddie Bauer , Howard Chamberlain , is later murdered because not only didn't want out like Leo but could identify those who kidnapped Leo as well . Joe drunk and depressed , over what is happening to Leo , at a local nightclub with Leo's secretary Doris Lowry , Beatrice Pearson , sees the news of Leo's kidnapping and Bauer's murder in the newspaper and rushes to Tucker's office . Finding Tucker there with his gangster partner Bill Ficco , Paul Fix , Joe tries to get his brother Leo released by the Ficco mob . It's then that Joe finds out that Leo died of a heart attack and was dumped on the rocks under the Washington Bridge . In an explosive and emotional moment Joe secretly lifts up a phone in Tucker's cabinet drawer , that Joe knows is being tapped by the DA's office . Joe knowing that it's all over between him and Tucker gets , by inciting , both him and Ficco to spill the beans about their criminal operations , as well as Ficco's kidnapping and later death of Leo . When Tucker and Ficco are shown the activated phone by Joe the lights go out and there's a shootout where both Tucker and Ficco end up getting shot and killed by Joe . Taking off with Doris to the Washington Bridge Joe find Leo's body lying on the rocks . Sad and emotional ending with Joe and Doris finding Leo's body and later , as the movie ends , Joe going to the DA to tell all he knows about the life of crime that he led defending hoods like Tucker that cost Leo's life . Both powerful and touching movie about good and evil that was so ahead of it's time in how the force of evil destroys the lives of those who embrace it . That even now almost sixty years after it's release " Force of Evil " still packs the same wallop as it did back in 1948 .
Breakout at Noon	( Some Spoilers ) Brutal prison drama that ends in a storm of fire and bullets with a jail break that turns the state penitentiary into a free-fire zone . Young Kent Marlow , Robert Montgomery , is given ten years for a New Years Day car accident that killed a pedestrian . Kent is put in a cell with two hardened and career convicts murderer and hold-up artist Butch " Machine Gun " Schmidt , Wallace Berry , and professional forger and stick-up man Joe Morgan , Chester Morris . Not being able to take prison life Kent is willing to do anything to get out even rat on his fellow convicts in order to get an early parole . Getting under the wings of prison rat-fink Oliver , Fletcher Norton , Kent learns the ropes and about selling out his friends by making friends with convicts like Butch and Morgan then winning over their confidence getting the goods on them ; then running to Warden James Adams , Lewis Stone , and ratting , or selling , them out to get his early out . It seems that Kent hasn't learned that a rat has no friends on either side of the prison gate and will learn that hard lesson when he pulls off his biggest sell-out of all by not only getting the news to the warden Adams about a Thanksgiving noon prison break . Kent gets his very honest and ethical cell-mate Joe Morgan to take the blame for the break-out in him ratting out his friends like Butch who engineer the breakout . Morgan and Butch are by far more sympathetic then Kent by being straight forward and on the level . Where Kent is an opportunist who's life of luxury , before his car accident that landed him in the clink , and high status on the outside made him in a way looked down on those he was incarcerated with . Both Butch and Morgan end up in the hole , solitary confinement , Butch for starting a food riot in the prison mess hall and Morgan for having a shiv , or knife , in his cell that Kent planted on him . Morgan later escaping from prison on the meat wagon , the autopsy truck , has a new life on the outside and even meets and falls in love with Kent's sister Anne , Leila Hyams . At first being accepted by Anne , and Kent's , family Morgan is caught before he can get out of the country and ends up back in the pen , with seven more years added on to his sentence . Back behind bars Morgan is determined to go straight and distanced himself not from his friends in the pen but in what they plan to do in breaking out of prison and it's that non-involvement on Morgans part that leads to the disastrous prison beak-out at the end of the movie . It was Kent who gave the news of the breakout to Warden Adams but it was Morgan who ended up getting blamed for it which cost the lives of over 50 prisoners and guards . Stomach crunching action as the screen lights up with not only small and heavy arms fire but also an assault on the revolting convicts fortress , the prisoners quarters , with an armored unit of early combat ready tanks . Powerful performances all around that has some of the most unforgettable characters ever put in an American Prison flick who have been copied in scores of prison movies over the years but have never been equaled .
You Take My Heart Away	" Rocky " both starts and ends in the boxing ring . We first see Rocky , Sylvester Stallone , in the ring fighting journeyman boxer Spider Rico , Pedro Lovell . After getting illegally butted by the Spider a mad and outraged Rocky pounds him into the ring and into defeat . Pushing 30 and with his best fighting days behind him Rocky works on the Phillie docks as a collector for local mob boss Gazzo , Joe Spinelli , to make ends meet . Even as that , collecting mob debts , Rocky is too kind and good natured , a real softy , to break peoples arms legs and thumbs who are late in paying up . With his life set as a low level hood , thats just what Rocky is a mob enforcer , and washed up as a professional boxer he had nothing to look forward to in the future . Meanwhile the World Heavyweight Champ Appolo Creed , Carl Weathers , is out of opponents to defend his title against and needs a new act to attract a big crowd for his next payday in the ring . Appolo and the top promoter in the world of boxing Jergens , Thayer David , come up with this great idea that to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the United States , in 1976 . Why not defend his championship against one of the descendent's of the man who discovered America Italian navigator Christopher Columbus . All at once the bleak future that was staring wash-up broken down club fighter Rocco Balboa became the once in a lifetime chance for proud Italian-America Rocky Balboa to show the world that he's not the bum or has been . Which everybody in the local boxing circles in Philidelpia thinks of him With the exception of his trainer Micky , Burgess Meredith . Rocky goes on the prove in the movie that he's a champ today as the champ that he always was of days past but never knew it . Stirring boxing film about the rags to riches story of a nobody , Rocky , who became a somebody in the ring against the heavyweight champ with nothing more then the guts and determination and those who stood behind him throughout the entire ordeal . Rocky trains and works himself into a championship caliber boxer to fight the fight of his life . Even in the end when he lost a close fifteen round decision to Appolo Creed he won not only the hearts but the respect of the whole boxing world as well as the world itself . Sylvester Stallone has never been able to top himself since he stared in " Rocky " and I doubt that he ever will . " Rocky " is a truly once in a lifetime movie and Stallone had just one once in a lifetime movie and he already used up his " Rocky " . As good as the fight scenes are the movie is even more heart lifting and touching with Rocky's actions out of the ring . Micky who at first humiliated Rocky in public when he threw him out of the locker room and later wanted to train and manage Rocky for the big fight with Appolo and get the chance , like Rocky , to be a champ . Rocky after telling the old sick man off and practically throwing him out of his apartment runs out to apologizes for what he did and then accepts his offer and lets bygones be bygones between him and Micky . This was so effectively done with no duologue at all but you'd have to be dead or blind not to see and understand it . Rocky's feelings for Adrian , Talia Shire , was even more effective then any of Rocky's fight sequence in the movie . The shy Adrian who was considered by everyone including her drunk and bitter brother Paulie , Burt Young , a loser like Rocky . With Rocky's kind and sweet attention towards Adrian showed that she was as beautiful when she got over her insecurities as he was , when he got his confidence back , brave and courageous in the ring against the worlds undefeated Heavyweight Champ Appolo Creed . Working himself into shape with a tremendous uplifting sequence , to the movies theme song " Gonna Fly Now " , of Rocky hitting the speed and heavy bag doing one-handed push-ups and running his heart out along the docks crowded streets and railway yards of Phillie . Rocky finally at the end of his long run makes it to and climbed up the steps , two at a time , of the massive Philidelphia Museum of Art . Which earlier in the movie he after doing his morning roadwork almost collapsed on . Rocky was now ready for his place in movie history in his battle with World Heavyweight Champ Creed in the city of Philadelphia . Everyone involved in the film " Rocky " , Stallone Weathers Shire Young Meridith Spinlli etc . etc . , their lives and their worlds would never ever be the same again .
He lives now only in my memories	SPOILERS The very best of the thee apocalyptic and futuristic " Mad Max " action movies has Max , Mel Gibson , getting hooked up with this group of people stuck in the Australian desert in an oil refinery campsite that's being besieged by a gang of murderous outlaw bikers . Rescuing a member of the refinery group , who later dies , from the bikers Max only want's from the people there to give him enough fuel for is V-8 Interceptor to take him across the vast Australian desert . The refinery people lead by their leader Pappagallo , Michael Preston , make a deal with Max to get them a rig that belongs to the outlaw bikers to attach their tank of thousands of gallons of fuel . That way they can breakout of the campsite and escape from the bikers besieging it before they finally brake in and slaughter all of them . Max comes through with getting the rig but when he tries to ride his way out of the campsite with the full tank of gas he's attacked by the bikers lead by this Mohawk looking psycho Wez , Vernon Wells . Running him off the road Wez leaves him for dead in a gully that his V-8 crashed into and exploded killing two of Wez men but Max miraculously survives . Max's pet and loyal companion " Dog " wasn't that lucky being shot , with a crossbow , by one of the bikers . Max is later rescued by one of the people in the campsite The Gyro Captain , Bruce Spence , and brought back to camp barley alive with a severely broken leg . It's then when Pappagallo decides that the only way to survive being slaughtered by the bikers is to make a run for it . Pappagallo's plan is to split up the people and break out in two groups with anti-hero Max , now knowing that he needs to cooperated to survive , volunteering to drive the dangerous gasoline ladened rig and tanker through the biker gauntlet . In this way Max will draw most of bikers away from the rest of the people in the campsite . This almost suicidal strategy would in effect make Max , with the precious fuel , the main target of the bikers deadly and furious attacks . Unknown to Max at the time he has a little help from his friends on this dangerous mission with him on the rig , who at first he rejected , the spunky little Feral Kid , Emil Minty . It turned out that the Feral Kid in the end not only would make it possible for Max to break through and escape the attacking bikers but also ends up saving Max's life . Non-stop action final as Max , together with the Feral Kid , making a run for it on the fuel rig as he's attacked from all sides by the gang of killer bikers lead by the masked and muscle-bound Humungus , Kiell Nilsson . Running the rig into the ground with a number of the attacking bikers , including Humungus and Wez , along with it the heart-stopping run for daylight drive by Max . The exciting and deadly chase scene also cost the lives of Pappagello , who tried to come to Max's aid on his rocket-car , and the Woman warrior , Vrigina Hey , who among others was on the rig holding off the attacking and crazed for gasoline bikers . Max in a last desperate attempt to hold off and outrun the perusing bikers , who were slowly closing in on his rig and about to overtake it , makes a sudden and dangerous but skillful sharp breaking U-turn on the highway . In doing that Max turns the tables on his pursuers and drives straight into them with Humungus who was at first bearing down on Max's rig and the madden and injured Wez , desperately hanging on to it , now being the hunted instead of the hunter . As Max's rig , with a desperate Wez hanging on to the front engine , crashes head on into Humungus ' souped up motorcycle pulverizing both him and Wez and also overturning his vehicle in the process . Staggering out of the overturned rig which for some strange reason , with all the gasoline in it , didn't explode Max to his surprise finds that the precious fuel that was supposed to be in the tank wasn't there at all ! The fuel-tank's gasoline was replace with worthless desert sand ! The actual fuel was hidden by Pappagallo in the cars and vans driven by the people that broke out of the campsite together with Max whom the bikers left alone . Thinking that they weren't worth going after since the fuel that they wanted was supposed to be on the rig that Max was driving !
God's lonely man	SPOILERS Seeming out of nowhere a taxi rolls out of the night mist and as it turns sideways on the screen facing the theater audience the title of the movie appears in eerie neon , so starts Martin Scorese's " Taxi Driver " . Travis Bickle , Robert De Niro , keeps a diary at home where he records his thoughts as well as his daily experience on and off the streets of New York as he drives a cab to support himself . " I'm God's lonely man " Travis constantly writes in his diary . Trying to fit into a vast an impersonal city like New York is too much for Travis . He feels more at home by himself with his thoughts and fantasies then socializing with people . In the movie Travis has two relationships . One with a woman the other with a girl , both end up disastrous . The first with Besty , Sybill Shepherd , a campaign worker for presidential candidate Charles Palintine , Lenoard Harris , and the second with Iris , Jody Foster , a 12 year old prostitute who turns tricks for and is looked after by her pimp Sport , Harvey Keitel . Travis spots Besty at the Palintine campaign offices in midtown Manhattan while he's driving his cab and falls in love with her . Travis going so far as to volunteer to work for the Palintine campaign so he can be with her . After a while Travis gets friendly and close enough with Besty to take her out to the movies on a date with him . It turns out that Travis ' limited knowledge of the entertainment world , the only movies that Travis watches and knows about are porno flicks , leaves him hurt and humiliated when Besty , shocked that Travis would take her to an X-rated theater , walks out on him . Some time later Travis back on his job driving a cab one night in the East Village encounters Iris trying to run away from her pimp Sport when she jumps into his cab . Sport gets into the cab with Iris and after sweet talking Iris to come back with him gives Travis a twenty dollar bill for all the trouble that Iris caused and tells Travis to forget all about it . Travis soon becomes fixated with rescuing Iris from her life on the streets and from working for Sport for whom Travis begins to develop a very strong and violent dislike of . As the movie slowly moves to it's bloody and explosive conclusion it's obvious that Travis has gone over the deep end . Arming himself to the teeth and getting himself into shape , both physically and mentally , for the battle against all those evil forces that are lurking around him that is sure to come . His frustration together with his ignorance and alienation of the real world has turned Travis , who was friendly and likable if just a bit odd at the beginning of the movie , into a Frankenstein monster . The movie " Taxi Driver " is filled with academy award caliber acting imaginary and gritty big city photography and a multi-layer story that's easy to follow due to a very skillful job of directing . The movie also has one of the most haunting and memorable musical score that I've ever herd in any movie and it more then deserves all the accolades that it received over all these years . The only bad thing that I can say about " Taxi driver " is that director Martin Scorsese made the movie too soon in his career . It's been 27 years since Scorsese made the movie " Taxi Driver " and since then , with all the films that he directed , he's never come close to making any movie as good as it and for all we know he never will . Like Orson Wells in 1941 when he made " Citizen Kane " that over forty years until his death in 1985 Wells could never do anything on film to top that movie and the only place that Wells could go after he made " Citizen Kane " was down .
Don't show me how profitable it would be for me to fall in love with you Charlie , don't try to Americanize me	( There are Spoilers ) You at first think that your watching an adult romantic WWII comedy set in England on the eve of D-Day until about a half hour into the movie . It's when Lt . Cmdr . Charlie Madison , James Garner , is having a talk with his pretty British driver Emiley Barham's , Julie Andrews , widowed mom Mrs . Barham , Joyce Grenfell , that things in the film turn serious . Within minutes Charlie has Mrs . Barham , who was a bit batty and out of touch with reality , almost in tears by bringing her back down to earth with the horrors of what war really is . Mrs . Barham had lost both her son and husband , as well as her son-in-law , in the war and has been living in a fantasy world ever since trying to put those terrible tragedy out of her mind . Charlie himself is anything but a hero doing everything he can to get out of serving in a war zone . Charlies been living it up in London and suppling the high command , in the US Navy , with booze women and caviar as a " Dog Robber " : someone who get's what the brass wants and gets rewarded by it by being put behind the lines for the duration of the war . It was a strange combination of Charlie's commanding officer Adm . William Jessup , Melvyn Douglas , going insane and coming up with this " bright idea " of having the first American serviceman to be killed in action , at Omaha beach on D-Day , to be a Navy man as well as meeting , and falling in love with , Emiley Barham that turned his life around . This made Charlie more conscious of what was happening all around him in WWII as well as made a better person out of Charlie in the end . Anti-war movie that chooses WWII , a war that everyone sees as a righteous war , that Paddy Chayefsky makes his statement about the horrors and futility of what war is and why we should never glorify it , righteous or unrighteous , like the unstable Adm . Jessup and his fanatical gong-ho aid Lt . Cmdr . Bus Commings , James Coburn , try to make it in " The Americanization of Emily " . Obsessed to make a movie on the beaches of France on D-Day Adm . Jessup has a film crew led by a very reluctant Charlie Madison to be the first Americans to storm the beaches with a Navy demolition crew . Charlie trying to get out of the assignment finds out that the invasion was to take place on the morning of June 5 and purposely tricks Let . Cmdr . Commings into leaving for the assault , or LST , boat late in order to miss the invasion . Charlie sadly finds out to his shock and dismay , the next morning , that the invasion was called off for 24 hour , because of bad weather and was on the next day with him being assigned to the first assault landing boats in the invasion of Europe . Getting himself stone drunk with his two hand picked assistants , by the crazed Let , Cmdr Commings because they know something about how to use a movie camera , Navy men Keenen Whynn and Steve Franken Charlie is forced by Commings to make it on the beach , with the German Army blasting away from all sides as the movie camera rolls recording the historic event : the first American serviceman to be killed on D-Day . In the end Charlie instead of becoming a dead hero end's up a live coward which almost destroys all the hard work and energy that Adr . Jessup , who after coming to his senses realized how insane his idea was , and Let . Cmdr . Commings . The movie succeeds in showing just how irrational the glorification , by the media as well as individuals , of war really is . Emily who lost her husband at Tobruk developed a strong aversion toward people who glorify war and make hero's out of those , like her late husband , who die in it . To Emily war is an necessary evil at best and a crime against everything that's good and worth living for at worst . Being attracted to Charlie at first because of his unabashed cowardice Emily later fell out with him because of his selfishness and avoidance of responsibility , by doing everything to save his a , even if it meant that others would end up being killed and wounded in his place . With Charlie later facing death on Omaha Beach , and surviving , it did unexpectedly make a new and far different , for the better , man out of him . With Charlie later refusing to play along with Let . Cmdr . Commings to be a hero and end up in the brig instead turned Emily around . In his actions Charlie showed a rare kind of courage that even the most hardened war veterans would find very difficult to attain a courage where he put his life , by possibly being shot for cowardice , and military career on the line where at the same time a courage where he didn't have to take the life of anyone else to achieve it .
Steam Heat	SPOILERS Steamy melodrama set in Florida during the middle of a record heat wave which was nothing like the heat generated on the screen by the two stars , William Hurt & Kathleen Turner , in the movie . Ned Racine , William Hurt , a local lawyer one hot steamy night at a town concert meets sexy and sultry Matty Walker , Kathleen Turner . The results of that chance meeting leads to a sizzling and torrid affair and ends in murder and deception and finally the loss of Ned's freedom in what has to be one of the most erotic and well thought out " Film Noir " movies ever made . Unlike the great " Film Noir " movies of the 1940's like " Double Indemnity " and " Out Of The Past " to name a few " Body Heat " is not hampered by the restrictions and limitations of the Hayes Commission back then . That's the reason it's much more interesting and less predictable then movies at that time were . Matty who's husband Edmund Walker , Richard Crenna , had her sign a prenuptial agreement before they were married wants him dead so that she can legally inherit all of his wealth . Matty talks a love stung and unsuspecting Ned into killing Edmund not knowing that she's only using him and will drop him as soon as her husband is dead . Ned goes along with the plan even though it seems to be against his better judgment . Even later when Ned starts to realizes that he's some how being set-up to take the fall he's still so infatuated and in love with Matty that he can't seem to help himself from going along with her scheme to kill Edmund . Edmund , the unfortunate husband of the scheming and deadly Matty , in spite of being an astute businessman and good judge of human nature as well as tough as nails doesn't see what's coming in what Matty has in store for him until it's too late . Good early career performances by Ted Danson , Peter Lowenstein , as Ned's friend and fellow lawyer and Mickey Rourke , Teddy Lewis , as an accused arsonist who Ned got off and who later reluctantly gets involved in the murder plot on Matty's husband Edmund . Teddy at first tries to have Ned change his mind about murdering Edmund but without any success . Also very effective in the film is Oscar Grace as J . A Preston a detective and friend of Ned who despite being on to Matty from the start is blind-sided by what Matty's ultimate plans really were , like everyone else in the movie . Superior story and acting with a really unsuspecting ending makes " Body Heat " not just one of the best " Film Noir " movies of all time but the one that all movies of that genre are to be compared too in the future .
Bad Blood	The film " Ring of Fire " centers around the three Emile Griffith Benny " Kid " Paret Welterweights Championship bouts . The first taking place in Miami Beach on April 1 , 1961 . Griffith looking sluggish and behind on points suddenly came to life and wrestled the championship belt away from Paret flooring him in the 13th round with a double left hood followed by a straight right putting the champ on Queer Street . The second championship fight between the two welterweights took place on September 30 , 1961 in New York's old Madison Square Garden and went the full 15 , the distance , rounds . Paret surprising many fight fans in attendance and watching on TV by winning a split decision and regaining the championship that he lost to Griffith six months earlier . As the two fighters were about to weigh in on the eve of their rubber match again in the Garden on March 24 , 1962 bad blood had developed between the two pugilists to the point where they almost had it out right there and then . Paret started needling Griffith , more to disrupt his concentration on the fight then anything else , about his sexuality calling him a " queer or homosexual " , to put it mildly , in Spanish . These uncalled for remarks on Paret's part really started to get under Griffith's skin as well as enraged and set him off later in the ring . In the fight there was no love lost between the two with both Griffith and Paret slugging it out toe to toe for eleven rounds . Griffith earlier in the sixth was knocked down , for the first time in his professional boxing career , by a devastating one two , right left combination , by a revitalized Paret . Paret then started slowly taking control of the fight in the middle and later rounds and leading on points , in the opinion of many at ringside , as the fateful and fatal 12th round started . The 12th round for the most part was uneventful until with about a minute left Griffith suddenly caught Paret with a hooking solid right that stunned him knocking him into the ropes . Before Paret could counter or even cover up Griffith swarmed all over him , like a windmill , with two dozen punches with Paret not throwing a single one return . Paret was left unconscious and propped against the ropes with the fight stopped by referee Ruby Goldstein with 51 seconds left in the round . Benny " Kid " Parets skull was so baldly battered that he , ten days later , died in Roosevealt Hospital from a massive blood clot without regaining consciousness . Even though were shown what Emile Griffith did in his boxing career since his last fight with Benny " Kid " Paret it was that fight that haunted him for he rest of his days , in and out of the ring . The Paret fatal boxing match not only had caused Griffith to lose his killer instinct in the ring but may very well have caused him to become an alcoholic . It wasn't Until he met with Benny " Kid " Parets son some 40 years later and , with Benny Jr kindness love and understanding , Griffith finally made peace with himself . Brutal but extremely moving documentary about a brutal sport Professional Boxing and those who participate in it both in and out of the ring . Mrs . Paret left a widow with an infant son Benny Jr . after her husbands untimely death has never really recovered from the shock that took Benny Sr . away from her on March 24 , or really officially April 4 , 1962 . It's only her son Benny Jr . who we see at the end of the movie finally meeting face to face the man Emile Griffith who was responsible for his fathers death . The scene between the two is one of most emotionally packed encounters even put on the big or small screen that no amount of acting could possibly duplicated . Emile Griffith himself had suffered his fair amount of tragedies since his final battle with Benny Paret . Not only losing the championship belt that he took from the fallen champion that terrible night but losing almost everything that he won in the ring leaving him broke . Later after getting a job helping out young men in prison to go straight and , if they have any talent , pursue a boxing career he himself was almost beaten to death in 1992 . That's when Griffith was brutally attacked one evening , leaving dead drunk from a NYC bar , and robbed by a gang of thugs who beat the 55 year-old ex-champ to the point that he almost died from kidney failure . We get to see in the end how Emile Griffith finally got closer from the demons that had been tormenting him ever since that horrible evening some 45 years ago when he should have been celebrating the biggest victory he ever won in the ring . Griffith instead went into long a tail-spin that didn't end . It wasn't until he finally got to see and talk to the son , Benny Paret Jr , of the person he killed that night in he boxing ring . It's then that he saw that forgiveness from Benny Jr is far more powerful then the hate that he had for his dad that not only lead to the psychical death of Benny " Kid " Paret but , until he finally got to talk to Benny Jr , the spiritual and emotional death of himself as well .
Penetrating and Thought Provoking Movie	SPOILERS A movie that you can really say is ahead of it's time about the aftermath of a nuclear war that destroyed over 90 % of the human race . And due to the radiation left over from the nuclear bombardment lowered the birth-rate to 1 . 4 % . Making it impossible for the human race to survive without the creation of a massive robot population to do the work that is needed for human survival . The trouble with that is that the robots have been so improved over the years that they took on more and more human qualities . There coming to the point that they are more human then humans , that is their perfect . That makes most humans think that they'll take over the world and make humans second class citizens . A group is founded called " The Order of Flesh and Blood " that wants to put the robots back to where they no longer pose a danger to the human race . That would mean going back to the time when the human race almost destroyed itself in a nuclear war . It's because that humans have emotions that override logic which robots don't have . Cragis , Don Megowan , one of the founders of " The Order of Flesh and Blood " orders a raid on the home of a scientist Dr . Raven , Don Doolittle . Dr . Raven is working to create a more perfect robot that will pass for human without being detected . Ravan wants the robots to eventually replace humans in government positions so that human irrational emotions and behavior would not endanger the earth , as well as the humans themselves . When the Order breaks into Dr . Raven's laboratory he has one of his human looking robots kill him . To prevent him from from being subjected to have his brain and thoughts dismembered , finding out what he knows and did by the Order , and with that have all his work discovered and destroyed . Cragis , in a speech to the members of the Order , uses Dr . Raven's death as an excuse to make that the robots are dangerous and should be dismantled and used only sparingly . Not to be used in as many functions for the human race as they are being used now . After Cragis's speech one of his colleagues tells him that his sister Emse , Frances McCann , is having an affair , rapport is the word used in the movie , with a robot . If this ever comes out , Cragis is told , it would hurt his position in the Order . Cragis goes to see his sister to get her to break off her rapport with the robot , Pax , David Cross . In Cragis's conversation with his sister , as well as with the robot Pax , something very unusual happens ! What transpired after that in the movie makes Cragis see what the truth is and that changes him forever . Great movie with some of the most thought-provoking , penetrating and intelligent dialog about life death God the soul and the continuation of the existence of the species . Dialog that you'll ever hear in a serious film about those subjects , It will also make you think like you never thought before about the future . The scene between Cragis his sister Esme and the robot Pax as well as Cragis's girlfriend Maxine , Erica Elliot , alone is enough to make you change your views about what you think that the future is going to be . And with an ending that will leave you speechless and at the same time hopeful for what the future will bring . It's too bad that the movie " Creation of the Humanoids " is not on tape or DVD and hasn't been broadcast on TV for the last fifteen years or so . The movie viewing public is missing a real eye-opening film about future events that will shock and at the same time assure us about what we are to face ahead .
My shutters , they don't work !	( There are Spoilers ) Unoubtaly the best of the depression era gangster movies that came out of Hollywood in the 1930's " Scarface " was so chilling and effective that it had it's director Howard Hawks , who owed the film , lock up all the prints and take the movie out of circulation back in 1932 the year it was released . It wasn't until two years after Hawks death in December 1977 that " Scarface " was ever seen by the public again . Spinning off a remake in 1983 staring Al Pacino the original that's well over 70 years old still eclipses the later , made in color and with far more graphic sex and violence , by a country mile . Vicious and brazen Tony Camonte , Paul Muni , has big plans for himself in getting to the top of the heap in the criminal underworld in 1920's Chicago . Being " Big Louie " Costello's ( Harry J . Vejar ) , the mob boss of Chicago's first district , bodyguard Tony blows him away after the party thrown for him is over and everyone left . Getting on board with the South Side's top mobster and bootlegger Johnny Lovo , Osgood Perkins , Tony's brutal and uncompromising strong-arming of the local illegal bars and speakeasy's have Lovo gain complete control of the South Side of Chicago's lucrative booze business . But Tony has bigger plans not for his boss Johnny Lovo but for himself . Having the Irish boss O'Hara of the powerful North Side Mob knocked off , against Johnny Lovo's , orders turns Chicago into a full-fledged war zone . With hundreds of automatic sub-machine guns imported into the city from out of state and used in dozens of deadly shoot-outs . This results in scores of innocent persons , as well as mobsters , getting killed and wounded . Tony's unrelenting ruthlessness has the North Side Mob on the run and just about finishes them off in a bloody wear-house massacre , on Valentine Day , with seven members of the gang machine gunned to death . Gaffney , Boris Karloff , O'Hara's North Side Mob replacement is now a marked man with him just escaping Tony's Valentine Day killing . With his gang now no longer a factor in the crime scene in Chicago has Gaffney just waiting for the inevitable to happen . The end comes in a bowling alley where it turns out Gaffney plays his last game of ten pins . It's when Tony finally reaches the top that he loses his edge in keeping his crime organization together and where his paranoia takes over . Feeling that his boss , what a laugh , Johnny Lovo is trying to knock him off after an unsuccessful assassination attempt on him Tony pay's Johnny a visit with his trusted friend and fellow hoodlum Gino " Flip " Rinaldo , George Raft , and blows him away . Meanwhile the local police working together with the Federal Government gather all the information that they could to get enough evidence to put Tony away for a long time . Ironically it's Tony himself that gives them all the rope that they need to hang him . Finding out that his chorusing 18 year-old sister Cesca ( Ann Dvorak ) , whom he tried to keep to himself and away from any suitors , moved out of her parents house Tony finds where she lives in the city and pays Cesca a surprise visit . Seeing his life-long friend Gino answer the door and Cesca in a nightgown flips Tony out and before he can think blasts Gino away . It turned out that both Gino and Cesca were married while Tony was away in Florida and wanted to surprise him with the " good " new ! But the shoot first and ask questions later Tony Camonte didn't bother to wait around to hear it . Broken and abandoned Tony is now left all alone at his reinforced bunker-like apartment with no one but Cesca by his side as he waits for the police to assault and storm it . The only hope he has now is to go down fighting and not be taken alive . They don't make them , gangster films , any better then " Scarface " and it's amazing to watch the movie now and see how ahead of it's time it really was . In fact it's time , and modern day gangster / crime films , still hasn't caught up with it . P . S Unlike in action / gangster movies made today the shooting scenes in " Scarface " had real bullets used in it's the films action sequences ! Hollywood studios didn't have gunfire special effects back then in 1932 like they do now and had to use , live bullets , whatever was available to them . It's said that actor Paul Muni was so shocked by the negative reaction he got from the pubic , in his role as gangster Tony Camonte in the movie , that for almost 15 years he refused to take another gangster role . Even though Muni-in a way - finally gave in and played one in the life-after-death comedy / drama " Angel on my Shoulder " in 1946 .
Maximum Effort can't turn men into machines	( Some Spoilers ) The movie starts in London in 1949 with former USAAF desk officer now American living in England Harvey Stovall , Dean Jagger , spotting in an antique shop window the cup mascot of his old Air Force unit , the 918th bomber group . After buying the cup Harvey drives with his bicycle to the old Archbury Airfield outside of London where the 918th was stationed and reminisces as we , and Harvey , go back some seven years to 1942 when he served in the outfit . Being one of the first USAAF bomber groups to be stationed in England the 918th suffered such heavy losses of men and bombers on it bombing missions over German occupied France that it's commanding officer , sensitive and caring , Col . Davenport , Garry Merrill , was grounded and replaced by hard nosed and hard driving Brig . General Frank Savage , Gregory Peck , to whip the airmen into shape and hardened their nerves since so many were breaking down from the stress of the daylight bombing missions that they were flying . Gen Savage drove the men so hard and was totally uncompromising towards them when it came to getting help for the stress that they were suffering . Like closing down the officers club and not letting them be as ease by being out of uniform when they were back at the base from their dangerous bomber missions . These actions by Gen . Savage made all the airmen of the 918th put in for transfers out of the unit . Gen . Savage soon earned the respect of the men under him by joining them in their combat flights over Europe and also being on the lead bomber the most dangerous place in the bomber formation . Over the long run Gen . Savages hard nose tactics did work with the 918th becoming the most effective bomber group in the entire US 8th Air Force in Great Britian . Even though the airmen of the 918th respected Gen . Savage they still didn't feel close to him . Since he couldn't break out of the strict code that he set for himself as a hard as steel nerved warrior who just couldn't show any emotion to his men or to himself . Feeling that it would take away the edge that he and his men needed to survive the war . The General started to feel a bit of guilt later on in the film when he was told that Lt . Col . Ben L . Gately , , Hugh Marlow , was hospitalized after a bombing mission with a broken vertebrate which was damaged , but he didn't report it , a while back . Lt . Col . Gatley whom Gen . Savage chewed out for being a coward earlier flew three combat missions while suffering from that injury . At the hospital you , as well as Lt . Lt . Col . Gately , could see Gen . Savage clumsily try to apologize to him about what he did in regards of his humiliating him earlier in the movie where Let . Col . Gately asked for an immediate transfer out of the unit to get away from his ravings . For the first time you could also see that the general had blood , instead of ice water , in his veins . Tremendous war movie that doesn't have any action scenes in it until the last twenty or so minutes of the film but is more effective then movies with wall to wall combat footage throughout the entire film . The movie comes to an end with the US 8th Air Force bombing of the German city of Schweinfurt , the major manufacture of anti-friction ball bearings for the Nazi war machine , on " Black Thursday " October 14 , 1943 where it suffered the heaviest single day losses of bomber and air men in the air war over German occupied Europe ; 77 B17 bombers were shot down or crashed and were destroyed beyond repair on their way back after the mission with almost 700 US airmen killed wounded and missing . Gen . Savage was on that deadly mission and came back in high spirits ready to go back in the air the next day over the unfriendly skies of Germany . Just as he was about to get on his B17 bomber he suffered a major psychical and emotional breakdown from the stress of the daylight bombing missions , that he participated in , over Europe that left him almost unconscious and hospitalized . Gen . Savage finally realized what the men , that he once called cowards and slackers , went through by suffering the same symptoms that they had which showed him , and everyone else , he was a human being not the unemotional and unfeeling machine that he always tried to be . Gregory Peck was never better as USAAF Brig . General Frank Savage and the men who flew the dangerous mission over Europe during WWII were never more honored then they were in the movie " Twelve O'Clock High " .
Movie about a Big Gorilla with a Heart of Gold	Light years ahead of the 1976 re-make , courtesy of legendary hack movie producer Dino De Laurentis , this new version is not just better then he 1976 opus but actually improves over the 1933 unforgettable film classic . Starting out during the Great Depression in New York City circa 1932 hack movie maker , much like the later Dino De , Carl Denham , Jack Black , is down and out and about to be carted away to the nearest jail-house . This after getting a number of film canisters , that he stole from his employers and , then double-talking and bullshting Captain Enlehorn , Thomas Kretschman , and his crew to take him and his newly found movie star Ann Darrow , Naomi Watts , out in the unexplored South Pacific Ocean to this unknown speck of land known as Skull Island . With the search for Skull Island seeming fruitless the freighter , The Venture , gets caught in this rolling sea fog and is guided towards the uncharted island running into the dangerous coral rocks and reefs ringed around the island disabling it . The island at first looks deserted but as the team of crewmen , with Dnham in charge , run into a young native girl who starts screaming and alerts the rest of the native population . Escaping from the rampaging natives the crew of The Venture is about to leave the island when a number of natives sneak onto the ship and kidnap Ann . Who's to be given up as a human sacrifice to the God of Skull Island a 25 foot tall ape known as the King , or " King Kong " , and the rest is movie folklore history . Heart thumping adventure with some of the most incredible action scenes ever put on film is the order of the day in the 2005 Christmas Season release of the new Peter Jackson directed motion picture " King Kong " . Almost scene for scene as the 1933 classic the special effects make even that great movie look like a Saturday morning children's cartoon show in comparison . The film " King Kong " , like the 1933 original , takes off when the big guerrilla shows up on the screen which is well over an hour into the movie and after that it's full-speed ahead and no looking back for the cast and the movie audience . Kong takes a very strong liking towards Ann and during her stay he takes on , successfully , almost the entire population of prehistoric flesh eating Dinosaurs on the island protecting her . After being rescued by one of the crew members playwright Jack Driscoll , Adrien Brody , both Ann and Jack make it back , with Kong in hot pursuit , to the ship as the crew members slug it out with the outraged and love-sick ape . Knocking him out and then capturing him with the help of an entire case of chloroform . Trying to catch your breath and regain your composer from the incredible scenes you've already taken in on Skull Island the movie " King Kong " then moves to he Big White Way at the massive and sold-out Alhambra Theatre in New York City . It's there where " Kong " both chained and put on display to the theater audience breaks loose looking for his beloved Ann . Kong Wrecks all of mid-town Manhattan and after finding her , or she finding him , climbs atop the 86th story Empire State Building . It's there where Kong has it out with a squadron of fighter planes of the USAAF for the films final and unforgettable , as well as heart-breaking , conclusion .
How do you tell someone to be the last man to die for a mistake ? : John F . Kerry April 23 , 1971	Powerful thought-provoking and sometimes almost unwatchable documentary about the men who were sent to South-East Asia to fight what has became the worst diplomatic and military disaster in America's 230 year history the Vietnam War . Filmed in late January and early February 1971 in a Detroit Howard Johnson that includes among the 125 Vietnam veterans in attendance the now Massachusetts Senator John Kerry . The film has former as well as a number of active Vietnam Vets spilling their guts out on how they not only survived the hell in Vietnam but now how they'll never be the same again physically mentally and emotionally from the experience of participating in that war . We get to see , in a number of photos and film clips , and hear story after story by former US combat veterans both soldiers and US Marines , looking more like hippies then clean cut all-American boys , telling of the horrors that they not only went through but in many cases participated in . The horror stories were told had to do with a number of My Lai-like massacre's as well as countless random shootings knifing and fatal beatings of innocent Vietnam civilians caught in the crossfire . Were also told about defenseless and tied-up North Vietnamese soldiers and Viet Cong guerrilla prisoners of war most of them thrown off , alive and terrified , from US Army helicopter's in mid-flight over the Vietnamese jungle . Most of the Vietnam Veterans in the documentary were in combat as early as six months before it was filmed and we see how they changed so suddenly this after they served their time and were no longer in danger of being sent back to Vietnam again . We hear the ex-GI's and US Marines emotionally and heart-fully speaking not only for themselves but for those young Americans who were to be sent overseas to continue the war that at the time was already some seven years old ; if you count the notorious Gulf of Tonkin incident of August 1964 as the beginning of a full-scale US military involvement in that conflict . The incidents relived by most of the US combat veterans in the film are so gut wrenching that some of the GI's and US Marines actually broke down in tears reciting them . It's was almost a miracle that they would , after what they went through , even want to talk about their experiences in that war-ravaged country . The combat vets tell their personal stories before an audience , many who were in tears themselves in hearing what they had to say , knowing that they'll be looked upon as monsters by the very people whom they were supposed to be fighting for and who's rights and liberties that they were supposed to be defending . Many of the men in the documentary ended up on drugs or became alcoholics and in some cases even killed themselves because of the trauma that they suffered . After seeing " Winter Soilders " It's a wonder that now in 2006 there are people , who were of age in serving in that war but didn't , who still feel that it was justified and that the US should not have withdrawal after the fall of Saigon in the spring of 1975 . The war actually ended for the US in a signed armistice with the North Vietnamese government in January 1973 . Seeing this startling documentary now and having it shown to millions of Americans , on DVD Video tape and cable TV , is very timely . " Winter Soilders " will not only bring the war in Vietnam back home after over thirty years to the American public in the knowledge of just what a major disaster it was not only for the US which lost some 60 , 000 US servicemen dead and almost 300 , 000 wounded and missing but the Vietnamese who lost an estimated 3 to 4 million killed in the 11 , 1964-1975 , year conflict . The documentary will also help change the minds of those Americans , now well under 50 % , who still feel that the equally unpopular and unwanted War in Iraq going on now is worth the blood and money that it demands of the American public in lives , already almost 3 , 000 killed , and money , 346 billion dollars as of Nov . 30 , 2006 . In fact the war in Iraq is even more illegal then the Vietnam War was back then . Unlike in Vietnam the US invaded and occupied Iraq and was not asked by it's government , like it was by the South Vietnamese government back in the early 1960's , to send US troops to fight and die there to protect it's freedom and security . Another big difference between Vietnam and Iraq is that there was no armed insurgency in the latter , Iraq , like there was in the former , Vietnam . The growing Iraqi insurgency that has cost more then 90 % of the US casualties in Iraq only materialized and grew after the invasion and occupation of that country by the US and it's so-called " Coalition of the Willing " in the spring and early summer of 2003 .
We'll Meet Again Don't Know Were Don't Know when	SPOILERS Even though the movie " Dr . Strangelove " opens to the romantic and tender music of " Try A Little Tenderness " , as we see a B52 bomber being refiled in mid-air , and ends to the touching and sweet sound of " We'll Meet Again " , as we see the world go up in flames in a series of thermonuclear explosions , there's little or nothing in the film that has to do with either love and romance . Everything in the movie has to do with madness and insanity . Brig . Gen . Jack D . Ripper , Sterling Hayden , has been obsessed with the thought that the Soviets have been polluting the nations drinking water , through the evil process of fluoridation . Gen . Ripper feels hat the Soviets first ant to corrupt the natural fluids or essences of the American people and then , when thats accomplished , take over the USA without firing a shot . Ordering the 843rd Air Wing , which Gen . Ripper is in command of , on a bombing mission in the USSR the General feels that he has to stop the Soviets for doing any more damage to those vital and precious fluids , that flow through the bodies of the American people , before it's too late . It takes a while for those in the US Government authority , from the president of the United States on down , to realize that Ripper has gone off the deep end but by the time they came to that realization it was too late to stop him . The 34 B52 bombers that he ordered to take off with 50 megatons of nuclear explosives each , are by then well on their way in igniting WWIII . Stanley Kubrick's terrifying 1964 black comedy , made two years after the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis , based on the little known book " Red Alert " by Peter George " Dr . Strangelove " is without a doubt one of the most effective anti-war as well as the most shattering movie about nuclear destruction ever made . When trying to recall the B52 bombers , after they passed their fail-safe points , becomes futile US President Merkin Muffely , Peter Sellers , gets in touch with the Soviet Premiere Damitri Kissoff . Premiere Kissoff who's drunk and partying , in what seems like , a bordello is asked to work together with the USA in shooting down the attacking B52's . This has to be done before they drop their payloads on his country's missile and defense bases . Too drunk and agitated to do anything at first Premiere Kissoff agrees with Pres . Muffley to cooperate . By the time that the US bombers were to strike deep inside Russia all but one were either shot down or recalled . The recall order was discovered by RAF Group Captain Mandrake , again Peter Sellers , who was the British liaison officer at the Brupelson Air Force base . Mandreke discovered and deciphered the order after Gen . Ripper shot himself . Gen . Ripper feared he'd be captured and tortured in order to get the recall code out of him , when the base was overrun by US Airborne troops . It later comes to light that the Soviet Union had developed a " Dooms-Day Machine " that is set to go off and destroy the entire earth with the force of 50 hydrogen bombs . All that's needed to set it off is for just one nuclear device to be dropped on the Soviet Union ! Which the only surviving B52 , that hasn't been shot down or recalled , commanded by Major Kong , Slim Pickens , is just about to do ! Tense and nail-biting final with everything being done to stop Maj . Kong's B52 bomber from succeeding in it's mission . With Maj . Kong and his crew doing everything to make it succeed . The ending will have you on the brink of a nervous breakdown like it does to everyone on the screen with the possible exception of crippled and mentally unstable Dr . Strangelove , Peter Sellers again for the third time . Dr . Strangelove a former Nazi scientist and now the Pentagon's director of weapons research is really looking forward to this once in a lifetime event . He's so excited by it that he actually gets up from his wheelchair and like he says , in a total state of euphoric hysteria , " Main FUHRER ! I Can VoK ! " . With all the great performances in the movie it was George C . Scott's General " Buck " Turgidson who really stole the show as the pragmatic and at the same time paranoid military man . Gen . Turgidson was always looking ahead first to obliterate the Soviet Union an now that the cats out of the bag , with no chance of stopping the runaway B52's from their mission , try to have the USA control all the worlds mind shafts ; in order to survive the impending nuclear holocaust .
Men ' O War	SPOILERS It's spring 1943 in the Taman Peninsula with the once invincible German Army in full retreat . After the German Wehrmacht suffered a disastrous defeat at Stalingrad earlier in the year the Red Army then launched a massive 500 mile offensive along the souther sector of the Eastern Front . One of it's main objective is to recaptured the Crimea and Taman Peninsulas and it's there where the movie " Cross of Iron " takes place . Sgt . Steiner , James Coburn , had been out on reconnaissance with his platoon and during a fire fight with the Soviet troops he captures a young Russian boy that later , instead of having him shot , not only spears his life but escorts the kid back to the Russian lines . Sgt . Seiner expecting that he'll be taken back by his comrades in the Red Army the boy soldier is instead machine gunned by the Reds before he could reached their trenches . This is how war is depicted in Sam Peckinpah's classic " Cross of Iron " cold impersonal and deadly where in the end there's no winners but only losers on both sides of the battle-line . Undoubtaly the most shocking and effective anti , or even pro , war film ever made this side of " All Quite on the Western Front " " Cross of Iron " shows what war is really all about and how it effects by almost totally dehumanizing the men who participate in it . Taking over Steiner's company is an arrogant and pompous Prussian aristocratic jerk Capt . Humptmann Stransky , Maximilian Schell . Capt . Stransky wanted a transfer from his cushy assignment in occupied France to the bloody and hell-fire Eastern Front so he can earn himself the coveted Iron Cross . We see right away that Stransky and Steiner don't at all care for each other since in Stiner's case he already has earned an Iron Cross and is anything but overjoyed by it . Referring to the Iron Cross Sgt . Steiner says that it's just a worthless piece of medal but Capt . Stransky is so obsessed by the German war decoration that he goes so far as to blackmail one of his men Let . Triebig , Roger Fritz , to falsify a sworn statement , which Sgt . Steiner refuses to do , to testify to his courage in battle . During one of the many battles that Steiner & Stransky participated in a Let . Meier , Igor Galo , lead a counter-attack against the attacking Reds , which cost Meier's life , repulsing and thus keeping the Russians from overrunning his infantry company's defensive positions . Stransky was hiding in his bunker during the entire Russian assault . After the dust cleared Stransky tried to get the credit that the dead Let . Meier earned by telling his superior Col . Brandt , James Mason , that it was he , Captain Stransky , who manned the guns and passed out the ammunition during he fighting not Meier . It's later when Steiner is wounded in action and hospitalized , for a severe concussion , that Capt . Stansky's orders from Col . Brandt to receive an Iron Cross is just about finalized . Yet the very fact that Steiner is still alive and not willing to go along with the ridicules sham of Strasky being a war hero , which he's not , that leads that low-life Prussian swine to do everything in his power to not only get Steiner but his entire platoon killed in a sick act of revenge and cover-up . Great study of how war brings the worst , as well as best , out in people . With a heroic but disenchanted Sgt . Steiner not only fighting the enemy Red Army but his own superiors . With the only thing he cares about , and is willing to give his life up for , is the men in his platoon . In the end even Sgt . Steiner's platoon , by then reduced to only two men , has no attachment to him anymore . Steiner leaves it and goes after the hated Stransky who was responsible for having it mowed down . When the platoon , together with Sgt . Steiner , tried to make it's way back to the main German lines . Caught in no-mans land in a vicious cross-fire between the Red Army and fellow German troops , under the command of Stransky's boot-licking lackey Let . Triebig , Steiner's platoon was wiped out almost to the last man . Triebig's own men couldn't continue , when they realized that they were shooting on their fellow German soldiers , to keep firing on Steiner's platoon with a totally outraged Steiner jumping into the trenches where Let . Triebig was trying to make a run for it . Cornering the rat after the gutless coward pleaded for his life telling Steiner that he was only following , Capt Stransky's , order . Sgt . Steiner then blasted Triebig to bits and pieces reloading his machine gun at least once as he kept pumping away . It's now left for Sgt . Steiner to come face to face with Capt . Stransky and make him answer for what he did to him and his men in his selfish quest for the Iron Cross . A medal that he planned to get at the expense of the lives of men who were far more qualified to get it then he'll ever be . A once in a lifetime movie about war and the courage cowardice and self-sacrifice that comes along with it . An outstanding cast headed by James Coburn and Maximilian Schell leaves it's audience with a real insight of what war is really all about . As well as a unique experience of how men , and women , are changed forever by both living and suffering through it .
Terror On The Phone Line	" Phone Booth " is a one of a kind thriller even though the movie is under 90 minutes long , a rarity now a days for a feature film , not a minute or even second is wasted in the movie . " Phone Booth " could have easily been padded with extra and useless footage to make it seem impressive as a feature length film . It's film-makers wisely left it at 80 minutes which gave the movie the unrelenting and heart stopping action and suspense that made it the success that it is . Stu Shepard , Colin Farrell is a publicist who lives like the publicity that he gets for his clients which is for the most part an illusion . Stu grew up in the mostly low to middle class borough of the Bronx but he likes to dress and act like he's from the rich and luxurious Upper East Side and Sutton Place in Manhattan . This is Stu's way of trying to come across as super impressive to those who he works for , and those who work for him , as well as people that he meets socially . Sharp and fast talking Stu spins tales of him knowing and associating with top Hollywood and Madison avenue honchos as effortlessly as if he were ordering breakfast at the local neighborhood diner . This may be OK for Stu , it's part of his job , to BS people in order to get their attention and business . What really irked off Stu's secret and hidden antagonist is his infidelity that he has for his wife Kelly , Radah Mitchell . For some time he's been watching and planing to get Stu into a trap that he set for him on the corner of 53rd and 8th avenue . In a phone booth that Stu has been calling his girlfriend Pamala McFadden , Katie Holmes , so he wouldn't have to use his cell phone . Which Stu's wife Kelly could easily find who Stu has been calling from checking the monthly phone bill . Tense and powerful drama in midtown Manhattan with an excellent cast of characters . As the city is shut down by an unseen sniper who has a personal grudge thats reached public proportions . With the entire media focused on the private life of his helpless victim , trapped inside a phone booth , and forced to spill his guts out not only to those who know him but to the whole world on live TV . The movie is so packed with action that you can't believe that it's under 90 minutes long , it seems more like 190 minutes as your riveted to the screen throughout it's entire showing . " Phone Booth " is another feather in the cap for Larry Cohen who gave us such low-budget but high quality classics over the years like " It Alive " in 1974 " God Told me To " in 1976 " Q " in 1982 " Maniac Cop " in 1988 and " Ambulance " in 1990 . With " Phone Booth " possibly being the best of them all . What works so well in the movie " Phone Booth " is how the dialog and the action is synchronized in the movie . Where it practically telegraphs everything thats going to happen and yet still jolts you when it does , even as you see it coming ! Strong and hefty performances in this small and modest movie by Colin Farrell , Forest Whitaker , Radah Mitchell , Kaite Holmes , Keith Nobbs , Richard T . Jones and many many more that would take up too much space to mention ; and lets not forget Kiefer Sutherland . " Phone Booth " is an action suspense movie that stands head and shoulders above all the big budgeted films with multi-million dollar stars that Hollywood has made through the years . " Phone Booth " is a powerhouse of a movie that never lets up for a moment of the 80 minutes it's on the screen and with an ending that will literally knock you out cold .
Still holds up after all these years	Gritty and realistic police crime drama with the most exciting car chase in movie history . As Det . Jimmy " Popeye " Doyle , Gene Hackman , chases down assassin Pierre Nicoli , Marcel Bozzuffi , under the Brooklyn El-train that is as heart thumping now as it was some thirty years ago . True story of " The French Connection " heroin shipment that was busted in New York by two determined police officers who came on to it by accident , and followed it through to the end . What makes this movie so effective is the realistic acting as policemen by Hackman and Roy Scheider , Det . Russo , and the gritty and grimy NYC locations . That makes the film look more like a documentary on city crime instead a movie about city crime . Most of the movie is made up of tailing the drug dealers through the city to get a handle of just what their up to and where they plan to unload the drugs that they had smuggled into the city for distribution . The acting and direction is so good that its almost as effective , like the cat and mouse game between Popeye and the top drug smuggler Charnier ( Fernando Rey ) at the 42nd St . subway shuttle , as the incredible car vrs train chase scene that came much later in the movie . The best thing about the French Connection " if anything in the movie could top what we saw up to that point is that the ending didn't cop-out but left the viewers thinking that there are no happy endings when it comes to the never ending saga of cops and robbers , or in this case drug dealers . Also effective is the rivalry between the NYC police and the Federal agents who were assigned to the case and how the clash of personalities almost jeopardized the whole drug busting operation . Bill Hickman , Bill Muldering , who was the top federal agent assigned to the case was the driver in the famous car chase under the El-train in the movie " The French Connection " . Muldering was also the driver in the great chase sequence in the movie " Bullitt " where he locked wheels with Steve McQueen in the streets and highways of San Francisco .
Powerfully Gripping & Deeply Moving Motion Picture	I saw " The Passion of the Christ " the other day at a neighborhood theater and have to say this ; Never in my life was I so moved as well as emotionally drained and left speechless from a movie like this movie about the last day of Jesus Christ . When the movie ended and the lights went on as the credits rolled up there must have been some two hundred people in the theater with me and you didn't hear a word from any one of them . The stillness in the movie-house was that of shock as well as hope in what we all saw on the screen the previous two hours and ten minutes . The Story of " The Passion of the Christ " Jesus ' last day on earth , Good Friday , is well known to all of us . The Bible which the movie is based on is available to anyone who wants it in book stores libraries places of worship and is given out free to anyone who wants it by dozens of religious organizations all over the world . Seeing it on the big screen and being directed by Mel Gibson with what you can only call an inspired cast was the most overwhelming experience that a person could have attending a movie in a theater or anywhere else . The story is about Jesus ' betrayal capture trial and crucifixion but it's far more then that , it's a story about hate love hope and forgiveness . Critics who protest the films brutal violence seem to forget that practically all the violence in the movie is directed on one person , Jesus . They also seem to forget that the violence and death of Jesus , taken from the accounts of the Gospels , is meant to show how horrible and inhuman violence is not to enthrall and whip up those watching the movie into a violent frenzy . Like in the movie " A Clockwork Orange " when the violent and brutal Alex is forced to see hour after hour of the most violent films imaginable in the end he was completely cured of his violent urges and became a normal and no-violent person and even the very thought of violence made Alex sick . " The Passion of the Christ " is a movie about love hope and redemption in a world of hate fear and despair much like the world that we live in today . We can all thank Mel Gibson for spreading THE WORD that the Bible is not obsolete and that THE WORDS of those in the Bible , like Jesus , are not unrealistic and out of fashion and to be forgotten in these modern times . There have been reports in the press that a number of Hollywood big shots have reportedly put out the word that Mel Gibson's days of making and directing movies in " this town " or anywhere else in the motion picture industry is over . What these arrogant snobs are going to find out very soon is that Mel Gibson by making movies like " The Passion of the Christ " is going to own " this town " and they'll need him instead of him needing them for a job . With the movie blockbusters that Mel's been making over the last ten years from " Braveheart " in 1995 to " The Passion of the Christ " this year he can not only write his own ticket but his own check too . As if it were the second coming of Jesus the movie " The Passion of the Christ " came into thousands of theaters in what can only be described as a miracle straight out of the Bible . Mel Gibson has made a movie about the last twelve hours of the life of Jesus with 25-30 million dollars of his own money with a cast of unknowns and not only in a foreign but long dead language , Latin and Aramaic , with sub-titles . Those who are running Hollywood are in a panic everything that they did to first stop the movie from being made and when that didn't work from being released . When that failed they tried with the help of their allies in the media to get the public turned off from the movie and not go see it . When that flopped they finally as a last and desperate resort tried to threaten those making and distributing and acting in the movie with professional and financial ruin and even that misfired . Everything that the big shots in Hollywood did to derail the movie " The Passion of the Christ " turned out to be a complete and total failure just like the messages that they've been putting out to the public all these years of sex and violence and greed and selflessness . We can only thank Mel Gibson not only for his vision and how it inspired him to act but for the vision itself that gave Mel the courage strength and will to see it through after all these months of taking the worst abuse that those in Hollywood and their supporters in the media and elsewhere could muster against one person . Like an irresistible force of nature dispersing and scattering every obstacle thats put before it THE WORD has come down from the mountain and the world of those in power that control the publics hearts and minds and lives and even souls will never be the same again .
Year of the Devil	( There are Spoilers ) One of the best horror movies ever made with almost no blood or splatters scenes at all with the exception of Terry , Victoria Vetri , jumping , off camera , to her death form the seventh floor of the Bramford Building . " Rosemary ' Baby " has to do with the most darkest fears one can conjure up in a movie book as well as in one's own mind ; The return of Satan-the Devil-on earth and everything that goes along with him . It's early October 1965 and the Pope , Pope Paul VI , has made a historical visit to the US and is in the process of giving a sermon , to some 60 , 000 people , at New York's Yankee Stadium . It's also the time designated by a coven of Devil worshiping witches for the Devil's offspring , to be named Adrian , to be conceived by the unsuspecting and Catholic observant Rosemary Woodhouse , Mia Farrow . Since Rosemary and her actor husband Guy , John Cassavetes , moved into the creepy Bramford Building they've become very friendly with the elderly couple who lives next door to their apartment Roman and Minnie Castevet , Sidney Blackman & Ruth Roman . Even though Rosemary is not that taken in by the Castevets eccentric and somewhat wired behaviors her husband Guy is . Guy a struggling actor was desperately trying to get a part in a play that the far more talented Donald Baumgart , Tony Curtis , got . After Guy's involvement with the Castevets Baumgart suddenly lost his sight opening the door for another actor to replace him : Guy Woodhouse ! The movie starts to grow and accelerate , together with Rosemary's pregnancy , in both tension as well as curiosity as she becomes very frail and sickly as the day of the " blessed event " , June 28 , 1966 , is soon to arrive . Feeling that something just isn't right Rosmary has been haunted since her night of conception , October 1965 , it that she feels that it's wasn't Guy who fathered her now soon to be born child but the Devil or Satan , played by Clay Tanner , himself ! Despite the movie's many subplots , all centered around Rosemary's pregnancy and birth to her child , the film is never confusing in that they , the subplots , all come together in the film's final and shocking ten or so minutes ! The Woodhouse's at first had no idea to what evil existed right at their front doorsteps ! Soon they would become in their associations with the Castevets the very central , and rotten , core of it ! It was family friend Edward " Hutch " Hutchins , Maurice Evens , who knew not only the history of the eerie Bramford Building but that of one of its infamous tenants Steven Marcato . It was also that knowledge that lead to Hutch falling into a deep coma that he never came out of ! SPOILER ALERT It was Marcato who was killed by an angry New York mob some 80 years ago for secretly practicing witchcraft ! It was also Marcato who had a son who had since changed , or rearranged , his name and became a man of the world as well as , in his many travels , secretly gotten himself involved with the occult like his father did ! That person is non other then the Woodhouse's kindly and harmless looking next door neighbor Roman Castevet himself ! Making a pact with the Devil has its price and the price that Guy Woodhouse paid for bringing him , in Guy allowing Satan to rape his wife Rosemary , out of the depths of Hell and into the unsuspecting world above was more that it was worth . Guy's career in both TV and the movies , as well as the theater , took off like a shot but in reality he ended up damned for all eternity . As for poor Rosemany in the end after seeing what her new born son really looked like , and what he represented , it was both her goodness , in Rosemary's Christian beliefs , and maternal instincts that eventually overrode her horror and revulsion in what she was forced , by her husband Guy and the Castevets , to unknowingly participate in . As the movie ends Rosemary is heard humming the lullaby theme of the movie as she's gently and tenderly rocking the " cute " little Devil , her son Adrian , to sleep !
Raw and naked emotions makes the city of New York the real star in this classic crime drama	SPOILERS Made on the hot and sweltering streets of New York City in the broiling summer of 1947 " The Naked City " is the first of many thousands , 4 , 450 according to the IMDb , of movies and TV shows that was filmed on location in the city of New York . Released in March of 1948 " The Naked City " at first became a major movie success in that year and now is considered by many to be one of the best crime / film noir / movies ever made . In the dark and early morning hours in an apartment high-rise on the quiet and chic upper West Side of Manhattan to a blazing afternoon sun on the top of a tower over the East River on the heavily traveled crowded and noisy Williamsburg Bridge a story is played out that will lay bare and strip naked every emotion that can be packed into a motion picture . Fashion model Jean Dexter is brutally murdered in her apartment and then dumped into the bathtub to make it look like she overdosed on drugs and drowned . Later one of her killers , who had second thoughts about what he did , is murdered by his partner and then thrown into the East River . With the city medical examiner determining that Miss . Dexter's death was a homicide Lt . Muldoon & Det . Halloran , Barry Fitzgerald & Don Taylor , are put on the case . The police find a number of jewelry items in Jean's apartment that it turned out were stolen in a string of burglaries of people that she knew . Keying in on a Frank Niles ( Howard Duff ) , who was one of Jean's close friends , who's stories about himself being a combat veteran and successful businessman turned out to be total hokum but his alibi about him being at a nightclub at the time of Jean's murder with his fianc Ruth Morrison , Dorothy Heart , checked out . later in an emotionally packed sequence at the City Morgue with Jean's parents Mr & Mrs Batory ( Adeliade Kline & Grover Burgess ) Mrs . Batory who hated her daughter , for changing her name to Dexter and leaving home and mixing with the crowd that lead to her murder , breaks down and sobs uncontrollably when she and her husband are shown Jean's body for them to make a positive identification . Niles in a panic pawns off a number of stolen jewels from friends of his and Jean that he somehow came into possession of that had the police , with Niles ' fianc Ruth , go to his apartment just in time to stop him from being murdered , by Jean's murderer ? As the frustrated would-be killer escapes by getting away on a city EL train . Confronted with the news of his lying and with the revelation of Niles engagement ring to Ruth being stolen from her mother and him having a plane ticket for him to skip out of the country to Mexico . Ruth , in another emotionally packed scene in the movie , break down in tears and then smacks the almost comatose Niles around so hard that Det . Halloran had to step in and stop her . The police get a big break in the Dexter murder case when Pete Backalis , Walter Burke , is found floating not far from Jean's apartment in the East River . It's determined that Backalis was killed just after Jean's murder and that he had a rap sheet of burglaries , just like the one at Jean's apartment , and worked with a fellow burglar named Willie Gazah , Ted De Corsia . The police putting all the pieces together connect Niles and Jean with the prominent physician and high society party-thrower Dr . Stoneman , House Jameson , who seems to have more then a passing acquaintance with her . Police detectives Muldoon & Halloran going to Dr . Stoneman office and taking Niels along with them . Dr . Stoneman when confronted with Niels and the news of Jean's murder in yet another emotionally charged scene in the movie , tearfully break down as the shocking truth comes out about his secret life as Jean's lover . As well as the person who tipped her off about the people who were to attend his and his wife's parties , so Jean's criminal associates can break into their homes and rob their jewelry . Dr . Stoneman reaching a state of total despair and having what seems like a complete emotional breakdown all at once attempts to jump out of his high-rise office window . Niels , who for once in his life did something good and heroic , stopped him just before he could get to the window ledge . Tracking down the elusive Garzah to his Lower East Side apartment Det . Halloran is knocked out by him when he realized that he's a cop instead a hospital worker who's checking on him about his friend Peter Backalis who Halloran tells him is alive but Garzah knows that Pete's dead because he murdered him . With the police dragnet slowly closing in on him Garzah takes off to the only avenue of escape left open to him the East River Williamsburg Bridge . Panicking when he collides on the bridges walk-path with a person who's blind , and then shoots his seeing-eye dog who attacked him , Garzah makes a run for it as the police are alerted , by the gunshot , and chase him to the bridge's Manhattan side tower . With nowhere for him to run , as the bridge is cut off on both the Manhattan and Brooklyn sides by the police , Garzah desperately climbs to the top and is shot in a blazing gun battle , when he refused to surrender . The killer falls to his death in a scene that made the Williamsburg Bridge almost as famous as the scene at the end of the movie " King Kong " that made the Empire State Building a piece of motion picture folklore . With the murder of Jean Dexter now solved , and out of the newspaper headlines and in the garbage can , the film ends with the now famous line : " There Are Eight Million Stories In The Naked City ; This Has Been ONE Of THEM " .
Cleansing of the Soul	" The Swimmer " was a critical and financial disappointment back in 1968 when it was released because it was a subject matter that was never covered before in the movies , as far as I know . The film was so ahead of it's time that the viewers back then couldn't quite understand just what it was trying to tell them . The movie starts off with Ned Merrill , Burt Lancaster , coming out of the woods in rural Connecticut wearing nothing more then bathing trunks to his neighbors Donald and Helen Westerhazy , Tony Bickley and Diana Vander Vils , home . After impulsively taking a dive into the Westerhazy's swimming pool Ned gets the idea of going home by swimming in all of his neighbors pools , that ring the neighborhood , until he reaches his home on the other side of the woods . The Westerhazy's seem happy and at the same time surprised to see Ned who seems , by their conversation with him , to have been away for some time . From what we can gather from the talk between Ned and the Westerhazy's Ned's , or Naddy as they call him , a very successful person in both his work and his marriage to his lovely wife Lucinda with whom he has two beautiful daughters ; in short Ned is a success in everything that he ever did . We first begin to notice that there's something wrong with what Ned's talking about himself and his wife and daughters when his neighbors seem startled and taken back a bit by Ned's boasting , that's the only word I can come up with in regards to the way Ned is talking about himself . The Westerhazy's want to say something but settle not to and seem to play along with Ned's story telling . It's like you would do with a youngster who's making up things in order not to hurt his or her feelings . As Ned starts to swim from swimming pool to swimming pool every one of his neighbors who's pool he swims through begin to put a piece of the puzzle of Ned's life into place . Even the swimming pools that Ned swims through begin to take a different look like the insight that the audience gets about Ned's past . Going from swimming pools in private homes and mansions to the public pool at the local recreation center where Ned has to borrow . 50 cents , which came as a great shock and embarrassment to him and his ego , to swim in . We also begin to see during his swimming adventures in the movie Ned slowly being worn down . Vigorous and athletic looking in the beginning of the film , for a 50 or so year-old , Ned turns into a broken down and pathetic looking old man toward the end . Even though the movie doesn't come right out and say it the audience comes to see just what Ned is really all about through the people that he meets , who reveal bit's and piece's of his past , in his quest to swim home through their swimming pools ; and at the same time so does Ned by the time he makes it home . Ned's the type of person that everyone watching the movie can either relate to or identify with as someone that everyone's come across in their life . Ned's a person who lives in a dream world that he built around himself and doesn't want to see reality until it hits him right between the eyes . You have to see the movie a number of times to realize what it's trying to tell you about Ned : What he's all about ? where does he come from ? what's the story with his wife and daughters ? what did he have to do with those neighbors that he comes in contact with in the movie and most of all what state of mind is Ned in ? You somehow begin to realize that there's something wrong with Ned almost as soon as you see him but you just can't put your finger on it . " The Swimmer " makes you think , as soon as the credits starts to roll down the screen , where you know that something isn't quite right with the picture and the person in it but it takes some ninety five minutes to see it for what it is . The movie does it by putting together all the swimming pools that Ned swims through like some kind of cleansing of Ned's soul that conditions him for the hard reality that's about to strike him at the conclusion of the film .
Friends always keep their Promises	( There are Spoilers ) Being picked up for drunkenness Jim Stark , James Dean , is at the police station where he meets , without any formal introduction , Judy and Plato , Natalie Wood & Sal Mineo , who would become bonded with him later in the movie to the point where their a family . A family that they've never had or have ever been a part of . Just having moved into town Jim is a bit nervous in that tomorrow would be his first day in school and wants to make an good impression on his fellow high school students . Jim didn't realize at the time but the next 36 or so hours he'd make an impression that everyone that he comes in contact with , at school and out as well as the movie audience , will never forget for the rest of their lives . In the case of Buzz , Corey Allen , his involvement with Jim would be his last day on earth . Released just under a month ( October 27 , 1955 ) after James Dean's tragic death at the young and tender age of 24 in a car crash on September 30 , 1955 the Nicholas Ray directed film " Rebel Without a Cause " impact on the youth of America , as well as the movie going public all over world , was like that of an 100 plus megaton hydrogen bomb . The movie exploded with such a wallop and left such an impact that it's effects has influenced movies about troubled youths has not let up at all for the last fifty or so years . Jims first day in school isn't exactly as smooth as he hoped it would be . Right off the bat he get's the school's bullies on his back by trying to get friendly with Judy , who turns out to be his neighbor , as he offers her a ride . At Dawson High School Jim mistakenly steps on the school's emblem , a no no , which infuriates a number of students . Going to the Griffeth Observatory with his fellow students for a lecture on the Universe Jim's clumsy attempt at humor , making sounds like a cow at the star sign of Turus , get's the same group of bullies so mad at him that they wait outside the auditorium just to pick a fight with Jim . At first trying to avoid trouble when Buzz , the leader of the gang of bullies , flatten his car tire Jim is then forced into a knife fight with him who he reluctantly , but decisively , beats . Jim who was trying to make an impression and friends at school only got the Buzz gang to attack him with Plato , who's picked on by every bully in Dawson High School , being the only friend he makes . Only because he's the only one who treats Plato with any kindness or understanding . Being challenged to go on a " chicken run " Jim , who never heard of it , tells Buzz that's all he does . Later that night it's the experienced Buzz , not the first timer Jim , who ends up dead at the bottom of the dangerous Millertown Bluff where the " Chicken Run " was held . An hysterical and heart-broken Judy seeks Jim out for understanding and someone to hold on to , as well as him being a replacement for her now dead boyfriend Buzz . It's then that Buzz's fellow gang members feel that Jim's going to go to the police to report what happened and implicate them . Jim does intend to go to the cops but to tell them that he was the other person involved in the " chicken run " . Not getting any support from his parents Mr & Mrs Stark , Jim Backus & Ann Doran , in the situation that he finds himself in Jim together with Judy and Plato hide out at a deserted mansion in the Hollywood Hills that was the friendless Plato's secret hideaway . It's at the mansion that Plato starts to feel that he's been deserted by his new family Jim & Judy when he's momently left alone by them and a number of the late Buzz's gang , who were looking for Jim to keep him from telling on them , attack him . It's then that Plato ends up shooting and wounding one of them Crunch , Frank Mazzola . With the local police now out looking to arrest Plato for shooting Crunch he runs into the Griffith Observertory with Jim and Judy running the police roadblock and dragnet to try to talk Plato into giving himself up before he ends up getting shot and killed . One of the best youth movie of all times " Rebel without a Cause " breaks away from to usual family stereotype in the movies and TV and shows real people with real emotions that shocked moviegoers back then and even now , over 50 years later . Watching it you realize how ahead of it's time it really was . None of the teenagers had any father figure , or in the case of Plato no father at all , in the movie so it wasn't surprising at all that Jim Judy and Plato bonded so well with each other because of that very fact . Tremendous and moving musical score as the movie builds itself up for it's unforgettable and at the same time sad ending . With dawn breaking out over the Hollywood Hills a new day had dawn for those in the movie that survived the violence of the night before . With that knowledge the future for them was starting to look a lot brighter despite the very depressing and sad ending .
War Is a Racket	Major General Smedley Butler of the US Marine Corps wrote back in 1933 his famous essay on modern warfare entitled " War is a Racket " . Smedley Butler served his country for over thirty years in the US Marine Corps on three different continents in some dozen military engagements . Having won the Congressional Medal of Honor twice , not once , for courage and valor above and beyond the call of duty Gen . Butler came to this sad conclusion to the service that he rendered to his country at the twilight of his long and distinguished military career . Seventy years later Michael Moore came to the same conclusion that Gen . Butler did : " War is a Racket " . Unlike Gen . Butler who put his thoughts on paper Michael Moore put them on film in his explosive documentary " Fahrenheit " . The movie focuses in on the fateful summer of 2001 when Pres . Bush received but ignored a CIA report on August 6 , 2001 about a possible impending attack by Osama Bin-Laden's Al-Qeada terrorist group on targets on American soil . Bin-Laden planned to use hijacked passenger planes to pull this terrorist operation off , that's exactly what happened on September 11 , 2001 a month later . The Bush Administration used that tragic event to push for and pass the " Patriot Act " that that compromised the US Constitution and Bill of Rights . At the same time Pres . Bush pushed for war against Saddam Hussein's Iraq which had nothing to do with the attacks . Being that the Al-Qeada was in Afghanistan not Iraq and protected by the Taliban who ran that country President Bush had no choice but to attack Afghanistan . By the late spring of 2002 both the Al-Qeada and Taliban together with their leaders Osama Bin-Laden & Mullah Omar escaped the pursuing US and allied forces by getting themselves lost into the rugged mountains on the Afghan / Pakistan border . Bush used only 11 , 000 US troops in that war , less then there are policemen on the island of Manhattan , against a country bigger and more populated then the state of Texas . By the summer of 2002 the Bush Administration started to mass US troops in Kuwait for the invasion of the real target on their radar scope Saddam's Iraq . The Bush Administration together with the cooperation of the US media started to plant stories of Iraq being responsible for the attacks by being allied with Osama Bin-Laden's Al-Qeada . The American public was also told that Iraq had possession of WMD , Weapons of Mass Destruction , and would use then on it's neighbors as well as the United States . After months of pounding these rumors into the minds of the American public on March 19 , 2003 Bush and his Neocon / hawks finally got their wish as the US invaded Iraq , something that GW Bush & Co . wanted since they took office back on January 20 , 2001 . The Iraqi war has already cost the lives of some 12 to 15 thousand Iraqi's and almost 1 , 000 US servicemen and is still going on with no end in sight . The Commission has come out with a statement that Iraq had nothing at all to do with the attacks on America and found no evidence that Iraq had WMD . Michael Moore exposed the crude propaganda of the Bush / Neocons in going to war in Iraq as well as attacking anyone , like himself , who's against that war as being unpatriotic . Moore does this by showing us those GI's who were severely wounded in that war at a local veterans hospital which the US media never shows and which we hardly if ever see or hear Bush or members of his administration visit . Since the start of the war in Iraq Bush with the majority of the congress cut as much as 60 % of veterans benefits behind the scenes . while in public Bush & Co . claimed to be such big supporters of our fighting men and women and that anybody who was against their policies in Iraq were bad for the troops fighting and dying there and responsible for the losses that they are suffering in Iraq . Even though those against the war want the US servicemen not to be in that country and suffer the casualties that they are suffering there in the first place . Like the wounded GI's in the veterans hospital the Bush Administration as well as the US media refuses to show the returning flag-draped coffins of dead US servicemen coming back from Iraq as well as Afghanistan , it's just too depressing for the American public to see were told by them . Even though Michael Moore leaves out the footage of the brutal attacks from his movie he does have the very graphic and bloody footage of the fighting in Iraq . The shocking scenes of dead and wounded US servicemen and Iraqi civilians and soldiers made many in the theater watching the movie turn away from the screen . Of all the 535 members in the US congress only one has a son serving in Iraq . At the end of the movie Michael Moore with a US Marine recruiter by his side goes to the Capital Building in Washington D . C . trying to get the sons and daughters of the Congressmen and Senators , who for the most part support the war in Iraq , to voluntarily go fight and die in the war that they seem to be so supportive of : to no ones surprise there were no takers .
