Watching paint dry is better than this . . .	A low budget effort from Texas that's at least filmed well , but that is little consolation . Bad acting , or , should I say , bad over-acting , a pretty limp story line that's nothing new , bad special effects , bad , bad , bad . Seems like a bunch of young folks are putting together a haunted house for Halloween , which is done every year , but this year things are different . Has a long extended lesbian theme that is not only annoying but definitely fills out the empty spots , of which there are a lot . Putrid , puerile , definitely avoidable , at all costs .
Ptooey	Dan Haggerty has sure been in some fine movies . Elves , and this . . . and maybe some other equally fine movies . Grizzly Adams stuff , I reckon . I guess you could call this Nightmare on Elm Street meets Platoon , but that's an insult to Nightmare On Elm Street and I've never seen Platoon , but that's the first war movie that came to mind . Some Vietnam vets are having realistic dreams about their experiences during the war . They actually look rather young to have been there at all considering the war ended a good 16-17 years before this movie was made ? I found this to be a very flat movie , little in the way of excitement or scares . It does have the " Nightmare on Elm St . " thing going on though with trying to stay awake or having someone watch you so they can wake you up if the dream gets too bad . I could identify with the trying to stay awake part , I was having a lot of trouble with that myself . One absolutely ridiculous scene consists of two guys lying on a double bed in a suburban bedroom , dressed in their combat fatigues , firing their machine guns while asleep . What the hell ? Anyway , I passed this one up time after time at the " used " store , but finally broke down and got it because I was intrigued . Nothing to be intrigued about , guess I should go with my gut feelings . Ptooey .
Huh ?	A young woman , driving along on a dirt road in the middle of nowhere , is having phone sex with her boyfriend ( ? ! ) when she realizes she's lost ( like she didn't appear to be already ) . She stops near an abandoned school bus with the words HELP ME written on the inside of the windows , gets two flat tires & of course promptly gets into the school bus which is then driven away by some nut case that has just dragged the body of some man aboard and then stops to get a couple bags of " self serve " ice and throws them into the back of the bus . ( note : the car with the " flat " tires comes into play a bit later when the tires aren't flat at all , especially when the car is moving at full speed ) . HUH ? The bus drives on through the night into a very remote area where there is this huge , castle-like structure , and the stowaway woman manages to let loose a young girl who is chained in the back of the bus , after which she beats the bus driver to death with a stool . The man that was dragged onto the bus ( turns out his name is " Frank " ) is not dead and comes to and follows the girls throughout this castle-like building as they explore . And guess what ? Frank's the real loony , and the bus driver was a good guy ? WTF ? There are other characters that pop up and die here and there , plus there's a pizza-faced cannibal boy that follows one girl around with a wedding ring he took off of his lunch . And then of course there is the question of Frank's origin which has something to do with one of the girl's fathers , who was a doctor , and who recently died . I've seen plenty of really bad movies in my time but this may well take the cake . It's VERY badly written & is thrown together into an incomprehensible mess that's not even worth trying to sort out . Avoid this one like the plague . .
they don't get much worse than this	I've seen some bad and badly-made movies in my time but this might take the cake . And the whole birthday party right along with it . Seems that years ago some little boy got locked in the closet in this remote house by his mom , so she and her boyfriend could make whoopee , and he got out and killed them with ( wait for it ) a sledgehammer . Now , keep in mind that the little boy keeps turning into a grown man ghost and back again with no discernable reason for that , & I seriously doubt that a little boy could have hit a man standing up in the back of the head with a sledgehammer hard enough to cave his head in . The sledgehammer is apparently a ghost too , as it appears and disappears at will . Huh . There are the usual stupid young people , all begging to be killed as they go against human nature and investigate the strange goings-on . Shot directly with a video camera so the cheesiness is only amplified . Ptooey !
wow yet ANOTHER dead teen movie already ?	I'm a sucker every time for Hollywood video's 4 for $20 sales , meaning I find two I really want and then have to find two that might not be TOO bad but I'm generally WRONG about that . And here is one of my two rejects , " One of Them " , some low budget ca-ca about some teens that were on their way to see where one of them grew up and crash after a bug invasion . I guess they find themselves at this college or university , The School of Hard Knocks , I reckon , as that's about what they're going to get as they run away from other dead teenagers or SOMETHING , it's not often that I watch movies that are this incoherent . So incoherent was it that I declined to watch the whole thing and instead wasted still more time watching " Shadows of the Dead " so if you like you can read my review on that hunk-o-junk too . , and only because the numbers go no lower than 1 . Abysmal .
the least fun you can have not being scared	Warning : Creepshow 3 has nothing to do with one and two , and why the makers were allowed to slap this name on it is beyond me . No involvement of any of the original players that made the first two enjoyable , no George Romero , no Stephen King . Now the first Creepshow was wonderful , with the takeoffs on EC comics , and the second one , not as good , but still enjoyable and retaining that sort of format , but this one , oh my . Well , it is an anthology of lots of very short stories that are all sort of interconnected , but it's just plain ridiculous . My first sign that I'd gotten a clinker was the " animated " opening sequence which was extremely amateur and downright poorly done , and that wasn't even enough to prepare me for the actual " film " . The stories are rather sketchy at best , and have about zero or less impact . You'd think 20 years after the last " Creepshow " that technology and things would have advanced a bit to where someone would be able to put out something decent , but the right " someones " were apparently not present . A very disappointing piece of crap , . Avoid like two plagues .
a new low for Troma and the British Empire as well	OK , in theory this film does sound interesting . In execution , it's terrible , far more terrible than one could ever ask for . The idea is that there's a dog-napping ring that's supplying a neo-Nazi fast food empire run by a Hitler-like Pope , which is all well & good , and there's a junkie fetus and a drunken ventriloquist dummy helping out a couple cops who are investigating the whole thing . However , it's got super-amateur filming , acting , and effects , and put me immediately in mind of something I never wanted to think of again which was a flick called " Zombie Toxin " , another no-budget piece of crap that washed up on our shores from the British Isles as well . However , despite its resemblance it appears that these films share no actor or other staff unless the names have been changed to protect the guilty . Evolved is so bad that I finally stopped it as the evening wore on because I wanted time for an antidote , something ELSE to watch before bedtime so I wouldn't think my entire day had first been wasted by work and now THIS . I think I would be hard-pressed to find any less-talented people than the ones that were responsible for this mess , and boo and hiss to Troma for even putting it out , although my uh , respect for Troma has waned increasingly over the past couple of years as Lloyd Kaufman continues to get more unbearable with his shameless huckster shtick . Here it is 5 : 15 AM and I'm already in a bad mood writing about this . . . well I'll cheer myself up and go to work , so you KNOW this film must have been bad . , don't even consider renting this at all , really .
Still born	The premise of this film is interesting , only once that premise is established then the film wanders off into the sunset long before the run time is over . The idea is that there's some lunatic running around some nameless big city killing derelicts and leaving their bodies to be found in arty settings , with the initials A . K . ( Art Killer ) showing that he's struck again . But then we wander into the not very interesting life of a young couple and a friend / neighbor of theirs who are all sort of media types ( he's a musician , she's a reporter , and their friend is a performance artist ) and from that point on the interest in the film faded by the minute . Anyone who is remotely conscious will have figured out who the culprit is long before the film is over , and my recommendation is that WHEN you figure it out you just stop either the tape or the disc , remove it from the player and throw it away . Trust me , you'll be fine , it won't really matter if you were wrong , and you won't have it on your conscience that someone ELSE will see this if you were to take it somewhere and trade it in . Believe me , you'll feel better about yourself than I did when I woke up this morning , I watched it till the end , and am still drooling . .
Lock the windows . Bar the doors . Draw the blinds . Don't let this one in .	There used to be a certain naivety in low-budget horror back in , oh , maybe the 70's & 80's . A film could be earnest and yet not very good , and perhaps with some unintentional entertainment value ( like laughs ) . Seems like those days are gone forever as up-and-coming " directors " can turn out seemingly " serious " horror movies , like this , at the drop of a hat , and get them released on an unsuspecting public . Be warned , this is a real piece of work . Perhaps the makers of this film WERE earnest in their efforts , but the acting is terrible and the characters are unconvincing , like the tough blond police officer and the drunken retired ex-cop that team up to catch the perpetrator in this film . The story is that young kids are getting killed in grisly ways by some Leatherface-looking killer , who may be an escaped mental patient . Suspicion falls on the janitor at the high school though , mainly because he's big & weird . He plays with dolls , & " Rock-em Sock-em Robots " with kids faces taped on . He also pretends to be a rock star & sticks pins in dolls , etc . The tough and potty-mouthed police officer then eases up and teams up on the potty-mouthed ex-cop & they set out to find the killer . The red herrings in this film are practically thrown into your lap , or perhaps your face . There are some scenes in this film that make you wonder if this was intended as a horror-comedy , but it's pretty difficult to say . The film really doesn't work on either level . Overall this is generally uninvolving and it just plays on until you either finish watching it or rip it out of the player & go to bed before it's over , like I did . Maybe the killer wasn't who it seemed to be and there was some great twist to it . Can I live without knowing this ? You betcha . .
beating a very dead horse	Just when you thought everyone was done ripping off " Scream " , along comes Final Stab , which again proves that David DeCoteau hasn't an original idea in his head . Yet another movie populated by rich pretty-boy pretty-girl types , and the queen bitch Angela ( as she refers to herself ) has an idea for a staged bunch of murders at an old house . Only there's a reason for what she's doing and it has to do with getting back at some guy that wouldn't do her . Oh , and the murders aren't exactly being faked . The usual ' cutesy ' dialog doesn't do it for me either . As a sort of side-story , some guys that want to mess with Angela are hanging out around the house , I guess to throw more ' red herrings ' at the viewer but all they are is more fodder for the killer . There's no one in this film that the discriminating viewer will not want to see killed horribly from the get go , and you'll be rooting for the killer , whoever it is . It is , of course , supposed to be some hired actor , but after a while you know it isn't . In fact , after a while you know pretty much everything that's going on or going to happen and it all does seem to happen with little suspense or scares . Video pablum , this is , fed to the undiscriminating viewer by spoon . My advice ? Spit it out . .
This will leave you down in the mouth	Stephen J . Cannell apparently decided a few years ago that he would broaden his horizons and dabble in horror . The result , " Dead Above Ground " , is an abysmal piece of junk . Now , had I noticed his name in association with THIS particular film I'd have put it back but no , I didn't have my glasses on and therefore I missed it , damn , I really do need to bring those with me while video shopping . First question would be , who the heck is the target audience for this ? It's almost like a " scary " kids movie , but then again there's topless babes and some gore and some bad words spouted here and there . The main characters are so cute that you want to see someone , anyone , go after them with farm implements of SOME kind . Seems that a guy opens a bed and breakfast that has a checkered past , a child-murdering witch that collected children's teeth lived there . Probably something the real estate agent failed to mention . Of course now in the modern day there's a little girls ghost around to warn the real-live little girl that now lives there that something bad is going to happen . It does , and there's also two Bubbas that were squatting on that property when the new owner took over so they're out for revenge too . This whole thing has the feel of some made-for-cable junk that's for the kids at Halloween except for , of course , the things that aren't suitable for little kids , so not only is this mediocre , it's confused , too . A big boo and hiss to Anchor Bay for putting this out too , considering their usual track record with fine releases this is a new low . The UK gets a Phantasm Box Set , we get " The Tooth Fairy " . Hardly seems fair . , absolute garbage .
I think I've reached the point where I'm not foolish enough to try to watch any more of these . . . .	I have foolishly viewed far too many of these " 8 films to die for " DVD's , from both the first go-round & the second . I think that perhaps " Lake Dead " is the nail in the coffin of my interest in these films . There were a few goodies in among the crap , like " Reincarnation " , " The Abandoned " , and " Frontiers " , but as for the rest , well , utterly forgettable with little in the way of any redeeming values . Three girls inherit a hotel from their grandfather that they didn't know was alive . Their father may well be a drunken fool , but he at least tried to protect them from the knowledge of grandpa's existence . Why ? Well , because there were some unsavory family ties that he didn't want his daughter involved in . And how unsavory were these ties ? Well , grandpa gets it at the very beginning of the film , when he decides enough is enough , apparently , although a little late , I'd say . The girls , of course , head off to view their inheritance in a big RV that belongs to an old frat buddy of one of the daughter's boyfriends . Also along for the ride is a friend of one of the daughters , of the female persuasion . There is a bit of dismay expressed by the RV owner's girlfriend , since her boyfriend has cheated on her numerous times , and he's not done yet , you can bet . When they reach the hotel they're greeted by the shriveled manager , a sweet old lady who really isn't all that sweet . And after tangling with some deformed looking locals they're picked up by the nice sheriff , who really isn't so nice . And then it's sort of revealed that the girls may have a few family ties with these folks and they're due to keep the family line going . I guess there's not a lot of good things that I can say about a movie where the highlight is a guy giving his mom some tongue . . . I won't say who it is but if anything in this movie was scary , that was it . An abysmal piece of work , not to be bothered with . .
gratuitous torture and violence with NO redeeming values	I've seen other Guinea Pig films , like Mermaid in a Manhole & He Never Dies , and while they're pretty sick , they at least have a bit of a sense of humor to them ( however dark ) . Devil's Experiment though , is nothing more than filming a bunch of punks submitting a young girl to many methods of torture and violence and there's no plot and no redeeming values to it whatsoever . It isn't remotely scary , except for perhaps the mind-set , but it's definitely disgusting and I certainly would not call it entertainment . Now , I'm not the paragon of good taste in films and I like my trash and sleaze , but this was too much for me , really . I'm all for disturbing , in fact , I seek out things that are disturbing whenever possible , but this was a bit much . The young woman is kicked , beaten , submitted to continuous noise via headphones until she drools , and then pelted with raw meat and innards and left hanging in a hammock out in the woods somewhere . If you think that sounds great , go for it , but it certainly put me off viewing any more Guinea Pig stuff . , absolutely nauseating .
as in , " Avoid Like . . . "	This is an awful film . No doubt about it , no redeeming values whatsoever . The idea is good , that all the children of the world of a certain age go into some kind of coma all at the same time and 10 years later all wake up , and wreak havoc , but the execution is TERRIBLE and not even a scare to be found . I'm surprised Clive Barker even allowed his name to go on it . This comes off as nothing better than a fourth-rate " Night of the Living Dead " ripoff and there's very little of substance here . Of course a group of adults and a couple kids that weren't affected by the plague band together and try to get to safety at a local air force base but of course nothing goes as planned . Very flat and lackluster , not a scare to be found , not anything to even generate a vague sense of excitement . Yeah there's some blood here and there but so what . Discriminating film viewers will do well to avoid this like the plague . .
It sucks	Hey now , saying that this movie sucks seems like such an obvious cheap shot , but thankfully , in this case , doing so is NOT beneath me . I had some hope for this being somewhat amusing , and the retro-looking title that flashed across the screen ( LEECHES ! ) reinforced that , but it was all downhill from there . If you're of the female persuasion , you'll most likely enjoy the parade of beefcake , if that's all you look for in a movie , but as a guy , well , showing a scene like the camera panning up and down the trim body of some male athlete is fine , I guess , as long as he brutally dies in the next few seconds . There seems to be a lot of these type of shots . Hmm . At any rate , there's these swim team guys , y'see , and they're taking steroids , y'see , and even though there is apparently a nice pool available to them they take a liking to swimming in some lake or pond or swamp , even , not sure what it is . And the water is full of nasty old leeches . The leeches suck up the steroids and grow to astounding proportions and rampage throughout the college campus . Does anyone remember Creepy Crawlers , the slimy looking bugs and stuff you could make with Plastigoop and the Mattel Thingmaker back in the 60's ? The leeches looks like one of those things , only less believable . After a couple of brutal leech suckings I stopped the tape and placed this ever so gently into my trade-in pile . If you have time to watch a movie like this , you may wish to spend that time vacuuming , cleaning the toilet , or something else . If you're trapped on a desert island and this is the only movie available , then by all means , watch it . Ptoeey .
OK , so I made a mistake	I know Jesse Franco is responsible for a wide variety of films , and I mainly go for his horror films , as lousy as they are at times . I guess it was morbid curiousity that drew me to this , and I wasn't even curious enough to finish it . Maybe it got better towards the end but unless you're into lesbian sex scenes ( of which there's plenty ) then you may want to take a pass . So what exactly can you say about a movie that features a woman that pees in a bowl on the kitchen counter ( while standing up ) ? Just never you mind what that's used for later , you probably don't want to know . If this sounds intriguing to you , then that's your problem but then again you might just like this movie . I myself , am no prude , I've seen plenty of disgusting movies in my day but at least they were done well , and this isn't . Sometimes too much is just too much . Bleah .
no-budget junk is OK to a point , then it's off to dreamland . . . .	I have no idea how this movie ended , on the DVD , that is , but at my house it ended with the push of a button and ta-dah , it was done . Some hunters and their girlfriends go out into the woods and decide to try a different trail from what they normally take , and find that they're camping near an old church and cemetery . In this cemetery seems to be a hodge-podge of people in ersatz confederate uniforms and some in flannel shirts and jeans , who rise up and attack . Of course our intrepid hunters , girlfriends in tow , manage to get away and encounter some cops , neither of whom appear to be under 60 , and one tries to explain away what happened while the other goes out into the woods and gets attacked and eaten . Whoever this guy was , he was definitely a good whimperer , not even a scream from him . The effects are rather laughable and the body that the zombies are feasting on appears to be a white shirt stuffed with nasty bits of meat so basically the things are reaching inside the shirt to get nourishment , not removing it from a disgusting gaping hole like in MOST zombie movies . There's also something about exploding bullets that make the zombies disappear in a puff of smoke , and fireworks that get thrown on a fire and then are super-imposed over the rest of the footage for that really confusing look . The one zombie feast with the policeman goes on for some time ( at least five minutes ) and there's plenty of lip-smacking and " yummy " noises which at times almost sounds rather sexual . You'll be gaping in awe . As I found myself drifting off to sleep I realized that life is too short to watch movies that are THIS bad , so I stopped it and watched something else , whew . Truly a coma-inducing film , , zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
incredibly stupid	Kitten Natividad , of Russ Meyer film fame , plays Chastity Knott , a woman who has found she has breast cancer , so she goes to South America to get some special fruit ( Crockazilla ? ) that is supposed to have healing powers . After going down on some of this fruit ( which appears to be plastic bananas on stalks ) Chastity is endowed with some mystical magical powers that makes her a super-hero , specifically , The Double D Avenger . Note that she's also wearing a pair of panties as a mask . In writing , that all sounds pretty good . In execution , well , it leaves more than a little to be desired . It seems that Chastity owns a pub and a local strip joint is upset because she's taking away their business so some of the strippers ( including Haji , also of Russ Meyer film fame ) go after her to ruin her . Of course , Chastity fights back in the guise of the Double D Avenger . Watch her do a " Wonder Woman " type spin to change into her outfit and also lose her balance due to excessive centrifugal force . Bad jokes and lame double entendres fly like there was no tomorrow . With the inane theme song playing over and over this comes off like a twisted 70's " live action " kid's show with adult content , although while this is unrated it could probably get away with PG-13 at the worst . And it's probably a blessing that the faded stars kept well covered . This makes Doris Wishman's Chesty Morgan films look positively wonderful in comparison . Special appearance by Forest J . Ackerman but so what . Very stupid , and I'm never buying another film with Joe Bob Briggs on the cover . .
I was comfortable ( otherwise I'd have ripped this out of the DVD player )	A TV reporter named Rachel loses her hubby to some masked killer in the middle of the night , and moves back to the place where she grew up , Fillmore , to stay with her folks for a while . She gets a job at a local TV station and becomes fascinated with a particular old house while on an assignment to study the local architecture . Seems there's a nasty history to that old house & Rachel sees things there that she doesn't understand , at first . . . . Now , for anyone who is thinking that the presence of Bill Mosely and Sid Haig means that this will be a nasty creepy horror film , hold up for a moment . Bill Mosely plays the sheriff , in a rather clean-cut role for him , and Sid Haig plays Rachel's dad , and the scariest thing about him is perhaps his diet . . . fried chicken , fried eggs , bacon , etc . The former owner of the aforementioned house that Rachel becomes fascinated with is one Dr . Sullivan ( AKA " The Butcher " ) who apparently went away for a long time because he killed his wife & 3 of his 4 children . But now , he's back , but how , isn't explained , maybe he broke out of prison ? But he's back to his sharp-instrument-wielding ways , and he's supposedly out to find his lost daughter . Hmm , who could it be ? This does have a few decent moments but there's a rather long and unnecessary family chat that will have you wanting to take your own life . Sid Haig is NOT the fatherly type , and it just doesn't work . Anyway , I had pistachio nuts , a glass of iced tea , and I was comfortable , otherwise I'd have gotten up and ripped this out of the DVD player . More mediocre alleged horror courtesy of Lion's Gate . . . I should have known better . .
Yet another cave movie	I can't say if " The Cavern " is a ripoff of " The Cave " because I haven't seen that . I've seen " The Descent " and that's not terrible but it is very hard to watch and so is this one . Hard to watch , as in , there's very little light and lots of fast motion so you're hard pressed to say what you're looking at . There are times when I guess , you're supposed to be scared , judging from the music , but scared of what ? Bad camera work ? Poor lighting ? If that's the case than this should be the scariest movie made . The story is that a bunch of cave explorers go to a cave in Kazakhstan ( home of Borat ) and make their descent , but something is ( of course ) in there with them . And what is it ? One guy says it's a wolf / bear hybrid , that is , just before he gets ripped apart , but whatever it is , you can't see it . And just when you think ( or hope ) the film is ending , since the screen goes dark for a bit , you see the two remaining cavers ( the two women ) wake up somewhere in Betty and Wilma attire and start trying to find their way out of wherever they are . They do drink some water and start eating SOMETHING until they figure out what it is and start puking . . . . and then the mystery of what's in the cave appears , and you'll just be astounded . Maybe , maybe not . Dumb dumb dumb . . . . I think I'm pretty well done with cave movies at this point , .
third rate " Alien " rip-off	I love the film Xtro , because it's weird and imaginative , and just overall a strange little film . Jump 8 years into the future when this " sequel " was made and we have nothing more than " Alien " in an underground research facility . And the critter looks like Alien , it doesn't look like the critter in the original at all . The storyline is promising as this lab is set up to send people to a parallel universe ( and then of course bring them back . . . right ? ) but of course this is a horror movie and they're not coming back , or at least the one that did wasn't alone . And it's a woman , and guess what is inside her ? Of course it gets birthed in glorious splatter and once loose , goes into the ventilation system at which point this becomes a movie you've seen many times before and probably much much better . Not worth your time , .
yikes . . . .	There are some movies that are so horrific , so riveting , and so shocking , that there is almost a hypnotic effect on the viewer and they sit , transfixed , mouth hanging open , waiting to see what happens next . This is not one of those movies , but it does have a hypnotic effect , of sorts . More of a numbing effect , I think . Thankfully I was able to break through that effect and get up and stop this and put it somewhere where it could do no more harm . Imagine fans of Ed Wood and Don Dohler making a movie with carnivorous alien sock puppets and you about have it . Wooden acting at its finest , and when the sock puppet aliens feed , they flop down on top of something in the manner that Cathy ( from the comic strip " Cathy " ) throws herself on top of food to eat . . . the artist can't draw someone eating properly , and the special effects person here couldn't create aliens to look like they were feeding properly either so they are shown flopped on top of someone and afterward there is somewhat of a messy spot . Interesting because there are no visible mouths . We have two hapless boobs wandering the country in search of the Atlantic Ocean , but they had to stop at THIS place right when an alien invasion was taking place , one laments . Interesting that they're from out of state but have the same license plates as everyone else . And if I'm looking at license plates then you know how interesting and exciting this movie is . There is also a second film on this DVD called " Feeders Two : Slay Ride " and I'm wondering if I have the nerve to try to watch it . I'm thinking if it was done later than perhaps the actors and special effects folks had perfected their craft a bit and it'll be much better . I'm also thinking that life is too short to watch REALLY bad movies and that it should go into the trade-in pile unwatched . For those with a high threshold for pain . .
More formulaic garbage	There's a lot of bad horror movies coming from Texas these days , and this is but one , the tale of a slaughterhouse worker that was killed and then comes back to life 10 years later to exact his revenge , or something along those lines . We have your usual under-brained and over-sexed teenagers , busily killing off whatever brain cells they have left with beer & pot , deciding to go see this place , and this guy called Stoner who is set up to dress up like the killer and scare the girls on tape . Whee . Throughout the course of the film young Stoner consumes enough wacky tobaccy to immobilize a small country but is still conscious , or what passes for conscious if you're in a movie like this . He doesn't get out of his car , and when the kids think he's in there all dressed up , nope , it's the real thing . There's one almost decent special effect in which the guy that has the sickle says " I gotta split " and does , but I've already seen THAT effect in Ichi the Killer , which is done much better and is a movie more worthy of your time than this video cow-patty . Not a scare to be found , not an original idea or decent script either , but our buds at Lion's Gate see fit to put it out at their usual outrageous price ? Yeah , whatever , and I'm being generous here , duuude .
A throwback	This is a throwback to the films of the 80's and it's also a throwback as in I wish I could throw it back and get my money back for it and buy something worthwhile . Take Hobgoblins & Ghoulies , add some bondage & discipline plus S & M and there you have it . Bleah . Seems there are all these murders taking place among the BDSM community ( never knew there was such a large one , didn't NEED to know , or want to ) and the culprits are these little things that are invisible except to one crime photographer , who has been locked away for a bit because he went a little nuts after photographing a crime scene in which the victim was his wife & her lover . Oops , that's gotta hurt . Anyway , I never did get to see how this ended because I had enough at some point and turned it off . Now that I have a DVD player I should exercise some caution in what I buy , these things aren't $2 each like VHS . Not recommended except to those who like mindless crap .
All fall down	Ring Around The Rosie is one of those films that leaves you with a feeling that you've just wasted a bunch of time you could have spent cleaning the bathroom , organizing your sock drawer , or perhaps even reading a book . It's bland , it's without scares or thrills , and it's not at all recommended . Some uptight executive type ( Karin ) finds out her grandmother has just died so she and her boyfriend go to her remote home to pack up all the stuff because she's going to sell the house . There's a somewhat creepy caretaker there ( Tom Sizemore ) and he is a bit too friendly for Karin's taste . Karin's sister Wendy shows up to help pack and spends most of her time flirting and hanging out with the aforementioned creepy caretaker . Karin is having strange dreams or something , hallucinations ? Not sure , but they involve something that happened years ago and the caretaker may have played some part in it . And then nothing was as it seemed when Karin's boyfriend shows up to take her home and Wendy's been dead for 17 years , end of story . Huh ? So what the hell happened ? Who knows , who cares . For having somewhat of a decent budget ( so it appears ) , this is very shoddy and doesn't do a very good job of telling a story . I've been wondering how this one was for a while , and finally found it cheap at a sale , used , but it wasn't worth even the five bucks I shelled out for it . Don't waste your time , there's plenty of better flicks out there . .
What a mess	Hey now , a young studly ex-doctor ( who gave up his practice for booze and women , apparently ) is called to a religious cult compound to take care of an ex-girlfriend of his . This cult is run by a brother and sister out of a huge house / compound that has high security and doesn't let anyone out . All the worker bees in the cult must abide by strict rules but the brother and sister get drunk all the time on wine and are treated like royalty by the workers . This is a fairly low-budget movie with a pretty sketchy plot that degenerates into something far less interesting than a creepy religious cult as it winds its way toward the end . Not a lot of interesting things going on here except the recurring themes of getting drunk , and ( for the doctor and for one young worker , trying to get AWAY ) . And , AWAY you should stay , for this is not for you , nor for anyone else . An absolute waste of good film and your time . Ptoeey .
A complete waste of time	A comedy about people turned into zombies ( or something ) by eating tainted beef ? Oh boy . Billy Zane plays a " stuck in the 80's " doctor who travels to a small town with his girlfriend , daughter , & daughter's boyfriend , only to find that the town's residents are being turned into killing machines by eating tainted beef ( free range , organic tainted beef , though ) from a local farm . Seems that there was a problem with the cows on this farm getting sick , but the farmer " found something on the internet " to make the well again . Well , that's not exactly what happened , but it doesn't keep the old geezer from grinding the cows up and selling them to the local diner . After which folks dine on the tainted meat and go wacko . This whole thing is just a waste , and it's not funny , except for one scene in which Zane tries to keep zombies out of a hotel room & finally puts the " do not disturb " sign on the door knob before slamming the door shut again . Lots of spew and lots of blood but nothing you haven't probably seen a million times before . If you're undemanding in your entertainment then go ahead , watch it , but I found it to be a total waste of time . .
Was this meant to be taken seriously ? If not , it's still hilarious . . . .	Hard to say if this was meant to be taken seriously , but a college professor is commissioned ( by none other than exploitation king David Friedman ) to go find a Bigfoot-like creature in the Okaloosa wilds in Alabama . Along for the trip is an overly helpful former student , and a bunch of over-fed rednecks with guns , to take pictures only though , of course . It seems as though the character played by Friedman lost his son to this beast , and he wants revenge . And the professor is apparently none too bright , because he seems to suspect nothing . The beast is a rather tragic figure , really , since it's some poor schmuck in a gorilla suit with some kind of rigid ugly mask . It , of course , manages to elude capture and bullets and just about everything else , and the professor , while talking to himself the whole time , manages to kill everyone but the girl and they ride off into the sunset , sort of . You see the beast from afar , several times , but no matter how far away it is , it always is treated like it's right on the intrepid explorer's tails , and they're always moseying for their lives . Throw in some guitar & mandolin picking , and a bunch of talking , and that's about it , really . Oh , and there's some other fine upstanding campers in the area , and the girl , after a fine show of cellulite , dresses up in a red frilly skirt and shorty top , yecch . . . . and I think she's also got on patent leather shoes and white knee-socks . Absolutely stunning . Anyway , this gets her white trash boyfriend all hot , & while he's having his way along comes our monster & cuts in . Definitely the highlight of the film . Plenty of unintended laughter , really . . . . and I'm in awe that someone could crank something out like this and be serious about it , really . Definitely a " regional " film , probably best enjoyed by " regional " folks . .
When A Stranger Bores You To Death	This starts out interestingly , as there's a carnival right next to someone's house with an oil rig right there too and some kind of store-front church across the street with a neon " Jesus Saves " sign , all right in one tiny area . . . . Now that's pretty dazzling , if improbable . . . and then we go right into the movie which takes improbable to new levels . Of course this is a lame remake of the 1979 thriller starring Carol Kane as the babysitter Jill Johnson . . . . now Jill is some chick that ran her cell phone minutes up so high her evil parents are punishing her by making her work it off , probably something that the audience this movie targets can identify with . Jill is taken to this huge and fancy house on a lake in the middle of nowhere ( of course ) by her dad to babysit for the Mandrakis family . The children are already nestled all snug in their beds when Jill arrives , and the housekeeper is still there , huh , she couldn't babysit ? Of course , despite the remote location one of Jill's friends pops by , one whom with which she apparently has issues as in " boyfriend stealing " or something . Anyway , of course the alarm in the house goes off for no reason and then calls from someone start coming in , calls from someone that wants to kill her . Of course Jill calls the cops and since there hasn't been any actual threat on her life they blow her off , but tell her to call back if there's anything else they can do for her . Check out the scene with Jill calling her friends at the high school bonfire / pep rally or whatever it's supposed to be , it looks like some kind of " Burning Man " festival , ? ? ! ! ? ? There's all kind of contrived scares in this including the cool cat Chester who of course pops up here and there , one of the tiredest " horror movie " clichés there is . I will admit that I dozed off at some point during this , and did I miss anything ? Hard to tell , or care , really . This is one of those films that makes me wonder how bad the remakes of " Amityville Horror " , " House of Wax " or " The Fog " could have been . Anyway , from reading online reviews , it seems like the folks that were the most scared by this were 12 year old girls , and I can only assume that from statements like " it made me pee-pee my pants " . Well , one can only hope that this will put an end to Hollywood remakes of films that weren't exactly stellar to begin with , but don't bet on it . and I'm being overly generous .
not really even ' must be seen to be believed ' material	I thought I'd seen just about all the bad movies there were to see but I have proved that I can always dig deeper . Imagine , if you will , a horror movie with cannibalism , gore , and who the heck knows what else , filmed in a style not unlike that of the Shazam / Isis hour from the 70's ? Yeah , really . . . . complete with a little curly-haired kid that looks like he'd easily be from one of those lame old live-action shows from way back when . I guess the gist of this movie is that there's this nasty old hag who 12000 years ago put a curse on her son and daughter and now in the present they're hanging out in some park ( county or state , I guess , there's no pretty green lawn or see-saws ) and preying on anyone that they can get their teeth on . One of these ghouls ( the guy ) marries some chick and they have a kid who grows up and runs away to live in the park with the woman who is old and has an eye patch unless she drinks blood in which case she's young . HUH ? Yep , I'm not kidding , and I'm rambling on purpose to give you an idea of what the movie is like . This has Aldo Ray in it for a few minutes and I will confess to not knowing which chick is Linnea Quigley but I'm guessing it was the main character . Gimme a break , I only know her from Return of the Living Dead , I'm not any " Scream Queen " aficionado , ferchrissakes . Anyway , back to the movie , oops , no , we're actually done except to say , MAN , this stinks . , don't go near .
Dud : The Movie	I supposed I was actually expecting a Bollywood remake of " The Fog " , from the title , but this is actually more of a Bollywood remake of " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , with some elements of " Scream " , kind of , sort of , and not a very good one either . Apart from a couple very entertaining song & dance numbers , this is pretty terrible . It's obviously got a decent budget & yet it's wasted on reheated leftovers that weren't that tasty to begin with . A young woman is threatened by a creepy guy to not enter a beauty contest , because he wants his sister to win ( she , thankfully , doesn't look as creepy as her brother ) , but she enters anyway and wins , and of course the creepy guy comes after her , and is killed , after which comes a rousing game of " hide the body " . Of course , the body disappears and no one seems to know why , but someone knows , and they're waiting for the end to reveal a ridiculous plot twist . Interspersed with all this tired rehash are a few nifty dance numbers , especially the celebratory dance number at the party for Simran , the girl who won the beauty contest . . . it's highly colorful , it's well done & downright fun , and utterly wasted in this terrible film . I would much rather watch an old Ramsay brothers movie than this piece of crap , although someone has deemed that these don't need to be made available , for the most part , which is a crime in itself . But not as big of a crime as this film . I took one for the team watching this one , so take my advice , don't bother . .
Why was this ever made ?	I remember the Hudson Brothers had a TV show back in the late 70's or early 80's , and it was on Saturday mornings , but I was pretty much over watching Saturday morning TV by then so I never saw it . I found this DVD cheap at K-Mart so thought I'd give it a shot , it was cheap , after all , and I see now it wasn't released on DVD in the US , just our neighbors to the north . . . . guess it wasn't selling there either . I guess you could call the Hudson Brother's brand of comedy ' zany ' ; I don't know what else to call it but it's not ' funny ' . It consists pretty much of yelling , running around , and pratfalls . I didn't laugh once during the entire movie . This is about a lighthouse keeper Captain Howdy ( Richard Kiel ) who falls to his death at the same time the boat carrying his wife from the Lighthouse Keeper's Ladies Auxilliary meeting in Lichtenstein shows up , and she of course falls overboard and the captains mistress ends up trapped forever in the lighthouse . Fast forward 100 years later and we have the captain coming back from the sea and the mistress haunting the town of Hellview with the light from the lighthouse , turning folks into zombies . We have several weak parodies of Indiana Jones , Friday the 13th , The Exorcist , Jaws , Dracula , etc . Pretty ho-hum stuff , and the Hudson Brothers are about as bland as you can get . Maybe a 6-year old might be intrigued by this but most everyone else will find it incredibly stupid with no redeeming values . Oh , except there is a dance number with zombies on towards the end that was somewhat almost good . . . . was Michael Jackson's " Thriller " out then ? I don't remember , but if so maybe this was a parody of that and perhaps the only worthwhile thing in the whole movie . Otherwise , a stinker from start to finish . .
Bleah	The best part of this movie is the Las Vegas settings , and maybe the car . The worst part of this movie is the rest . Gunnar Hansen's name is on the box but he appears for maybe 2 minutes . Tony Todd appears for a bit longer as the owner of an adult book store , and perhaps turns in the best performance in the film . Which isn't too hard . As for the rest , there's this photographer that is the grandson of a Nazi who has a thing for torturing and killing women in the basement of his sterile-looking ( except for the basement ) Las Vegas house . The young daughter of a woman he dates on occasion thinks he's strange ( she's right ) and eventually uncovers his secrets . And that's really about it . There's some nightmares that this guy has and he's shown lifting weights a lot and picking up specimens for his basement torture dungeon but there's not really an interesting story to go along with all this . It's plenty bloody and icky but so what . .
Horrifying	Hmm , back in 1962 , " hideous " and " blood curdling " must have meant a bit more than they do now , I guess , because the only hideous thing I found in this movie was the dubbing . A bunch of dancers on a plane , on their way to Singapore , crash land on an island that's full of big spiders ( not GIANT spiders , though , that's some other movie ) and when they bite the women's manager , he turns into a human spider monster , or something . . . . and lurks in the bushes , touching their hair and stealing their scarves with his long claws . In the words of Joe Flaherty on SCTV , oooh , scary stuff , kids . Along come two young guys that are assistants to the already - dead - when - they - found - him professor , and they help the women to get away from the island , woo hoo . For some reason the men in this seem to be holding their guts in the whole time they have their shirts off , and while what the women were doing may have been kind of racy for 1962 but now it's pretty tame & laughable . A movie that doesn't succeed as either horror or " adult " entertainment . Truly a bore .
Boo !	Not " Boo ! " As in , scary , " boo " as in " boo , hiss " . Another senseless remake of a film that wasn't that great to start with but has a certain charm ( the original made in the 70's ) . Of course we have modern people trying to assume 70's roles yet again ( like in the remake of Texas Chainsaw Massacre ) and it doesn't really work . A lot of the problem with this film is that it's just plain boring , and I found myself falling asleep while watching it , and finally stopped it after about an hour or so . The only reason I didn't give this a " 1 " is that I kind of liked the rooftop scene where the little girl is going to jump off so she can be with her friend Jody . I thought in the original Jody was a pig , but it's a little girl now . Anyway the rooftop scene is rather spectacular with a river in the background and all . Other things were of interest too , like the boy's bedroom ( Billy ) which is decorated in early " Spencer's Gifts " ( Kiss posters and fiber-optic lamps ) , and the pot-smoking Happy Hooker-looking babysitter , oh my . So if these things were of interest then you can imagine how much I was interested in the rest of the film . There's lots of the usual fast-moving images at the corner of one's vision and this is another film that doesn't seem to understand the difference between scary and startling . A startlingly bad film , .
the title pretty much says it all	I was certainly hoping for a much better flick than what I saw , and I guess that was because of comparisons with John Waters that I read somewhere , and was it also Ed Wood ? Well , I've been burned before and I'll be burned again , I reckon . What's wrong with these people ? Everything . . . . or so says the tag line , and that's pretty accurate too , perhaps even in real life . Sal is some guy who is on probation for something and is hanging out with his mentally disabled brother , and when he goes out for a pizza someone who resembles Sal ( beanie , goatee , grungy clothes ) comes into their house and kills his brother and takes one dog , for whatever reason . Of course the neighbors think it WAS Sal , and Sal's on the run , pursued by the cops . He hooks up with some folks at a mental institution ( I guess ) and also some chick that was raped by some S & M cult member , and so on and so on . Terrible acting , rinky-dink filming , and a rather incoherent story line help nothing . The sound level in this is such that the volume must continually be adjusted to hear the conversation yet at times there are ear-splitting sound effects that had me diving across the room to turn down the sound before the neighbors complained about sonic attack . Very disappointing , .
more dumb teen-in-peril garbage	Imagine that you were in a hospital in a bed and were confined there and couldn't move . Imagine that a beautiful young candy-striper nurse with big breasts came into your room and started coming on to you , which got you all hot until you realized she was harboring some alien parasite and wanted to kill you with this thing slithering out of her mouth . Or , imagine that you were at home , confined to the couch , and you realized that you were going to have to watch this movie . I'd say this was definitely a tough call there . There is absolutely NOTHING in this movie that you haven't seen before ( well , except for Candy Striper nurses possessed by aliens ) but apart from that there's absolutely NO good reason to see this piece of crap . This isn't scary , it's not funny , it's definitely not good , and I couldn't even make it to the end because I just didn't give a crap . I got this for $3 at Hollywood Video on sale , and while that's roughly about the price of a rental I think , I still feel ripped off . If you're into mindless teen-in-peril crap then this may be for you . How come so much of this kind of stuff worked so much better back in the 80's ? ? , ptoeey .
why did they bother ?	Criminally Insane 2 is included on the new DVD of Satan's Black Wedding / Criminally Insane , and it's a good thing too , because when I've seen a movie and know there's a sequel ( especially something that's as obscure as this ) I'm always curious . I've now had my curiosity satisfied and will never watch this again . Most of CI2 is nothing but " flashbacks " to CI , and footage of Ethel asleep , recalling fond memories , I guess . Thanks to Proposition 13 she's released from Napa State ( wonder if she got to see The Cramps play while she was there ? ) and sent to a halfway house run by a nice old lady that Ethel promptly takes to calling " granny " . This is all filmed with a video camera so the picture and sound are rather pathetic , and it's even complete with a couple of " rolls " . Of course Ethel does her thing , which is to dispatch anyone between her and food , especially the guy that witnesses one of her acts of mayhem and extorts her dessert . Also , you have to wonder about any halfway house for murderers having a big drawer full of sharp knives in the kitchen and rat poison under the kitchen sink . Guess that's all a matter of misguided " trust " . If you liked or disliked Criminally Insane , either way there's no good reason to watch this except out of curiosity . One wonders why the makers of this even bothered . .
Aussie horror flop	Hey now , there's a few Aussie horror films that are pretty good , in my mind , like Body Melt , Last Wave , The Wicked , Stones of Death , but this doesn't happen to be very good . In fact , there's not much about this that I would recommend . There's no excitement , it's somewhat confused ( a zombie & vampire assortment arising from the same burial ground ? ) and overall it's just plain bland and boring . A Viet Nam Memorial is in the way of a theme park to be built by the Japanese honoring their comic book hero Robot Man , which in itself sounded quite promising but led nowhere . To make way the memorial is dynamited , setting loose all these hybrid zombie / vampire things , which then wander around aimlessly and kill folks . It sure sounded good but the execution does nothing with the material & therefore it's pretty much a nothing movie . If you're in the mood for a good Aussie horror romp see Body Melt . . . . but avoid this one like the plague .
Sorry , Bryan , we hate you . . . . . .	How could one go wrong with a film about a masked cult in an Arizona desert town that worships someone called Bryan ? The premise sounds pretty good , the execution , though , leaves a lot to be desired . This is mostly video-taped " archive footage " from a man who was investigating this cult . There's a bit of creepiness to the proceedings but mostly it's just plain dull . A classroom full of kids with Bryan masks is probably the most effective scene in the movie , but after that , well , there's nothing to hold one's interest . Even the presence of a few " cult film " types , like Tony Todd , George Wendt , Brinke Stevens , and even Lloyd Kaufman , can't save this , because their roles are pretty nondescript and brief . I can't really stress how disappointing this whole thing is , and it sounded so interesting . It's not . Anchor Bay used to be one of my favorite movie companies , and now its reduced to putting stuff out like this . . . . pretty sad . Were they not making any money with the classic horror films that they used to put out ? Very sad . Anyway , " Bryan Loves You " is not a good film , by any stretch of the imagination , and the box art even states that it's " eerily reminiscent of A Clockwork Orange " . Like hell it is . Avoid , avoid , avoid . .
Charms ?	I got this on DVD under the guise of " Charms " . I had read the synopsis in one of my movie books for " Hex " and it actually sounded interesting . Bunch of WWI vets ( supposedly ) hit the road on vintage WW1 type motorbikes across the country to California where they're going to be in the moving pictures , except let's stop in Nebraska first and run afoul of some townsfolk and then hole up in the barn of two strange sisters who live by themselves . There seems to be some kind of strange things going on at this little ranch where the two sisters live , maybe because they're potheads & share their stash with the newcomers ? Maybe it's also because both women are half-breed & that one learned lots of things from her daddy & seems to be working ( black ) magic on our their house guests . Unfortunately when one of these biker types get stoned ( as played by Gary Busey ) he also gets a bit horny and gets his face eaten off by an owl for his trouble . . . well , not eaten off exactly , but that might have made the movie better ) . Strange things continue to happen to these guys and their numbers drop one by one , but do the rest pack up and leave like the hounds of hell are nipping at their heels ? Why no , they stay some more . I dunno , this is too goofy to be scary , too weird to be funny , and too crappy to be good . . . . it may appeal to some , but I can't think why . .
you want schlock ? look no further	For the uninitiated , almost any Andy Milligan film is a shock , but despite the fact that I've seen many of his films , this one still takes the cake for sheer shoddiness . This is , of course , Milligan's take on the Sweeney Todd tale , done with period costumes ( but not necessarily period hairstyles , in some cases ) and the usual headache-inducing camera-work & grainy quality . As for the gore , well , the version I saw may have been cut some , for there's not a lot , for a film with " bloodthirsty " in the title . The best indication of subversive film-making here is a meat pie consisting only of some poor victim's tit . So , while I will still treasure this piece of , uh , work , on my video shelf , it's definitely somewhat of a letdown as far as content though . Recommended for only the foolhardy & morbidly curious . .
Absolutely ridiculous	I read somewhere that Doris Wishman directed films like she'd never seen one before . Maybe that's why some of the reviews for this movie have such high ratings , because the reviewers have't ever seen another movie ? I can't imagine who would watch this and not gape in awe at the number of highly improbable occurrences & the astounding number of clichés . Liam Neeson plays as retired CIA or government operative of some kind , who foolishly signs papers to let his daughter go to Paris to study art at museums . Actually she's going to be a U2 groupie & follow the band all over Europe . The daughter & her friend aren't in Paris for more than a few minutes before they're kidnapped by Albanian white-slavers but of course with the help of a cell phone , Neeson gets to Europe & all is well in a matter of a couple of days . Someone should take note of this and send him in search of Osama Bin Laden . This film is chock full clichés . . . the bitchy ex-wife ( Famke Jensen ) , the new and filthy rich hubby ( Xander Berkeley ) , and the daughter even gets a pony for her birthday ! She's 17 and runs around in little-girl dresses & sneakers . . ? The array of gadgets that Neeson employs in his hunt are mind-bogglingly improbable , and the speed in which he manages to find & dispatch the bad guys in this , never stopping to rest at any time , is completely unbelievable & ridiculous . Of course we have the smug government bureaucrat that tells Neeson that " he has to understand that this was not personal , only business " . Anyone uttering lines like that MUST be shot , that should be a law . Anyway , I guess this would be fine for some , but I'm not even sure what age group this film is aimed at , apparently not mine . .
so bad it's just bad	I am a big fan of bad movies with unintended entertainment values , but I was truly expecting that from this one and was disappointed to find out that , HEY ! This is just bad . Jesse James & his bud Hank Tracy get into some trouble with trying to rob a stagecoach & Hank gets shot , so of course Hank gets dragged to the one and only doctor in the area , one Maria Frankenstein , who has a bit of a reputation with the local villagers , and not a good one , which is why they've all left town for the most part . Maria nurses Hank back to health but has ulterior motives for doing so , mainly so she can transplant a synthetic brain into the poor schmuck and carry on her father's good work . Except for things like bright plastic motorcycle helmets painted up to look like brain-transfer equipment , and an artificial brain that's revived by a beaker full of rock salt , this is pretty standard stuff and may be more to the liking of people that like cheesy drive-in westerns than horror flicks . Pretty dull stuff without a lot to offer for the bad movie fan , so therefore I was very disappointed . .
Not-so-hot 80's slasher . . . . with Kevin Costner ?	I knew this had to be quality when I put in the DVD and the Vestron Video logo popped up ? So I guess that means this was made for video , no wonder they went broke and disappeared . What we have here is a series of slasher murders being investigated by a very angry cop , he's been on leave for a while since his daughter got killed and now he's back and he uses lots of 4-letter words and goes right into ballistic without even working up to it , whew ! Serious overacting by this guy . Anyway this is a bunch of mundane events all tied together by this killer dressed in black with a black mask , but you see the killer making phone calls and it seems fairly obvious who it is if you're paying any attention at all . I didn't even recognize Kevin Costner in this , and I didn't even realize he was in it until after the fact . Talk about screen presence . At any rate , this is a sleepwalk of a film , nothing much to recommend and you'll do just fine by never seeing it . .
a real hoot	This movie is a real hoot , as in you'll probably hoot with derision if you watch it . This is a badly dubbed Italian movie that takes place in Scotland , where witches were burned 100 years ago and now 100 years later the women in this town are going crazy . Along comes a man and his new wife who just happens to be an ancestor of a witch burned at the stake 100 years ago , and for some reason hospitality among the townspeople seems to be a bit lacking . All of a sudden there's this guy ( Kirk Morris ) in shorts and sandals , actually I guess more of a loin cloth than shorts , who tips over the nasty old hanging tree to find another world underneath . Now where the Hell did HE come from ? No fanfare , no introduction , he's all of a sudden just there . Looks a tad strange to see someone in 1600's garb walking along next to this shirtless muscle-man in shorts . In the time that he drops down into the netherworld and the tree closes up the whole above him again , he's attacked by lions and stuff like that while the witches that hang out there watch . Marvellous stuff , not . This is about as dumb and as bad as you can imagine , and with all the movies out there try hard to find something else to watch , you'll respect yourself in the morning .
There are many better ways to spend 90 minutes	A murderous moppet movie ! I have a few of these in my collection but this one's only visiting , not staying long . Two young children live with their dad in an isolated summer community somewhere on the California coast . Dad keeps them isolated and home schools them because they have powers that make them special . Telekinetic powers , I reckon . They make Frisbees fly back across the road by themselves , they unlock the car doors by themselves , but they don't intervene when Daddy gets knifed and shot by bikers that came to refresh themselves in their hot tub . But they do bring back Daddy as a zombie when he's dead and send him off to get the " bad people " . Along comes social worker Marilyn Burns , who senses something isn't right because dad's not there , but she doesn't realize what exactly is up . Deputy Sheriff Fabian ( yeah , I guess it's the singer ) is hanging around too , he's the new guy in town out to write speeding tickets as fast as he can but not much else except for bedding the social worker and proving he has no acting skills . Marilyn Burns had about a 10 minute ' sprint-and-scream ' scene in a movie about 7 years before called Texas Chainsaw Massacre that was more exciting and worth seeing than this whole gosh darn movie . The kids in this are blond and cute and are also afflicted by a lack of acting skills , but they do look very much the " children of the damned " part , too bad that their powers weren't more played up than they were . This makes movies like " The Children " seem pretty decent in comparison . , curiosity satisfied , on to the next bad experience .
Weasels rip my wallet	Lordy Lordy , I can certainly say this film caused me to re-examine my definition of " Z-grade " horror films . Is there a lower rating ? I guess not . And to think that thanks to modern technology this piece of junk is available on DVD . . . . . wow , to think I've been missing out all this time . This makes " Blood Feast " and " Horror House on Highway 5 " look like " Gone with the Wind " or perhaps " It's A Wonderful Life " . So the idea I guess , is that a space probe or something ( which is obviously a tiny model rocket ) crashes on Long Island and some kids find it and dump some goop down a weasel hole , which results in a mutant rabid weasel that is bigger than a man . Most of what you see in reference to mutating weasels and body parts is completely unfathomable , as in you have no idea what you're looking at . Some hapless goons stumble into the nest of a mad doctor / scientist / whatever , and one is subjected to weasel blood infusion , I guess , after which he becomes a rampaging were-weasel . I guess some of this was worth a laugh , but the sound quality is horrible and the music cuts in and out , and overall if they were going to put this on a DVD they should have at least cleaned some of it up . But perhaps I'm missing the point , maybe that adds to the charm . Yeah , right . Maybe stars .
" An Art Film From Hell "	The back of the box of this film has a couple quotes from reviewers and one referred to this as " An Art Film From Hell " . That of course , piqued my interest before I saw the film & now having seen it I can say that statement may be taken two ways . Obviously the way I took it , this would be a good film , but that wasn't the case and it may safely be sent back to the Hell from which it came . The look of this is pretty good , and to me there's mostly nothing wrong with the visual aspects of the film for the most part , although being a stickler for the time & place wasn't completely important , it seems , like an unfashionably modern hairstyle on one young man and cut off shorts on the gardener ? Or maybe those were breeches , I don't know . The dialog and the action , if you could call it that , is kind of numbing , though . Seems like a bunch of people that live in some island house are being systematically stalked and killed by something , or someone . One scene in which this someone appears and makes sure the baby stops cooing forever held promise for what might be to come in the rest of the film but that was pretty much the highlight . Lots of other things going on too , like guy-on-guy stuff , two women in the house having to share the stable boy , etc . All of this seems to be done in a borderline comatose state . And once you've viewed this you'll probably feel rather comatose yourself . This had a lot of promise and I might watch it again to see if I missed something but life is too short to view bad films more than once . .
going against human nature , all the way	At the beginning of " Scary Movie " , as Drew Barrymore is being pursued by the killer , she encounters two signs out on the lawn of her house . One points toward " Safety " and the other points toward " Certain Death " . And which one does she choose ? Well , that's pretty much how this piece of crap movie plays out , only this one isn't MEANT to be funny . Anne , the main character , feels bad that she had a one-night-stand with some loony that tied her up so she goes biking in the mountains with her boyfriend , and guess who just happens to show up there ? Why , it's Mr . Pscyho One-Night-Stand . And in short order , he manages to mountain-bike across her boyfriend's jugular vein , so of course , he dies . So , of course Ann goes against human nature in every way possible here to escape the killer , but for some stupid reason she keeps running into him ! She calls for help with a cell phone from the top of a mountain and is told that help will be there IN A FEW MINUTES but Anne , poor Anne , has to run like hell away from that spot . Anne finds woodsman working in the forest & will NOT go with them to safety , Anne continues to go DEEPER into the forest around her to escape , and guess what ? The Psycho manages to capture her . And they all live happily ever after ? Why , hell no , but if you really are that desperate to find out , watch this . . . . go ahead , make my day . Surprisingly , this is a German film , a very lousy German film , but nonetheless . . . . I guess I haven't seen too many German horror films in my time & this is certainly nothing that will make me want to seek out more . About as clichéd and lame as you can get , .
Majorly disappointing	I really like William H . Macy as an actor , but I liked his character in this only up to a point . This film plays out for about the first part like a sort of bleak version of " After Hours " ( minus the comedy ) . Edmond has left his wife and gone out on his own on the town , looking for some action but too cheap to pay for it , ending up getting beaten up , robbed , hocking his wedding ring , and buying a big knife at the pawn shop which he later puts to good use , unfortunately for his victim and for him , for he ends up going to prison . Now , Edmond seems to have something against black people , which he's been quite vocal about during the film , and in being put into a prison cell he finds out his roomy is a large black man who violates him . It seems like Edmond rather liked that though , but he didn't realize it at first . When we next see Edmond , he's shaved his head , has tattoos and a big bushy mustache and hops into bed with his cell mate after a good night kiss , which is the last scene in the movie and the one that made me want to take the DVD and snap it in half . This is NOT a role that I want to remember William H . Macy for , and this is NOT a movie that I ever want to see again . . . . a very fed up ending to what isn't that great of a film to begin with . Bleah . .
Another rollicking comedy of which I guess I missed the point	I guess I don't know what " funny " means anymore ; that is , if this film was supposed to be funny . I have a good sense of humor , and I enjoy black humor , and I enjoy slapstick silly humor , but I found no humor in this of any kind . This is the story of Augsten , who has two extremely messed-up parents , and who grows up messed up and ends up living with his mother's shrink after he's " adopted " . This shrink definitely needs a shrink , and his house is a filthy fantasy world that is like the Addams Family meets the Sawyer clan . And that doesn't even begin to describe his family . Good old mom , eating kibbles and watching " Dark Shadows " every day . Oldest daughter , who traps her cat under a laundry basket because it told her it wanted to die . Bleah . I watched about three-quarters of this before I decided it wasn't getting any better and that I had other things to watch that were hopefully less of a waste of time . , what a horrible waste .
I really wanted the bad reviews to be wrong	I really wanted the bad reviews to be wrong , and find that this was actually an enjoyable & cool film from a director that I have come to enjoy . I was very disappointed that it really WAS a sketchy , confusing , and mediocre film . It does begin rather interestingly , as people suddenly begin to kill themselves & are affected in rather strange ways by SOMETHING . . . . and what IS that something ? Well , we're never told or show , but there are theories . The two lead actors deliver rather strange and wooden performances , and the supporting actors aren't that much better . About half-way through the film , it begins to lose all points of interest , and it was almost a challenge to make it to the end . Which , strangely , contained none of the twists or surprises that I guess Shyamalan is known for . I'm not some youngster with no patience or attention span either , but this sorely tried my patience and I couldn't wait to get out of the theater . What happened here ? Well , I don't know , but I'm really sorry I shelled my hard-earned money out on seeing this , although we did have nice Chinese food first & the theater was air-conditioned . Other than that , pretty much a waste of time . , sigh . . . .
They may have saved Hitler's brain but they rotted mine	The date on this movie is much earlier than some of the footage , unless of course the folks that made it managed to find folks that were up on all the trends of 1967 or so , years before it happened . One CID agent has hair that looks like Ringo on the cover of Sgt . Pepper's Lonely Heart's Club Band , and one agent ( female , that is ) has a micro-mini that would have been scandalous in 1964 , and so on . At some point we shift to a movie that seems like it was made in the 50's . This is the tale of a plot for world domination or something , spearheaded by none other than Der Fuehrer himself , who looks pretty darn majestic with his head in a pickle jar . Much of this supposedly takes place in South America ( don't bet on it ) where Hitler and his minions have been hiding out for years waiting to unleash some deadly gas on some unsuspecting little hamlet . Along comes Dr . Science and his wife , hot on the trail of his wife's father , who has been kidnapped and spirited away to this place . While there they wander into some cantina and find the wife's sister , who has also been kidnapped . First time I ever saw someone sit down on a box of glassware and break it but not get up and move . This is NOT a great movie but it's not a bad pastime if you happen to be bound and gagged and propped in front of the TV . It borders on the " so bad it's good " variety but wavers more often than not toward the " dark side " . & I'm being generous .
a revolting dud	The idea behind this film isn't bad , and that is that there's a family of grave-robbing casket recyclers that inter bodies and then dig then up later to recover the caskets and whatever other goodies happen to be attached to the corpses . The execution of this idea is where this goes wrong , and rather badly too . Filmed on video , first of all , terrible sound , as in , if you turn it up so you can hear the dialog you're then blown through a wall when a special effect kicks in , and there's a lot of apparently ambient noise too , like someone left a garbage disposal running or something . The acting is fair to poor , and overall the production quality just plain sucks . There are periods where I felt kind of sucked in to what was going on though but those were generally shattered by something stupid . The idea is that one person that the grave robbers dug up was a druid and his sister ( who is a druidess ? ) conjures something over his grave and the dead rise and open up a can of whoop-ass on the bad guys . Ho hum , more walking dead . I had wondered about this for a while and found a cheap copy ( wonder why ) so decided to give it a whirl . I would like to take the disc and give it a whirl ( out the window ) but will put it in my trade-in pile and hope I can get it to the trade-in store before they have 20 other copies . Ptooey , don't waste your time , .
rates high on the improbability meter	Nut-case electronics wizard Gregg Henry has decided that if he can't have his ex , then no one can , so he discreetly slips a hormonally altered black mamba into a planter in her loft & locks her in . Her loft , however , is approximately the size of a shopping mall and she manages to ( for a while ) evade the mamba with almost cartoon-like ease . However , she does manage to capture one of these cartoon-like moments on tape while she was taping herself , and realizes that she's not alone . The mall-size loft allows for plenty of running around and screaming , despite the fact that none of that seems to help . Oh , and her cat , who she stopped from getting into her groceries & refused to allow inside , pops up in the skylight & she pleads to the cat to help her ? The next shot of the cat is its behind , which is exactly what I'd have done if treated like that , myself . This isn't entirely unwatchable but it's so far-fetched that you'll find yourself chuckling or shaking your head at parts . There's even a twist ending , if you make it that far . I'm not sure I've ever found a horror movie about snakes that was actually good . .
chock full of jaw-dropping unintentional entertainment value	A sarcophagus containing the remains of a Hatian voodoo priest is taken aboard a cruise ship and guess what ? That's a bad thing . For the voodoo priest isn't dead , and he wreaks havoc . Most of the reason for wreaking havoc seems to be that his long-lost lover , Kenya , seems to be on board , but Kenya is played by a different actress than the woman that this man now has his sights set on , Sylvia . Not to mention that one seems to be black and one seems to be white . I say " seems " because it also seems that it's hard to tell what race people are supposed to be in this because they keep changing . ? ? Now , Sylvia is the secretary and love object of Dr . Kessling , who is the man who is responsible for transporting the sarcophagus to a museum , and he also seems to have discovered the secret of its occupant , who manages to change places with an incoming professor and take his place , that is , after that particular poor soul is run over by a steam roller , egad . I really don't know how to better describe this but it's like " Love Boat goes horror " flick in the hands of some of the most incompetent film makers you could imagine . Incredibly cheesy special effects , like a severed head that looks either plastic or plaster . One cool thing though is the ring , worn by the priest , it's like a snake with a hypo on the end that dispenses curare , the better to make zombies with . This is incredibly cheap and incoherent , but worth seeing once for a few laughs and to realize that it's obscure for a good reason . .
The drug-addled med students of today are the doctors of tomorrow	Now there's something to strike fear into your heart , and is certainly a more frightening thing than this dull foray into the Jekyll & Hyde theme . A young medical student has been experimenting with drugs , derived from Ecstacy , and these drugs make him horny and mean . In fact , I reckon he's killed a few women , one of whom has mysteriously appeared in his bathtub at the beginning of the picture . What we have here is a group of over-privileged medical students experimenting with drugs , some just to get wasted , and Jay , well , well , it seems he's gone a bit too far . We have the usual pretty boy / pretty girl cast , and it's pretty hard to care about anyone but it's also pretty hard to get through the film itself , because it's about as slow-moving as you can get without going backward , & I found little of interest here . Surprisingly , this does stick kind of close to the original story , but I wasn't that thrilled with the original story either . I dunno , some will probably love this but I found nothing here of value . .
workman-like remake isn't worth your time	I saw this for cheap at a used DVD store & picked it up , because I love the original " Harvey " and Harry Anderson certainly looks like he'd make a great Elwood P . Dowd . But when I started to watch this and got about halfway through , I realized that it has absolutely none of the charm or humor of the original , and that it wasn't getting any better as it went along , so I stopped it . Anderson is OK as Dowd , but this is a flat production with absolutely no soul to it . The story is kind of the same , but there were differences from the original that made no difference whatsoever , and no member of the cast particularly stood out . This can't hold a candle to the original & it's going right back to the store I bought it from to be traded yet again . , you can't mess with a classic .
the difference between " startled " and " scared "	Do film makers know the difference between startled and scared anymore ? Scared is where they show you something on the screen that you weren't expecting and it makes you jump . Startled is where the film maker has nothing new to offer so the employ lots of sudden loud noises to make you jump . So if sudden loud noises scare you , than this may be right up your alley . The setting of an insane asylum isn't exactly a fresh idea either , since there are a whole pack of movies in the last few years that employ that idea with very few that actually work . A young and idealistic intern shows up at this " sanitarium " and begins work , the people that run the place are not much more tightly wrapped than the inmates too , it would seem . Oh , and there's Lance Henriksen as the head doctor , hmmm , another movie with Lance Henriksen in it , that should have told me right here to avoid . Not that he hasn't made good movies in the past but we're talking back in the EIGHTIES . Something strange is going on at this hospital , of course if there wasn't there wouldn't be a movie and we wouldn't want THAT , now would we ? Sure we would . This whole " technique " of loud noises and fast , almost subliminal movements and visuals thrown at the viewer is getting really old , and this film is chock full of it . Lion's Gate is churning out the same old type of stuff that Artisan did / does , and while on occasion they hit , mostly they miss . This would be a miss , please do . .
pure crap for undemanding people	OK , this is the " best zombie movie of the year " , or so proclaims the box . Was that written at 12 : 01 AM on / 07 ? Or is it just another lie ? Does it really matter ? I guess this is a Sci-Fi Channel original film , which to me makes me feel better about not having cable , since I'm missing nothing . Group of GI's get blowed up real good in Cambodia , some end up dead but some end up living dead , of course not till they get back to the states & then it's all hell breaking loose . And even one guy hooks up with a cook ( comic relief ) and a bartendress and they go Zombie hunting . Lots of cutesy dialog and of course when people get together they always have discussions of movies , right ? Nothing you haven't seen before and don't need to see again . A huge waste of time & money , bleah . .
What a mess !	So this has a minor claim to fame as ex-Sweathog Ron Palillo is in it , other than that it has Josie , who's pretty nice to look at but she's dead , so take that as you like . The plot ? Well , some biker dudes go after the daughter of the owner of this " old west " Ghost Town , called Hellgate , and they accidentally kill her . This is in the 50's , allegedly , but it doesn't really look too authentic . Fast forward to the present , where some college students are getting together at a cabin in the woods to hang out , and all hell breaks loose when Josie falls in love with Matt ( Palillo ) when her REAL job is to lure folks into Hellgate so her dad can kill them . Hellgate is populated with zombies / ghosts / whatever , who the heck knows , they act like zombies but they also disappear like ghosts . Now Josie's dad , who has a nasty cheek scar from being bitten by a reanimated turtle brought to life by some crystal that shoots blue rays , has a large picture of Josie on the wall of his office that looks like some sexy 80's model picture , and when you see this keep in mind Josie has been dead since the 50's , ? ? This whole film is one big confusing mess and if you manage to squirm through it ( not with terror but with wanting it to be over ) you'll see what I mean . I can't say I recommend this for any reason , because it's not even " so bad it's good " , it's just bad . .
are you kidding me ?	Yeah , OK , this may be deliberately cheesy but it's all pretty lousy , and not in a good way . We have a brave " bone hunter " in search of Dinosaur Valley but all the poor guy can find is bad action / adventure movie clichés , like people sinking in quicksand , nude natives , plane crashes , Viet Nam vets , and knock-down drag out fights in piranha infested waters while bleeding . I hope this was intended as a parody because if it wasn't it succeeded pretty well , unintentionally , anyway . There are a couple of nice ladies to look at but beyond that it's all pretty far fetched stuff that manages to be somewhat entertaining but wears thin after a while . There's a bit of cannibal & head-hunter stuff , a bit of lesbian stuff , but the rest is pretty much by-the-numbers action adventure stuff and I'm actually truly sorry I wasted my time on this . Not a fine example of 80's film making & certainly not what I'd refer to as a horror film . . . . . .
Paul & Mary together again . . . . but stuck in a weak film	Mortuary Academy reunites Paul Bartel & Mary Woronov in what was apparently an attempt to recapture the dark comedy of " Eating Raoul " , but this doesn't even come close to that film . Two young men inherit an academy for morticians , but in order to claim their inheritance they must first enroll and pass the courses . Bartel plays the corrupt and twisted dean who has a thing for virginal corpses and Wornov plays his oversexed assistant . The rest of the students are a mixed bag of losers and one is Miller from " Repo Man " ( Tracey Walter ) . At any rate it turns out Bartel has been appropriating funds from the college and absconds with a recently deceased cheerleader who choked to death on popcorn at the drive-in while the rest of the gang reanimates a dead rock band called " Radio Werewolf " and they all live happily ever after , except maybe Bartel because he's on a cruise ship and his new bride is drawing flies . This has its moments but maybe it's just too forced at times to be funny , and it's certainly not in good taste . . . not that I worry too much about THAT but I do have my limits . .
Elvira should be ashamed	I bought this a couple days ago , a double feature from Shout Factory ( the other film is by Andy Milligan ) and was looking forward to watching it . Well , the DVD seems to have been made from a lousy print , scratchy , missing bits , jumps in picture and sound , and while one can watch it without Elvira's wisecracks , it appears it was edited for commercials or her little interruptions . It's fine for a bit if you immerse yourself in the implausible story , because you forget you're about to be reminded about how crummy the print is . The story is something to do with twin brothers , one of whom goes to Castle Dracula in Transylvania to check out the architecture ( ? ) and the other who follows along shortly after , trying like hell to outrun the soundtrack that seems to chase him everywhere . Seems like the second brother is a tad late though , as his twin has now become one of the living dead and is marrying the countess . It's cheesy as hell , and there are , of course , ceremonies , which involve lots of topless babes , so it's not a total waste , just mostly a waste . Maybe in non-butchered form this would at least be more tolerable , but this print / version doesn't do it any justice , if there is any to be done . .
leans more toward " bad " than " so bad it's good "	I have been slowly working my way through the films of Al Adamson over a long period of time . . . . slowly , that is , so not to incur brain damage from watching more than one of an evening . I have found that for the most part , Adamson's films are CHOCK FULL of entertainment value , intended or not . Sadly , " Blood Of Dracula's Castle " seems to be one that was played more-or-less straight with cheesy props and bad acting , and it is more just plain bad with little in the way of redeeming values . A young couple inherits a castle in the desert , or something like that , although it's apparently near the shore , too , huh , where IS that ? At any rate , after a tough day at Sea World frolicking with walruses or wherever that is that they were hanging out , they hit the road to go find this place and claim their inheritance . Little do they expect that Dracula & his wife live there , looked after by butler John Carradine and deformed Mango , who collects young ladies for their dining pleasure . There's also something to do with an escaped convict that Mr . & Mrs . Dracula think very highly of , and this guy gets " crazy " when the moon is full . . . . is he a werewolf ? Uh , no , he just gets " crazy " . Not that we , the viewers , would not already think that of him for all the dirty deeds he committed to get back to the castle . Anyway , this is very lackluster for an Adamson film and has little of the " unexpected pleasures " that bad movie fans like myself really enjoy in his films , so therefore I'm afraid I'll have to pronounce this one a dud . .
were the 1920's really this dull ?	I was looking forward to a sort of Fatty Arbuckle scandal on which this film is supposedly based , but my interest waned with each passing minute and each extended song . This has a great cast but it just kind of meanders along and just isn't very good . James Coco plays a fading star who is looking at making a comeback , and he throws a " wild " party at his place , but apparently most of the wildness took place off screen and in private rooms , away from the camera . Instead we have lots of singing and dancing which is fine , if that's what you like , I guess , but not I . There is sort of a build-up as Coco is attracted to a young innocent woman who was sent there to become a star , but by that point I couldn't take anymore and had stopped the film and placed it gently in the trade-in pile . VERY disappointing , .
It's been a while since I've watched a Mexican wrestling movie . . .	After having seen this , I think that I appreciate " Wrestling Women vs . the Aztec Mummy " much more . And other Mexican horror movies with " wrestling " themes . A bunch of sleazy amateur porno film makers are wandering Mexico in a van . They , of course , break down in some ( almost ) abandoned village , La Sangre De Dios , where years ago , a crazed wrestler was exiled , due to killing his opponents . No guesswork required to figure out what happens next . Part of what Mexican wrestlers do to humiliate their opponents is to remove their masks , and in the case of people that aren't WEARING masks , well , removing their faces is apparently the only solution . Yuck . There are no likable characters in this , except for perhaps " Steve " ( Jeremy Radin ) , who plays a " Mexican " ( born in Seattle ) and who is extremely knowledgeable about all that has to do with Mexican wrestling , and he even has his own mask . I kind of liked the idea of a crazed , murderous , lobotomized wrestler hanging out in an abandoned village , the stuff of legends and all . It's a lot of the REST of this film that I didn't like , and I guess if I have to watch a wrestling horror movie I'd prefer it to be Santo or " Night of the Bloody Apes " or something like that . The stuff of old is much more fun . This is just cheesy and I didn't feel it was worth much . .
well filmed and colorful	This is well filmed and very colorful , but that's where the praise for this movie ends . It has a moment or two here and there , but overall it's rather a waste of time . A old man with two daughters is ill , and the doctor attending him is also the beau of the one daughter that lives with the old man , and in order to help him pay off a blackmailer the woman kills her father to get her inheritance , only to find out that the will doesn't leave her any money , it's all for her sister . Of course after that the woman isn't happy but her boyfriend is glad enough to take up with her sister , although it seems he's not as big of a creep as he's made out to be since he won't accept her money . This has a good look and feel to it if you like watching people sleepwalk through a dull picture , but otherwise I can't really recommend it . It's worth seeing once to satisfy your curiosity but you must then move on to bigger and better things , of which there are plenty . .
Absolute sleaze	Jesus Franco is pretty hit or miss on his films & I'd say this was a miss , that is , unless you're into total sleaze . I will say that the man has an eye for a good shot , even if it involves topless women with machine guns silhouetted against the ocean . This is overall pretty ridiculous and the acting is horrible , but the acting is the least of what this is about . And what is it about ? Well , it's about 102 minutes of lesbianism , women picking and shoveling in the hot sun for no apparent reason , and just about as much sleaze as you can stand and maybe then some . Most notable ( ? ) is a scene involving one young woman who is tied to a chair and an apparently amorous German Shepherd , and while what's going on is merely implied ( thankfully ) it is probably a scenario that I could have done without . I'd rank this up there with Tender Flesh as one of the Franco films I'd rather not have in my collection , although the music is jazzy and fun . , yecch .
Castle of nothing much . . . .	Going into this it had elements that I love in horror movies , it was Italian , it had monsters , it had a castle , it had a dwarf , but it also went nowhere and stayed there . Rossano Brazzi plays Dr . Frankenstein and he's experimenting on cave folks that live round those there parts , something to do with an earthquake 500 years ago or something , which is every bit as plausible as most of the rest of the film . This flick seemed like a bunch of loosely-related activities strung together to make a feature-length film and things are introduced that just never appear again and you wonder what they were about , like a grave robbing incident where a young woman was dug up early in the movie . . . . and what happened to her ? I dunno , someone investigated though and found little dwarf footprints around the grave site , but then . . . ? Mr . Dwarf himself is on the lam after being turned out of the castle for being naughty , and he's busy teaching the cave creatures to cook meat instead of eating it raw and spying on young ladies when they bathe in the mineral water in the cave . Whee . This is suitable entertainment for when you're really bored and want something mindless to watch , but other than that it's not really worth seeing .
How To Waste Your Money	I'm not sure why I thought I might like this but whatever reason I had for picking this up eluded me when I watched it . This is about an eccentric artist , mostly back in the 50's when he did artsy things , and a few clips here and there of what I guess is called performance art . Like tearing a mound of paper into pieces and throwing it up in the air , and pushing a blackboard on wheels ( with noting written or drawn on it ) in circles for what seemed like an awful long time . Whee . Oh , and this guy was an " enigma " too , nobody knew very much about him because he didn't let them , and his death in 1995 was a mystery . Interviews with various artsy-fartsy types did little for me . The guy did have some interesting ideas , I guess , and OK , perhaps he was way ahead of his time , but this DVD is more for folks that are really into art than an interesting " biopic " and it was frankly pretty dull to me .
Dead Teen Horror , Hong Kong Style	Interesting to note that Dead Teen Horror movies can be just as bad from Hong Kong as they are right here in the good old USA . This is kind of a Freddy and Jason rolled into one ( instead of versus ) and when a bunch of teens go to a lonely island to have a camp out , they run afoul of the weirdos that live there and pay with their lives . Nothing you haven't seen before , if you want that , check out Japanese movies . The subtitles on this one are pretty literal , meaning they aren't conversational English and apparently not done by someone for whom English is their main language . Cantonese ( or Mandarin , I don't know which one I heard this in ) is a lot harder on the ears than Japanese , in fact it grates on your nerves , or at least it did mine . This is pretty much by-the-numbers stuff , just from a different country , which a lot of times guarantees it's going to be better but I guess in the future I'll just stick to the " new wave " of Japanese horror , which is far more imaginative and not just copying Western ways . , see it if you must but be prepared to be disappointed .
Nasty , but actually , I've seen far worse	This wasn't exactly something that I had on my list of " Must See " films but found a copy cheap right there in front of me at a store , and slunk to the register to pay . . . . took a couple weeks to get up the courage to watch it thought , I felt like I was about 12 and doing something I wasn't supposed to while my parents were out . Interesting that this was filmed on the set of " Hogan's Heroes " because a couple things actually reminded me of that , namely the " secret tunnels " between prisoner's shacks . Ilsa is , of course , the Commondant of this prison camp , and she has lots of female prisoners on which to experiment , and a couple of men around too , one of which is the only one to ever satisfy her ( and therefore , he's not been castrated , eyow ! ! ) . Dyanne Thorne hams it up as Ilsa and in general the acting in this piece of trash leaves a lot to be desired , but I reckon that's not why people watch it . And why do they watch it , exactly ? Well , beats me , there's lots of torture and blood & the whole Nazi thing ( which actually repulses me ) but apart from that , it's just another exploitation film . It's nowhere near as bad as I thought it would be , as far as what was shown , but it was bad enough . Who is the audience for this anyway ? Never mind , I don't want to know , really . Mildly entertaining in a sick way , I guess , but not worth seeing again . .
not the standout in " The Blind Dead " collection	The first two " Blind Dead " films are pretty good , and the first is a classic of sorts . Not so for this one . A woman , who is a model , goes in search of her roommate , who is also a model , but seems to have disappeared . She's part of a super-secret advertising campaign for designer sporty life-boats or something ( yes really ) , and she and another model have stranded themselves somewhere in the North Sea near the shipping lanes so that they can supposedly be rescued in style . The two women are supposedly stuck in one area , and surrounded by fog & tropic heat , and then they spot an old galleon , but stupidly expect to be rescued & have absolutely no qualms in hopping aboard this derelict ship . And guess who is on board ? Why , it's our old friends , the walking dead Templar Knights . And you know that no good can come of that . To the rescue , though , is Lillian ( Maria Perschy ) , the head of the sporting goods conglomerate , the woman looking for her roommate ( Noemi ) , and some professor of something . . . . who wants to see this ship , although supposedly it doesn't exist . He's a professor that apparently has a B . S . , because that's certainly what he spouts . There's all kinds of stuff like talk of " other dimensions " , etc . , but why are rats running around a ship in another dimension with nothing but dead Templars on board ? Got me . The dialog is totally ridiculous , to the point of being hilarious , especially when the professor is holding forth on his theories . And when the Templars make themselves known and are driven back " to the hell from where they came " ( which in this case is apparently the hold of the ship ) , there's some kind of notebook or something sitting on the hatch that slides down inside before the hatch finally closes . . . . was that the script ? Could have been , oh well , I don't think anyone was using it anyway . A hoot for bad movie fans , but a real come-down after the first couple " Blind Dead " movies , which are actually worth seeing . .
My first of " 8 Films To Die From " . . . or is it " for " ?	This is the first of these " 8 Films To Die For " collection that I've seen and it's certainly not made me want to see any of the rest . . . although I've heard at least a couple of them are decent . I don't know , this wasn't terrible but it didn't really do much for me . Your basic dysfunctional cannibal family in suburbia kind of thing , mom & dad died , the family sold the farm & moved to San Francisco ( ? ) where they continued to bring home stray food sources whenever possible . The best part of this was the creepy Goth sister , who of course invites a friend over from school that never leaves . Anyway , of course we have a butcher shop in the basement and so on and so on . This family is sort of like the white-bread version of the Sawyer Clan , they're nasty & they do bad things but they ain't go no soul . I see a lot of reviews from people that liked this , and I guess I don't know what I missed , but I found it to be very mediocre & I wouldn't recommend it to anyone , really . .
not the worst movie ever but a good contender	Stewart Moss stars as a scientist who is on a working trip with his wife , and one gets the feeling that he was picked for this role for his ability to roll his eyes back in his head . . . imagine the auditions for this . . " can you . . . no , that's not quite it , thank you , next ! " . Anyway , he's bitten by a bat , and then , he's either changing into some kind of bat creature and killing people or . . . . he's not . For no one else sees his strange transformations , but he himself seems to think that he's changing because his wedding ring pops off when his hands turn into claws , etc . To its credit the movie does kind of hold back on whether he's just nuts or whether he's actually transforming into something until almost the very end . This has some good locations & sort of a decent atmosphere at times but unfortunately none of that can make up for the somewhat lame story and the wonderfully bad acting . Kind of fun in a " so bad it's good " way , but leans more towards just plain bad . .
your basic Satanic Rottweiler flick	OK , this is notable for one thing : the dog is well trained . Oh , and it's got Lily Munster in it ( Yvonne De Carlo ) . This is a low budget film made in Texas and by something called " The Construction Company " ? Well , that would be appropriate , I guess , since this possesses all the thrills and chills of framing a house . Seems like this dog , Greta , is a rather sweet and lovable Rottweiler . It also seems like Hester , the character played by De Carlo , is into dabbling with Satanism and black magic and uses to dog to kill off her relatives . I guess I'm a tad on the puzzled side WHY , because SHE'S the one that seems to have all the money , the big house , etc . , so I'm not sure what the motive is . I'm even less sure what the motive was for making this movie , really . Anyway , the dog does all kinds of deadly tricks , like a curling iron in the bath tub , jumping out of the seat of a car to scare the owner backward into oncoming traffic , and even strangulation of her owner's boyfriend with the dog leash while he's dozing up against a tree . . . . . and the guy is dead and the dog is lying by his side as though nothing had happened , and the cops are looking for someone that strangled him while a 100-lb . plus Rottweiler calmly lay there ? Yeah right . Anyway , this movie doesn't get many points for coherence , but it does make a rather good point at the end : do NOT upset Rottweilers . .
more a Medieval drama than a horror film	Despite the ( English ) title , this seems to have little to do with Devils and much more to do with a power hungry ruler who seeks the Philospher's Stone & wants gold made from lead ( & virgin's blood ) . Jacinto Molina plays Gilles de Lancre and seems to have little issue with having people put to death when he thinks they threaten his position or when he needs virgins for their blood . He's basically egged on by his lady love and an alchemist that he's employed and it's more greed and insanity that seems to be his problem than demonic possession ( unfortunately ) . There are parts that are at least somewhat exciting like jousting and grown men trying to knock each other down with big sticks , and the film at least has a good look to it , but otherwise there's little about this to recommend . Little in the way of gore and nothing to be afraid of at all , and most unusual , for a Molina / Naschy film , not really any unintentional humor . Therefore , .
Astral demons , sex vampires , AND , Aunt Fanny	Good Lord . I've seen some strange stuff but this one may well take the cake . A woman who is dabbling in witchcraft manages to get more-or-less possessed by a witch named Abigail , and Abigail treats her to all kinds of strange sexual adventures , including seducing her gay neighbor & even her very own Aunt Fanny . All seemingly while " remaining a virgin for her daddy " whatever that means . . . . not sure I want to know . Eventually this woman's brother is also taken over by Abigail & he's turned into a " sex vampire " . Why exactly a sex vampire needs fangs would be something I don't want to think about too long , but this transformation also makes her brother lurch along like Quasimodo , perhaps because he has an erection ; again , not something to ponder very much . This has no dialog , really , it's all voice-over narration , along with a bunch of Halloween masks & people in weird costumes which are supposedly Astral Demons , which flash in and out of the action in " transetheric vision " . Not really a film made for watching on acid , so much as a film MADE by people on acid , I guess . Still though , for all its faults ( there's plenty ) , it's still kind of fascinating at times , in a " why am I watching this ? " kind of way . Only something that would be released on Something Weird Video . Decidedly weird and quite amateur , but maybe worth a look if you're both adventurous & bored . .
Horror Porn . . . . Zombie Erotica . . . . . what the hell ?	No , there are no zombies having sex in this film , the zombies just do what zombies normally do . . . wander slowly and aimlessly and munch on human flesh . It's the living that have all the sex in this movie & boy is there lots . . . . way too much for my taste & all pretty graphic , nothing left to the imagination . Hardly what I'd call erotic . Seems that there's a rich American developer that wants to build a hotel on a remote island , and he hires a guy with a boat to take him and his recent acquisition ( Laura Gemser ) to this place . The island is supposedly deserted but it seems that an old man lives there with his granddaughter , who may or may not be among the living herself . Of course the zombies get riled and walk , and munch . The best parts of this are filmed on the island , before that it's almost all extremely long sex scenes which get rather boring . There is a bright spot though in what appears to be a young Filipino woman who performs a strip-tease in an empty nightclub for our ship's captain , and she opens a bottle of champagne using her enormous . . . uh . . . talent . A very sleazy movie & of perhaps minor interest to horror fans . .
eek !	This movie was a vehicle made by Arch Hall , Sr . to launch his son into " teen idol status " . That being , Arch Hall , Jr . , who to me resembles sort of a cross between Mickey Rooney & Billy Idol . My God , that hair . . . Anyway Eegah is some kind of ancient caveman that's somehow miraculously survived in a desert area ( Palm Springs , apparently , otherwise no gas pump jockey would be driving a Corvette ) . Roxy , who is Tom's girlfriend ( Hall , Jr . ) is going to the club for dinner & Tom is to join her later , but she finds Eegah ( as played by Richard Kiel ) on the road and is almost apparently clubbed and dragged off by her hair if Tom hadn't happened along and scared him off . Anyway , later , Hall Sr . ( who plays Roxy's dad ) decides to don a pith helmet and jaunty safari outfit to go out into the desert and search for this giant Roxy says she saw . So he does and he finds him and then disappears . So of course Tom & Roxy go looking for him in Tom's dune buggy , which is actually one of the most fun and enjoyable parts of the movie , with cool background music to boot . Of course they find that dear old dad is being held in a cave by Eegah , and soon they're his prisoners too . While in the cave , Roxy gets to see Eegah's etchings . . . one of which she exclaims over . . . " look , it's me in my car ! " . Uh , sorry , it looks like a flying pig . Anyway , the trio manages to escape the cave and you think that's the end of the film ( or you hope ) but NO , there's more , as Eegah manages to get from the middle of the desert to this town in a matter of seconds in search of Roxy . And if you thought things couldn't go much more downhill than they were already , you'd unfortunately find yourself wrong . I didn't mention that Tom played guitar either , and whenever he does there's all kinds of percussion and back-up vocals that come out of nowhere to accompany him , wow , now THAT'S talent . Unfortunately he can't sing his way out of a wet paper bag , although I think he does in every movie except " The Sadist " , which is probably one of his best because dear old dad didn't get involved . I dunno , I've heard a lot about this movie over time and had never seen it , and now that I have , finally , I can't say it's the absolute worst I've ever seen , and it does have some camp value , but it goes on WAY too long after it should have ended . Now that I've had my curiosity satisfied I can move on to bigger and better ( I can only hope ) things . .
them darn goat-suckers . . .	I vowed some time ago to never get another Joe Castro film ( perhaps after " Near Death " ) but I sort of ended up with this one by accident , since it was a Troma release & I didn't read the cover carefully . Oops . Well , I watched it , and it's by no means good , but it's , I guess , sort of " tongue in cheek " . . . . if it's not , it sure seemed that way . Some intrepid folks from the University of the Rio Grande set out to find if the Chupacabra exists , because of surveillance camera footage from someone's GOAT BARN that shows this weird thing hopping across the field of vision . And also because the person that this thing supposedly killed was the uncle of the leader of the expedition . There's a couple of camera men , one of whom whines the whole time , and there some ex-Marine named " Army " ( ? ! ) , who is some kind of munitions expert or something . At any rate , the do find the Chupacabra on some guy's ranch & set out to find it , getting involved with two supposed witches along the way . The creature itself is rather ridiculous-looking , with spines on its back & a great big long tongue that Gene Simmons would die for . Eventually , after a bunch of folks done get killed , so does the Chupacabra , and they take it back to the university for an autopsy . So , is it from another planet ? Is it a genetic creation from some lab in Puerto Rico ? Uh , they don't tell us , really . Not exactly intriguing but not quite terrible either . Definitely not a wide audience for this one . .
Interesting premise comes off no better than a poor made-for-TV film	This film starts out promisingly as you're treated to what seems to be a Disco Inferno , with wildly dancing devil-like creatures and a repeated " no sweat no sweat " chorus , which turns out to be a deodorant commercial produced by this particular agency that Lee Majors works for . Now , there's a new man that's in charge of this agency ( Mitchum ) and he's up to something , which may be somewhat devious , given that several people have quit and some have more than quit , they died or killed themselves . So Majors pokes around and finds something to do with subliminal advertising and also finds that Mitchum's background is not in advertising but with the government . Overall this film has a very scatter-shot feel to it and just seems thrown together , and given the subject matter it could have been a lot more sinister and creepy in the right hands , but alas , it comes off as no better than a TV movie of the week , which was fine back in the day of no VHS / DVD & nothing else to do . But not now . Performances were adequate but nothing more than they had to be , and Mitchum was far past his days as a actor that could give the viewer goosebumps . Mediocre at best , which is unfortunate . Could have used a few subliminal messages of its own , perhaps . .
now on DVD as " Island Fury " . . . . and what the hell IS this ?	This is available on a " Drive In Double Feature " from Dark Sky Films , and since I just had finished up " Barracuda " , I watched this too . This is a film that proves to be incredibly ambitious and inept at the same time . We begin with two young ladies wandering the streets of some foreign town , but where exactly are they ? They stop to look at necklaces from some Chinese vendor , and try on Chinese-style clothes at a shop , but then we see some Aztec dancers ? And all the while , these girls are being followed by two guys , who eventually drop whatever stealth they didn't have to chase the girls on a wild run though the town , and they finally catch them . It seems that one of the girls has a coin on a string around her neck , and these guys want to find the loot , and where did she get it ? So , in flashback , we go back to find out . And how did they know she had this coin ? Hard to say , really . Now , back in the day , when these two women were 10 years old , they were out with their sisters and their sister's boyfriends on a boat , and after stopped to get air in their tanks , they tow this young boy back to his home dock , only to have his grandpa come out & invite the " young ' uns " up for herbal tea with granny . But not everyone has the tea , Todd has gone back to the boat to check on the young girls , and then when they're away from it , the boat blows up , and when they get back to the house their friends have mysteriously disappeared . Well , it seems as though these " kindly folk " raise their own vegetables but they wait for the meat to drop by for a spell , and serve it herbal tea . But the girls and Todd did leave the island , but now , they're returning , escorted by their captors , and they're there to find the treasure , despite the fact that no one ever showed the girls where it was BEFORE . There also seems to be someone else on the island , and the thugs mysteriously begin to die , one by one , and since there's only three , it doesn't take long . And there's even a sort of happy ending , which will leave the viewer every bit as baffled as they were throughout the rest of the film . The two thugs seem to be speed freaks with anger issues , and combined with no acting ability they're borderline hilarious . The hillbilly-type family is also devoid of acting ability , despite the fact that the grandpa is Hank Worden , who appeared in many films and TV shows . The action is confusing , the locales are even more confusing , and the island looks like Southern California . So what the hell IS this ? I'm not sure , but it certainly is worth seeing once so you can think ( or say ) , huh ? , very bizarre .
jaw-dropping but actually pretty bad . . .	Here's a movie that has a " sort-of " story to it , which at some point suddenly seems to be totally forgotten . Did the film makers forget they had named the movie after it ? A young man with some kind of strange bone disease is not getting better so his best friend and his wife try to make him better by giving him bone marrow , ground up bones , etc . from corpses . Yeah , that sounds like a good idea . Of course , he doesn't get better , he gets much worse , and pretty soon he's expelling worms , maggots , and oodles of assorted bodily fluids out every available orifice , much to the delight of the viewer ( who is hopefully NOT snacking , did I forget to mention not to do that ? ) . Anyway , eventually corpses rise up from the dead and roam around , and there's good eating wherever this movie was made , because apart from Alex and one girl , there's no member of this cast that seems to have less than three chins . Ah , it's Rhode Island , I finally saw a license plate I could focus in on . At any rate , we go from a bone sickness to this newly crazed Alex muscling in on some ghoul's territory to a " walking dead " taking over the earth flick , so when you think this is about over it continues to dig a deeper grave by going off in yet another direction . The gore effects are fairly EXCESSIVE , I'd say , and a few are actually pretty impressive , like a human skull opened by grabbing the bottom and top jaw and PULLING back . Eeew ! There's also a bunch of stuff that you're seen many times before like bodies being pulled apart , etc . . . . and lots of intestine munching . So why exactly do zombies munch on the intestines first ? That seems to be their favorite , and aren't the intestines generally filled with waste matter on the way to disposal ? Eeeeew . One thing though , you guys : The jugular vein is on the LEFT side of the neck , not the right . This does have some interesting gore effects though , and at times the film held my interest , but then it negates all that by wandering off into dumbness . I did like that one guy's wife cooked up some " hamburger meat " she found in the fridge and they were munching on burgers when he found a bone chip . . . " honey , where did you get this meat from ? " . Eeew ! If you have a strong stomach and a strong resolve to watch this thing to the end , I salute you . I did , and I don't necessarily respect myself this morning . .
what costs money , but has no value ?	I of course saw the previews for this at the beginning of some other Lion's Gate extravaganza , so of course it was only the best parts and therefore looked intriguing . And it is , to a point . A young college student ( Sarah ) is finding riddles all over the place and is becoming obsessed with answering them , and in doing so she's unwittingly becoming involved in some game . Now that's fairly intriguing right there but unfortunately it all gets rather muddled and becomes so complicated that the viewer ( like myself ) will most likely become frustrated . Characters appear with little introduction and you're not really sure who they are or why Sarah knows them or is hanging out with them . All of this has something to do with this woman who tried to drown a young boy years ago and her reason for that was that it's " all part of the design " . In reality , it's all part of the " very sketchy script " and when the film is over you'll find yourself feeling that you've lost about an hour and a half of your life that you want back for more productive uses of your time , like cleaning the bathroom , for instance . .
whatever happened to good movies ?	Alice lives in an isolated house in the desert and one day is bothered by a knock on her door . The lady at the door ( Rebecca ) has come to tell her she has to move because her house is being demolished . Of course Alice invites her in , gives her tea and drugs her , and ties her up and holds her hostage . While she's held hostage , Rebecca is treated to a visual depiction ( I guess ) of what goes on in Alice's twisted little brain , and it seems that Alice is tormented by people from her past , some of whom she apparently killed . But then for no apparently reason , Alice lets her hostage go and when she flees for the safety of her home she finds she's still haunted by visions of Alice and her torment . And gets sucked right back into them , despite the fact that her boyfriend has come over to comfort her . Seems that Alice's mother died by falling through a hole in the ice ( no easy task in the desert , I guess ) but then Alice's father bestowed her with wifely duties , resulting in a child , which supposedly died . Or did it ? And are Alice and Rebecca somehow connected ? You'll have to watch to find out , I'm not telling . I suffer , you suffer . This is low-budget , which does not always mean bad , but it also suffers from the director's little touches that drag it away from any attempts at borderline thrills or chills . Overall this has its moments but they're far outnumbered by its faults . The syrupy sweet ending doesn't help much either . Not even redeemed by unintentional humor . Don't bother . , it's already in the trade-in pile .
Is there a point to this ?	I generally have no trouble watching films that don't necessarily make a lot of sense , especially if they're captivating enough . I had a few problems with this one though , and this isn't the first time I've seen it either , I just thought maybe I wasn't in the right frame of mind and decided to give it another try . As far as I can tell , Fred ( Cristophe Lambert ) is a safe cracker and a blackmailer and he's hiding out in the Paris subway system where he meets all manner of thieves and misfits . Isabel Adjani plays the woman he is currently blackmailing . The subway police are after him and all his no-good buds . Oh , and he wants to create a " new wave " band . That must be why his hair looks like Billy Idol on a bad day . Beyond that , well , I can't say much because there's not much to say . Oh sure , it's cool to look at sometimes , in the way of a music video or something , but not exactly the stuff of which great movies are made . The police are somewhat amusing , as there are two detectives referred to as " Batman and Robin " and one of them refers to two other cops as " Tom and Jerry " , and the chief inspector himself has a rather dry sense of humor . As for the band , when they play at the end they are all wearing safari outfits and look like a nightmare version of the Village People . As if any nightmare could get that bad . I think the lyrics of one of the songs pretty much sum it up though , something like " we watch TV without even caring what we watch " . Well , I do care what I watch and I don't care to ever watch this again . Lame would probably sum this up just fine , there's plenty of other good movies out there without wasting your time on this one .
frantic , loud , and virtually mirthless	I had wanted to see this film for a long time , and now that I have , I have to say that I was extremely disappointed . There's non-stop action and it's loud and frantic but I found it extremely unfunny . Brian Benben plays one of several script-writers at radio station WBN back in 1939 , and one of the stations biggest sponsors ( as played by Brion James ) is in house for the show . Of course there's problems with the script and things run pretty much by the " seat of the pants " . But there's something that's supposed to be sinister going on too , and one by one , people are being murdered . Before each murder there's someone breaking into the broadcast to make some kind of unintelligible announcement in a creepy voice , after which SOMEONE will surely drop dead from something . Of course , somehow Benben ends up as a suspect and lots of running around and dangling from rooftops and things ensues . The only real bright spots in this are Michael McKean as the conductor of the orchestra , who seems to take whatever ridiculous change comes along into stride , and Christopher Lloyd as the sound effects man , who is every bit as goofy as you'd expect from Lloyd . Overall , this had a great cast , but they're mostly wasted in this effort . Mirthless , and rather worthless , otherwise . .
no worse than 80's " direct to video " stuff , really . . but that's no recommendation	If you liked things like " Video Violence " , " Woodchipper Massacre " , " Cannibal Campout " , etc . , then you may well like this , because it could have been made around the same time . It has the same look , the same feel , and the same ( ahem ) quality . Amy is a girl who has just returned from a funeral in Japan . Her boyfriend Nick has cooked up an idea for them to go to some " adult " resort , for a little wild weekend , but Amy is apparently a virgin and intending to remain that way , which of course , makes things a bit difficult . Upon arriving at this " resort " , they are greeted by the loony caretaker , Walter , who is kind enough to reveal the size of his penis to them , after which they go into their cabin and lock the door . Nick has ideas that Amy isn't warming up to so of course , things are getting uncomfortable . But , this isn't just ANY resort , it's one that has a mysterious killer lurking about and busily slaughtering young ladies . He's armed with all the requisite maniac tools , like a chain saw , etc . There's lots of fake blood squirted everywhere , like , by a hose or something , there's a bit of strangeness in one cabin where the guests are playing some kind of " father knows best " type scenario , with mom being a guy , there's two weirdo desk clerks from the resort office that mess with an Ouija board but those two DO have great taste in movie posters . And there's of course , Walter , who really isn't the caretaker after all , but it's never explained who he is before he meets his demise either . I wouldn't call this the WORST film I've ever seen , not by a long shot . In fact , I'd say it was better than many of the " After Dark Horror Fest " films , but then again , I wouldn't consider than a recommendation . Still , it has its moments , and if you can get past the cheesy look , it's kind of a throw-back to some of the films I mentioned earlier , although , that's not really a recommendation , although I will confess to enjoying some of those to an extent . , some may like this more than others . . . but most will probably hate it .
can't hold a candle to the original	If one has never seen the original " Carnival of Souls " then it would be hard to think of this as a remake / re-imagining / whatever this is . There are a few similarities , but where the original relied on a creepy atmosphere & settings , this one has none of that & goes for the cheap scares . The original was far less complicated in its storyline too , as this one has a dead clown / child molester reaching out from beyond the grave to have his revenge on the woman who " fingered " him as a young girl & sent him to prison . The remake isn't terrible , on its own , but I kept trying to liken certain things to the original ( which I've seen at least a dozen times , maybe more ) and it just wasn't working for me . This also features the ever-tiresome " eyeless vibrating creatures " , which I believe first showed up in " Jacob's Ladder " , and were " popular " in movies for quite a long time after . In the right hands this might have been a bit better , and it would be pretty hard to top the old abandoned resort / bath house in Utah where the original was filmed for a creepier setting . This remake gets too complicated and there are too many unnecessary elements in it that drag it down . , not terrible , but go watch the original .
Absolutely terrible , but not without some merit	First , I'd like to say that I had the Paragon Video release of this for years & I missed hearing that wonderful fanfare when I watched the Code Red DVD release . If you're not familiar with Paragon , they put out the absolute bottom-of-the-barrel stuff , that I guess nobody else would . And amazingly enough , they also released Boardinghouse , which is definitely bottom-of-the-barrel , if not deeper , yet . . . it has a certain something to it , otherwise , I'd have never watched it so many times over the years . First , we have the Hoffman house , where many strange things have happened to the previous owners . In other words , they all died . The last person to die was the uncle of Jim , a kind of new-age metaphysical dude , who promptly moves in and rents the rooms to a bunch of babes . Of course , whatever nastiness haunts the Hoffman house is still there , and strange and nasty things occur . Nobody seems to notice that there seems to always be flies buzzing around too . There's also a charming gardener , a Viet Nam vet who Jim keeps around because he saved his uncle's life . The gardener is just a bit on the creepy side , and the girls get a bit freaked when he gets too close with sharp objects , chainsaws , etc . There are plenty of laughable special effects to keep you entertained , and this film is done in " Horror Vision " , which means that when someone is about to be dispatched , there's a black glove surrounded by . . uh . . colored lines , electrical impulses , something . There's also a shower scene where one girl finds herself dressed in a pig-faced Halloween mask , but it seems to be all in her head . For a fancy house , man , that shower sure looks like it could use a good cleaning , really . One woman , Victoria , is the singer for a rock band , so Jim asks her to have her band play & the gang decides to throw a big house-warming party with disastrous results . Of course , all hell breaks loose and it turns out one of the girls that's moved into the house isn't what she seems at all . This movie is filmed on video , has tons of really bad special effects , lots of t & a , plenty of music that makes one realize how bad 80's music could be , and is , in general , a complete piece of trash . Having said all that though , it also contains enough unintentional humor and just plain unfathomable weirdness , that it's a bad movie lover's delight . Even the DVD release can't save some of the more badly-filmed parts but the utter cheesiness of the whole proceeding remains intact . .
Maybe it's better if you know something of South African politics	This is a rather strange South African film ( a Troma pick-up ) and in the introduction by the director ( and thankfully not the increasingly annoying Lloyd Kaufman ) , he mentions that it's a combination of horror , dark comedy , and some references toward the direction South Africa was headed in at the time . Well , if you don't know anything about South African politics , I think you'll find yourself as lost as I was . However , this does manage to be creepy and weird enough to be somewhat appealing . It seems that a deceased racist general ( played by Marius Weyers , of " The Gods Must Be Crazy " fame ) , has left behind some blood ( his , I assume ) that will carry on the pure blood of the family , or some such thing . And the blood manages to find its way into the veins of various people , creating some kind of zombies , but not the Romero kind . A young man , Fanus , who is supposedly the son of the general , manages ( somehow , I couldn't ) to piece together what's going on and try to stop it , although it seems a bit late . The house maid , Hope , is also trying some magic & spells to try to stop whatever is going on , but her efforts are also a bit futile . I can't exactly say I'd recommend everyone to run out and see this because I think a lot of people that watch it will be as puzzled as I was . I think the film would fare better with a little background knowledge of the politics of the time and the place , but if you don't have that particular background , then this is nothing more than a creepy and rather odd movie with a very limited audience . I didn't think it was terrible , but I was rather lost a lot of the time and yet it does have a certain strangeness to it that I found appealing . .
Viewers may not be haunted	This has the feel to it of a British made-for-TV film , and it's a fine diversion for a rainy Sunday afternoon , but definitely nothing to write home about . Roger Moore appears fully attired to go into competition with John Cleese in a Minstry of Silly Walks sketch , and he is a hot-shot at some Engineering company until he has a mysterious car accident and ends up with a double running around . I like a good ghost story or mystery every once in a while , but this is merely mediocre , and would be just fine for dragging out when Aunt Agatha drops by and wants to watch something and you feel that " Driller Killer " just isn't appropriate . Moore and his upper class twit pals will bore you to death long before the end and when the " twist " is revealed it's not particularly shocking or plausible . Only recommended if you're a fan of stuffy British stuff .
fair slasher flick with Frankie Avalon as the killer . . . !	Yes , 50's & 60's singer & beach movie star , Frankie Avalon , is a crazed escaped mental patient in this early 80's slasher offering . He does provide music of a sort , only it's " Lullabye & Goodnight " over and over on his little wooden flute . Eek ! Now , supposedly a young girl , Marion ( Donna Wilkes ) has been in a car accident , the fault of her drunken father ( Richard Jaeckel , in a bit of a departure from his normal amiable roles ) . She has a rare blood type , O-positive , and has received transfusions from a patient at the state mental hospital . Guess who ? This , of course , enables her to see what escaped loony Frankie is up to , at times , and therefore she has strange visions and nightmares that she doesn't understand . Of course , Frankie is cruising around in a stolen van & has picked up a pretty hitch hiker , who ends up needing to be disposed of , and Marion , of course , happens across him while he's in the act of burying the body , etc . So of course , he wants to find her . And shut her up . Overall , this isn't terrible , but it isn't particularly original or horrifying . Still , it has its moments & is worth seeing for fans of the genre . .
Leopard / vampire / sorcerer Euro / Afro-trash	This is a rather strange offering from Armando De Ossario in which a small group of people supposedly doing zoological research in Africa stumble across an area where mysterious things happened many years ago . Seems that there were sorcerers that come back when the moon is full to do their thing , which seems to be playing drums and sacrificing women . And dancing . Of course , these explorers scoff at all legends and rumors and therefore are fresh meat . Hard to tell , really , what sort of creatures we're dealing with . To join this little " club " , apparently you have to get bitten by someone with sharp teeth ( leopard or vampire ? ) and then get your head chopped off , after which it's neatly re-attached with a vine or something & off you go on a killing spree . A good portion of the middle of the film seems to consist of the leopard / vampire woman & her recent converts bounding through the jungle in slow motion and beckoning to each other , saying " come " . Yee ha . The risen sorcerers are rather creepy though , and some of the atmosphere & scenery is rather nice . Hard to say what exactly is going on here though , although it's not terrible , just a bit confusing . " The Blind Dead " series was pretty much the highlight of the director's career , and not many of the other films I've seen by him hold a candle to that . " Night of the Sorcerors " is now available on DVD mastered in high definition ( ! ) and the print looks wonderful . . . if only it were a better movie . .
Passable time-passer	Did you know that " Killer Likes Candy " is now on DVD ? Hard to say why , but it's really not terrible and is a fun Saturday afternoon film when the weather is bad , but nothing much more . The story is that of a hired assassin that is out to kill the king of a prosperous oil-producing country , and he likes candy , of course , and leaves little wrappers all over the place . To protect our king we have two agents , one of whom is Kerwin Matthews , the other , his goofy body-building womanizing partner , is Ventanino Ventanini , who has appeared in everything from " La Cage Aux Folles " to Italian cannibal gore flicks . The soundtrack music puts me in mind of " The 10th Victim " and other such Italian films , and is typical of the sort of " lounge " music of the time , except not terribly appropriate for the film . Of course , if our king dies , there will be a power struggle and things that shouldn't happen , but the king happens to have a physical ailment that he wants to hide from the public , with good reason . Of course , our intrepid candy-eating killer manages to find and infiltrate almost every situation where the king is present but still no luck on the kill . There are a bunch of goons out to stop our heroes from protecting the king , of course , and some of the fight scenes & such are fairly interesting , especially a confrontation that takes place in a park that is full of old statues , some of which are huge . Gordon Mitchell , former body-builder , is one of these goons , and he's appropriately creepy . So , nothing too intense here , really , but it's not a bad little time passer , really . Available as part of a " Rareflix " 3-DVD set that has other films that otherwise would not have seen a DVD release , and maybe with good reason . .
Virginia is for Cannibals	I haven't seen many " Masters of Horror " shows , because I don't have cable & therefore I have to see these on DVD . I have been pretty disappointed with what I've seen from the 2nd season so far and frankly , The Washingtonians kind of stunk . Oh , it's a good idea , the execution left a lot to be desired . A family moves to the house belonging to a now-deceased relative , grandma , I reckon , and the whole area is rather alien & creepy to this family . Even dad didn't like visiting this house when he was a kid , and his daughter sure as heck doesn't like it . When a painting of George Washington is knocked over in the basement there's a bit of parchment & a strange utensil found in the corner of it , and the parchment seems to indicate that " the father of our country " had some rather nasty eating habits . And there's a whole " fringe of the fringe " group in that general area of the country that follow his traditions , including dressing up like colonials and eating the local populace . And they now know about the parchment & they want to stop its contents from becoming known to all . Sounds interesting , right ? Well , I suppose it would have been had it been handled better . And this was directed by Peter Medak ? Are you kidding me ? The guy that directed the awesome " The Ruling Class " ? Geez . . . well , I dunno , this episode wasn't terrible but it just wasn't very good either , a bit on the sketchy side but hey , it was written by Bentley Little , and that's kind of the way his books are too . . . . start out good & he runs out of ideas before the end . I guess I can safely stay away from most of the rest of the 2nd season of " Masters of Horror " after this one . .
shadows of things to come but not a great early film for Rollin	There are things in " The Nude Vampire " that are somewhat of a hint of what was to come from Rollin in some of his later films , but this is a rather odd film that I found hard to get into , maybe because of the confused " plot " or maybe because of the way this is filmed . First off , it does not look like a " film " , it looks like a TV show , in fact , the only thing I could liken it to was perhaps " Dark Shadows " . I'm used to later Rollin efforts where there's a lot of beautiful landscapes & such , to go with the naked blood spattered women , but this is actually a rather set-bound film . The story is something along the lines of some kind of quest for immortality & some woman who lives off blood that may be the key , although technically there are no fanged vampires in this film . Nor is there much nudity . This is one of the earlier Jean Rollin films and had this been the first I had seen I doubt I'd have pursued any more of his films , although I am actually quite a big fan , having started with his later stuff . This isn't completely terrible & really , the only appeal is the weirdness , apart from that this is not worth seeking out to non-Rollin fans . Does this make me a " completist " ? God , I hope not . . . .
Early John Carpenter flick is OK , but nothing special	Lauren Hutton plays a young woman who has just moved into a big L . A . high-rise , and she then begins getting strange phone calls & mail & even deliveries of " presents " . All of these are coming from a sort of travel agency , it appears , but don't you believe it . Of course , there's someone watching her , and it seems to be from a nearby building , but we have our usual made-for-TV-movie cop problems too , like they won't do anything or believe anything she says . . . that is , until someone turns up dead . Hutton delves into this mystery with the help of her co-worker Adrienne Barbeau & her new beau David Birney , and manages to figure out what going on and whose responsible . Back in 1978 before there was VCR's & DVD players & such , I'd have loved this kind of a movie , but now it seems rather cheesy and dated . Lauren Hutton is not my idea of an attractive lead either , what with her gap-toothed smile & her chain smoking . Not a movie that really fits in with most of Carpenter's work , I'd say , but not terrible , just not overly interesting or thrilling . .
The Drool-stained viewer	This is one of the more slow-moving giallos that I've ever seen . It's OK , it's better than a lot of newer stuff these days but still , it was a bit hard to make it all the way through and not wake up with drool all down my chest . Many years ago a young woman was strangled and now , years later , more murders are cropping up and it seems it's the same killer . This is all taking place on a small island somewhere off the coast of Venice , I guess , one learns something new every day , I didn't KNOW there were any islands right around there . There are some shady dealings going on involving a medium , the local midwife ( who has a whacko son ) and a doctor . There is a young professor come to visit his brother , who is a priest , and there's a young lady who also lives on the island that the professor met on the train on the way there . There is some animosity towards the priest from this trio , and as the murders continue to take place the priest receives threatening notes . But as usual with giallos , all is not as it seems to be . There are flashbacks that the professor has from time to time , and from those I figured out at least part of it before the end , but as with some giallos the explanation is not entirely satisfactory . I hate to use the word " mediocre " when it comes to Italian films but I think this one , unfortunately , fits the bill . .
Zombie sleepwalk	13 years after the last " Return of the Living Dead " comes the very least of the series , minus any of the humor or excitement of the previous three . Mind you , the third one USED to be the least of the series , now it's looking pretty good in comparison . An Evil Corporation ( yawn ) is doing experiments to create an " Uber Zombie " , one battle trained , with lots of attachments and stuff . It seems there aren't really enough dead folks to work on so they help themselves to folks from the local hospital . When I started watching this I realized that the teens involved are rather normal : No piercing , no visible tattoos , no young ladies dressed like they were hookers . . . well , one , but she has a purpose . I thought that was somewhat refreshing but since I focused on that perhaps it will give you an idea of how awesome of a movie this was , believe me , your mind wanders . Ain't nothing new to be seen here , zombie hordes loose , folks fight back , whee , even the gore is a bore . There's very little of the humor that was characteristic of previous releases in this particular " franchise " too , I mean come on , these were supposed to be spoofs ? Very disappointing , , technically well done but nothing new or interesting .
Sick stuff but not entirely terrible	First off , I'd say that if you want to watch a woman get revenge on people that have wronged her , try " I Spit on Your Grave " instead . Having said that though , if you still want to watch this , the production values are pretty low , the acting is not very good , and there's some stomach-turning scenes that won't be for anyone with a weak constitution . That certainly narrows down the viewing audience . I have to say that I've seen worse though . Some of the settings are kind of cool though , like an old church with a creepy cemetery . Anyway , it seems like some guy who has committed a murder has escaped from prison and comes back to take revenge on those who wronged him , except one problem is that one of the people he's planned to take revenge on is his ex-girlfriend who turns the tables on him & kills him . That leaves 3 guys chained up in a basement who also happen to be guys that wronged HER as well , so it's a very convenient situation for her to carry out her revenge since the players are all there . Very violent , very gory , very nasty stuff . It would have helped if the main character was at least somewhat attractive , in fact , it doesn't even look like she would like guys at all . And she certainly doesn't like the ones chained up in the basement . This is definitely a few notches down the ladder from " Scrapbook " which is pretty stomach-turning itself but at least it's much better done . .
Scream If You Know This Is Another " Scream " Clone	Hey now , a buddy of mine said this was really good , so when I found a used copy , I picked it up . I guess " really good " depends on your perspective , because this has its moments but overall is just another " Scream " variation , as far as I'm concerned . It's from the folks at Dead Alive , which I thought was now defunct , and it is an older release so maybe they are . Go figure . . . Anyway , after finding out about the death of another girl from her cheer leading squad , Heather , the head cheerleader , decides to spend Halloween night at home by herself , making the comment to someone that she won't get any trick or treaters out where she lives . This is an indication , of course , that she lives out in the middle of nowhere ? So why then does she get approximately 30 other visitors , some even twice ? Not to mention the sheriff , but she CALLED him to come over . Because Heather is getting threatening and creepy phone calls . Oh , other cheerleaders got those calls too , but they're already no longer in the picture , if you know what I'm saying . Lots of hapless teens and even an adult or two , get dispatched during the course of this flick , some in a rather disgusting manner . You even get a " Scream " style confession from the alleged perps . But is that the end ? Since this was made 5 years ago and on a now-defunct label , I guess no sequel is forthcoming , and there doesn't need to be one , this was plenty . As an extra added bonus , at the beginning we're treated to a phone message from a woman who says that if this film is made and anything happens to her cheerleader daughter as a result of someone watching this film , then she was going to sue the maker for all he had and he'd never have a penny to his name the rest of his life . This is all audio , no video , and was probably one of the best parts of the movie . Well , all that aside , this was better than average , if I had to rate it , but I didn't care for Scream or the one sequel I saw ( Scream 2 ) so I can't exactly say that this one did a lot for me , and I doubt I'd watch it again .
Has its moments , but overall , it's not all that funny	Archie is a kindergarten teacher who is trying to invent an engine that runs on wheat grass . With gas at $32 a gallon , no one drives anymore . One day he accidentally cuts himself & when the blood gets into the wheat grass the engine starts and runs . Now all Archie , a vegan , has to do to test his engine , is kill a bunch of squirrels , birds , and even a few dogs , as we see him stalking the woods with his BB gun . But what works best , is humans , because there's obviously , more blood . So Archie rigs up a fan with knife blades in the trunk , and pop in a car-jacker , a disabled war vet ( less the plastic arm & legs ) and the occasional hitch hiker , and the car runs just fine . Archie has had a sort-of relationship with Lorraine , who runs the " Veg-table " stand at the playground , and from whom he's been buying his wheat grass . As soon as he has a car , he's pounced on by Denise , who runs the Meat stand at the playground right across from Lorraine . In exchange for getting to ride in a car Denise provides Archie with plenty of wild & kinky sex . In fact , since he has a car , ALL the girls want Archie . But so do the feds , who have been spying on him all along & THEY want the car . Of course , a few of them do wind up in the trunk but eventually Archie is apprehended , only to find that he's more a hero than a fugitive . This has a few laugh-out loud moments , and most of it is definitely in bad taste , all of which is fine with me . But the dark humor isn't quite enough to sustain the whole film , and a lot of it just kind of falls flat . Not really a bad effort but still , it's kind of amateurish . Some may , of course , like it more than others . .
even though this was made in Indonesia , it screams " 80's "	I'm giving this a 5 based on its rich content of unintentional entertainment value , some of which can be attributed to " big hair " and " bad music " . Oh , and one mullet , that's important . The story . . . well , it starts out like some kind of legend of a South Seas woman who managed to kill of her lovers with a eel / dagger that she kept somewhere where an eel or dagger would fit easily . But someone manages to get the eel / dagger from here & she curses this person's ancestors , so 100 years later here's this anthropologist ( I think ) who gets this curse & all of a sudden , forget the dagger , she's armed with a machine guy . And this is one of those films where despite the fact that this woman can't be killed by gunfire , over and over again , they still continue to shoot at her . They being , the cops , etc . Of course these are special forces cops ( and for Indonesia , strangely of Western origin ) . And then there's Snake , the stoner dude with the mullet . I think he dies , at least I hope he did , I kind of forgot now that this is all over , but for a mullet , death is the only answer . As for the woman , she gets blown up , she gets shot at , and guess what ? She still keeps on coming . . . . but like with all good ( or bad ) movies , eventually they must come to an end , and I think this one could have ended because they had used up all the ammo available in Indonesia . This is one of those " can't believe I'm watching this " kind of films , stupid but actually kind of fun , if you're in the right mood . .
sadly , this is mediocre Fulci	A man dies horribly from hemorrhaging , then he's buried & the will is read . Seems his daughter inherits all , leaving the rest of the family & hangers-on rather upset . But there was something not normal about the way this man died ( spewing blood ? yeah , that's not normal ) . And it's up to the daughter , who hears her father's voice from beyond , to figure out what exactly happened to him . Sadly , this is long and rather talky , and while it does have somewhat of a neat twist at the end , it comes long after the viewer has grown bored . I'm not sure what the significance was of showing the rotting corpse of the father as he urges his daughter to " hurry ! " and figure out what happened , because the man is obviously beyond salvation and I don't think there was any deadline ( no pun intended ) set for solving the crime . To quote an English friend of mine , this was rather " daft " . .
what the heck ?	This is one of those independent and ( perhaps deservedly ) obscure movies that I picked up cheap at the flea market in the wilds of Kentucky ( Simpsonville ) . I guess it's not a straight horror film but a spoof , and it better well be , as the killer wears a little girl's crinoline skirt over his head ? Now that's a bit different , but the rest of the movie is a bit the same , spoof or not . Of course being a low-budget indy film the acting is not exactly stellar and the overall quality is kind of funky , but it will pass the time if you're bored . And you might well still be after you watch it . , maybe it has an audience somewhere but count me out .
OK , but tries a bit too hard to be " quirky "	No doubt about it that this is one weird movie , but there's something about the overall feel of it that didn't work for me . A young boy is left by his mom with his bail-bondsman dad while dad is working , enabling them to interact with all manner of weirdos , like Bananas the Clown ( Buscemi ) who is fresh from an encounter with his estranged wife in which she tried to run him down with a car . There's also some guy with a big RV who has a girlfriend that can't sing , a drug & drink-addled Santa ( the ever-loopy Peter Stormare ) that is a would-be kidney donor for the boy until he manages to escape the hospital , a trio of priests , one of which decides to hit a strip club , one of whom is arrested and carted off to jail , and a host of other low-lives and weirdos . Now this group of people all converge upon each other & wander around LA looking for the escaped would-be kidney donor , and havoc ensues . This has plenty of potential but to me it lacked something I couldn't put my finger on . I guess a lot of it just seems too forced , and it left me kind of cold at the end . , may appeal to others but to me only just OK .
mostly enjoyable trash , nothing more	There's murders taking place at a Southern California drive in , and the cops are investigating , but who is responsible ? Is it Germy , a former carnival geek who now does the cleaning up around there ? He is pretty spun , and his former friends were chickens from the carnival he worked at , so he's a likely candidate . So is the drive-in's manager , who is a bitter man who is overworked and underpaid and dresses like he's the devil or something . Or is it the local voyeur , who is on parole ( or probation ) and doesn't want his neighbors to know he's a pervert ? At any rate , we have some rather unrealistic decapitations and even a sword through a neck that also looks rather unrealistic , and it's always young couples just on the verge of getting it on . The cops even go undercover , one dressed in drag , to find our killer but to no avail . Is the mystery ever solved ? Well , I will have to leave that up to you to find out . This film will never win any awards for anything , it's not even the worst movie ever made , and in fact it stands up rather well compared to some of the trash being put out today . Worth seeing if you keep your expectations low , and somewhat fun , in a trashy way . .
Not bad , but effects towards the end kind of killed it for me	This is my third of the " 8 Films to Die For " series , and if I did not also have " Reincarnation " to watch , I'd probably be done after this one . Unless , of course , someone were to give me the rest for free . Gravedancers isn't bad , up to a point , but there's some ghostly apparition effects near the end that remind me of The Haunted Mansion or something , very hokey and laughable . Anyway , we have one dead thirty-something and some friends come back for the funeral , and one that actually misses it , so after an evening of imbibing adult beverages they go back to the graveyard & after finding some strange little card on the grave , they end up dancing the night away on the graves . Shortly afterward , they notice strange changes in their lives , like noises in their homes , fiery footprints , etc . Seems their grave dancing conjured up some vengeful spirits that followed them home . Of course , you know no good can come of this . One of the gang , Sid , calls some people in to investigate a haunting at his place and this all leads to finding out that the spirits they conjured up were from the " pscyho section " of the graveyard . . . one is a cheerful young firebug called Dennis , one was a music teacher that axed her married lover's wife and then him , and one was a respectable judge that had a few kinks of the sexual kind and even caged up women in his basement . Whoo hoo ! I guess they sure can pick ' em . Anyway , the spiritual investigators have devised a way for the curse to be lifted but one unfortunately throws a monkey wrench in the works by doing something selfish and stupid , and all hell breaks loose . Now , up to that point it was a fairly decent film but the ghosts . . . oh come on now , cheesy at best , and while I've never seen one in real life , I've certainly seen better ones in other films . Anyway , not all that bad but with a few elements that dragged it down . .
starts out great but once you know what's going on it's all downhill	At the beginning of this film , Ian Stone is at a hockey game , after which he takes a lady friend home after an embarrassing finish . After he's dropped her off he finds a body in the road in a rainstorm & something strange happens . . . . after which he is sitting in an office , and then he's a cab driver , and then . . . what the heck is going on ? There appears to be some things that are after Ian , but why ? Who is he that makes him so special ? And who is this blonde woman , who appears in each " new life " with him ? A strange man , who knows Ian ( but Ian doesn't know him ) takes him aside and tries to explain , but he's dragged off into a basement , only to appear again later . It seems that Ian is not what he seems , but he doesn't remember , and that whatever these things are , he's apparently one of them who decided he didn't want to be , anymore . This was interesting when you didn't know what was going on , but as soon as an explanation is offered up , things go downhill from there . Love conquers all , and that sort of thing . The creatures are rather interesting , at first , but once you've seen them clearly a couple times , not so much . Kind of reminds me of an " Iron Maiden " album cover . Just one of the several mediocre " After Dark Horrorfest " offerings . . . and why is Ian the only one that's not British ? .
OK , so it's not just me	I've read reviews on this in my movie books that say this is a pretty darn good slasher film but as I recall when I saw it on VHS a few years back it was nothing to write home about . Well , I happened to find it on DVD for cheap so picked it up and watched it last night and found that my reaction was pretty much the same . This is pretty much a paint-by-numbers slasher flick , with no soul . As in , there aren't any characters that one cares about in the least as they get skewered and slashed . It does have good effects , by Tom Savini , but that's about the most it has going for it . Seems like back in the 40's some soldier boy got a " Dear John " letter from his beau , saying she wasn't waiting for him anymore . Well , the little nympho & her new beau end up on the end of a pitch fork when soldier boy comes back to town & finds them out in the gazebo at some graduation party . Fast forward to 35 years later & there's ANOTHER graduation party , and apparently soldier boy is still on duty and picking right up where he left off . Ho hum . Undemanding folks may like this but I found it merely mediocre . .
Hell-ariously bad	You know this is a quality film when a girl in her nightie rises up from her bed and goes for a drive in her purple AMC Gremlin in the first few minutes . The " lead " character , Laval , looks like Ted Nugent . One of the " would be " satanists looks like the class geek ( and we're also treated to him dancing " the bump " with some woman taller than he is , by far ) . The Satan creature looks like a demonically-possessed Cookie Monster , complete with glowing red eyes , except for one scene where the eyes don't glow ? So much for continuity . The dialogue is laughably bad , not to mention the delivery , strictly amateur hour . It's not terribly clear who a good portion of the characters are , why they appear at all , or what they're doing , but the film just lurches along despite that . Gunnar Hansen has a role in this but I guess I missed him , didn't recognize him or something . There's also a lovely scene where one character is shot in the crotch with an arrow . Ow . Anyway , this one's a real hoot , not that it was intended to be , but if you're a big fan of " so bad it's good " stuff you'll enjoy this . . . it's hell-arious .
not much terror but still enjoyable in a low-budget cheesy way	A Mexican family inherits a house from an aunt , and they go there to fix things up and enjoy a summer vacation . Unfortunately , there was witch-burning and other such delights in that area back in the old days , and of course , the speculation that the house is " haunted " by a niece is not far from the truth . The story inherits a lot from " Amityville Horror " and perhaps a bit from " Poltergeist " , as well . Of course , the family's little girl finds a doll that is some kind of instrument of Satan , and you know that this is rarely a good thing . The doll does not get along well with her other dolls ( shreds ' em ) , and it makes bad things happen to other family members , like mom , who is pregnant , so dad of course has to rush her to the hospital , leaving the twin boys & little girl with their cousin & her boyfriend . Of course you know , this is not a good development either . This is low budget from the late 80's , and not terrible but nothing particularly fascinating about it either . Still though , it's kind of an OK time passer , nothing much more though . .
A must for all fans of REALLY bad cinema	I have never seen a Doris Wishman film before . I may never see a Doris Wishman film again , but I do have to say this was interesting in sort of a " wow , I wonder what she was on " kind of way . Supposedly this was shot in 1979 and then a lot of the film was lost or destroyed by a processing lab so they were forced to re-shoot , and maybe all of the film should have remained lost . The editing is as choppy as the sharp instruments in this movie and more deadly , it seems , as this incoherent tale of a girl fresh home from the nut-house unfolds . Her brother and sister are bound and determined to get her sent back to the nut-house so they try to frame her . There's not much in the way of dialog but we have a narrator to help us along , and tell us the tale of this wacky family and their friendly neighborhood peeping Tom private detective . There's lots of music and effects suitable for a 60's acid flashback kind of groovy movie , and other music that sounds like it belongs in a 50's melodrama , but NOTHING that sounds or looks like it belongs in the 80's . This is one of those movies that will put you to sleep or just leave you gaping in awe , and not good awe , either . , for masochists only , perhaps .
strange Canadian slasher flick	I just got this on DVD ( Substance ) and the quality is not bad , and this is the only " official " release that I'm aware of . A woman , who is unhappy with her waitress job ( and apparently life in general ) , is coaxed by a hooker friend to go with her on a " call " and make some easy money . The customer is an older man who " doesn't like to talk about his past " , and while at his big old house , the power goes out , and one of the young women , Janet , see her friend April and the man with their throats slashed , and runs for her life , only to be caught by the mysterious assailant , and to wake up in a hospital with her wrists bandaged , an apparent suicide attempt . So what really happened ? Janet is shunned by her co-workers and loses her job because they don't want the bad publicity ( and how did she get out of the hospital ? ) . Her boyfriend Dino is rather irritated with her ( but he's irritated with everything , it seems ) and yet he hooks back up with her to help solve the mystery . There's a lot of mob-type stuff going on but it's not too clear what it is , and there's also some kind of cover-up with the judge , but for what purpose , who knows . This isn't all that bad to watch , and a mystery coupled with a slasher flick isn't ALL bad , but somewhere along the line I suppose I missed the point and nothing that happened really wrapped things up for me . A rather strange film , but mostly watchable , just a bit murky overall . .
I was very disappointed	I have heard a lot about this film for years & I'm always up for a quirky oddball little " slice of life " film , but while this had its moments I was very disappointed with it overall . Marianne Sagebrecht plays a woman whose drunken husband left her in the middle of the desert and she happens across this little café / hotel , which makes up the whole of Bagdad . It's run by CCH Pounder , and she has a husband that's just left her , and a daughter that's always running off with truckers , bikers , etc , and a son that has a son , although he himself is not really much more than a teenager ( plus the situation is never explained ) . OK , so everyone's a bit eccentric and while that's usually fine by me it didn't work all that well here . Now , all are suspicious of Jasmine since she's a foreigner & has lederhosen hanging up in her hotel room ( she obviously grabbed the wrong suitcase ) , but as time passes she endears herself to them but really comes into her own when she learns magic tricks that start bringing in more customers . But then the sheriff deports her , but then she comes back & puts on a Vegas-style show ? Yeah , right , whatever , say I . What little the film had going for it up to that point was entirely trashed and I couldn't even finish it because I found the last part of this a little hard to swallow , watch , or listen to . I guess , of course , it's all a matter of taste but this left a bad taste in my mouth & I guess I'll be trading it in . I really wanted to like this & it sure sounded to be to my taste , but it just didn't do it for me . .
not as GOOD as people make it out to be	I did actually like Hostel , and this purports ( according to the front of the box ) to be BETTER than Hostel , but alas , it's not , although it does have a rather strong start . However , as it goes on , it falls back on some of the tiredest clichés there are , including my favorite , scenes filmed in almost total darkness where you can't even see what's going on . I kind of liked older films where " darkness " is just a different filter for the camera and it looks fake but at least you could SEE what was happening . And like in " The Descent " once you plunge into darkness and then can see what's happening again you have an entirely different bunch of people than you thought you were watching . Anyway the story is that a bus tips over that's full of tourists , and when wandering to find something to drink this bunch stumbles across a beautiful beach & decide to just stay there . Of course as soon as they decide that they've made a big mistake . Because tourists keep disappearing and they're being put to good use , to a point , but only if you're in need of an organ transplant . This wasn't terrible as in unwatchable , but it's just more tired clichés that I didn't need to see again , hoo-ha . .
low budget horror comedy sort of , I reckon	This is about a girl that's getting married that has some kind of ugly family secret . When her wedding day comes around she gets worried because her ugly family has tracked her down and this , she knows , because the minister that was to perform the wedding had one of his eyes plucked out and was gutted . Oops , and now all the wedding guests are fodder for this crazed bunch of hayseeds , come to take their little girl home . This has moments of humor which aren't bad , and moments of nastiness which aren't bad , but it also has moments of incoherence and bad acting , which ARE bad . It's a bit hard to keep track of who is who , and the girl's family members are all dressed in costumes ( sort of ) anyway , all takeoffs on Jason , Leatherface , etc . It's overall a fairly cheesy low budget film ( with an appearance by Richard Lynch , oh my , poor guy must be hard up ) . It's not the worst I've ever seen but I give them a couple extra points for trying hard . This is also kind of an 80's throwback , but apparently no one threw hard enough . .
Anesthesia	This is a very long and slow moving Japanese film about 2 hours long but seemingly about 6 . A man who is afflicted with a syndrome called Synethesia is caught up in a web of mystery involving a young girl who seems to be rather unlucky with adoptive parents . The all die . Someone in this mix of murder and mayhem is a character named Picasso , who leaves trademark " calling cards " at murder sites , and who is accessible only via some video game in which he appears as a deer , if one gets to the right level . Now , the man with Synethesia has a partner in crime and they have cameras set up for internet feed for " live web-casts " of various sites , and their profits are going to the Yakuza , and so on and so on . For such a busy plot this moves at a snail's pace , a veritable thriller without any thrills . The aspect of the Synethesia itself is almost a sideline and doesn't have a whole lot of bearing on what all seems to be taking place . There's sort of a double-twist ending , if you can make it that far , and yet after that the film seems to continue although that might have only been the beginning of the end credits . . . I'd had enough by that point . A good idea , I guess , but poorly carried out , and while I love Japanese horror and thrillers , I can't say I'd recommend this one . Yawn , .
for fans of really bad horror . . . . . . .	I don't quite know what to say about this . I've seen the original version and I've seen the MST3K version , and this is quite possibly the most inept and meandering film I've ever seen . A man , his wife , and his daughter ( and their poodle ) are going on vacation at some resort , or so they think , and they stumble into a nest of supposed Devil Worshipers , led by " The Master " , a guy in a black cape with red hands on the front and he's got a Doberman and a harem of women in nighties . Plus , he's got Torgo , who has some definite anatomical problems , especially with his legs , perhaps gout or something ? Or maybe underneath those pants is supposed to be a satyr or something ? Dunno , we never see , thankfully . Anyway , we end up with a dead poodle and lots of discussion on the little girl growing up to be a woman , and lots of pointless laughter from The Master , not to mention a wrestling match between the nightie-clad women . Woo hoo . It's hard to believe someone could make a film so bad unintentionally but I suppose it's possible . This is not without redeeming values though , because if you have a sense of humor and wonder , you'll wonder what the hell they were thinking . , huh ? ?
a very strange film , but not a very good film	I'm not one to get pushed out of shape seeing a faded actress ( or actor ) playing in a cheesy movie for a few bucks , once they're past their prime , but apparently plenty of other people are . The actress in question here is Lana Turner , who starred in plenty of older films but I couldn't tell you what one of them was , as I'm sure I've never seen them . Here , she plays an actress , Adriana Roman , who has married a wealthy man with a daughter , Lisa , who has a heavy accent , maybe because she went to school in Switzerland ? Don't know . Anyway , after a rather short marriage that ends with a tragic accident , Adriana finds herself the heir of her late husband and her step-daughter stands to inherit all the money that Adriana has just inherited IF she gets married . So of course , why wouldn't she get married ? All she needs is her step-mom's consent , because she already has a beau in sleazy gold-digger Johnny . Now , Johnny has some hip and happening hippie artist friends and they're into LSD , and Johnny , who is a medical student , has been cooking it up for them all . That is , until someone finds out and kicks him out of school . But Johnny has figured out that by spiking Adriana's medications he might be able to drive her nuts , or even kill her , and Lisa sort of goes along , but doesn't realize quite how far he intends to go . Of course , we're all treated to what Adriana sees while she's tripping , and it's not very groovy , in fact , it's a bad trip , man . This film is often hilariously bad , and yet it seems to have a strange quality to it that may or may not have something to do with it being a Mexican production . The groovy nightclub scenes and the hip and happening hippie stuff is seemingly a very weak and forced approximation . All in all this is pretty strange , and I never knew this even existed until the recent release of " Cult Camp Classics " . Worth a look , but nothing to get overly excited about . Does yield a few unintended laughs though . .
cheesy and sleazy fun , sort of	This is nothing much more than a cheesy " Alien " rip-off that would have been better played for laughs , and it is , sort of , not that the makers probably knew it at the time but perhaps they did . How can you be scared of a space critter that kind of looks like a rabid version of " Marvin the Martian " ? The small size of the creature is due to it being played by Fred Olen Ray's young son , and the creatures movements are pretty much like any little kid trying to be scary . Boo ! Add a well-endowed psychic woman , several male cast members with bones to pick with each other and turn loose snakey alien critters that growl like dogs and you have . . . well , you have a dog . There is entertainment value to this , but Ray's earlier films were much better , really , especially " Scalps " , and he should have just left this idea to rot on the shelf . , plenty of unintended fun but not a good movie by any stretch .
Sort of interesting but very hard to follow	This seems less like a movie and more like a collection of unconnected events , featuring more or less the same people , strung together in random order . Peter is a rich guy , that has lots of orgies at his house , apparently , but he's also rather troubled and may also be a killer . He has nightmares & they normally feature screaming naked people crawling toward the camera . But it seems like his nightmares may be creeping into his everyday life , for he thinks things have happened that don't appear to have , later . Peter also seems to have some kind of telekinetic powers , which are never explained and don't do much beside make things move slightly and that seems to be about it . There are lots of murdered people turning up though , and a police inspector , who carries a charm against evil , is on the case . When evil is about , apparently the inspector experiences some kind of hearing problems . . . he hears only a high pitched noise instead of whatever is happening at the time . And after all this , who IS the killer ? I guess I never understood , but the end has looped back to the beginning and thankfully the credits rolled & it didn't all start again . This is sort of interesting , but it's also mostly unfathomable , or at least to me it was . I guess it's an OK Euro-horror entry but I've certainly seen better . .
Frightening ? Not even close . . . . .	This is an OK film but in the tradition of falsehoods on box-art it says " The Most Frightening film since . . . . . " and this isn't the least bit scary . The concept of the doppelganger , or the exact double , is explored briefly in one person , then in the main character , and apart from that it's almost not even an factor in the film . An genius inventor develops an " electronic body " , a chair that will do what it's willed to via artificial limbs , and this movie is more about his accomplishments and not selling out ( with a sequence of crosses , double crosses , and triple crosses towards the end ) . His exact double shows up at some point , looks the same but is rude , crude , and socially unacceptable , and that is played to the hilt but doesn't really cut it . But is this even a horror film or a science fiction film ? Not really , and therefore I'm a bit disappointed with Tartan Asia Extreme since their track record of what they've put out has been fairly decent so far . stars , you can really find lots of better things with which to occupy your time . This one's a trade-in .
Cheesy 70's flick is too tame to be scary	" House on Skull Mountain " . . . we begin with an elderly woman being given last rites by a priest and the woman asks the priest to mail 4 envelopes for her , and each of these goes to a person who must show up at the house to collect an inheritance . Now this old woman was into voodoo , and so is at least one of her house-servants , so you know that will lead to something else later , and of course it does . Now that the " guests " have shown up , one of them is Lionel from " All in the Family / The Jeffersons " , and another is Victor French , who yes , someone was related to this woman , although " not exactly the right color " . Lots of mildly spooky things happen & there's some apparent hallucinations or something which lead to the deaths of some of the guests . One wonders though , why one woman was killed , as she was rather pleasant and innocuous , whereas I was ROOTING for Lionel Jefferson to be killed , since his character was so obnoxious . At any rate this all finishes off with a big voodoo ritual that goes on forever and then it's the end , huh . . . . not really a lot to it , although it had promise . . . . cool house , cool location , lots of potential with voodoo but this just kind of laid there . . . . ah well . Incidentally , not that anyone will probably care after reading this , but this IS available now on DVD in a collection with " Mephisto Waltz " , which , to me , is a far better film . . . . .
Yawn , Lola , Yawn	I was encouraged that Franka Potente was in this , being that she was fairly amazing in Run Lola Run , but I found this to be pretty much by-the-numbers horror , even if it is German . Slick and well produced , but it lacks any real excitement or scares . There are some creepy moments and unpleasant visuals , but it's all pretty mannered and never gets out of control . A young woman goes to Heidelberg to study at the University and finds that the medical specimens used there are people that she's seen elsewhere ? Always a bad thing , I'd say . Seems there's somewhat of a conspiracy going on involving a group of medical types that dates back to . . . . oh , I don't know , WW2 ? I was never sure if the participation in this group was for money or for the sheer pleasure of killing , but I think the point is that someone in the movie is missing the point . Anyway , this is entertaining enough but nothing to write home about and never colors outside the lines . Fair to middling .
very weird for 1934 but is it GOOD ?	This is a very strange movie , which , for me , is never a reason to not watch something , but this is stranger than most . Now , what's interesting that I didn't know about this is that writing credits go to one Edgar Allen Poe ? That must be why someone was getting walled up in the basement with a black cat . Anyway , this provides the viewer with textbook descriptions of types of insanity , which I guess are supposed to mirror what this ex-vaudeville guy , who just killed his mad-scientist boss and is currently masquerading as him , is doing , but it's pretty hard to tell . I wasn't too keen on the guy that keeps cats to sell their skins , or when a kitty's eyeball got popped out ( won't tell you what the good doctor DID with that though ) . Also wasn't too keen on the movie in general , really , I didn't find it to be much more than a curiosity and and I'm glad to say I didn't pay much for it . It is interesting for the fact that it shows that people have always been pretty twisted and yet not all people that have that distinction get to make films , and this being from the early 1930's , well , that's even more unusual . If you're interested in this , well , it is worth seeing once , just to say you did , but will you want to see it again , ever ? Suppose that'll be up to you . .
not a fine example of 70's horror	A bunch of rich folks and hangers-on are at a resort in the snowy mountains when a bunch of little kids , recently turned loose on the world via a van accident , show up . These don't seem like very normal little kids to begin with but when the driver , who they thought was dead , follows them they kill him and you see he had a badge from the " acute ward " at a mental hospital . At any rate , to these addled rich folks , they at first seem just like little kids ( except for the one dressed as a nun , who they take to be their " overseer " or something ) and they take them in and feed them . But they're not normal little kids , they're wacko , and soon the tables get turned on the adults . I've wanted to see this film for a long time and having now seen it I kind of wondered why . It's not terribly well put together and while it had a sort of potential , it's pretty sloppy and lame . There's all kinds of things that are put out there for you to see that you just KNOW are going to be used later , like handy-dandy guns on the wall , a fish tank full of piranhas , etc . And these are some pretty inventive kids too , despite the fact that they're loonies . And if my eyes didn't deceive me , did young Leif Garrett cross dress in one of the women's clothes and a wig ? I believe he did . And he was also quite worried about his pretty face . Of course for anyone familiar with Leif Garret you know he went on to a spectacular music career and last I read he's in trouble for drugs and alcohol , etc . Maybe it was the haunting guilt from having been in this film . , probably should not be on your " must see " list .
An OK thriller with a sort of " Movie of the Week " feel to it	This is part of a double release that came out on ( with Earth Dies Screaming ) and I'd never seen , nor heard of this film before . It's about a bunch of people who are ostensibly chosen to be protected from a " nuclear exchange " in an underground bunker so that they can re-populate the earth when this war is over . There are 10 of them but there's one more person down there , an army major ( Richard Jaeckel ) who was there as a caretaker to run the computers , etc . Now of course , these people don't particularly WANT to be down in this bunker , even after seeing videos of the destruction on the surface , but after they find out what is down there WITH them , they want to be down there even less . Seems that this " bunker " was built inside of huge caves and what lives in caves ? Bats . And what's found its way into the bunker ? If you guessed " bats " you're doing well . But they aren't just bats , they're VAMPIRE bats , which means they suck . Blood , that is . And seeing real bats hopping along toward intended victims as they snooze is pretty downright creepy , if you ask me . . . made my skin crawl . This film , I'm sure , had a theatrical release way back when but it has sort of the look and feel of a 70's " ABC Movie of the Week " , except there are scenes that would never have made it onto network TV back then , not that they're anything to get too excited about . Not a bad story line , really , but it gets a bit silly and tedious at times . Oh , there's somewhat of a major twist to this too , but I won't reveal much about that except maybe the reason these people have been told that they are here for isn't entirely honest . .
horror comedy fluff	Can a horror comedy be called fluff ? Well , I'm calling this one fluff . The cover suckered me in , a young lady in a skimpy outfit with a chainsaw , and while she is the nicest thing to look at in the movie , well , let's just say I need to start bringing my glasses and actually READING the boxes before I buy movies . This is kind of The Evil Dead meets your basic scavenger hunt & " spend the night in a haunted house as a frat house / sorority house initiation " flick , and the scavenger hunt itself is actually more entertaining than most of the rest of the movie . As for the comedy parts , if you get big laughs from people biting their tongues off then this is right up your alley . I will admit this had a few good one-liners but overall it's a very fluffy movie , little of substance here & doesn't suffer overly from originality .
Christmas Eve in Sutterville , population 0 and rising	A family is heading out for Christmas at relatives & are going to stop by the ghost town of Sutterville on their way there , just to look . However , as it turns out , Sutterville was the site of a massacre on Christmas Eve , 40 years ago , & grandpa , who is along for the ride , had something to do with that . And so did dad , but he doesn't remember since he was only a baby . Now , there's a strange drifter that the cops have picked up in Sutterville , who appears to be about 25 or so but whose fingerprints , etc , seem to indicate that he was born in 1925 and has been dead for a while . Oh well , computer glitch , they think . Not so . Seems like there's to be a celebration of sorts , in Sutterville , which involves human sacrifice to the Dark Powers , and this particular family are the guests of honor . This is mostly OK for a low-budget horror flick , nothing special but not terrible , I've seen far worse . The biggest complaint is that the dialog is pretty lame , for the most part , and the special effects aren't much to write home about either . Still , a decent enough time-passer for a rainy afternoon . .
Like , wow . . .	Sinthia , the Devil's Doll , is the work of Ray Dennis Steckler , despite the name he chose to hide behind as director . And why did he choose to hide behind another name , I wonder ? If he didn't hide behind another name on his older films then why bother with THIS one ? Well , I do love Steckler's older films , like " The Incredibly Strange Creatures . . " and " Rat Pfink A Boo-Boo " and all that stuff , but there's a very cheesy charm to it all that " Sinthia " seems to lack . Maybe because it's supposed to be an adult feature ? Or maybe because it's filmed as one long hallucination or something ? As near as I can tell , Sinthia had somewhat of an obsession with her dad , and got jealous when her dad paid attention to her mom , so obviously Sinthia has issues . But not for long , because she stabs mom & dad to death and then burns down the house . Fast forward 6 years to where Sinthia has just gotten out of the loony-bin , I guess , and is undergoing some kind of treatment or therapy to help her get over what happened 6 years ago , and then we're off meandering into la-la land from there . Sinthia seems to wander beaches , get into group gropes , and meet all manner of strange people and after a while I lost track of what the hell was going on and ceased to care . . . . all I know is that eventually it ended and I put it away and went to bed . I guess I'm disappointed that it's not the goofy strangeness of Steckler's earlier work , it's just strange with little in the way of redeeming values . .
not terrible , but not very interesting either	A nut-case cruises the freeways of LA . Nothing new there . But this particular nut is on a mission and he's killing people . Seems that a while back he killed the husband of this young woman who has been conducting her own investigation , since she's not satisfied with what the police have been doing . Now , this particular nut-case has found that calling into a late-night radio show ( hosted by Richard Belzer ) is lots of fun for him , so he's been doing that although the management of the station aren't too happy with this , but Belzer lets the calls keep coming . The young lady doing the investigation has also made friends with a former cop and bounty hunter who is also after this freak . Seems that this freak thinks LA is a bad and sinful place and people must die . And he also seems to be a former man of the cloth , but who ? Of course this all comes together in the end but by that point you'll be semi-comatose waiting for this to end , because it has little in the way of excitement or thrills . It's not terrible but there's no " oomph " to it either . Mediocre thriller , light on the thrills . .
strange little study in abnormal psychiatry , or SOMETHING . . . .	Two guys get their kicks from kidnapping women & making them think that they'll either be sacrificed , or have to make love with a horribly deformed guy , etc . That's really about it . It's somewhat interesting , it's ultra low-budget , and it's just plain weird . The first kidnapped woman is made to think that she must make love to this guy with an iron mask , because he was going to die ( I guess ) and this was to be his last act , so of course she's all hot to trot till she sees his face . The next woman is to be sacrificed to a god that looks to be made of plaster of Paris or tinfoil , the next is to be breeding stock for a new ( neo-Nazi ) master race . Of course , this is all just for fun ( for the guys , anyway ) and the women aren't harmed , and it's short and sweet and over with as the guys are left wondering what they'll do NEXT weekend . Not particularly recommended but if you're interested it's on " Something Weird " video . .
mildly interesting documentary	I wasn't sure what to expect of this going into it , except that I knew Anton LaVey was the head of the Church of Satan , or something like that . Well , this is a documentary , with lots of interviews with La Vey's neighbors and neighbors to the actual church , and members of the church , and stuff like that , some of which is mildly interesting in a odd way , and some of it which is a bit on the boring side , really , as my eyes began to get heavy . Seems like Satanism is much more fun that it sounds like ( to hear them tell it ) and that Christians are nothing more than sticks in the mud , etc . Also hear the neighbors of the Church of Satan in San Francisco give their take on the goings-on there & some of the things that had come to pass ( the lion that was living there for a while , for instance ) . I dunno , I sort of expected something much more shocking than this but it's really a rather mild documentary and despite a bit of nudity here & there , it's absolutely nothing to get all excited about . .
A-go-go where ?	I will be the first to admit that I enjoy trashy , cheesy 60's horror / monster / science fiction flicks . This is definitely trashy & cheesy but not quite what I expected . With a title like this I expected more 60's music and beautiful babes in skimpy bikinis doing their thing , but this is more following around some 7'6 " dork in an astronaut suit before he irradiates the populace . I've seen better , I've seen worse , but what's comforting ( ? ) is that most of what I've seen that is worse than this is recent direct-to-video stuff with modern technology working for it , so what does THAT say ? I dunno , you tell me . The " ending " isn't much of an ending , it's kind of like a " hmm , what do we do now ? " kind of thing , perhaps thought of spur-of-the-moment . Anyway , this is worth a look for any Creature Features-sort of fan .
I'm going to need to start bringing my glasses when I go DVD shopping	I read something about this movie in one of my movie books and it sounded interesting , then I found a used DVD of it and picked it up cheap , good thing because when I watched it ( and yes , I watched the whole thing ) it was pretty much unlike anything I really wanted to see . I didn't realize that the hero of this movie was also gay and that lots of this movie involved " guy on guy " activity , oops . I'm not homophobic , I think folks can do what they want but I don't necessarily need to watch it . Anyway the story involves testing on inmates of some new " vaccine " which turns out to be the source of the AIDS virus and then these guys were turned loose in San Francisco . The " hero " is the son of a guy that was doing research and he has come to the US from Berlin to bring this theory to light . There's also a very annoying and strident police woman whose voice is like fingernails on a chalkboard , but I like her character anyway , sort of . Anyway , while I'm not homophobic I am " operaphobic " and there's plenty of hoopla about Turandot opening or something like that . There's plenty of sneaking around and uncovering secrets and it's about the quality of a Hardy Boys mystery . And what would Frank and Joe do if they found themselves transplanted into this particular slice of society ? Anyway , it's not the sexual orientation of most of the characters in this movie that make it bad , it's just that it was bad to begin with . , bleah .
and this is all connected how ?	Our film begins with the execution of a serial killer in 1969 in the gas chamber in the good old US of A . Fast forward 19 years to ' Europe ' ( although this is a South African movie ) and this serial killer has relocated for reasons that are never revealed . But wait , you say , didn't you just mention that he was executed ? Yeah , I did , but he's the Dark Angel , or some such thing , therefore he gets around , I guess . This film isn't entirely terrible or hopeless but teeters right there on the edge . We have a bunch of young ladies that sleepwalk through their roles and while there's enough " eighties " stuff in this to be of slight interest to people who like to snicker at hairstyles and clothes ( not that the ones today are anything to be proud of ) , there's not a lot else here to be of interest . There are two girls that are always smoking but in this a mere wave of a hand is enough to dispel the smoke so that their " chaperone " doesn't get suspicious , yeah right . There's a lot of build up , for sure , lots of sinister music and sound effects like growling , baby noises , etc . When the evil entity is revealed it's your basic rubber suit with glowing red eyes , whee . I can't say I thought this was entirely terrible , there is a bit of entertainment value to be wrung out of it but perhaps not enough to see it more than once . .
Had I started here first . . . . . . .	Had I started with the first Coffin Joe film ( this one ) I may not have been interested in the others , but I watched This Night I'll Possess Your Corpse first , which apparently had a higher budget and was more bizarre and to my liking . This one is just OK for a first film , I guess , fake skulls , a fake owl , kind of hokey , if you ask me , but for 1964 , still not too bad , and a bit over the top , as I guess all Coffin Joe films are . The plot line is about the same , or perhaps the purpose , the guy wants a kid , a son , to be exact . He doesn't seem to understand that by dressing in black and looking and acting strange that most women are for some reason not attracted to him . We have a 3 Stooges style eye gouging , as though Moe had 2 inch fingernails . We have a drowning , a hanging , and other cheery things , plus an over-acted gypsy witch to boot . This was kind of fun in a dark way but not nearly as good as the 2nd film , now I'll be in search of more and later releases from the wacky Jose Mojica Marins , AKA Coffin Joe , AKA Xe do Caixao . .
I like the clowns but the movie falls mostly flat	OK , I guess this is the film that got Victor Salva in trouble , with young boys in their undies and even a brief buttocks view . So what . If you like that kind of stuff then it may excite you , but it's thankfully brief ( no pun intended ) and probably more creepy than the rest of the film . The story is , that 3 brothers have gone to the circus , on the night that 3 escaped lunatics invade the circus clown's changing tent & assume their identities . And , since young Casey has a morbid fear of clowns , well , they seem to latch on to him . The oldest brother is played by a very young Sam Rockwell , I wouldn't have known it had it not been in the credits . The role of the " evil " Cheezo the Clown is played by wacko comedian Tree , whose stand-up act I saw on TV once , wow , was he a good choice to play a lunatic clown . Although , of course , he doesn't speak . The creepy clowns are good , and the creepy clowns stalking three kids left on their own in a big house are good , but the kids are so unlikeable that you hope the clowns DO get them . And because the kids are unlikeable , the film fell flat , for me . Anyway , if I'm going to watch a clown movie , " Killer Klowns From Outer Space " would be my choice , this one is rather mediocre . .
complicated revenge story	I was not sure what to expect from this when I watched it , but what I felt after seeing it was not that I'd just seen a great film . This was Sam Peckinpah's last , and while I'm not any fan of his I know he had done far better . John Hurt plays a CIA operative ( I guess ) and his wife is killed by order of the head honcho , as played by Burt Lancaster . Some time later , Hurt has devised a way to get back at his old boss via a TV talk show host , of sorts , as played by Rutger Hauer , who has a get-together at his place every year for some friends of his . However , these friends of his have now been presented to him as possible Soviet spies , and he's been shown taped footage ( that of course , only allows him to see seemingly incriminating conversations ) to prove that . So now he's housing some Soviet spies for the weekend and things turn tense and get out of hand , and so on . Meg Foster , who plays Hauer's wife , gets away with her son & their crossbows and comes back later for some target practice with the real thing . The rest of the guests pile into an RV and are heading for the hills but they won't get far . And then Hurt manages to kidnap Hauer's wife , son , & dog , in order to finally get what he really wants , to expose his old boss . It's not a bad story , I guess , but it's very confusing and complicated and completely lost me a few times , because ( I'm guessing here ) there are things that the film seems to assume that you know , as in , you've read the book by Robert Ludlum , which I hadn't . Of course , this was also Peckinpah's last film & if you know anything about him , he had his problems , and maybe this is the end result of some of that too , who knows . I wouldn't call this terrible , but it's certainly not very well executed and could have been far better in the right hands . .
a good look at times , tried hard , failed anyway	Dead Life is filmed in 16 mm , and at times it does have the look of a 70's film , and at times the way it's filmed is quite inspired . However , the story is nothing anyone's never seen , the acting is pretty amateur and as with most low budget films the sound level is so inconsistent at times you can't hear what's going on . The story is about some galloping plague that's taking over , it's spread via the water , apparently , and the only ones that don't get it aren't drinking the city water , apparently they're on a beer-only diet . The gore effects are cheesy , the zombies are mostly walking dead alternative-types , like skinheads , metal-heads , etc . , so it would appear . It does have some mesmerizing qualities in the choice of scenery and the way it was filmed at times , but unfortunately that's overshadowed by the balance of the amateur-hour stuff . Tries very hard , fails anyway due to the low budget and the mostly grungy cast , who it's very hard to like . Not terrible , not the worst I've ever seen , but not exactly something I'd recommend to anyone either . .
A very sad effort from Terry Gilliam ( perhaps a minor spoiler )	I had been looking forward to seeing this for some time now and when I saw a few reviews I wondered what it really would be like , since nothing I read was positive . I have to say that having seen it now that I understand why nothing I read was positive . And I usually don't take reviews to heart , especially out of the local newspaper . One has to wonder if Gilliam is desperate for money after the failure of " The Man Who Killed Don Quixote " ( as chronicled in the DVD Lost In La Mancha ) . This film seems quite " thrown together " and while it starts out " Once upon a time " . . . . it seems to begin about the middle , as if the viewer understands some things that they could possibly begin to . The saving graces to the film are the moments in which you can pick out the actual fairy tales , like Red Riding Hood , Sleeping Beauty , Rapunzel , Hansel & Gretel , etc . , and the look of the film is good , I'm a sucker for a misty , dark forest setting . But the segments with the brothers themselves are rather jumbled and confusing and there's almost no character development so they're just kind of there , doing things . What is glaringly missing is the usual humor and cleverness that generally is present in Gilliam's films , and there's precious little here . One segment involves something that looks like the Pillsbury Doughboy meets the Tar Baby , but it's supposed to be the Gingerbread Man ? This segment is stuffed in almost as though it was an afterthought , and it just didn't work very well . I wanted very much to like this movie a lot , I've been disappointed in so many films lately but unfortunately this is just another one of them . .
Well within the boundaries of sleep	First off , I guess if I were William Sanderson I would NOT be flattered at being the " go-to guy " for inbred hillbilly roles . He is a good actor and while he does fit his part here he's rather wasted . And whoever thinks that this is an adaptation of Lovecraft ( like the director , etc ) must have been wasted too . It's somewhat interesting in its effects and gore and such , but the acting is pretty poor and overall the film does not hold together well . Plenty of doctors at some old asylum are experimenting on their patients , and one patient in particular that was brought in ( Sanderson ) has an interesting growth on his back , which seems to indicate that he had a fetal twin that didn't develop . This fetal twin appears to have a mind superior to Sanderson's and therefore must be freed , but there's a few little complications and it's not as easy as it sounds . Also there's a lovely young lady named Ardelia that has a " pop top " on her skull for whenever the mad doctor feels like sticking probes in her brain and making her twitch , fun stuff , let me tell you . There is a Lovecraftian critter near the end but it's not around for long because of a bit of sabotage , but that's about as close as this comes to the creepy story itself , which I've read a long time ago and which this bears little resemblance to . I'm glad I snagged this at Blockbuster & didn't waste a lot of money on it , .
A Magnificent Creature	Hey now , I saw this about a million years ago on Theatre X in Orlando , Florida , the Saturday afternoon monster / sci-fi movie show that made me what I am today ( warped ) . Somehow seeing it again on DVD isn't the same , because I'm a bit older now and it's pretty tame stuff , including the Magnificent Creature , The Mezosaur , as it's described by its owner , the " few fries short of a happy meal " farmer , and Tommy Kirk , the paleontologist . It's supposed to be many feet tall & some kind of lizard , but one never quite gets that feeling at all , since it comes out of a bubbly , red-lighted pond and it's some guy in a rubber suit that has ping-pong balls for eyes and and a nasty overbite . I still do enjoy a lot of the monster movies I liked as a kid , and it was good to see this again , although I couldn't begin to describe what makes me like this . The farmer has captured 2 wayward tourists and is holding them to feed to the monster , and Tommy Kirk too , as he was dumb enough to stumble into the trap . The farmer has a housekeeper who used to be a wayward tourist herself until she also stumbled into his little trap , but she somehow escaped being fed to the creature and got to stay on . This is cheesy as all-get-out , but I still enjoyed it well enough . .
Bargain basement Euro-spy flick is entertaining , but . . .	The DVD Box for Kommissar X proclaims that this is a " German James Bond " but it's not even in that league , really . Tony Kendall plays Joe Walker , whose true purpose is somewhat vague , and he's teamed with police captain Tom Rowland , and these two appear to be Americans somewhere on the Adriatic Sea chasing bad guys , with lots of bad women thrown in . This is kind of confusing at best , and has some laughable gadgetry and a gaggle of drugged women in black outfits and boots that are the slaves of one particular bad guy . Lots of cool scenery , cars , and women , but not a lot of plot . The opening credits state that this was filmed in Eastman Color & Ultra Scope but you wouldn't know it from the Retromedia transfer , which is actually a bit blurry at times & the color is rather washed out . This film might benefit from remastering and restoring and presentation in the original German with subtitles , but is it worth it ? Hard to say . Still though , this is entertaining in a goofy 60's kind of way and now I have two more of the series to watch . .
Kind of creepy but fails to satisfy	This is kind of a creepy flick but it doesn't quite come together , unfortunately . The creator is one of the guys that was part of the team on The Last Broadcast , which I like a lot , so I had high hopes & while it wasn't a total disappointment it came close . A young couple move to the Hollywood Hills and find that the neighborhood is haunted by the ghosts of a former movie star & his cronies . The movie star played " the good guy " in his movies but apparently wasn't one in real life , and neither were his cronies . Anyway , to the present : the couple moves in and find they have strange neighbors , who they hang out with anyway . Looking at any of them , I'd shy away . When the woman ( a model ) goes on one last job back east , her hubby undergoes some changes and when she comes back she finds she doesn't know him at all anymore . The movie star in question is a silent movie star who if you know much about old movies , you'll recognize , but I'm not saying who it is . All I can say is when parallels start showing up you'll think , " what the hell ? " About the only thing that keeps this from entirely being mediocre is that it's somewhat original , with an odd story line . .
Baby got back	I'm not really sure what to say about this film , nor what to think of it . Firstly , it's obviously not commercially available ( at least not in the US nor anywhere else I can find ) but a friend in the UK sent me a copy and I watched it today . Without subtitles . So it's in Urdu , I guess . Perhaps the dialog isn't one of the main selling points of this film but it would probably have helped to know what was going on at times . What I do know ( and could discern from what I saw ) is that Haseena is gang-raped by several sleazy looking guys , and takes her revenge on them . Hell has no fury like a woman out for revenge , and dressed in tacky outfits that will blow your mind . Sometimes the outfits change during the same song or dance , and then back again , and sometimes it's very hard to tell who is who and what the hell is going on . And then there's the guy on the white horse , a sort of ally of Haseena's , I suppose , and he helps her out by draining all the blood out of her attackers with a giant hypodermic needle . Mussarat Shaheen plays the lovely ( ? ! ) Haseena , and baby got back . . . she got back at her attackers , and she also has , well , back . . . she has a huge backside & thighs and could easily have crushed her attackers . . . and it definitely pushes her outfits to the point of severe fabric stress . The more I watched this , the more I felt like I was on drugs or something , and finally I had to stop . If only Mondo Macabro or someone would get their mitts on this thing & release it with subtitles . . a very bizarre film and kind of worth seeing if you're very curious , but definitely not for everyone , I'd venture . , and that's because I couldn't understand what anyone was saying .
Not exactly a " feel good " flick	I read the book by Brett Easton Ellis back in the 80's and I had never seen this movie , well , being that it was in the dump bin at the infamous local Wal Mart I got it cheap and finally saw it , and while it wasn't entirely bad it left me feeling rather depressed , to say the least . Seeing overpriveleged people celebrating Christmas the rich , So Cal way was rather grim and depressing . Robert Downey Jr . was either playing himself or is a fine example of " life imitates art " as he plays a coked-out opportunist always looking for more money to stay high and even being subjected to " paying off his debts " by engaging in a little same-sex activity . Bleah . Now being that I read this book many years ago ( the 80's ) and don't necessarily remember much of it , I'm still pretty sure that it didn't make me feel like I did after watching this movie , and it's really a bad trip of a movie . One doesn't particularly feel any sympathy for any of the characters because they're generally so unlikeable , and the settings and situations are so full of excess that they just leave a bad taste in your brain . This could have been a decent flick , given the quality of the book , but like a lot of translations to the big screen , it just falls flat on its face and lies there in a stupor . .
Blair Witch Project meets Cannibal Holocaust " lite "	I don't think this was a terrible film but it does boast a group of actors that will get on your last nerve . After a while , you're hoping to see them die , and soon , please . The premise is that these young drifter types meet up in Fiji and decide to find out if they can find Michael Rockefeller , who disappeared in the wilds of New Guinea in 1961 . We have Mandy & Bijou , who are Aussies , and Mikey & Colby , who are American . Mandy has paired off with Colby & Mikey with Bijou . They have heard rumors that a white man in his 70's has been spotted in the jungle , so they decide to go see if they can find him . Obviously they're not up on their Italian cannibal movies . They set out across New Guinea to the Indonesian side of the island and leave their van to set off into the wild . What follows is almost endless squabbling because Bijou is somewhat of a " free spirit " and totally undisciplined , wants to drink & smoke the whole time and sleep all day instead of getting up and hiking . Mikey is an obnoxious jerk who sort of eggs Bijou on , and eventually those two build a raft & take all the supplies & set off down the river , with unfortunate consequences . Mandy & Colby also build a raft & manage to find Mikey and Bijou , but they're a bit worse for wear , to say the least . And all of this is captured on shaky camera for you to ponder what you're seeing , at times . Of course , like all stupid white folks in cannibal territory films , there is no happy ending . There's some pretty nasty moments but this is nowhere near as nasty as it could have been . It's entertaining to a point but nothing you haven't seen before . .
had potential but plot holes kind of sink it	" Fingerprints " isn't terrible , and it does have some genuinely spooky moments , but it also has plot holes big enough to drive a train though ( or a bus , perhaps ) . The premise is that 40 years ago , a bus full of school kids were hit by a train , due to a malfunctioning crossing signal , and all died . Now , in the present , there's a urban legend that if you go to this spot , put your car in neutral and wait , little hands will push your car to safety across the tracks . Now , in this town are some new residents , a family that has apparently just moved there from California , with two teenage daughters , Crystal & Melanie . It seems that Melanie has just gotten out of rehab , after overdosing on heroin with her boyfriend , who died . So the parents ( especially the psycho-bitch mom ) are a bit freaked out that Mel will just drift right back to what she was doing . Of course , as soon as Mel settles in , Crystal takes her to a party where lots of drugs and alcohol are present , and they end up in a car with the local bad-boy , who takes them to the tracks to do the " urban legend " thing . They wait till a train is coming too , and just before it gets there , Mel sees a young girl standing on the tracks . Mel will see a lot of this young girl in the days to come , and perhaps she has the ability to see ghosts because of having died and been brought back to life after overdosing . But she doesn't yet know that Julie is a ghost . She does find though , that Julie has a sister , now an old woman , who lives in town , and upon visiting her , a strange remark is made about the bus crash that supposedly happened . . . like , there never was one ? So now Melanie is looking back at old newspapers for signs of a cover-up . And it seems like there was one , and that perhaps the ghost of Julie's father , the train station conductor , is now stalking teens in this town . And here is where this film begins to unravel into utter nonsense . The film takes a while to start getting to the good stuff , and when it gets there it's interesting , but then it becomes sketchy and begins to fall apart and doesn't make much sense . And therefore it becomes merely average , just another half-assed spook show for teens . I'm sure some will like this more than others but I was greatly disappointed . .
good ideas , poorly done movie	This is a movie with some good ideas but they don't seem to get put across very well . While on a space mission two astronauts who are outside the space shuttle end up being taken over by some alien force . Upon their return to earth one eventually dies of a stroke but the other ( Johnny Depp ) survives to impregnate his wife . With what ? Who knows . Let's just play it safe and say " twins " . Depp is miscast as an astronaut with a Southern accent ( and not a good one ) . He has a pretty wide acting range and is a very talented actor but he fares much better as eccentric types than a straight role . After the incident Depp retires from his job and takes a job at an aerospace company in NYC , where he and his lovely wife appear to live in an office building , although technically I think it's an apartment . What an ugly place . Anyway Depp seems rather obsessed with listening to static on the radio , and lovely Charlize Theron seems quite worried about him . With good cause . An ex-NASA guy follows them to NY and tries to warn her but Depp manages to nip THAT in the bud , but not before she gets her hands on a video the guy left for her . I guess it's not any big surprise that this never made it to theaters , and in the right hands it may have been better , but as it is it's a pretty slap-dash movie , and seems to be nothing much more than some sketchy X-Files episode . Just longer and more excruciating . , it's not terrible but it's not good either .
just another silly excuse for topless square dancing	This is a 60's " monster nudie " in which there are plenty of topless gals and guys mostly still wearing bathing suits at a Florida nudist camp . A gorilla is on the loose and by my calculations it only killed one woman . Of course it's just someone in a gorilla suit , oops , is that a spoiler ? It begins with some guy in a hospital bed , recounting how the gorilla picked him up and threw him in the water when he was sleeping in a Tiki Hut with his wife . She of course , escaped harm . We're treated to many scenes of folks in varying degrees of nudity ( all tastefully done ) wandering through the trees , splashing in the pool , hanging out in the barracks , even , yes , square dancing . This is kind of amusing in its own way , but by no means a decent film , so if you enjoy 60's nudie trash this may be for you . However , if you really prefer Hollywood blockbusters , if there is such a thing anymore , you will probably want to give this a pass . I thought it was fun in a stupid way but it's nothing I'd be in much of a hurry to watch again . .
Nasty , but not up to the Waters of old . . .	The last couple John Water's films ( Cecil B . Demented & this ) have seemed rather forced . This is not without its moments but doesn't really hold a candle to the John Waters of old , like Pink Flamingos , Desperate Living , etc . In fact , even though it's a different sort of film , Hairspray is even better than this . A woman who works at a convenience store ( Tracy Ullman ) suffers a concussion and as a result becomes a sex addict . Her daughter ( who is AKA Ursula Udders , with freakish boobs ) is also a sex addict , as are many of the neighbors . All due to concussions . The sex addicts are also taking over this working class neighborhood in Baltimore . Mink Stole , a Waters regular from way back , plays Marge Neuter , one of many that are fighting back against this " sexual revolution " . There are some interesting viewing and listening moments , as Waters trots out old movie footage and old children's records for the soundtrack music in some cases ( was that Alvin & The Chipmunks ? ) but overall , this movie just tries too hard to shock . It seems as though his movies flowed much better back in the old days when they were almost home-made pieces of crap ( although highly enjoyable pieces of crap ) but now certain scenes are present with a " hey , look at THIS ! " sort of attitude , and that did not do it for me . It's better than a lot of stuff out there these days but it's not top-form Waters , and I'm afraid those days are long gone .
Is there a story here ? Maybe , if you can stop laughing at the clothes . . . .	This is a film about young women being kidnapped from Manila in order to satisfy the blood-drinking requirements of some cult out in the jungle that must drink blood to stay young . Now , that's about the whole story line but most of my time was spent wondering about the clothes and sets . The clothes are rather amazing , except for a small group of men with shaved heads that wear loincloths , all the rest of the cast have these pastel Roman Empire " sword and sandal epic " sort of clothes that look like they may have also been suitable for Star Trek , and John Considine sports a high collar that reminds me of the type of collar that vets use to prevent dogs from licking themselves after surgery . On the women these clothes look fine , on the men , well , these little shorty robes don't quite cut it . The sets are rather interesting too , are all the rocks painted a shade of pastel blue ? And the caves that they live in ? Seem to be . Anyway , this is a movie with lots of ceremonies and preparations and stupid hand gestures and all kinds of other decorum that one usually associates with women getting their blood sucked out to keep some wacko cult young and pretty . There's also a bunch of old women that are being detained , I'm assuming that they used to be young and pretty before they got most of their blood sucked and they're locked away in cells and not particularly happy with their situation , as is evidenced when they're cut loose finally . This is not a film that ends gracefully either , it just kind of goes on and on long after you think it's finally ending . It's not terrible and definitely has something for someone who watches movies for unintentional entertainment value like myself . .
Astounding	If I were a psychiatrist I might like to do some time travel and chat with Jerry Warren ( and perhaps Bill Rebane ) about what motivated them to make the movies they made . Because these were some strange folks . I got the version of this put out by Mystery Science Theater 3000 , and watched the version without the snide comments . . . . hmm , as much as I hated that show I probably should have watched it WITH the commentary . This is the classic ( ? ) battle of good against evil as Batwoman and her minions ( scantily clad bimbos ) do battle against the evil Rat Fink and his gang of goofy thugs . I guess Batwoman is played by Katherine Victor , I can tell from the voice , after having seen her in " Frankenstein Island " ( which by the way is much better than this ) . She never breaks character , like Batman changing into his millionaire duds when he's not working . I'd say perhaps her outfit in this was the inspiration for many a late 70's punk rock chick , although it's hard to tell what's her hair and what's something else . . . feathers I guess . Bats don't have feathers , by the way , but whatever . This is not an overly interesting film , really , but it does hold oodles of mind-boggling stuff to look at , and wonder about . Like for instance , when one of Batwoman's assistants is captured Batwoman shows up to talk with the captors and is offered chocolate milk and macaroons . And in a scene near the beginning when the Batgirls are shaking their booties to 60's rock and roll there's this guy in the background that's gleefully clapping his hands to some OTHER rhythm than what we're hearing , or maybe it's just that he's a white guy , you know we ain't got no rhythm . This is pretty bizarre , to say the least , and if you're a cult and / or bad movie fan ( in many cases that means the same thing , I guess ) , you will probably want to see this if you haven't already been subjected to it . , must be seen to be believed .
Odd mix of horror and comedy from India	Being a westerner , I was introduced to Indian films by way of " Ghost World " and that led me to " Gumnaam " , which led me to start exploring more of the films that India had to offer , in the " horror / suspense " genre . I've now seen quite a few but none have left me quite as perplexed as to how to take them as " Kafan " . Most films do have a sprinkling of humor & songs to go along with the " horror " , but this one seems almost as though it were intended as a " spoof " . And then again , maybe not . We have a gang of men who practice black magic & the need a " spinster lady " ( I guess that's a virgin ) to sacrifice to their idol . The idol seems as though it was crafted from plaster of Paris and seems to be right out of the mind of some twisted 5-year old . Anyway the sacrifice is completed and the " spinster lady " is laid to rest in a shallow grave along with all the other " spinster ladies " that have gone before . Now , it seems as thought there's a young lady named Neelam who is somewhat of a psychic , and she can see what these bad men are up to and where they're doing it , and she becomes involved in finding them and stopping them from what they're doing , with the help of her fiancée , a local policeman . And then , there's the policeman's sidekick , Bahdu , who provides comic relief by falling in love with a ghost who follows him everywhere wanting to marry him . This is not exactly a good film but it's still entertaining , perhaps in ways that weren't intended , but like I mentioned earlier , it's sometimes hard to tell what exactly the spirit was in which some Indian films were made . Of course good triumphs over evil ( it always does ) and there's a big showdown at the end . I noticed something quite odd . . . there are demonic voices coming from a telephone at one point and at some other part of the film that are lifted straight from " The Evil Dead " . . . it's the voice of the laughing " little girl " demon that won't shut up , even after Ash hits it with a wooden beam . Interesting . Anyway , I liked this film , can't say I loved it but it's kind of fun , but by no means a good example of Indian horror . .
convoluted and VERY long	When this movie started I felt like I was missing something and that perhaps I needed to know more than I did ( which was nothing ) to understand what was going on . Tom Hanks plays a professor of ancient languages ( I guess ) and is thrust into a mystery that has been guarded for centuries . Seems that what's in the bible is not true as to Jesus and his life , and that Mary Magdalene was his wife , etc . Lots of obscure and interesting religious oddities and puzzles and things as somehow relating to Leonardo DaVinci , and lots of hardcore puritan types ( for want of a better word ) out to keep the general public from knowing such scandalous information . I haven't read the book , and don't know if I want to at this point , but this movie , in the hands of Ron Howard , is rather convoluted and muddled and hard to follow to boot . Audrey Tatou is lovely as Hanks ' sidekick , but not as attractive or enjoyable as she was in " Amelie " . This was not a terrible movie but it's excessively long and yet doesn't seem to make the most of its time . I guess whether or not you like this one depends on your taste and whether you have read the book . .
another killer bug flick	I guess , with the exception of " Mimic " , I haven't found a really good killer bug flick that I really like . The Nest is about a small town in , I dunno , Maine ? It's at the shore , it has a lighthouse , it may as well be Maine , I don't think anyone says & it doesn't matter , really . Some sinister corporation is in cahoots with The Mayor of this burg , played by Robert Lansing , and this sinister corporation has done some diddling with nature and as a result the town is overrun by cockroaches . They aren't just icky though , they eat people ( and cats , and dogs , and whatever they can get their little mandibles on ) . Of course the sheriff , the mayor's daughter ( freshly returned from LA after a 4-year absence ) and the town loony & exterminator are on the job to get rid of the roaches . This is pretty routine up until the end , when there's some kind of decent effects , or at least weird effects . Seems these roaches mutate into the shape of whatever they happen to eat and therefore we have a " catroach " and something even bigger and better . Unfortunately by the time this all comes about the viewer's attention will probably have wandered far away & it's kind of a case of too little too late . An OK cheesy bug flick , .
girl-gang flick is good dumb fun	Picture this : A girl-gang that looks like the prototype for The Runaways , an evil entity named Crabs that dresses like a cross between a Bay City Roller & Slade , and a vicious gang war with enough hardware to possibly conquer a small country . Sound good to you ? Well look no further . Lace is the leader of the Dagger Debs , and she comes off as part Shirley Temple / Little House on the Prarie , but she wields a mean switchblade . Dagger Debs hang out with Silver Daggers , the " guy " version of the gang . At a local burger joint after a tangle they pick up tough-girl Maggie , who eventually joins the gang but Lace is afraid that Maggie is after her man Dom . Now , Dom has actually had his way with Maggie but she wasn't exactly willing , and doesn't consider him to be her man , but Lace doesn't realize that . Then there's Crabs , who is sort of the Eddie Haskell of street gangs , because he runs a Teen Center where he supposedly helps people with problems , helps to feed the hungry , and all that kind of goody-goody behavior , but all this is merely a front for his drug operation . When the high school where Crabs & his gang closes and they are forced into the same school as the rest of these over-aged teenagers , there's plenty of trouble & after a big shoot-out at a roller rink ( ! ) the Dagger Debs kick the remaining Silver Daggers out of their clubhouse & become The Jezebels . Maggie knows a thing or two about other gangs too , in worse neighborhoods , and eventually hooks up with some old contacts to wage war on Crabs & his gang . There's actually quite a bit more to this but that's all I'll mention . Now , the acting isn't great in this , but I didn't really expect it to be . It does have a certain sort of fun to it though , because at times it's so implausible that it made me laugh . Some of the girls fit their tough-girl parts just fine , but Lace with her squeaky-creaky little voice is rather ridiculous as the Dagger Debs leader . . . . she's cute , she wields a mean switchblade but still sounds like Shirley Temple , I almost expected her to break into song at times . The amount of firepower used is astounding , for street gangs they must have been well connected . I can't really call this anything but ridiculous campy drive-in fun , and if you go into it not expecting much more , you'll probably enjoy it . .
technically not bad but why did they bother ?	This remake of the 1976 Omen is technically not bad but really adds little to the original story , except maybe to use a few recent disasters as proof that prophecies are coming true , i . e . World Trade Center , space shuttle crashing , etc . Liev Schreiber makes a rather dull Ambassador Thorn , and his wife isn't much better , but they're not particularly bad , they're just not as good as Gregory Peck and Lee Remick . The telling of the story is basically the same , almost scene for scene , as Mrs . Thorn loses her baby and another ( born of a jackal ) is substituted , and grows up to be a rather creepy looking little kid who just happens to be creepy because he's the Antichrist . That usually has some bearing on a child's behavior . Of course there are folks that know what's going on or at least suspect , and of course they can't live to tell about it , like some loony-tunes priest and a nosy photographer . I will say that the way those two die is far more inventive than in the original film , it's almost as though Rube Goldberg engineered the death scenes , as they are so elaborate in coming together . I also noted rather briefly that after the young nanny hangs herself near the beginning of the film , at Damien's fifth birthday party , that there is a child's drawing on the wall of his room of a woman with a rope around her neck , and then later the picture is gone when they show that same wall . So someone involved in this took an opportunity to insert a playful tweak . Mia Farrow is fine as Mrs . Baylock , the governess , and she dies wonderfully after being plowed over by a car while she's busy trying to chase it down with an ax . Overall this is not really bad , it just doesn't hold up to the original and there's nothing much new to see . Perhaps it will be best enjoyed by those who haven't ever SEEN the original . .
Swamp of the . . . . WHAT kind of birds ?	Swamp of the Ravens is a rather strange film that appears to have been made in Ecuador , although in the opening credits it references Madrid , so maybe it's a Spanish film made in Ecuador . The question as to what kind of birds we have here is that there don't seem to BE any ravens , the featured birds are buzzards or vultures . The story is that of a research doctor who has some kind of amazingly innovative technique to do something that leaves the viewer without any understanding of what he's doing , but whatever it is , he sure makes a lot of mistakes . Good thing there's a swamp nearby in which to deposit those mistakes . When his girlfriend leaves him , he kidnaps her at the airport and brings her back to his research shack , on the edge of the swamp , and while she's apparently not technically alive anymore , she's all his . The doctor also tries to experiment on a man who has leprosy , a street beggar who plays some kind of native pipes , and the unfortunate man has brought along a friend who keeps popping up to tell the doctor he needs money to not notify the authorities . With the ease that all the good doctor's failed experiments end up in the swamp , one has to wonder why this guy wasn't there with them all post-haste . For all its faults though , the film at least manages a creepy atmosphere , and there are failed experiments rearing their ugly heads in the swamp all the time , but unfortunately never getting out to kick some butt . A weird little time-passer , worth seeing if you like odd 70's horror films . .
very bleak and grim	I was not too sure about this film , going into it , but while it was not terrible , it was rather bleak & grim . There's some mysterious disease spreading , but people in England have not yet been affected . But signs that this disease is arriving on their shores are starting to crop up just as a reporter & film crew go to interview a farmer who has had to destroy his chickens in a small village outside London . When the crew arrive they find the village seemingly deserted , and after poking around for a while they find that the disease has hit , and hit hard , and is bringing the dead back to life , and they're ( of course ) dining on the living . What follows this particular scenario are several different groups of people all fighting to survive in this new England . What's not clear is if they all had video cameras , or if the person with the video camera from the first lot has fallen in with them . At any rate , there's lots of " Blair Witch " shaky camera work , lots of squabbling amongst the survivors , and a twist or two . I guess this is not bad for a first film , but do not expect " George Romero " type effects . This is more about bands of people fighting for survival and trying to hook up with each other , which in some cases , is not a good idea , considering the natures of some of the survivors . This is a fairly intelligent film , more than a gore film , so that might disappoint some . It's just so bleak & grim that its overall effect is just plain depressing . .
If you've seen The Eye , just leave well enough alone	Unless you're a fanatical " completist " , if you've seen the original " Eye " then you can easily pass on this drab sequel . Not only is it confusing , but it's got parts that are WAY more far-fetched than someone seeing ghosts everywhere , like a woman who has a history of suicide attempts being allowed to wander about on her own while she's pregnant , particularly in a hospital when she's already thrown herself off the roof once and manages to climb up to do it again and avoid all contact with hospital staff while doing so . This begins in Thailand where it's easier to speak English than Cantonese or Mandarin , apparently , as Joey is on a shopping spree and then tries to OD on sleeping pills in her hotel . When she's back in Hong Kong ( if that's where this is filmed ) she finds out she's pregnant and then begins the " seeing ghosts " stuff . This is a pretty confusing movie and is missing a certain something that the original had . The idea behind the original was that a woman who was blind had an eye transplant and then began to see ghosts , and that's a far more intriguing plot than whatever the hell this is supposed to be about . .
stupid fun with Styrofoam	This film begins rather inventively as several different people are shown going about their jobs as time ticks off on the clock , and then it's quitting time and this bunch of people all converge on this building that seems to be some kind of garage , for they all come out dressed differently and on motorcycles and then out into the country side for a weekend of acid tripping and body painting and whatever else may come along . Their quest is seemingly a pyramid of acid ( sugar cubes I guess ) and it looks not much like a pyramid or cubes , but they go inside and it's like . . . a psychedelic warehouse or something , complete with a devil and lots of uh , trippy things . The devil wields cubes of LSD and the people approach him one by one to partake ( it's obviously chunks of Styrofoam , and you can especially tell when one person takes a bite , because you can HEAR it ) . Earlier on too , one young lady sinks in quicksand , but she's back later , huh . There's other goofy things like Native Americans appearing here & there , portrayed in less-than politically correct form , plus plenty of other silliness throughout . This is kind of a fun film in a stupid way , nothing too heavy here , maaan . Can't say this is 60's exploitation films at their best though . .
OK Low Budget early 70's flick	I love 70's horror movies , especially the early 70's , so when I found this and had never seen it I was greatly looking forward to seeing it . Unfortunately , I was a bit disappointed but it's still not all that bad . Filmed in and around Livermore , CA , an area that I'm vaguely familiar with from passing by but never stopping in , and from what I can tell , not missing much . A newspaper reporter ( so he says ) picks up a young college girl & talks her into going on a picnic . They become lost out in the countryside and encounter this old spa , and an old woman that says she lives there . After a visit , they leave & return at a later time , only the girl comes back first and finds no evidence that there was ever anyone living there , but after the guy shows up , hmmm , the old woman seems to reappear again . It turns out that some very bad things happened at that spa years ago & it was shut down because of it , I mean , come on , feeding a newlywed bride to your guests for dinner is really in poor taste . And then it seems as though there's some connection with the old woman that the young man seems to have & is he merely bait for bringing in fresh meat ( so to speak ) ? There's some guys with battle axes lurking about , some fairly creepy grounds ( apparently an old hospital ) and a decent enough atmosphere , but the story jumps around a bit and I was confused at least part of the time , if not all . Not bad , seen worse , seen better . .
Extreme . . . .	Tartan Asia " Extreme " doesn't really put out many " extreme " films , they seem to get the dregs and market them as such though . This one is not really all that bad but it's not exactly exciting . A serial killer in jail is thought to be in some way responsible for a continuing series of murders in the style that he favored . Three detectives on the case are struggling to find out if he's " hired " someone on the outside to follow in his footsteps although that doesn't seem possible . Most of the women being killed are pregnant and unwed , although there's a lesbian thrown in here and there for good measure . This was an OK watch but nothing terribly great , and certainly not " a cross between Silence of the Lambs " and " Seven " as the box says . Most of the Korean films I've seen have been on Tartan and they've been pretty mediocre . . . . I'd say if you would like to see something that will chill you to the bone watch " Tell Me Something " . . Oh , and just when you've forgotten that it doesn't seem to mean anything the meaning of " H " is revealed at the end . Woo hoo .
21 years later I've just now seen this for the first time . . . .	For some reason The Hitcher never had my interest when it came out in the mid-80's , and I rarely missed any kind of horror film that came out back in those days . So last night I remembered that I've had the DVD sitting on my shelf for about TWO years now , and dragged it out , and watched it , and I have to say that I was not that impressed . C . Thomas Howell plays a rather bland character called Jim Halsey , that is transporting someone's car to San Diego from Chicago . He keeps referring to the car as a " drive-away " , like everyone knows what that means & nobody questions it , I'd never heard the term before . At any rate he picks up a hitch hiker in the pouring rain , telling the man ( who is of course Rutger Hauer ) that his mom told him never to do this . Of course , in this case , mom could never have been more right , because within the first few miles Hauer tells him that he'll cut off his legs , arms , and head , and so of course Jim pulls over to the side of the road & asks his rider to politely to get the hell out . He begins to then closes the door again , but not quite tightly enough & is knocked right out the door by Jim who is home free again until he sees his former passenger in another car with a man , wife , and kids , heading for the brink of hell . Of course , he finds their car later , over at the side of the road , and apparently what he sees inside doesn't sit well with him as he's suddenly vomiting by the roadside . And so begins a long , drawn out cat & mouse game between Hauer & Howell , which at times is so improbable that it's ridiculous . But this IS a movie , so it's OK , I guess . Of course , Howell has been set up , framed , made to look like HE'S the loony , while Hauer keeps to the background mostly and pops up now and again to dig Howell a deeper grave . Along the way Jim ( Howell ) picks up Jennifer Jason Leigh , a waitress at a truck stop , and she believes he's innocent and ends up coming along for the ride and becoming an accomplice of sorts . Of course , Hauer has blown away a couple cops too and every redneck with a badge and gun from miles around have all got vengeance in mind and are out to shoot first and ask questions later . Most notable is a scene where Hauer brings down a police helicopter with a hand gun , and he's not really even looking when he does it . What a guy . Anyway , Howell & Leigh hang out in some hotel to freshen up a bit and decide what they're going to do & of course Hauer appears while Howell's in the shower and Leigh is napping , and soon she's tied between two trucks in a " Perils of Pauline " sort of situation , and Hauer's still just getting warmed up . There's a rather strange " relationship " between Hauer & Howell , that's not fully defined , but is not exactly wholesome , I'd say . Of course eventually someone gets hold of this loony and he's held in custody , at least for a while . . . it's almost like Hauer is the heir-apparent to Michael Myers for longevity , but so far there's only been one sequel to this and Hauer isn't in it . And I haven't seen THAT one either . I don't know , some people apparently feel like this is a classic but I don't hold it in such high esteem . Which may be why it only took me 21 years after its release to see it . .
watchable & better than expected	I know it's not exactly a ringing endorsement to say " something wasn't as bad as I thought it would be " , but I had pretty low expectations for this and was surprised that it was actually watchable and better than expected . Of course , it's a bit far-fetched in many ways , zombies being one of them , and once the zombies start doing their thing there's enough firearms discharged and enough other things done to bring an aircraft down in pieces many times over , with no ill results . The basic story is that there's some kind of " special cargo " , that being the wife of a scientist , who is on the plane with his cohorts , and she's been given some kind of special serum , and the three of them seem to on the run from the authorities . Of course , you know that when the plane hits some turbulence the " special cargo " gets out , and bites , and those who are bitten get up and bite , and pretty soon the living dead are everywhere . The plane is supposedly only a quarter full , but there seems to be no end to the zombie stewardesses and passengers and those survivors that remain are of course , fighting to stay alive . A bit of a silly ending , but still , not bad overall , and the captain of our flight is no less than Raymond Barry , who played the sadistic loony in " Headless Body in a Topless Bar " . .
so-so Shyam Ramsay horror effort	Catherine is a rich but rather drunken woman , who holds the purse-strings in the family . In a quarrel with her husband Ravi , she falls through a glass table top and is presumed dead . Ravi enlists the help of a friend to bury her body at a disused cemetery , only to find that she's still alive , but they , of course , bury her anyway , because this is a horror movie . And Catherine thinks that she's fought her way out of the coffin , but it turns out she's really dead . And then she really messes things up when her soul returns to her body , and she becomes a living dead entity , bent on revenge . The revenge takes a very long time , and there are plenty of threats and haunting and that sort of thing . Of course , Catherine isn't content to just mess with Ravi , she messes with those around him too . It's a fair-to-middling horror tale , but goes on way too long . Most amusing are the subtitles , for , like in most Indian films , there are some parts where people speak English , and these subtitles try to soften the blow of clearly spoke words like " bitch " and " bastard " by translating them to " idiot " and " scoundrel " . But that's a minor complaint . Not up the the Ramsays ' work of old , that's for sure , but still passable horror and worth seeing if you enjoy Indian horror . .
How to spice up that dreary suburban existence	This is not your typical Something Weird " nudie-cutie " . In fact , it's more of a commentary on society than some of these type of films that came out in the early to mid-60's time period , it seems . And I'm basing that on what I've seen , not that I'm any film expert . Lots of suburban housewives left at loose ends to fill in their dreary days after their bread-winning husbands have left on the 7 : 21 to the city . Most of that time filling seems to be drinking booze and having sex with various men , instead of replacing the shelf paper in the pantry or playing Bridge with the girls . There is a bad influence in this particular neighborhood too , in Yvette and her " brother " Louis , who start a sort of sex cult thing , in which everyone gets to wear robes and masks ( which to me , made them look like bomb-worshiping mutants from Beneath the Planet of the Apes ) , and perform kinky acts for the hell of it . Louis gets to play ringmaster , wearing a mask that looks like a stylized bird has just landed on his face . Louis is actually quite the creepy character ( as overplayed by W . B . Parker ) . One couple is quite worried about their teen-aged daughter , though , because she's dressing up quite nicely now and hanging out a lot with Yvette . Yvette , by the way , is played by Dyanne Thorne , who later because " Ilsa " in those infamous sexploitation movies of the 70's . While there is some camp to this and while some of is quite laughable , beneath all that there is actually a despair and desperation that elevates this above your normal " sleaze film " of this time period . Nothing to rush out immediately and look for , but if you get the chance this is an interesting watch . .
OK , but no high point for Penelope Spheeris	This could almost be a made for TV movie , to a point , and looks as though it was kind of quickly put together . Various members of the Hollywood Vice Squad , under occasional direction from Captain Ronnie Cox , bust hookers , drag queens , bookies , pimps , etc . Also a few johns here and there . One storyline involves a mother from the Midwest out to find her daughter , who's now a hooker and addicted to heroin . Another storyline involves an East Coast operation that has low level bookies afraid for their lives . Etc . , etc . Pretty standard stuff if you ask me , with plenty of " love-to-hate " stereotypes , like Frank Gorshin as the owner of an " escort service " . Also Carrie Fisher as an eager young detective manages to bust an S & M / porno movie maker . This is OK in a kind of mid-80's way but it's also pretty " by-the-book " and could have been churned out by anybody . Also a strange mixture of comedy and drama that doesn't always work . Anyway , if you like to make fun of California , the land of fruits and nuts , and haven't ever been there or lived there , this movie will give you plenty to hoot at . However , if you actually like decent movies you may well not care for it . And , if you go about your life without ever seeing it then I guarantee that you'll never regret not having seen it . .
ghosts and vengeance	I guess this is the last of the " Yokai Monsters " series , and dang , if I didn't watch them out of order , oh well . This is probably the lesser of the trio , and involves a young girl seeking her father after her grandfather , with whom she lived , was murdered by thugs . The little girl must make a journey to another town where her father supposedly lives but of course she's pursued by thugs because she found a document that is supposedly valuable & they want it back . She meets up with others along the way , and is protected from the thugs by a more kindly sort of thug who apparently has a heart of gold , etc . But once she's reached the town & hotel to which she's going she finds her father has not been there for years . Of course , we have the thugs in hot pursuit & the girl is taken , and the thugs are subjected to the ghosts & monsters of a haunted forest , etc . Not much in the way of ghosts or monsters in this but it still looks great and has a decent enough story . Gone though , are all the cutesy mutated Pufnstuf-type monsters from before in favor of more ethereal-looking things . Not bad but definitely the least of the three " Yokai " movies . .
The Seventh Woman	Just for the record , the Italian title of this film is " The Seventh Woman " . Three bank robbers on the run in their aging Citroen come across a remote beach house & find that as a perfect place to hide out . Trouble is , though , the house is occupied , by a few Catholic school girls and their teacher , who is also a nun . The sadistic bank robbers move right on in , kill the maid , and then proceed to have their way with a a couple of the girls and their teacher . One girl spurned one robber's advances with a deftly aimed comb handle to the groin area , and he's not doing too well , though . The girls , of course , and the nun , are not about to continue to be subjected to rape & torture , and eventually get the upper hand . This is no where near as nasty as " Last House On The Left " , it's more a rather pale imitation . Still though , it's a decent enough exploitation film , if you like that sort of thing , but there's nothing to elevate it above that particular distinction . .
The House that Vanished , along with my interest	I didn't even know this was available in the US on DVD , but found it sort of by accident , under the title " Scream and Die " which was apparently the original release title . So I was , of course , very excited , as this has been on my list of " things to get " . Unfortunately , this didn't quite live up to my expectations , although it's a more or less decent 70's thriller , hampered by some strange plot elements and a rather slow pace . A model accompanies a friend to an old house in the middle of nowhere , in a dense fog , and the friend tells her to stay in the car while he goes inside . Eventually , she gets cold and goes inside to find him , only to see that he's apparently in there with theft in mind . But before too long someone else arrives at the house , and they must hide , but have a view of what's going on , and that is that the man that has come with a woman murders her . The model , Valerie , then flees , and is pursued by this mysterious killer , and she ends up hiding all night in a junkyard in a derelict car . The next morning she is able to get back to London & her flat , only to find her boyfriend's car parked outside later . She goes to the car , and finds her portfolio , which was left inside , but it's now missing a picture . Anyway , Valerie and some of her hippie friends make a valiant effort to find this house but they're unable to . Valerie is later introduced to a young man called Paul , who makes masks , of a ceramic kind , which are apparently very popular . She's invited to Paul's flat to see more of the masks and finds his aunt does most of the painting of the masks . Paul's aunt is rather domineering too , in more ways than one . And then , a mysterious man moves in downstairs from Valerie and her room mate , who has returned from a holiday in France , and the man keeps pigeons inside ( disgusting ) and keeps odd hours and has Valerie rather worried that HE is the stalker . When what is going on is revealed , I had more or less figured it out myself . Paul takes Valerie away to rest at a quiet country home and guess what ? Well , if you can't then you haven't seen enough horror films . This isn't terrible but it suffers from a rather confusing plot and takes a long time to reach its destination , and the payoff isn't all that satisfying . Still though , it's not a total disappointment . Best appreciated by fans of 70's horror . .
Less than I expected but OK	As usual the write-up on the box is far better than the actual content , but that should come as no surprise , I suppose . I didn't realize this was an American film , thought it was out of Hong Kong or something but no , the locale is southern CA . This is an odd little movie , about several different characters that cross paths here & there , some much MUCH closer than others , but overall it was a little on the bland side and just not weird enough , for me , anyway . There's a woman Katherine , that has blackouts , and in one of those moments she loses her cell phone , wallet , & pager , which are found by Trinh , a wild and crazy waitress with a blond wig and sunglasses she never removes . She then proceeds to stalk Katherine , returning her wallet but keeping her driver's license . Then there's Phil , who has this accelerated hair-growth problem that leads him to believe he's a werewolf , especially after hanging out with his sister's boyfriend who just happened to write a book on lycanthropy . Anyway , this tootles along just fine , one odd little incident after another , until confrontations occur and secrets are revealed . I was impressed that I did not figure out one of them beforehand . Anyway , this is a mostly OK quirky little film , but only that , nothing too spectacular .
OK spy spoof could have used a bit less crooning	The Sliencers is the first " Matt Helm " film , with Helm , of course , being played by Dean Martin , the last person in the world you'd probably choose for a " super-spy " role . This is a spoof , of course , so that part doesn't exactly matter except it's rather ridiculous to imagine Martin playing the role of someone that can take out a bunch of rival spies with some karate chops and more action-adventure type stuff , since his usual action-adventure ideas are more along the lines of sipping a drink , smoking a cigarette , and ogling women . Still , this is sort of fun , but I personally could have done without his singing , despite the fact that he only seems to be doing it in his head while thinking about various women around him . Victor Buono is excellent as a ridiculous Chinese evil guy , and I believe there's even another character in there that also played a villain on Batman too , although I couldn't tell you his name or the villain he played . Of course we have Stella Stevens back when she was young and pretty and not playing some of the old hag roles she has in the past few years . When this film concentrates on some of the action and things that are afoot it fares much better than when it focuses on Dean trying to be suave . And a super-spy with a station wagon , complete with a bar in the back seat ? I guess station wagons must have been much cooler in the 60's . I cringe to think that someone might think that this needs to be remade , but hopefully there's no plans . This isn't really bad , it's kind of fun , I just don't go for Dean Martin singing ( James Bond sure as hell never did ) spoof or not . .
very strange & creepy , but the ending . . . ?	I picked this up because it looked interesting , and before I watched it I had read some very negative things about it , so I was rather reluctant to watch it then , but bravely popped it into the DVD player last night and wow . . . . what a strange and creepy film . It's definitely pretty original , and really the only thing in recent memory that I could compare it to is " Altered " , but that's only one small aspect of it . There is a group of friends , who worked for the same company , that are mysteriously dying . Part of the mystery of why they're dying is that they seem to be dying at the hands of their exact doubles . The woman who owns the company has seen her double & she knows that nothing good can come of this , especially when she hears of and sees surveillance tapes of one dead woman's double pursuing her though their office building . There's one thing common to all these dead folk : They all have a strange metal " artifact " implanted in their bodies . And this seems to have something to do with their double's ability to track them down . So naturally , the two remaining members of the group want their artifacts OUT . There's something to do with government experiments & stuff like that , which perhaps in some way explains the implants , and the whole film is rather mysterious & eerie , even after you kind of know what's supposed to be going on , because you don't know WHY . And then there's the ending . WTF ? What kind of ending is that ? A doctor , one who knows what's going on , tells the last remaining member what she's like , really , and that's it . Huh ? Very disappointing . Still though , this does get fairly high points for originality and general creepiness . Just that ending . . . . . ! .
Interesting but somewhat disappointing	I have been trying to get my hands on every Jean Rollin film I can find since my introduction to his works via " Night of the Hunted " a few years ago , so I was kind of excited to see something newly released that I hadn't even heard of before . Hmm , well , maybe I haven't heard of it because it's not one of his better films ? A young man & woman meet at a wedding reception , and they make a date to go bicycling , and when they go they stop at an old cemetery for a little picnic and then explore and make love down inside a tomb . . . but while they're busy there it gets dark & they get lost within the cemetery and wander endlessly while the woman seems to go insane , or maybe she was that way to begin with . The man is rather concerned about his watch & when they find themselves back at the tomb again he goes down to retrieve it , only for the woman to shut him in . There is lots of bizarre imagery in this , like the people that wander about the cemetery while it's still daylight , like a clown , for instance ? And there are some cuts to a beach where the woman finds an iron rose , washed up on the shore , and it's hard to say how this is all connected . No gore to this , no waif-like vampire babes in pastel nighties , this is more of a macabre poem put on film , and while it's not bad , I still found it somewhat disappointing . According to my Aurum book of horror this flopped upon release & I can see why . If you're a Jean Rollin fan though , you'll still want to see it , and some will obviously like it more than others . .
another creepy venture into David Lynch territory	Irene takes a job at a remote Austrian hotel , and it's rather an odd hotel . It seems like the previous woman to hold her job mysteriously disappeared , and it's possible she " ran off with a boyfriend " . . . she was like that , you know . But the longer Irene stays at the hotel , with its strange staff , the more she begins to wonder . The settings are quietly creepy , the staff members rather quiet and unfriendly , even menacing , and one wonders where this is all going . Part of Irene's job is to " check the basement " , and of course , it's a very creepy basement , although there's nothing shown that is particularly scary or creepy , it's merely unnerving . There are cries from the local woods too , that Irene hears . Irene is also a swimmer , and begs to be able to use the pool , and once , while swimming , her " good luck charm " ( a cross ) disappears , but it's returned to her later . . . it was found in the woods . The more Irene becomes spooked , the more she clings to her cross , but she is talked into loaning it to her relief desk clerk and that's probably not a good idea . There's never any outright signs of what's going on , but the overall feeling of menace and " wrongness " is pretty apparent throughout the film . There's also never any clear picture of what's happening or what happened at the end , which will probably disappoint or anger some viewers , but in thinking back on this , it makes it even creepier . Definitely not a film for everyone . If you like David Lynch films you'll probably like this though , and if you like films like " Fear X " and " Kill By Inches " then this will be right up your alley . .
" I'm a fing nun , for chrissakes "	" Offensive Behaviour " is , unfortunately , too low-budget to pull off the same sort of films that Peter Jackson managed so well on his low budgets in his early days , although it is compared to him . We have a nun and son hit-person team , out to get some money from a guy that owes , but due to some pesky little kids switching people's mail around in the post boxes , the wrong person is picked . The nun is rough and gruff enough as it is , but her son , well , he's a poofter hairdresser and not particularly threatening , until he really gets rolling and gets the blood lust . Particularly funny is a scene ( with musical accompaniment ) where he " struts " along , meaning business . We also have a young man who is trying to sell a film to a producer , and when all else fails he turns to porno , using his girlfriend and his room mate as stars , only to find that they're not acting anymore . And , we have what appears to be the original target of the hit-persons , a man named Riley , who is busy swilling vodka and popping pills and blasting music , and who ends up with his hand down the garbage disposal while he passes out , only to have two people stumble in who thinks he needs help and try to turn on the kitchen light . . . oh , and he's got a corpse on the floor of a previous victim , whoops . This does all sort of come together but it also sort of falls apart . There's some funny parts , definitely , but it sort of runs out of steam after a while & there's not enough outrageousness to sustain the entire run time . Not a bad try but still not all that great . .
weird but not completely awful	Strange little flick from New Zealand is about a young woman who has apparently been chosen to some kind of special honor , whatever that may be , and she's being stalked by some guy in a gas mask that is killing off all her friends to get her alone . Once that's been accomplished she finds herself at some sort of rather large clinic ( ? ) that is run by a benevolent but apparently not very stable doctor who decides she needs to be reunited with her brother , as in , Siamese Twins . Huh ? Yeah , really . Obviously someone likes their Cronenberg . This is quite hard to describe though , really , it's rather nightmarish but at times it's also rather amateurish . I don't quite know what to think about this , I didn't think it was terrible but on the other hand it's too muddled to sing its praises . I guess this one would really depend on your taste and your tolerance for low-budget outings . An " A " for effort but perhaps a " C " for overall finished product . .
creepy and sleazy sex-ed film from Doris Wishman	I wasn't sure about this going into it , or coming out of it for that matter , but this is watchable and is also rather creepy . A legitimate sex change doctor , Leo Wollman , is our host and there's plenty of dialog and demonstrations and yes , even a bit of a real operation for your viewing unease , as a man becomes a woman . There's lots of talk about the " third sex " , people who are the opposite sex trapped in the body of their birth , and how unhappy they are / were , until they had this operation . There are actually very few of these characters that look like what they're supposed to look like though . There's even some scenes of one " he-she " hooking in Central Park and bringing some guy home , even though apparently no " real " sex act was performed since the " john " may have noticed that this babe still had a penis . Probably every man's nightmare . There's also a " re-enaction " of what happened when one man decided he couldn't take anymore , and needed the operation , but couldn't afford it , so decided to do it with a hammer and chisel , with , of course , predictable results , eyow . This is not for the faint of heart or stomach , and is best viewed by those with a real appreciation for trash and the very strange . , proceed with caution .
Kind of messy but not too bad overall	Our film begins in the Belgian Congo in 1963 , when a young girl is sent on a train with her mom , who then does something weird to her daughter that involves some kind of fetish doll , and then when the train reaches the station the mom is found looking rather worse for wear . Fast forward 25 years to Albany , NY , and we have a family celebrating their teenage daughter's communion , only to get a strange phone call from the mother's sister , who needs to talk to her right away . Mom seems rather disturbed but goes on a run for sodas , and ends up wandering by a gun shop where she's smashed through the front window by an out-of-control pickup truck . Five months later , at the mother's grave site , the father & daughter run into this mysterious aunt who comes home with them & ends up staying with them . Apparently Felice ( Joanna Pacula ) is a model and also works for some vitamin company , but she's also much more than that . She seems to be working some kind of voodoo-type magic and has her sights set on the daughter for inheriting some curse that she herself seems to have . Of course , friends and neighbors are suspicious ( but dad is clueless ) and this all leads to a rather spectacular , if improbable , ending , including a propane tank that spurts flames & eventually blows up their swimming pool ! I got a bit lost at times , for there is mention of cats , and while it doesn't seem that Felice can turn herself INTO a cat , she must have familiars or something hanging around . . . and the thing that is eventually show more clearly looks rather like a hydrophobic Persian cat but it crisps in the bug-zapper quite nicely , actually . And sorry for that , I do have a cat & he's my bud , but the one in the movie is obviously fake . Anyway , not too bad but rather confused & unfocused at times . .
Not exactly Sci-fi , but now available on " Classic Sci-Fi volume 2 "	It's interesting that I've recently seen two Indian films that deal with snakes that can turn into humans ( and vice-versa ) and not long after I happen to watch THIS film , which was made at least 20 years before either film I saw but deals with more or less the same premise . But the premise is actually an Indian myth / legend / belief . A group of Air Force guys are in Asia ( presumably India ) and encounter a snake charmer and want to know more about some kind of cult that worships snakes & can turn from humans to snakes and back again . Well , it just so happens that the local neighborhood snake charmer is a member of this cult so he provides all the guys with robes with hoods so they can witness this sacred rite , but of course one of these idiots has to bring a camera with him & try to snap a picture , which of course is not typical cult-member behavior so it's a dead giveaway that there are interlopers . This same foolish young man tries to grab the basket with the girl in it his buddies later find him alongside the road , snake-bit & ill . . . . he is doing better in the hospital but later he gets a nocturnal visit from someone that wants him dead . Fast forward to when the remaining guys get back to the states and it seems as though they're all falling victim to a curse that one of the cult members put on them , as one by one they're dying . Tom ( Marshall Thompson ) may even be DATING the source of the deaths , in his new neighbor Lisa , who may be other than she seems . This has some famous faces in it , Faith Domergue , Marshall Thompson , even David Jansen ( as Rico ? ) and while it's not exactly what you could call a thrill a minute , it's still not bad . I'd say to call this " sci-fi " was stretching things a big but this is available as part of the just-released 5 movie set from Universal . If you're a fan of 50's " monster movies " & thrillers , you'll probably enjoy this just fine . .
Nostaligic junk	I used to watch Thunderbirds on TV when I was a kid , and when I found the VHS of this on the " sell " table of my local video store , I snagged it . Mostly my interest in this was having just seen " Team America , World Police " but I was a little surprised that the puppets in Thunderbirds did't have visible strings , I seemed to remember they did . Anyway , this is an interesting little novelty more than anything else , it's not great but it's entertaining . The music by The Shadows is wonderful ( and to think when I watched this as a kid I'd never heard of them ) . It's interesting to watch certain scenes that are obviously real human body parts interspersed with the puppetry . To say the acting is a bit wooden would be a cheap shot , though . Anyway , I did enjoy watching this but not sure I'd watch it again anytime soon . .
slow but definitely odd	Joey & Laura are in love . Laura falls and breaks her neck ( I guess ) trying to get a kitten down from a high spot in her apartment . Right when the guys from the morgue show up to get her , Joey wraps her in a sheet & packs a few items ( including a gun ) and hits the road to somewhere with Laura's dead body . A good portion of this is wet and rainy road scenes , with hypnotic music and poetry read over the top . Joey stops at various motels along the way and makes sure Laura still looks good by applying makeup , sewing up breaks in her skin , etc . At one point Joey has his car stolen ( with Laura in it ) while he's getting coffee , and yet after some random hitch hiking and wandering , he happens to come across it , the keys still in it , and Laura still in it . Perhaps someone abandoned her because she was a poor conversationalist . This is kind of arty , kind of slow , but has enough strangeness to it to be somewhat appealing . As Laura begins to decompose , Joey begins to becomes more unstable , and eventually he reaches the point where he decides to join Laura . I can't say this would be widely appreciated or recommended , but it's worth seeing once , anyway . .
A long awaited and very long sequel	Like Mikel's OTHER sequel , Mark of the Astro Zombies , this is made with a video camera and not on film , so part of the cheesy look that made the originals is already missing , replaced by a different cheesy look that I personally don't like . However , the plot itself is mostly a reworking of the original Corpse Grinders with the nephews of Landau and Maltby as the cat food factory owners . The twist is that cat-like people from outer space have come to earth seeking food , and they seem to like Lotus cat food a lot . Some questions I had about the earlier film are resolved here , as in testing was done on the cat food and it was found to contain traces of nicotine , alcohol , and other things you probably would find in cat food made from corpses and winos . Also in this film you see the owners , or perpetrators , remove the coverings from the bodies before they go into the machine , so no more ' filler ' in the kitty food , I reckon . Anyway , these were not BURNING questions , they were just questions , rest assured I lost no sleep over them . The cat alien people in this movie are pretty dorky , except for one female that wanders the aisles of a supermarket sniffing , sniffing , sniffing , and she also takes out three attackers who want her jewelry rather efficiently . Liz Renay has a bit part as the wife of a grave digger ( or in this case , digger-upper ) , and Dolores Fuller ( she of Ed Wood films fame ) also has a small part . Despite all that , there is every bit of evidence that there never should have been a sequel to Corpse Grinders . While that film is by no means a work of genius , it's got some sleazy " cult movie " charm to it , despite its subject matter . Some things are truly better left alone . Oh , and by the way , Mr . Mikels himself plays a professor in this , and I guessed that he must be in the movie before I knew for sure . . . don't know how I figured it was him but it was . And he doesn't look like he's the type of person to make these wacko films , but then again , Herschell Gordon Lewis doesn't look the part for the films he made either . I won't say this is unwatchable or should be avoided like the plague , but I do think it was rather unnecessary . .
A decent effort , if not entirely successful	I was really looking forward to this being released , because it sounded really disgusting and creepy . . . and it is , to an extent , but it's nowhere near as disgusting and creepy as I'd hoped for . I guess I was expecting something more along the lines of " Nekromantik " . This , however , came first , and while there were DEFINITELY some parts that made my skin crawl , there were parts of the film that just plain crawled on their own & I found myself getting a bit bored at times . The overall look & atmosphere is good , it's just not a consistently interesting film , unfortunately . I haven't seen too many films of this nature , except the " Nekromantik " films , and it's certainly not my regular viewing material , but I sort of like films that are so wrong that it makes you gape in shock every once in a while . And this is definitely one . And did I mention , this is not a good film to watch while snacking ? It's not . .
I expected far less . . . .	I got this incredibly cheap in a bargain bin at the local used movie store , so I wasn't expecting much . " Aunt Rose " turned out to be far better than I expected . It almost has the look & feel of a 70's or 80's horror flick , despite the modern trappings . Three homicidal nut-cases , after killing a few people here & there , end up doing the " home invasion " thing at a suburban home of a girl who supposedly Robin owed money to . Why Debbie even knows Robin , or why she would have even CONSIDERED loaning her money , is not explained . Robin looks kind of like a punk Traci Lords , that is , if Traci Lords had a figure like Roseanne Barr . The thugs bust in on a rather uncomfortable dinner where Debbie's parents had expected to meet her new boyfriend , Tony , although Tony turns out to be " Toni " and is of the female persuasion . Yes , there's a bit of humor to this too . The thugs have the foursome ( mom , dad , Debbie & Toni ) tied up in the living room but then , they discover Aunt Rose upstairs , but since she's old and bedridden , they have nothing to worry about . So they think . Aunt Rose has powers , that are never really explained , but she's definitely not to be messed with . The thugs become increasingly agitated when they think they see Aunt Rose outside , and even MORE agitated when she brings back the recently deceased to stop them in their tracks . OK , the acting isn't the best , and Debbie's parents ( especially dear old dad ) are rather annoying , but overall , this is not as bad as I expected it to be , and the look & feel of the film helps . The feel becomes rather claustrophobic as as the thugs realize that their safe haven that they've boarded themselves into is not particularly safe , and for reasons they don't understand . I'd give it a , some may like more than others , obviously .
fair-to-middling slasher / revenge flick is OK for what it is	This isn't any great shakes as far as movies go , but I still like it , don't know why but maybe it's because I read the book a long time ago ( by John Russo , who was involved in many George Romero projects , especially " Night of the Living Dead " ) . It's also directed by Bill Hinzman , head zombie in that movie . All that notwithstanding , it's still kind of a mediocre 80's slasher / revenge flick that's redeemed a bit by scantily clad cheerleaders but not a lot else , really . It's a small town & there's a killer loose who is after the cheerleaders one by one , and there's also a couple sub-plots going on too like some scuzzy drug dealers raising hell and an evil nurse ( with a peeping Tom son ) who is out to get an inheritance from one of the girls . Yep , there's a couple twists here , nothing terribly shocking or clever but not bad , especially when it comes to the identity of the killer . Overall this is not any fantastic work of art but it's a fairly competent movie and some will probably enjoy it more than others . . And on reflection , I think the Butthole Surfers sampled some music from this on their " Locust Abortion Technician " release .
OK Japanese witchcraft thriller	Misa has just started at a new high school , and it seems that some of the kids there dabble in magic . Now , Misa herself seems to be knowledgeable about magic & there are rumors that at other schools she's attended that " people died around her " . There is some force at work in the area of her new school though , which appears to be someone committing murders in an area that forms a pentagon , at which the center is Misa's new school . Rarely can that be a good sign , it seems . For Misa and a bunch of her schoolmates are suddenly trapped inside the school by evil forces and Misa still cannot figure out who the source is . This starts out pretty well , and finishes up fairly well , but there are some bits in between where things seem to just crawl . . . too much talking , too little of interest going on . Still though , this is kind of fun in a way & has some decent effects . I'm looking forward to watching the rest of this series , of which this is the first film . .
undistinguished follow-up to " Tetsuo "	Hiruko the Goblin is a rather undistinguished follow-up to Tetsuo the Iron Man for this director . I guess you could call it a horror comedy , although it's really not that funny or horrific . It's pretty strange though , which is about its only saving grace , I guess . There is evidence that there's some kind of burial mound at a school that has been guarded for years , and due to circumstances one of the goblins is released and races around beheading people , only to have their heads show up on spider or crab-like bodies . Investigating all this is an archaeologist and the son of one of the people that has disappeared , and they race around with weird detection equipment and act frantic . I guess overall it's OK , it's just not what I'd expect from Tsukamoto at all , after seeing Tetsuo & Snake of June . It's more like a mindless throw-away type flick , the kind one used to watch in the summer a long time ago , and there's just not that much to it . Still though if you like Tsukamoto's films it's good to see at least once . .
not a bad little thriller	" Through Dead Eyes " is part of a two-film set , with " Vampire's Embrace " , now out on Cult Camp Video . Of the two films , this is the obvious stand-out . A wave of killings in a small town seems to be somehow connected to a retired police officer ( James Doohan ) who retired with a year still to go after a similar wave of killings several years before . Now , a young detective and his partner are on the case , at least , until the partner becomes a victim . There seems to be some link to a blind psychic that was involved in the previous case , but she claims she no longer has that power & doesn't want to be involved . However , the detective on the case kidnaps her & holds her hostage until she agrees to cooperate . And also falls in love with her . When it's finally revealed who the killer is , well , that bit is sort of ridiculous , because it's not exactly plausible , but overall , it's not a bad little thriller . Doohan is mostly wasted in his role , proving he's not much of an actor outside of his Star Trek environs . . . and maybe not much of one within , either . But his screen time is minimal . .
one of the better " Mondo " films	Some of the material in these so called " Mondo " films is rather tame by today's standards , but I'm sure it was pretty strange to viewing audiences upon initial release . This particular one is narrated by George Sanders , and features such things as a secret " dueling club " in Berlin , where the object is to leave a scar on your opponent's face . It also has a lesbian nightclub in Paris , a female body builder that bends metal bars & tears a phone book in half while performing a song and dance routine , and Portuguese men hunting whales the old-fashioned way . . . with a row boat and hand-held harpoon . The big favorite here was Lapp women castrating reindeer with their teeth , and then the men of the group lassoing the object of their desire , and getting a bit rough with them , it seems , for not all of these women seem particularly willing . Were these guys not paying attention to what was happening with the reindeer in the previous scene ? Anyway , this is an entertaining , if not spectacular , " Mondo " , and worth seeing . .
five alive	" Five " is , I guess , the first " post-nuke " flick , in which we find a survivor wandering , looking for others , and she runs across a cabin where there are cups , and a fire , and then she finds the man that lives there . She's nursed back to health , and then , along comes a jeep with two more men in it , one black , one old . The old man may well be suffering from radiation poisoning & sleeps for days , but when he awakens he wants to go to the ocean , so everyone piles into the jeep & off they go , to find the fifth survivor , washed up on the shore . Things are not idyllic , for the final survivor , an explorer with a very odd accent , is rather a jerk & does not like the fact that the black man is treated as an equal ( remember , this is 1951 ) . The woman is pregnant but men being what they are , at least one has a go at her , but he doesn't get very far . The final survivor is also rather a trouble-maker , and convinces the woman to go with him to find her husband in the city , with dire results . An odd little film , not bad but not as not quite as good as I expected . Director Arch Oboler also went on to make " The Bubble " , which is a 3-D feature . Interesting , but not great . .
early 80's Franco slasher flick is now on DVD in the US	I had been looking forward to the release of " Bloody Moon " , being that I had a tape that was a horrible transfer and virtually unwatchable ( Eddy Entertainment , may they rot ) . The Severin DVD is quite nice and actually has an interview with Franco , who looks very frail & not like someone who should still be churning out movies with lots of sex and violence . Anyway , the movie : A group of girls at a language school are being preyed upon by . . . someone . There's a couple of " too obvious " someones ; the loony handyman & the scarred brother of Manuela . Manuela is the assistant to the " headmaster " and niece of the ever-charming owner of the school . Manuela & brother Miguel actually have something else going on too , something brothers & sisters don't normally do , but they're not particularly normal . It's merely implied though , no graphic stuff . Anyway , there is definitely someone lurking about the girl's bungalows at the school , and one girl is killed when she's with another , but the body disappears & no one believes Angela ( Olivia Pascal ) when she tries to tell them . Of course , the body turns up elsewhere . There's also some strange things happening to Angela , like voices on the language instruction tapes that no one else seems to hear , and she thinks she's going crazy . There's also a few grisly murders , one of which takes place at the handy local sawmill , and it's presented here in its supposedly uncut glory . It's nasty but it does look rather fake . Not that I'd know what the real thing looks like , mind you . The killer eventually comes to light , of course , and if you've ever watched a slasher film , you'll probably figure it out beforehand . Still , not a bad film , but not a great one , either . Some decent moments but overall , a bit too obvious . .
Not at all what I expected	I really expected " The Ruins " to be something along the lines of " Hostel " , " Turistas " , etc . , especially when the 20-something main characters hook up with some German guy ( Mathias ) poolside at their hotel in Mexico and agree to go with him to some unknown & ancient ruins in the jungle . You know those darn European guys , always luring unsuspecting Americans into torture traps . But , this was nothing at all like that . The group does go out into the jungle and find this ancient Mayan temple , but before they can do much of anything they're set upon by a group of distinctly unfriendly Indian-types , who don't speak Spanish and who have lots of guns and bows and arrows , and one young Greek man who accompanied our heroes is immediately shot & killed , after which the surviving members of the party clamber up to the top of the pyramid . They do find the tent belonging to Mathias's brother , but no evidence of anyone else is apparent . They can't leave their perch , because the hostile Indians have set up camp and are apparently not letting anyone leave . Why ? Well , it seems that there's something evil about this area , and it needs to stay in this area , and because our young friends have blundered into it , they need to stay until things have run their course . Eventually , the body of Matias's brother is found , and he's a bit worse for wear . There seems to be a ringing cell phone nearby , and the sound is coming from the bottom of a deep shaft , so Mathias attempts to retrieve it , only to be seriously injured when the rope he's being lowered on breaks , and eventually he's brought back out but the two girls go down into the hole to try to find the cell phone , only to find that there ISN'T one . And what it is that's making the sound is far worse . There's some scenes on the unrated version of this that are NOT for the faint of heart , like impromptu pyramid-top surgery , performed with tequila and hunting knife . Extremely gruesome . This is at least better than what I expected , but still a bit far-fetched , of course . Not that I generally mind far-fetched but this does strain credibility at times . Still not bad for what it is , and at least it wasn't just another " tourists lured into torture situation " , or " supermodels being chased though the jungle " flick . .
Not Rollin's best but still has some strange appeal	I've liked what I've seen of Jean Rollin's films so far , but I have to say that Demoniacs is nowhere near his best work , in fact it's probably the worst film by him I've ever seen , but it does have redeeming values . A bunch of pirates lure ships to bad waters with a light to wreck them , so they can collect the treasure . And sometimes , the booty , this time in the form of two of Rollin's typical waifish young ladies . But the young ladies apparently die , or do they ? Hard to say . They're still visible and running around , and they lose the pirates in these ruins that they ( the pirates ) are afraid to go into for some reason , perhaps it has something to do with the clown or the priest that live there ? Of course a good portion of the film is these young ladies running around in pastel outfits with the substance of handkerchiefs , there's lots of blood and lots of the usual hallucinatory occurrences , etc . So it really has all the elements of any typical Rollins film , it's just not as good . I can't say that his films have mass appeal at all , and it's obvious they don't by scanning the reviews , but I sort of like the " evil waifs " themes that run through many of his films , and the surreal imagery is always good for a " huh ? " . , if you haven't seen any Rollin's films best not start here but no worries , it's out of print anyway .
Pleased to meet you , Meat to please you	This is a bizarre little Canadian film in the " what were they thinking ? " category , that combines elements of every bad film you've ever seen in your life to come up with almost a good film . We've got toy robots on a space ship communicating with each other ( with subtitles , thanks ) , we've got a huge guy named Abdullah that wears a fez and pulverizes meat at the local butcher shop , and we have his boss , the quintessential nerdy geeky Bob Sanderson , upstanding citizen and unknowing contributor to making alien saucer fuel . We have bouncy little show-tune type music , and everything looks like the 50's but then some of the music is decidedly " new wave " . This is pretty much all over the map but it has a certain charm to it that defies explanation . It's a spoof , for sure , and it's deliberately like it is , as in , campy and dorky , so there's really no question that it was a serious project gone seriously wrong . Lower your standards and sit back and enjoy , stars .
cheesy , sleazy , and kind of fun	The French don't do well with zombie movies , as a rule , remember Zombie Lake ? No ? Probably just as well . This is a tad better but it's rather cheesy and silly , but it does have a good look to it . Some mysterious guy with on a motorcycle sneaks some container of liquid into a tanker of milk and three ( yes , only three ) young ladies drop dead from drinking the milk . Add some thug that's working for the local factory that takes care of dumping their toxic waste into the cemetery and voilà , you have living dead girls rising up out of their graves . Again though , just those three . Of course they wander the countryside and do zombie-like things like brutally killing folks , and one incident with a sharp object and a young lady ends in death by penetration , ugh . There's some sleazy dealings , maybe blackmail , I guess , taking place with corporate folks having to do with this factory and toxic waste dumping and all , and one woman gets her mitts on the money and tries to flee , and she encounters these walking dead babes and pretty soon the film is over . Now , there is an alternate ending available on this DVD that almost makes more sense than the " real " ending but not if you consider everything else that's taken place . Background music consists of wheezy keyboards that put me in mind of music from " Liquid Sky " . Overall this isn't a very good movie & I liked it for reasons that I can't really explain . All a matter of taste , or lack thereof , I guess . .
seems to be missing a certain something . . . .	Some kind of strange parasites have invaded Earth & ( as one gentleman explains ) " some came from the sea and some came from space " . These parasites invade humans and turn them into mutated fighting machines called " Necroborgs " . The Necroborgs battle each other to the death for the amusement of the parasites . A young man who works at a machine shop ( Yoji ) has found one of these parasitic things , that he thinks is dead . He keeps it in his closet at home but when he brings a young lady home that he fancies , it takes over her body & turns her into one of them there Necroborgs . Of course , Yoji eventually is infected by a crazy man who BREEDS Necroborgs so he can feed his partially-mutated daughter , and from there it's a battle of human will versus parasitic will . In some ways this is reminiscent of " Tetsuo " , without quite being like it . However , despite the special effects and wild action scenes , this film seems to lack a certain something that I can't put my finger on , that would have breathed some life , or given some soul to this film . It's nasty , violent , and at times , fairly disgusting , and it's fairly well-done as far as effects go , but otherwise it seems rather flat . Of course , some will like it more than others , and it's not exactly made for a wide viewing audience . .
OK Swedish monster flick	This is strange because it is a Swedish film but is full of Lapplanders , I thought they were in Finland but maybe I don't know as much as I thought . A mysterious meteor crashes and a scientific team is out to search for it . It seems much more space-craft like than meteor-like and apparently harbors this huge furry thing that rampages through the countryside , leaving big footprints , which are actually quite precise and well made despite the fact that this thing seems to shuffle , PICK UP YOUR FEET ! Of course this thing terrorizes Lapplanders and runs off with the requisite beautiful girl , who happens to be the niece of one of the scientists . The black and white photography and the snowy icy terrain make for a good setting but minus a few points for the cheesy monster and somewhat familiar tale . And do Lapplanders hang around in silly hats all the time ? No wonder they're banished to the remote plains . A different sort of twist on the same old monster tale . .
not bad , and not the " usual " slice & dice	" Wind Chill " seemed like the perfect film to watch on a snowy afternoon , so I threw it on and yep , it was a good little time passer with some genuine entertainment value & even a few scares . A young woman answers an ad for ride-sharing to Delaware after getting a mysterious text message telling her to check the ride board . She arrives late & takes off with her driver , who , as time passes , seems to know an awful lot about her . . . and seems to not live in Delaware at all . I think the word here is " stalker " , but after they're run off a small back road ( a shortcut , says he ) , that's really the least of her worries . Seems like this particular road , Rt . 606 , was the site of many an accident & disappearance back in the 50's , and that there was a officer of the law who was involved who may not have been a very good person . And every year around Christmas , there's some kind of accident on this road . This has some fairly creepy moments because there are also some other denizens of the night ( or the Netherworld ) out wandering the forests , too , and then there's these poor teens stranded in the middle of nowhere in a bad storm with no help in sight . This isn't the best horror flick I've ever seen but it's at least fairly original & well done . .
run some more , Lola . . .	Franka Potente hasn't done much since " Run Lola Run " that would indicate that she's any rising star , and this would be further evidence . Not that it's completely terrible , but it's not exactly top-notch . Here , she plays Kate , a woman who leaves a party because she knows where George Clooney is hanging out that night and wants to go " party with him " . She has trouble getting a taxi so decides to take the underground and passes out before her train comes and wakes up to find herself locked in the subway . But rest assured , she's not alone , otherwise there'd be no reason for this movie . First a subway car comes along and it seems the only person on it is a guy from the party that wants to rape her . How convenient that she was that easy to find in London . However , before he can commit the act he's dragged off the train by SOMETHING . And most of the rest of the movie is of course , avoiding contact with that SOMETHING . There are some homeless people living down there but since they're junkies they're of limited use . The city of London also ought to take more interest in what's down their subway tunnels , too , since there appears to be some kind of surgery or clinic down there , perhaps an abortion clinic ? And that something appears to be one of its alumni that's alive and well . . or as well as one can be in that situation . This put me a little in mind of " CHUD " or " Raw Meat " , which would actually be the more appropriate choice since Raw Meat is also taking place in the London Underground . The part I didn't like about this movie is that nothing is explained and the ending was pretty ambiguous . There's plot holes you could drive a subway train through too . It's a bit creepy and has a good atmosphere , though , and had some good potential that unfortunately it never lived up to . .
Beware the dancing bear	Strange that this is not shown as being available on DVD as I just got it and it's on Guilty Pleasures ( Media Blasters ) , perhaps for some reason it was pulled ? No idea . This is not a great slasher movie but I found it somewhat entertaining anyway . The idea is that there's a scavenger hunt going on at the campus of an Ohio university and some nut-case has done away with the team mascot , Benson ( the guy that wears the bear suit at games ) and has donned his bear suit with extra accessories , claws that is , made from steak knives or something . And he's out killing all the " whores and bitches " on the campus , or at least he thinks they are because that's how he refers to them as he's busy ripping their throats out . The identity of the killer is somewhat ambiguous , of course , I mean , could it be this loony escaped from a mental hospital ? All sources point to " NO " on this , but then who could it be ? Watch Hal Holbrook ( yes really , he's in this ) apply reasoning to a picture of the suspected young man to determine who the killer is , probably the strangest piece of pseudo-police procedural work I've seen . Overall this is fairly goofy and slow but it's not as bad as a lot I've seen and I'd take this over " Scream " any day . The ending is pretty " huh ? " and improbable but hey , it's a low budget horror movie , what did you really expect ? .
OK time-passer	I had never seen this film prior to this day , and always wondered if it were any good . Well , I guess that would depend on how original you like your movies , or how good . Demi Moore plays a young woman who is pregnant , and a mysterious stranger ( Jurgen Prochnow ) appears and rents a garage apartment at their home . Michael Biehn plays the hubby in one of his characteristic wooden roles . Seems that lots of strange things are happening in the world , signs of the apocalypse to some , and this mysterious stranger is somehow involved in all of this . And so is Moore's baby . I guess this is kind of like Rosemary's Omen , or something like that , and while it has its good bits it's also somewhat lackluster and drab . All in all it's a decent enough time-passer and isn't ' terrible , but it's not exactly inspired either . .
Not a bad whodunit	Based on an Edgar Wallace story , " Circus of Fear " is a whodunit , not a horror film . It begins with an armored car heist in which a guard is killed , and while the perpetrators do get away they're eventually caught , all except one , who has escaped with a bag of money to " the Old Farm " , where he's killed upon arrival . I guess The Old Farm is winter quarters for a traveling circus , and it's a rather dysfunctional circus family , for sure . There's a dwarf ( Mr . Big ) who is blackmailing Gregor ( Christopher Lee ) , and there's lots of sneakiness & under-handed goings on as well . Some of the money from the heist turns up in a nearby town & Inspector Elliot ( Leo Genn ) is on the case . Gregor ( Lee ) is a mystery , as he wears a black hood as the result of a lion-taming accident got wrong , to hide the scars . Carl , the ringmaster , is associated with the circus for reasons other than are obvious , because he smells a rat and he's out to expose someone for supposedly evil deeds . Klaus Kinski does his patented " lurking about " thing , for no apparently reason since his character seems to be present only as a red herring . Overall this is no great work of art , but it is entertaining and reasonably well done . I also enjoyed the music a lot . If you're interested in this please see the " Blue Underground " release . . . there's an Alpha Video release which is terrible , with washed-out colors and the usual non-remastered quality . .
stunningly incoherent and . . . . well , words fail me	I rate this as I have strictly from the unintentional entertainment value of this film . This is probably one of the most bizarre and incoherent attempts at a " horror " movie that I've seen in a long time . Now , the monster is apparently some giant mutated sheep , but that is almost a subplot compared to everything else that's going on , none of which is particularly interesting . There's a big festival going on in Virginia City , Nevada , Western Days or some such thing , and there's also some rich guy trying to buy up the town , or the mines , or something , but the owner won't sell . Now , how this whole mutant sheep thing came about it rather odd , to say the least . The sheep rancher , Eddie , who is apparently Basque , comes home drunk after getting robbed at some saloon after winning the jackpot at the slots , and when the man ( who is a scientist ) who made sure he got home safely came to check on him the next day he couldn't find him at first , then found him out with the sheep in the hay next to this . . . . embryo ? And one of the first things out of his mouth is something about ' cross breeding ' . . . . hey , what are you trying to say here , pal ? Anyway , after plenty of filler scenes have rolled by we find this embryo thing has grown substantially and is now ready for escape and a rampage through the countryside . It does look rather like a sheep but has one front leg longer than the other and a mouth that doesn't close . The scene with the thing coming out of the trees and terrorizing young children on a picnic is rather hilarious . Eventually an over-zealous posse is gathered up and they go hunt down the " monster " and rope it and tie it , and to see them chase it down is rather hilarious too , as the thing isn't capable of much more than a constipated waddle . The ending is rather sad though really , as the monster and everything else somehow ends up in the town dump . Who knows how this was intended , and who knows what was on the minds of those who made this way back in 1973 , but if it was at all meant to be serious someone was quite deluded . Hilariously bad , therefore good , sort of . .
beautiful scenery , good atmosphere , lousy effects	Filmed in beautiful Monterey , CA , " Satan's Black Wedding " is the story of a young man who comes from So . Cal . to a funeral , only to arrive back at his sister's house to find another funeral is necessary . Although , considering the condition of her room , she did not commit suicide as her note said , for there is blood splattered in every conceivable place . Seems that she was working on the history of some creepy local church and what took place there years ago , and seems that she got a bit too close to the truth . The main character , Mark , goes to talk with a few people about his sister to see if he can find out what really happened , and one of those people is his aunt , but not long after he speaks with her she and her housekeeper are brutally slain by someone with a nasty mouthful of plastic novelty teeth . Mark does find a book his sister was working on with a friend , and seeks out that friend , who also happens to be an old romantic interest of his , and finds that his sister was obsessed with this old church , and that at that spot the devil supposedly appeared back in the 1800's and all the nuns and monks there ( it was co-ed ? ) converted over to the dark side , and that included the priest too , who bears a striking resemblance to the current priest that hangs out around there . This has a decent atmosphere to it , really , and some of the scenes of Monterey are truly striking , but the cheesy effects drag this down a bit . Still , it's not too bad although the ending is a bit of a " we ran out of money so let's wrap it up " type . Worth digging out for a look , also on the same DVD is " Criminally Insane " so it's not a complete loss overall . .
Dark	Once this film gets moving , it's fine , until then though , it was borderline dull . A bunch of adventurous women gather together in the Appalachian Mountains to do some cave exploring , and there's a lot of really fun bonding and getting drunk and eating marshmallows . Once they get into the caves , MY claustrophobia kicked in so my sympathy was with them but then , there's these things , you see , that are down there with them , in fact , they live there . And someone ( these women ) has wandered into their dining room . There's some genuine scares to this but once the women are covered with dirt and blood there's not really much telling who is who , and this is one of those films where there's lots of movement in almost total darkness so what's going on ? OK , well , it's a struggle , but it was also a struggle to see anything . I think this will fare better on DVD than in a theater , so I'll wait for that to see it again & maybe I'll like it better , but as for now , I'll just say it's OK and better than most junk being foisted off as horror these days . .
weird and quirky	Hey now , I'd seen this around & I'm no Brad Pitt fan , but when I read in one of my movie guides that this was pretty surreal & qualified for induction into the " David Lynch Museum of the Weird " I though it would be worth a look . And it is , for the most part . The case says it's a " romantic comedy " ( yechh ) but it's much more than that , but what exactly is hard to pinpoint . Pitt is Johnny Suede , with a ridiculous hair style and the dream of being a star playing strange little songs . He's seeing this girl that claims her boyfriend beats her and then she decides not to see him anymore , then he takes up with Yvonne , who is a bit more strange . At one point he hooks up with some guy named Freak Storm ( Nick Cave ) who's sporting even a MORE ridiculous hairstyle and acting as an ' agent ' from his office , which consists of a derelict recliner in an alley . There's sure lots of strange imagery , and dream-like wandering scenes , and this is probably too slow for some folks to appreciate , but it was just strange enough to be appealing to me . Pitt is fairly low-key so he was OK in this . I'm not really sure how to describe this , it's very hard to categorize this but I did kind of like it . .
A wonder to behold	I found this movie to be a wonder to behold , and probably for nary a reason that the makers intended . The living dead people are pretty cool as they shimmy-shimmy-co-co-bop across the screen , probably some of the most hyperactive dead folks that I've ever seen . Classic line in regard to that : " For dead people , they sure are smart " . This after they removed the distributor caps from the available transportation . At any rate , late in the movie the director of the mental institution in which this is all happening is confronted with perhaps knowing something about what might be the cause of all this activity . His reply is that " he hadn't thought about that in 20 years " . I don't know about you , but if I had shot someone after finding that they were conducting bloody experiments with mental patients in the basement and had a big pit full of the " rejects " close at hand and had walled them all up inside , I might just recall SOMETHING about it , from time to time . Jane Doe is something to behold too , she's an " amnesia " patient that claims that she had her memory surgically removed . She spends a good deal of the movie running through the halls of the asylum , clad only in undies and a loose top . Add in a nutty nun , and a munitions expert , and water tower that gets blessed so it's now full of holy water , and I'll leave the rest to your imagination . When I see films like this , I'm filled with a desire to talk to the people that created it , just to see what makes them tick . Or maybe I'd rather not know . Also , it's now available on DVD for the first time ever , uncut , uncensored , and ickier than ever . .
House of The Darned , maybe . . .	This looks and sounds much more promising than it is , but up until a point it's rather creepy and not bad . An architect and his wife are called to go to make some measurements and take a look at renovating an old castle in the Calfornia hills . The castle has been abandoned for a while ( supposedly ) and yet when they arrive strange things begin to happen . There are shadowy figures lurking about too . Along comes the man that wanted to have them check out this house , and his wife , and after a misunderstanding she seems to have disappeared . Now there were some keys that they were given when they arrived at the house , and there were 13 , and then the key-ring disappeared for a while and re-appeared missing 2 keys , so who is there and might not want them looking in certain rooms ? This is OK right up to the last bit , and then is so anticlimactic and silly that it almost seems like the budget ended and so did the film . Either than or the writing talent ended . This does feature the only other appearance I've seen by Mrs . Joyboy from " The Loved One " . OK for undemanding viewers . .
Cheesy 70's horror is watchable but nothing special	In an area of southern California where cheesy stucco apartments abound , a man in a ski mask is making the rounds of women's apartments and doing them in with tools . Hence , the title , I reckon . Now , Vance ( Cameron Mitchell , sporting a hideous line of awful 70's shirts ) owns these apartment buildings and he's of course shocked that all this is going on . So he says . But does he know something more ? Now , this ski-masked killer apparently chose to abduct one young lady , 15 year old Laurie . Seems that Vance lost his lovely young daughter in a traffic accident a while back ( and maybe his mind as well ? ) and has her all tied up in a little girl's room in his house . And is he the guy in the ski mask too ? You don't have to be much of a detective to figure that out if you look , even in a ski mask his Cro-Magnon features are rather hard to miss . Now Vance's nephew is friends with Laurie's brother Joey , and they are poking around looking for clues , along with clueless detective Jamison , and Joey manages to figure things out , but Vance's nephew is a whacked as his uncle , it seems , and Joey gets to tell no one . This is cheesy and not terribly scary but it's watchable and is far better than Tobe Hooper's " re-imagining " of a couple years ago . Cameron Mitchell always excelled at playing nut-cases and he does quite well here . .
Elvira meets Edgar Allen Poe ?	Let's face it folks , Elvira was better suited to the 80's than she is to this day and age , and this film is pretty good evidence that her time has passed . Granted , " Elvira : Mistress of the Dark " was no work of cinematic genius but it was far better than this . Elvira and her maid ( Zou Zou ) are on their way to Paris for a show when they're picked up by a man in a carriage , who takes them back to a creepy castle and from there on out it's a monster mash of " Fall of the House of Usher " , " Pit and the Pendulum " , " Cask of Amontillado " , etc . , all played for laughs . So if that sounds good to you , then have at it , but the humor in this is a bit forced and perhaps Elvira just needed a few bucks . There are a few good lines but they're few and far between . This isn't a total waste but I was hoping for better . .
Not as bad as others say . . . .	Hey now , seems a lot of folks did not like this movie , well , let me be an exception and say I did , to an extent . This is pretty strange , as a cop wakes up in a large building , alone , comes outside to find himself , alone , and finds that virtually all of mankind has disappeared and something very strange ( I mean , besides all that ) is going on . Through flashbacks and visions , you're never really sure what's going on , although you get the impression that it's probably not particularly positive . There are angels wandering about , and if the angels in this and in " The Prophecy " are any indication of what REAL angels are like ( if there are such things ) then it's enough to make me phobic . The viewer is shown what actually happened a few times but since you don't know what's real and what's not , it's not exactly recognizable . This is a rather strange and creepy movie , and while it does have lapses in reason & a lot of times just doesn't make a whole lot of sense , it's still a good watch and I thought it was a pretty decent effort .
Food of the Gods now on DVD !	Directed & produced by the notorious B . I . G . ( Bert I . Gordon ) , " Food of the Gods " is supposedly based on a " portion " of H . G . Wells novel . This is by no means a good film , but it is an entertaining film , probably in ways other than it was intended . Marjoe Gortner is the lead , and he's a football player ( ? ) who goes with team mates to an island near Vancover B . C . to " unwind " and finds that something has gone wrong here , because there are giant wasps that kill one of his buddies and a giant rooster that attacks him when he accidentally ventures into its territory , and he kills it . Now , it seems those big old chickens belong to Ida Lupino , who is quite concerned because it seems like there's other big things that seem to be growing , and all because of some stuff that bubbled up out of the ground , which of course seemed like a good thing to feed the chickens and whatever else was around that happened to get a taste . Of course , all this stuff got BIG , and you know Bert I . Gordon liked BIG things in his films . There are fine examples of humans doing illogical things in this , like a man & his pregnant girlfriend leaving the safety of their camper to race cross-country out in the open to get away from giant rats , and our " heros " driving around in an open jeep while all manner of giant things mill about them . The special effects are at least a little better than Gordon's " Empire of the Ants " where in one scene the ants can be seen trying to climb the sky . And there's nothing quite like a man and woman embracing in front of a pile of giant dead rats that they've just ignited , egad , hope they were upwind . So yes , this is chock full of unintentional entertainment value , which is what makes films like this great . . . uh , I guess . .
Enjoyable film version of an Edgar Wallace mystery	I'm not sure how many filmed versions of Edgar Wallace mysteries there are in all , but I do enjoy them & the German ones ( of which there are apparently a lot ) seem to be the most interesting . This particular one involves an apparent madman , who is holding secret trials for criminals that have managed to elude the system , in one way or another , & is arranging for their deaths by hanging , always with the same rope , which is stolen ( every time ) from a museum , no matter who seems to be on guard or watching . There are lots of red herrings as to whom the " executioner " might be , and one police inspector Hillyer suspects a retired judge and his butler might have something to do with it . There's also a sub-plot involving a sex-killer , which Hillyer gets involved in and uses his own girlfriend as bait . . . nice guy , eh ? This has some particularly rousing music & a good , creepy atmosphere for the most part . I'd even call if fun . The Retromedia print is fairly decent too , & even in widescreen . The DVD also features " Fellowship of the Frog " , featuring Joachim Fuchsberger , who seemed to be a staple in a lot of these type films . .
I dare you to watch . . . . THIS !	This is a cheesy flick made with no budget in Florida ( my home state ) and while it's certainly no work of genius is does have its moments , although those moments are more unintentional humor than actually horror or scares . A man has broken up with his wife after finding her in bed with another guy . She tried to tell him numerous times that " she needed something more " but she wasn't taking into account that he was struggling to be normal after a nervous breakdown a couple years ago & that he wasn't all that well before THAT . So he ends up at a campground with some mysterious hitch hiker that may or may not be real , and self mutilation ensues . After which he ends up in a loony bin . After which he gets out and stalks his wife , and her lover , after which he ends up back there again . And so on . Hard to say toward the end where he got the arsenal of weapons he has in the car he stole from the loony bin , like the chainsaw , etc . In fact , this almost seems , as it goes on , like it was a SPOOF of these type of films instead of something to be taken seriously , but it's also very hard to tell because it doesn't seem to have been made in that spirit . Not good by any means , except definitely good for a laugh or two . .
fascinating for all the wrong reasons	Hey now , vanity is a strange thing . J . G . " Pat " Patterson was a little short scrawny guy with an elaborate bad comb-over , that rivals none I've seen except for perhaps Criswell . How can one think by doing that they're " looking all good " ? That , probably , was to me , the most fascinating aspect of this movie . It almost overshadowed the rest of the movie itself . Poor Don Brandon ( Patterson ) , his wife died and being the mad doctor that he is , he is going to Frankenstein together another from various parts that he shops for at night clubs , etc . The harvesting of these parts is rather messy , and from what I understand Patterson did a lot of work with HG Lewis , and it shows . Not that there had been any great advancements in gore since Blood Feast but that's fine , it's still icky fun . Patterson seemed to have a dry sense of humor , which surfaces here & there , and add a hunchbacked assistant named Greg ( ? ? ) , who climbs up a piece of equipment when rigor mortis makes a corpse sit up , and there's some extra silliness there . You can tell this guy was a TV horror show host , he has the right disposition and the scene where the sheriff " shows up " is played just like something from one of those shows , it's obviously something filmed in another time & another place but spliced in . From what I've read this film was incomplete , and that , unfortunately , shows at the end . This is not top notch but it is entertaining for lots of the wrong reasons , but it is interesting to see Patterson in front of the camera for a change . Supposedly he died a mysterious death back in the 70's , possibly suicide , I guess it was never determined , but he was an odd little guy & this is an odd little film that , while it is pretty trashy , is worth checking out for hardcore " bad movie " fans .
Lucky McKee and Angela Bettis switch roles	For " Roman " , Angela Bettis ( who was the star of McKee's film " May " ) takes the role of director and Lucky McKee is the film's star . Roman is a lonely machinist , who is seemingly obsessed with a perky young neighbor , who he watches every evening . He even spies on her a bit when he goes out for his mail . One day , while he's drinking beer on the roof of his building , the young lady appears and they drink a few beers and talk . Later , Roman starts to get to know her a bit better , but when he alarms her with some things he says , she tries to leave his apartment , only for him to accidentally kill her . So , like every good accidental murderer , he puts her in his bathtub with lots of ice . Roman has also struck up a friendship with a kooky " earth mother " type artist , Eva , who has an obsession with death . They date a bit , go out , but they reach a point where Roman has rejected her because of her obsession with death . And who has a dead girl in his tub that he's removing , a piece at a time , for quiet little trips to the country ? Hmm . At any rate , Roman and Eva eventually reconcile , and he's invited to see her creation that she's been working on , and invites him to come see it , only for him to find that he's just not very good at choosing good female companionship , and at that point his guilt boils over , it seems . This isn't a bad film , but it is rather slow at times . It is rather a good depiction of people that are obsessed , though , and not in a good way . Still though , I'd rather see Angela Bettis in FRONT of the camera and not McKee , who does fine in this but isn't much of an actor , really . .
In Color !	A while back I saw a release of " Killer Shrews / Giant Gila Monster " had come out & I thought , huh , how nice . When I saw it at Big Lots a week ago for $3 , I thought , how even nicer , so I bought it . Adding color to " The Killer Shrews " at least relieves it of its dingy look , which lots of black & white films seem to have , but unfortunately , whether in color or in black & white , it's STILL " The Killer Shrews " , a movie ostensibly about giant mutated shrews with poisonous bites , which are actually dogs in ridiculous-looking drag . Still though , it's a fun movie . James Best plays a captain of a boat that comes ashore with his side-kick , to bring supplies to a mad professor & his daughter , and their assistant mad professors . The head mad professor , of course , had good intentions in his experiments of stopping the overpopulation of shrews by slowing down their metabolism ( like this is a world-wide crisis or something ) , but somehow , something went wrong ( of course ) and these giant mutated shrews with killer bites got loose , and of course are eating everything they can get into their mouths , and our small band of humans are definitely on the menu . Of course , the upstanding and reputable people manage to get to safety ( except for a couple ) , and the really bad egg gets chewed to bits , presumably . The effects ( such as they are ) do manage to be rather strange . . . when you see the " shrews " moving about it looks like the film has been accelerated a bit , so the movements look unnatural . This features a not-very " Festus " looking Ken Curtis , as the drunken assistant mad professor / dirt-bag Jerry . Jerry was engaged to the head mad professor's daughter but apparently she picked up on the " dirt-bag " aspect of his personality & broke things off , although he doesn't seem terribly phased . Perhaps it's all the alcohol . This is a rather stupid but fun movie , and a must for all fans of 50's horror . It's not a GOOD movie , mind you , but it is entertaining , although perhaps not always in the way intended . .
OK but no comparison to . . . . .	I found a used copy of this & it seemed intriguing , especially since the write up on the box placed it in league with Donnie Darko , but it's nowhere near the quirky strangeness of that film , it's merely a sort of coming-of-age drama that takes place in a small town in Iceland . Noi is an albino who lives with his grandmother & who also has somewhat of a relationship with his loser dad . All Noi dreams of is getting away from where he is , school isn't important and he shows up from time to time but isn't much of a participant . The school principle has him tested by a visiting psychiatrist and it's discovered that he's above average in intelligence . Way above average . The problem with this film is that nothing much is followed through ; themes are presented and then dropped without going anywhere . Noi is eventually expelled from school and gets a job digging graves ( in Iceland ? ) and his grandmother sets up an appointment for him with the local fortune teller who reads the tea leaves and gives him a grim pronouncement . In short this seems to be about quiet desperation to get away from a very isolated and grim place , and the ending is somewhat depressing but life goes on , in some fashion . Overall though , this seemed a bit sketchy and thrown together , not that it didn't have its moments but a lot of things could have been presented or explored better . Just OK .
The Unseen , now on DVD ( minor spoilers )	Three female reporters are going to Solvang to report on a festival there , when they find that due to an error , they have no hotel room . So they find what they THINK is an old hotel but it turns out to be a museum , run by charming ( but loony ) Sydney Lassick . After trying to find these young ladies a place , he finally gives up with no success , but offers them a room at his home . His wife seems rather unhappy that they have guests , and there's something seemingly wrong about the whole thing , of course . One of the three girls isn't feeling well so stays behind while the others go off to report , and meets with tragedy after something attempts to drag her down the large heating duct . While in Solvang , one reporter's ( Barbara Bach ) boyfriend shows up , and she stays with him while the other returns to the house , to again meet with problems with heating ducts . Of course , eventually Bach returns to the house & by then , Lassick & his wife ( who is actually , apparently , a blood relation ) have decided that due to the demise of the other two , this one can't be let go to tell . And what exactly is it that's in the basement that's moving through the heating ducts ? Let's just say it's just ONE good reason why brothers & sisters shouldn't mate . Overall this is kind of a slow film , but it's not terrible , and has some decent atmosphere . Who better to play a charming nut-case than Sydney Lassick , too . If you like early 70's & early 80's horror then you should like this just fine . If you're looking for something intense & bloody , look elsewhere . .
Hey , I LIKED this . . . . !	According to the box art , this is an attempt ( or tribute ) to " Giallo " films of old , 70's , 80's . And as that , it's not bad at all , really . It's certainly got the look and feel down . Unfortunately this loses a point for being dubbed , and the dubbing is rather terrible . This features stars from older films , like " Lizard in Woman's Skin " and " Tenebrae " , and also features Franco Nero as a loony street preacher . There are murders taking place in an apartment building where there are a few VERY odd residents . . . a painter who does macabre paintings and has stumbled across a way to get rid of her meddling housekeeper ; a former star who is going to stage a comeback with the help of her lover / manager , and a young man who has just moved in who is apparently into deviant sexual behavior . And of course , there's the person who commits murders with a metal set-square , very messy but very precise , ha ha . And , there's also the resident magistrate , who is on the case . Throw in someone that's down on their luck who has unwittingly become someone's pawn , and there you have it . I'm not quite sure what people expected but this certainly takes its cue from the BETTER Giallo films , and really , not all the old ones were that good . It's unfortunate that the dubbing job is so bad , because this is not that old of a film & it would have been nice to have it presented in original Italian with subtitles . Would have been if not for the dubbing .
cheesy updating of " The Bad Seed "	Patty McCormack , who played the original creepy little girl in " The Bad Seed " , has grown up about as well adjusted as you might imagine . She now has a twelve year old daughter that she dotes on , and a few ex-husbands and partners that have gone over to the great beyond , leaving her well taken care of in that process . Of course they ALL had help . The latest beau is Mark , and Jessica Ann likes Mark , and so does Mommy , but he isn't what he appears to be , although he's been seduced and suckered into more than what his job description seems to consist of . Of course Mommy figures it out and Mark is no more . Mommy and Jessica Ann take off for parts unknown , and it comes to Jessica Ann in a dream that Mommy is evil and she has to get away , so she tries , with Mommy in hot pursuit . There is , of course , a police detective on Mommy's tail , what with Jessica Ann's school teacher falling and breaking her neck RIGHT after Jessica Ann doesn't win Student of the Year , etc . And he's quite suspicious of her in general , and rightly so . This is filmed on video , with somewhat mediocre acting , and while the story itself isn't bad the whole " Serial Mom " thing without the humor of John Waters didn't quite do it for me . McCormack is suitably creepy , but more so because of her heavy makeup than because she's a psycho . Anyway , this is OK , it's just not nearly as good as I expected . .
bad , cheesy , but not without some dumb fun too	This is an Italian " Jaws " ripoff with minor adjustments . Our setting is Africa , I guess , since there's cobras , hippos , monkeys , etc . The gist is that there's a resort , somewhere in the deep jungle , where lame tourists can come and act like they're at a disco in the city . Now there is a peaceful native tribe nearby , and they've been co-opted into working and doing things for the owners of the resort . Quite a change from most Italian films , as in , they're not busy eating anyone for the majority of the picture . That's left to the big thing that lives in the river . Seems that the resort people have angered a great god who takes the shape of a Big Alligator ( hence the title ) and rampages around eating anything it can get into its maw . At one point a tourist boat is compromised , as in , everyone must disembark , and it's over some spiky fence into a lagoon to safety , but the alligator is on one side and natives shooting burning arrows are on the other side . Given a choice of being eaten by a giant alligator , being shot by flaming arrows , or watching this movie , I'd probably pick . . . . . hmmm , which would I pick ? Well , I guess I'd pick the movie , it seems like the least painful choice but only by a hair . .
despite the " horror horn " and " fear flasher " , there's not much to be scared of here	" Chamber of Horrors " is something I'd seen a long time ago on " Creature Features " ( KTVU , Oakland ) , and I'd really forgotten it until I just watched it on DVD . This has just been released as one of Best Buy's " exclusives " , which means it's generally hard to get your mitts on , unless you luck out like I did . It is an entertaining film , but not a great film . Still , it's kind of fun . A man named Jason ( Patrick O'Neal ) seems to have a way with the ladies , but his way is killing them . As our film opens we see him wedding his recently deceased bride , who he strangled with her own hair . So obviously this is not a well-balanced man . He is arrested , but on the train to prison , he escapes while handcuffed to a big piece of metal on the train , and while sinking in water he removes his own hand to escape . Of course , later , he has his stump fitted for a set of utensils that all all sharp , pointy , and in every way , deadly . And guess what ? He wants revenge on those who " wronged " him . Two amateur " detectives " , who run a rather macabre wax museum , are assisting in trying to find this particular Jason guy , who has now shaved off his beard and is therefore " unrecognizable " as the man he used to be . Wayne Rogers ( yes , the guy from MASH ) , plays a police Sargent also hot on the trail . There are four key points in the film where there is a " fear flasher " and a " horror horn " which is meant to clue you in to when you should look away . But alas , this was made in 1966 , and the camera does all the " looking away " for you . . . . nothing in the way of gore here . Still though , this is an entertaining film , if not entirely memorable . .
Definitely odd , but not up to the usual Steckler " greatness "	I've been a big fan of the films of Ray Dennis Steckler ever since I saw " Incredibly Strange Creatures . . . " on TV many years ago . But this one , " Body Fever " ( AKA Super Cool ) , isn't quite up to the goofy weirdness of old . Oh , it's plenty odd , really , but it lacks the same jaw-dropping ineptitude that makes some of his older films so wonderful . Steckler plays one Charlie Smith , a private detective , and he's out to find Carrie Erskine , a woman who has made off with a drug kingpin's satchel of heroin . And to find her , he must question plenty of strange people . Of course , he does eventually find her & they run off through the landscape like they're in some romantic comedy , throwing the satchel of heroin back & forth to each other . . . which is pretty odd in itself . And , of course , the bad guys aren't just going to let them get away with taking the satchel . This is a big step forward in the progression of Steckler's films , so big , that there seems to be something missing in between . If you don't count " Sinthia , The Devil's Doll " , the film before this is " Rat Pfink A Boo Boo " which ( if you haven't seen it ) is an extreme super-hero goof / parody / something . . . and now , in Body Fever , we have drugs ( although Brandt & Steckler don't indulge ) and all manner of 60's trappings that he had avoided ( or chosen to ignore ) . I can't say I liked the change all that much , because it was sort of a loss of innocence ( or something ) that made his previous films so wonderful . I dunno , maybe I'm reading more into things than is warranted , after all , besides " Sinthia " , I haven't seen any of his OTHER films , done under aliases , and who knows what those were like . Body Fever is just OK in my book , a welcome addition to my Steckler collection but not the crown jewel by any means . .
goofy , cheesy , & kind of fun	OK , so if you have not seen this , do NOT go into this expecting : 1 ) great acting , 2 ) great effects , or 3 ) an Academy Award Winning film . This is none of those , this is a low-budget 80's horror movie filmed in the Texas boonies , and I suppose you could call it a horror comedy . The gist is that a wind which contains some kind of alien presence , infects humans and turns them into bloodsucking zombie things . The first sign of this is a farmer who is going about his business one day and the wind comes , he clutches his stomach , spews blood , and pops up as a zombie . Now , there's this young man , Jeff , who is a photographer for a local newspaper , and he's being pressured to give that up and become a farmer , so he can get his inheritance . His folks are dead and he's being pressured by his uncle , so since he doesn't really want that , he's given a bit of time to think about it . While broken down by the roadside , Jeff is picked up by Julie , a wanderer from Dallas who just wants to " get away " , with a tank of nitrous oxide in the back seat of her car . Jeff has invited her to come on over for supper at his aunt & uncles but when they arrive , something is very wrong , being that there's blood everywhere & his relatives are now bloodsuckers . Of course , this unique phenomenon is being studied by the intrepid scientists at nearby " Research City " , a government facility . The scientists that work there enjoy a regular intake of pharmaceuticals and alcohol and Norman , the janitor , calls them " weirdos " . One of their own , has recently undergone the " bloodsucker " transformation & they're meant to be studying him but of course , he gets loose and all hell breaks out . Eventually , the army becomes involved and some redneck general calls for drastic measures to end the problem , but Jeff & Julie have accidentally stumbled across the solution themselves . A bit late , though . By no means a super-duper great film but still kind of fun , in a stupid way . I don't know what attracts me to this but maybe it's the bleak Texas landscapes . I've seen this many times & have just gotten it on DVD from Xploited Cinema . . . . this DVD was apparently put out by the director but it's also coming out on Media Blasters , supposedly by December 30 , 2008 . The DVD I have though , is quite nice actually , and looks great . .
Offensive , disgusting , stupid , and actually , not bad for Boll	To be honest , before this I'd seen only ONE film from Uwe Boll . . . House of the Dead . And that was enough to put me off his films forever . It was bad in ways that words can barely describe . But then , I had heard a lot about this particular film , " Postal " , so I decided to give it a chance . And really , despite the fact that it's offensive , disgusting , and stupid , it's really pretty good . I've seen far worse comedies from Troma , and this actually would fit in fairly well with their catalog , except it's a bit slicker and well made . The story is that Zack Ward is an unhappily married denizen of a trailer park , who has a disgustingly fat wife and no job . He ends up hooking up with his uncle Dave Foley , who is the leader of an " end of the world " cult . Now Foley is in trouble with the IRS for back taxes , over a million , and of course he hasn't got the money . So Ward & Foley hatch a scheme to steal a shipment of Krotchy dolls ( little cuddly uh , penis-like things ) to make a killing , but to do so , they must hijack the shipment at a Nazi-themed amusement part , run by Uwe Boll himself . There's also Osama Bin Laden and his gang on the loose , and they also want the dolls , but for other reasons . And lots of mayhem follows . Let's not forget Vern Troyer ( Mini-me , from the Austin Power's films ) . He's got something to do with the Krotchy dolls , apparently a kid's TV show and I'm not sure if he appears costumed as one of these things or not , it's not clear . Vern has a very foul mouth & a suitcase full of sex toys , among other things . Last we see of this little guy , he's being put into a chamber filled with horny monkeys . Oops . Is this all well connected and well done ? Well , not really . It's a bit difficult to follow & it's got quite a few plot holes . But is it funny ? For the most part , yes , and there's even quite a few clever lines that surprised me , too . And the ending was great . If you like your comedies in very poor taste , then this is for you . There are no " sacred cows " that escape a good dragging through the mud . A very un-PC film , and if you like that sort of stuff ( I do ) , then you have to see it at least once . .
Acceptable , but not fantastic , remake of a classic horror flick ( minor spoilers )	I guess the thing that bugs me about some remakes is they take away from the time in which the original was made . There's a certain feel & atmosphere to some of these funky 70's horror films that are being remade , that is lost in the translation in the new films . Still though , the " Last House . . " remake fares somewhat better than most in the remake version . The story is more or less the same , but with some more graphic scenes & much harder-to-kill villains . Two girls , out on their own , can't pass up the lure of some good weed , and go back to a hotel room with a young kid and are still there , and stoned , when the REST of the hoodlums show up . And then it's fun-time , but not for the girls . One girl manages to escape in a lake after being raped , but is shot , and the killers are taking off through the woods and end up crashing the car , and stumble across a house that just happens to belong to that girl's parents . Unlike the original , one girl does manage to survive , and when mom & dad put two and two together they get four , as in , the four people staying with them are behind what's happened . And then the fun begins . The parents dispatching the gang is quite the " cat and mouse " game , for the most part , and the young boy has realized what's happened & taken their side , so they only have three thugs to deal with , but each one must be descendants of Jason , Michael Myers , & Freddie , because they are very hard to kill . I find it hard to believe someone is still fighting back after a stab wound in the chest , a wine bottle to the head , and a conk with a hammer , although I suppose it is possible . Do watch out for the final microwave scene , it's a blast . At least the tracking down of the villains within the big house is done in a suspenseful manner , however unbelievably hard it seems to be to dispatch these creeps . So , overall , not bad , really , just not quite as kick-ass as I expected . I'll probably see it again when it's out on DVD , it's at least more worthwhile then most of the other remakes that have been done the last several years , but still nothing to really grab me . .
must be seen to be disbelieved	William Shatner as a lady-killing gigolo ? Yep , the beloved Captain Kirk as a leisure-suited , little cigar smoking , thieving creep , I'm sure this is something he'd rather live down , but unfortunately opportunists still make it available for your viewing pleasure ( ? ) . Also co-starring in this incredible films is Harold " Odd Job " Sakata , the guy from Goldfinger with the deadly bowler hat . More about that in a minute . Matt Stone ( Shatner ) comes to a new town , seeking new women to bilk , and he hooks up with a young widow with a small girl . Now , the girl still misses her dad & isn't having anything to do with Matt , especially after she remembers him because she hitched a ride with him ? Obviously this child isn't right to begin with . At any rate she suspects Matt of wrong-doing and hides in his car when he goes to a " business meeting " with Karate Pete ( Sakata ) and then ends up chasing him ( Sakata is on foot ) through a car wash . This is probably one of the most improbable chase scenes in the history of film making , if you could actually call it a ' chase ' . At any rate Sakata is run over by the car ( after it's clean , I guess ) and then the little girl has seen about all she needs to decide that there's a big problem here , although nobody will believe her . Least of all , Ruth Roman , who plays one of her typical blowzy roles as some rich woman with loose morals . And dig her boyfriend , Clarence , he has a televangelist hairstyle to die for . At any rate this is an unintentional hoot from twisted start to twisted finish , and something Shatner probably wishes he never was involved in . It's actually pretty terrible but I watched it with morbid fascination from start to finish . , ouch .
oddball Aussie western / horror / thriller is somewhat interesting	This film begins with some rousing Aussie spaghetti-western music which recurs throughout the film , and if the movie was as good as the music I'd love it . I do like at least some of it , but I thought it was overly long for what it is and it gets a bit confusing at times too . It looks GREAT , though . Seems that folks are disappearing at an inn that caters to wayfarers , and there's a trooper searching for some kind of sex offender guy too . The innkeeper and his wife are fairly creepy & the guests think something's wrong but they never get to tell anyone about it , because they don't check out on their own terms . There's lots of beautiful scenery and somewhat of a coherent story but I was losing track of who was who at times . It has its share of thrills & scares but it has rather long time periods of rousing music and little going on , too , unless you like people racing after each other on horses . Worth seeing at least once , not a bad western for Australia , either . The Cheezy Flicks DVD is adequate . .
" We're not the one living the lie , you are "	" Beleivers " is about two paramedics who respond to a call in a remote area & while attending to a woman who seems to be dying , they're captured and taken prisoner by members of something called The Quantum Group . This is a group of people that live in an underground bunker and are preparing to take a journey to the other side of the universe , because ( they say ) life on earth , as you know it , will end soon . Of course , these two paramedics ( one of whom has been shot ) aren't too keen to be taken prisoner , and of course they want to escape . The Quantum Group members are , of course , rather smug about their knowledge and what they're doing , and offer salvation to these two captives , but they don't want it . . . . at least , until one of them , Vic , is taken for his wounds to be dressed and then he's brainwashed . I guess electro-shock therapy as religious conversion is one way to gain members . This cult seems to be modeled on the " Heaven's Gate " folks , so you know what happened with them , at least the end result . And that's pretty much what happens here , although a little girl & her mother escape their fate . The ending of this film is the most chilling part , as it seems that perhaps these whack-jobs weren't so wrong after all . Not bad overall but drags at times , and too much time spent on listening to cult members spew their numerological beliefs . .
not bad for a trashy B-movie	I got this for $2 in a bargain bin & as it had been on my list of things that I was interested in seeing , it was well worth the price . A police woman ( Marie Windsor ) has gone undercover to infiltrate the remains of the Nardo gang , three women who did not get the chair like their male cohorts did . The Nardo gang stole some diamonds and buried them somewhere in a swamp , and Windsor helps them to break out so they can go recover them . Along the way they run into trouble with their boat , but along comes hapless Mike Connors and his beau , and they're promptly taken hostage & their boat is commandeered for the diamond hunt . Eventually Connors beau tries to escape and meets with an unfortunate demise but Connors does get to wrestle an alligator . The woman frequently squabble among themselves & there's a bit of greed over the diamonds , and over Connors . Eventually they do recover the diamonds but then there are crosses & double-crosses to deal with and some incredible " girl fights " , one of which raises quite a bit of dust , considering they're in a swamp . This is trashy fun , and it's rather funny for the women to be fighting over Connors since they all seem rather , uh , butch . But they sure do look good when they cut the legs of their pants off . Not bad for a trashy B-movie . .
better than expected but not great . . . . .	This is disgusting , gory , tasteless , and all the things I appreciate ( on occasion ) but it also loses momentum before the end . After being left in the lurch by the latest egotistical rock star , Bernie Stein has sworn he won't get taken again , so he enlists the help of his nephew , Frankie ( Stein , of course ) to piece together a rock star from bits and pieces of some of the greatest . He has Jimi's hands , Elvis's head , Sid Vicious's foot ( ? ? ) , and Jim Morrison's penis . Well , maybe not , because the drug-addled Iggy and his assistants ( also equally addled ) dropped the bottle containing Morrison's member and it was lost forever so they grabbed the next bottle they could get their hands on , something belonging to some Ace guy , Liber Ace , that is , wait , this monster has Liberace's penis ? Hmm , well , at least it can play rock and roll , but when " King " ( what the creation is called ) is by himself he finds that he's suffering from some confusion . And he likes gerbils a lot , suddenly . Of course as time passes by suspicions are aroused ( so to speak ) and pretty soon it comes to light what has happened . Overall ( up to a point ) despite the low budget and frequently disgusting subject matter and visuals , I found this to be pretty entertaining , in a stupid way ( which is probably the only way it was intended ) but as the film gets on towards the end , apparently the ideas had run out and it goes downhill rather quickly . Not bad , depends on your sense of humor , I suppose , but nothing that will change your life forever . .
No-budget space ( d ) epic	OK , I always read the blurbs on the back of the box before I decide on a movie , who doesn't ? This was sort of described as " Barbarella on an 8th Avenue porno house budget " and it's definitely got the porno house look to it ( minus the porno ) but there's no Barbarella in evidence . I've only seem maybe two porno movies in my life , and neither one all the way through but the acting quality here seems to be in line with the skills required for such movies . This rates rather high on the " what the f ? " meter too , but for good old fashioned entertainment it's rather lacking . The " sort of " plot is that some space explorers have come to a planet looking for fertile women , and they find some nice looking specimens , all clad in bright and colorful latex and shaking their booties , but they aren't terribly normal . The props are rather silly as the astronauts sneak up on their prey , dead tree branches in a studio with the floor visible . It's not so bad when they switch to outside scenes , the one in which the astronauts are filmed walking across the planet is interesting since their helmets seem to be . . . . I don't know , the things that flash bulbs used to sit in on old cameras ? Or are those CRT's ? Candy Von Dewd herself seems to have a rather minor role in this , as she only appears a couple times , once rolling around on some orange fake-fur rug like it was the greatest turn-on ever , and once in some brightly colored shower cap carrying what looks to be a vacuum cleaner hose . This is sort of interesting to watch but don't consider that an ringing endorsement . My guess is that there were lots of pharmaceuticals used in the making of this film and unless the viewer also participates in that activity then they'll probably not enjoy this too much . And I didn't and don't participate in those activities . , on the IMDb scale , on the " what the f ? " scale .
The Hand , now on DVD , for all you masochists	Actually , I had never seen " The Hand " before and wasn't quite sure what to expect , but it probably wasn't this . I guess I was thinking it would be something along the lines of the cheesy " Crawling Hand " movie from the early 60's and actually , it's not too far from it , just with better production values ( I think ) and color photography . Michael Caine plays a sort-of famous cartoonist , who is more than happy to live at his New England home & do his thing , but his wife dreams of other , more new-age things she'd like to do and begs him to move back to New York City . While driving one day , there's a nasty accident in which Caine loses his drawing hand and has to learn to live all over again , and he ends up taking a teaching job in California when he can't continue on with his cartooning . His new-age wife has other ideas though & she's determined to do what she wants no matter what Caine says . So Caine takes to " interludes " with his students , from his class , and as more stress builds up there seems to be attacks taking place from Caine's severed hand , which was never found after the accident . How did it get to California ? Thumb a ride ? At any rate , one begins to wonder if it's the severed hand doing all the dirty work , or if it's something to do with Caine's new prosthetic GI Joe Kung-Fu grip hand . At any rate , things eventually come to a head with the new girlfriend , the wife , the kid , the job , the hand , etc , which all leads to a rather creepy ending . This isn't terrible , but it's not the best horror film I've ever seen . Probably one of the scariest aspects of it is Caine's hairstyle , which at many times during this movie resembles a fright wig . .
Combs is great but the tale is stale	I've seen another version of Poe's " The Black Cat " and the story in this is basically the same , except that the perpetrator is Edgar Allen Poe himself . Jeffrey Combs makes a great Poe and I was surprised how much he resembled photos I've seen of the author . At any rate Poe has a very sick wife ( consumption ) and he's stressed out about not having any money to care for her ( or for his drinking habits ) and is starting to go a bit bonkers . When he thinks that his wife's cat Pluto has been up to no good he catches the animal and gouges out one of the creatures eyes ( NOT easy to watch , I had to hold my hands over my cat's eyes when this happened , being that he was sitting next to me ) . Of course , if you're familiar with the story " the cat comes back " and it's strictly for revenge . But by that time Mr . Poe has gone FAR ' round the bend and takes an ax to his lovely young wife , cleaving her skull , after which she trashes around and bleeds profusely , for all you gore-fans . . . but wait , that's not all , but that's all I'll tell you . Nothing terribly new here but kind of an updated & well-produced version of an old story . . . just nothing particularly outstanding . .
Entertaining but somewhat mediocre	I had wanted to get my mitts on this DVD for a long time , being a fan of older De Palma stuff , and not having seen this one . . . I did stumble across it in a bargain bin the other day & was very excited . . . . until I watched it . Not that I'd get rid of it , but this is not one of the better examples of De Palma's rip-offs or tributes to Hitchcock . It begins in 1959 when Cliff Robertson's wife , as played by Geneveive Bujold , is kidnapped , along with their young daughter , and when there's a double-cross involving the ransom & the cops become involved , tragedy strikes . 15 years later , he remains obsessed with the memory of his wife & daughter , and that it was his fault they died . On a business trip , he runs into a young woman who is the spitting image of his dead wife , and of course wants to meet her , and one thing leads to another & they're on the brink of getting married , when tragedy strikes yet again . And Robertson thinks that THIS time he has the chance to do what he didn't do the first time . Only , things are not what they seem and there's a few unexpected surprises . There's technically nothing wrong with this , but it isn't top-notch early De Palma & drags a bit at times . If you're a Hitchcock fan , and appreciate De Palma's early works and his apparent " tributes " , then you'll probably like this just fine . . . . it's just that the story isn't all that exciting and it seems to take an awful long time to get from one end to the other . Not bad , just middling . . . . .
adequate but unremarkable Giallo	This is entertaining enough to watch , for the most part , but it also contains what I thought was a rather unfathomable ending , which was somewhat frustrating . It seems there's some swampy place that used to be a quarry , and near that quarry is the place where a young girl & her father died after having been kidnapped a while back . Now it seems that there's a man that's been decapitated by a rather large piece of construction equipment and the man operating that equipment has disappeared too . The decapitated man had something to do with the case of the kidnapped girl & father too , so was he looking for something in the quarry ? And there's a crazy man that lives in a shack near the quarry that may or may not have seen something to do with all this . Anyway George Hilton & his police colleagues are on the trail and tracking down clues , and some of them are pretty much stretching the bounds of credibility . Still though , this is mostly interesting , just that there's a few things that are revealed that to me , seemed to mean nothing , but the police sure got excited about them . Case in point , the ending , which involves showing an object to several people to reveal the killer . When we see what it was that was so important , well , I just plain didn't get it . Kind of entertaining though , which is the only saving grace . .
OK early 70's Spanish thriller has some creepy moments	I can't say how " complete " this film is , having never seen it before , but I did rather like the atmosphere and feel to it . This is a new release on " Substance " who distribute a lot of older films , and I did read where the Brentwood release was heavily cut , but I can't speak for that on this version because I just don't know . Seems that a lot of people are passing through this fog-bound little valley and are all meeting with accidents , leading them all to this creepy old house by a cemetery . One couple has seen what appears to be a chauffeur and a woman with him in the fog , but that couldn't be because those folks died 40 years previously in a car accident right at the cemetery wall . Or did they ? One by one strange things happen to the " guests " and there's really something else going on , but we , the viewers , don't really understand that until the twist is revealed near the end . Overall this is a bit cheesy and sometimes too talky but it does redeem itself with some good creepy scares and the setting is perfect . Not a bad little flick but at times is a tad on the dull side . A good diversion for a rainy afternoon . .
just weird enough to raise it a notch above others of its type	I wasn't expecting much from this , especially considering that Warwick Davis , of the wretched " Leprechaun " movies , was in it . But once I got watching it I kind of got sucked in , and this has enough good old-fashioned weirdness to it that it's almost appealing . This has plenty of elements borrowed from Texas Chainsaw Massacre to it , but it does have enough going for it on its own that it's not entirely a rip-off . A family , who is on vacation , has car trouble ( of course ) and the father finds a diner run by a sweet old lady , and of course brings the rest of his family back there to her house across the road , which is inhabited by three freaks , one of whom has a giant brain , one of whom has a bear-trap for a face , or something like that , and the other of whom is a midget that throws plates . Yes , plates , as in dishes ? Of course , the whole family ( except for the daughter ) is slaughtered , and she's kept as a pet by the one with the giant brain ( who , by the way , is called Brain , although he claims his name is Brian ) . She , of course , tries to escape and almost does , managing to get out when some old biker types are at the diner ( the Ancient Ones , they're called , and the likes of which you may never seen in any biker movie ) . Of course she doesn't get away , the last remaining biker ( who stayed to enjoy his coffee ) is slaughtered , and so on . And more slaughter after that , with assorted weirdness . This is a Fangoria release , and it's not really too bad , although it falters at times . Just the idea of someone being pursued by a midget throwing lethal plates is enough to pique just about anyone's interest . Isn't it ? Well , maybe not . At any rate it's not as abysmal as I thought it would be and is just weird enough to raise it a notch about similar fare . .
Indian remake of " The Eye " is not bad , but brings nothing new	I rather liked this , but it's not much more than a remake of " The Eye " , the film from the Pang Brothers ( Jian Gui ) . A woman has a cornea transplant from an anonymous donor and when she realizes that she sees things that no one else can , she of course , becomes alarmed . Particularly when she sees another woman's reflection when she looks in a mirror . She and her psychiatrist boyfriend , Sameer , fly to India to find who the donor was , and it was a woman that the local villagers deemed a witch , because she could foretell death . I suppose technically , she could see the future , but death is what the future held , so therefore she was cursing people so that they died . This , of course , made her somewhat unpopular , until she finally did herself in . And Naina got her corneas . Until Naina & Sameer left for India from London , this all seemed rather routine stuff , but when in India the film became more interesting , and upon return to London , more interesting still , as Naina sees disaster coming but no one will heed her . It has been a few years since I saw " The Eye " , so I'd have to go back to see that one again to see how close it is to this version , but this film is still not bad , and worth seeing if you like Asian horror . This is not gory but more spooky than anything , as was the original , but I wouldn't just write it off as a terrible remake either . .
Not quite as shocking as expected . . . .	I've seen far worse films and far better than this . Far worse in the " shock value " department , that is . Two women , both apparently prostitutes , go on a killing and sex spree , not to mention more general crimes too like stealing money . One has been raped early on in the movie and apparently is not particularly happy with men at that point in time so it fuels her anger . The other is just kind of adrift on the fringes of society and is coerced into the situation . There's lots of graphic sex and violence but most of the violence was , I'm afraid to say , fairly run of the mill , except for one very shocking scene that about bounced me out of my chair . However , overall , despite all the hoopla about this film , it's nothing particularly special , except it has a rather limited audience , I'd say . It's also hard to like or sympathize with the characters too , because they're actually pretty repellent . I've seen comparisons to " Irreversible " for this film but I don't think they're even in the same league and " Irreversible " is considerably more compelling to watch . Depending on what you like in your films , anyway . I can't say this absolutely stunk but it's probably not one of the better French films I've ever seen . .
Exorcist meets Rosemary's Baby , Italian style . . . now on Code Red DVD ! !	First things first . . . I got my copy of the Code Red DVD in the mail yesterday and watched it last night . It looks great , and there's even a small introduction with Juliet Mills where she compares the film to " The Omen " , before she's corrected . She also says it's a good film , but at that point she wasn't corrected , although technically she should have been . Despite the fact that it's a ripoff , I still like this film quite a bit . How can you not like a film where one of Mill's children is constantly slurping from a can of pea soup ? ( with a straw ) . At any rate , Mills is pregnant , and her baby is growing at an alarming rate , and so are her , uh , mood swings . Or maybe it's not mood swings , maybe it's something much , much worse , like demonic possession . Mills had dated a man named Dmitri ( Richard Johnson ) before she met her current husband , and Dmitri was a Satanist , and he's been lurking about , waiting to " help " , although he supposedly has been dead for some time . Of course there's lots of strange happenings in the house , and Mills spews a lot of nasty green stuff , and disappears mysteriously from time to time , and even eats a banana peel she finds on the sidewalk . . . when they showed that I though she was going to step on it and do some kind of slapstick , really . . . . it certainly would have fit the nonsensical style of the film . Technically , this would be called a real dog of a film , but I still like it . It has that sort of style ( or lack thereof ) that makes even the most terrible Italian films seem , well , entertaining , and perhaps not for reasons intended . Plus , it does have a lot of beautiful San Franciso locations , places where I've actually been myself , plus it does have a fine view of the Cypress Freeway that collapsed in the 1989 earthquake . But come on , someone who's not a tourist driving down Lombard Street to get home ? Yeah right . . . . This is not by any means a great movie , but it is rather a fun movie , and perhaps not for any reason intended . .
Will there be a 5 ?	I didn't go to see this because it was a first choice , a buddy of mine & I were wanting to see Hard Candy but apparently THAT movie wasn't enough of a draw so it was very limited release , so after much debate we saw this instead . Is it any better or worse than anything that's gone before it ? Well , it is an indication to me that this series has pretty much run its course , or already had , not that this stops anyone . And yeah , there were plenty of cheap shots & tasteless , stupid things to laugh at , but still . . . . I don't remember from the previous movies if they ran into the problem of not having enough horror movies to parody and wandered off into ' mainstream ' movie territory , but they do here , as they take a poke ( so to speak ) at Brokeback Mountain & also , I guess , Million Dollar Baby . . . There's also pokes at Saw , The Grudge , The Village , and War of the Worlds . . . the Grudge house is right next door to the War of the Worlds house so naturally the main characters meet and fall in love . Anyway , of course this is full of dumb humor and some of the dumbest things work best . One of my favorites was the screaming little kid from The Grudge segment , the woman had climbed into the closet to see what was making all the noise and had her lighter on so she could see and then the little boy begins to scream and you see she's holding her lighter under his hand . But don't worry , plenty more dumb stuff like that abounds for you to laugh at . Still though , this dragged in parts and I even found myself dozing at one point , almost , but towards the end it picked up again . Most enjoyable is seeing Dr . Phil saw his own foot off , in of course , the Saw segment . . . I was rather surprised to see he would actually play " himself " in this but was told he'd do anything for a buck . Anyway , , hopefully no more after this .
What the HELL is this ?	The title of the DVD on Tokyo Shock is " Japanese Hell " so it is a bit hard to find on IMDb under that name . At any rate , we have a young lady who is given a chance to take a look at Hell without dying and going there , so that she may tell others that it isn't the happening place to be . It's also a chance for her to see where she's headed if she doesn't straighten up and fly right , too . Now , she is or will be a member of the Shinrikyo Cult , you know , the folks that used Sarin gas on the subway a few years back ? That part of the movie is quite creepy , as cult members run around wearing masks of The Great Leader . Kind of Charlie Manson from the Land of the Rising Sun . Anyway , the Hell parts are quite explicit and gory but they're also kind of campy and look to be pulled off by a bunch of amateurs at times , what with demons and dragons and other creepies running about . It was nice to see the attack on the lawyers for the Shinrikyo cult though , I see contempt for lawyers is a universal thing , not just an American phenomenon . Overall though I was a little puzzled by this whole thing , as in , what the HELL am I watching ? I guess it wasn't bad but it's hard to say how it was intended to be taken . Not too seriously , I hope !
hard to say what this is about , but it's weird enough to be interesting	This is a rather odd , low-budget 60's film that has something to do with the theft of a Titian painting , which may or may not be an original . It's also odd because it's filmed in the former Yugoslavia , so there's plenty of creepy buildings and castles along with beautiful Adriatic beaches . And part of this film also ended up as " Track of the Vampire " , later . Patrick Magee plays one of his usual oddball characters , some kind of American professor who is skulking about , looking for this painting , supposedly . And William Campbell plays yet another tortured artist ( see Dementia 13 ) , and he fancies himself to be a descendant of a famous Count Sordi or something . Pay attention & you'll hear music from " Dementia 13 " creep in at one point , the eerie harpsichord stuff . Also involved is a young woman , who might know something about the whereabouts of the painting herself . This is definitely an odd little film , and if it wasn't so odd and just plain weird , it might have been of little interest to me . The Alpha Video DVD is actually a fairly decent print , given their track record with scratchy & unwatchable releases . Worth seeing if you can find it cheap . .
Graveyard of Unintentional Humor	For unintended humor and weirdness , you can't really beat this movie . However , for a coherent storyline and a good movie , well , there's plenty else out there to choose from . Seems that some gentleman has returned to his ancestral castle , where he and everyone around this small place only know one tune , and they either whistle it ( or in his case , play it on the harmonica ) all the time . It kind of sounds like " On Top Of Old Smoky " but not really . It also grates on your nerves after a while & I don't even know the significance of it . There's a mother and three sisters , who all dress in black ( and high heels , which are especially good for walking around in the snow , I guess ) and there's something about another sister that died during a c-section in order to remove a dead fetus , and she herself died at that point , or so it seems . At one point our " hero " or whatever he is , disappears too , for no apparent reason . There's a sinister grave digger who runs around in a ghoul mask & his partner , who is apparently a woman based on the fact that we keep getting shown her shoes underneath her robe . Best of all , we have a doctor that apparently suffers from " Super Marionation " Syndrome , that is , with his hair , eyebrows , and make-up , he looks like a puppet from " Thunderbirds " . Of course he's evil and up to no good , yeah , right , whatever . Then there's a monster of sorts , and you never see it until the very end , with good reason I guess . Up until the grand finale , you only see its eyes , which is probably the same scene played over and over , where the eyes shift back & forth . . . . but when you see the monster you'll probably understand WHY it was only shown at the end , it's so bad that you'll probably die of laughter . Looks a lot like something a small kid might draw to describe something they think is hiding under the bed . Anyway , I guess this has sort of a story to it to , more or less , it's really hard to tell because it's so awe inspiring with some of the other things trotted out for you to try to fathom . for unintentional entertainment , otherwise it'd be about a 1 or less . Ideal for fans of bad movies .
Attack of the dry cleaning bags	We have a bunch of young folks gathering on an island in the South of Florida to party all weekend , and we have this thing , a creature with the body of a muddy skin diver and the head of a dry cleaning bag ? Wait , that's a Portuguese Man O'War . You can tell the difference by the tentacles , dry cleaning bags don't generally have tentacles . I guess that this professor that lives on this island has been doing research on these jellyfish and somehow someone has found a way to make them BIG . I guess this is probably the only horror movie I've ever seen where jellyfish were the perpetrators , so it gets a couple points for that . There are some lost points in the area of special effects , as young folks on a sinking boat scream and scream as they're about to be attacked by floating plastic bags . Under the water they look appropriate but from above they look like floating plastic bags . The colors in this movie are bright and saturated , and there's even some Ska music , although how authentic Ska sung by Neal Sedaka is would be questionable . A worthy item for any collector of bad movies , though . .
Double Threat	Hey now , this has a couple things not going for it right off the bat , like the pairing of Fred Olen Ray & Jacinto Molina ( Paul Naschy ) , since they've made more stinky horror movies than probably anyone on the planet . However , this is not the worst that either have made , either together or apart , but it isn't any work of genius either . We have Fred Olen Ray regulars like Jay Richardson & Michelle Bauer , both showing their age , too . I guess I hadn't seen any movies with Jay Richardson since the Haunting Fear & it was a bit of a shock seeing that he must be in his 60's now . Michelle Bauer still looks good if you don't focus on her face , and she's a bit old to be wearing some of the outfits she is too . As for the movie & the plot , it's not a lot different from your basic Paul Naschy film except for the werewolf effects are much better than in some of his older stuff : The CGI transformation from human to wolf is awesome to behold as compared to the " stop the camera , apply some black shoe polish and a bit of fur " method that is employed in films like " The Craving " . A werewolf was killed with a silver cross / knife back in medieval times and thanks to greed it is removed and the werewolf comes back , and of course takes people out right & left . And what horror movie these days would be complete without obligatory lesbian scenes ? Sadly , not many , there are two fairly extended ones in this and the fast forward on my DVD player works just as well as the one on my old VHS player . This isn't particularly scary or creepy but it's better done than I expected and I put in back into my collection instead of laying it aside to trade , so I guess that's something . . . . . . .
So are these trolls or goblins ?	This is one of those movies that has to be seen to be believed . A family is embarking on a unique exchange program , in which they will live as farmers in some little burg while the farmers there will come and live in their house for a month . Now , the little boy ( Joshua ) has visions that his deceased grandfather comes to him and reads to him about trolls and goblins and such , although his family doesn't believe him . Grandpa , though , has issued rather a dire warning about this place to which the family is going , the tiny community of Nilbog , and has said that this is a dangerous place and they mustn't go there . Of course old wooden dad is too busy trying to remember his lines to listen to Joshua , and the rest of the family is along for the ride . Of course the people of Nilbog aren't what they seem , and there's many attempts to get the family to eat of their food but Joshua manages to thwart most of these , even once by apparently urinating on the table and food . Don't get too excited though , they just show him unzipping , the rest is left to your imagination , this is a PG film after all . Now , the daughter , Holly , had invited her boyfriend to come along on the trip with them but he never showed up , and it turns out he's come in a RV with his pals to hang out nearby , but of course these are the folks that first run afoul of the local populace and eat things they shouldn't , resulting in their transformation to vegetation , the better for whatever these things are , to eat . For despite their grotesque appearance , these goblins or trolls or whatever they are , are vegetarians , whew , doesn't that make you feel better ? There are all manner of strange characters in this , including one woman who lives in a strange house that looks like a church and who is apparently instrumental in turning humans into vegetables . And she has one notable scene in which she seduces a young man with an ear of corn , wow . Never has an ear of corn been handled so erotically , at least to my film-viewing knowledge . The reason I ask the question as to whether or not these are trolls or goblins is that the name of the town ( Nilbog ) is Goblin spelled backward . So therein lies my confusion . The ending of this movies is somewhat tragic , but no more tragic than the rest of this mess . This is mostly unfathomable and goofy yet it's not without a certain charm , and plenty of campy performances and unintentional humor . Definitely a hard one to call , but to the right viewer there's something here to enjoy . .
Raunchy romp	This is sort of a tribute , I guess , to Russ Meyer's films , but apparently not to the ones I've seen . There are large breasts galore , covered and not , plenty of sex , some pretty disgusting gore , and even a " homeboy " garage mechanic ( as played by director Yudis ) who is obviously confused about more than just his race . James is a young man on his way to visit his father ( Hezekiah ) in Desert Range , a very isolated area in the desert , and finds when he arrives that Dad has a new main squeeze in Cheryl , who is definitely busting out all over . Seems like dad & Cheryl have a big fight though & she disappears , supposedly on her own , and then dad goes into town & shows up with a new main squeeze . Hmm . And dad just happens to be into art now , too , specifically , meat sculptures . But is dad perhaps a serial killer ? Who knows , all signs point in that direction . There's also some little thing , a rat maybe , that is scurrying around out of sight , and I won't spoil that for anyone interested in seeing this by providing any further details . I was rather surprised to find out what this critter was myself but it also dragged the movie down a notch for me . Up to a point this is raunchy and unspoiled fun , but while it was fairly clever too , up to a point , it unfortunately ventured into " stupid " territory . I will give a big hand to the creators of this film for their efforts and their obvious affection for film-styles of old ( like late 60's / early 70's ) but there were just a couple things that dragged this down for me and lessened my enjoyment of this . Not a bad effort though , and I'm sure some will like it more than others . .
OK , but nothing to write home about	The Pang Brothers new film is their first American release , and like many recent American films by foreign directors , it's unfortunately , undistinguished ( see Vacancy , as one example . . or better , don't ) . But , it's really not all that bad , it's just not really all that good . To escape from the horrors of life in Chicago and unemployment that has haunted dear old dad , a family picks up and moves to start anew on a sunflower farm in North Dakota . Sounds like a great idea to me . But something ( of course ) happened in the house they movie into and that something has been waiting for the next family to move in . Seems like the house has somewhat of a history . Anyway , despite the odd occurrences , things seem to settle down for a bit and a new helper even shows up to work on the farm , and becomes almost part of the family . I guess nobody checked his references , for he's somehow connected with what is now beginning to happen in that house . Seems like daughter Jess & her little brother Ben see things in the house and around it ; seemingly ghostly apparitions of the former tenants . When dad hurts himself on the tractor and mom has to drive him to town for treatment they leave the kids and all hell breaks loose . Jess even encounters an apparition in the barn which attacks her and wounds her , and when she's taken for treatment the doctor says that she did it herself , and her parents are quick to believe that , because Jess seems to have caused a car accident ( by drinking with her friends ) and hurt her younger brother in the accident , so he doesn't talk anymore . When things begin oozing out of the walls and floorboards mom decides that maybe Jess IS telling the truth . I suppose that The Messengers in this are not the denizens of the house , but the surly crows that hang around and attack the place in huge flocks . And of course , that brings to mind only ONE film , that being by Alfred Hitchcock . I dunno , this wasn't that great but it also wasn't that bad , but there's nothing about it that says it IS the Pang Brothers , so if you're a fan of their films don't expect much . Actually , come to think of it , some of their foreign stuff has been a little mediocre , too . .
Wait . . . Zsa Zsa isn't even the Queen !	Some men are going to a space station to do some work , and while on their way there they notice lots of rays that seem to be flashing by the space station ( sounding somewhat like electronic mosquitoes ) and eventually one hits the station and it blows up . Then , somehow the spaceship is sucked into one of these rays and crash-lands on some planet that turns out to be Venus . Exactly how anyone knew this planet to be Venus is not exactly clear but no matter , that's only one of the goofy things in this film . The men all bed down for the night and are captured by leggy women in brightly colored dresses ( with ray guns , of course ) , and taken back to the nearby city , where they are brought before the Queen , who wears a mask and has some kind of regal coat-hanger twisted into a design on top , it seems . But the Queen is obviously not Zsa Zsa , no tell-tale Hungarian accent , dahling . No , Zsa Zsa seems to be only a lowly scientist or something , who looks like her job is arranging weird-looking flowers in many containers full of brightly colored water . And she said she's only a member of the Queen's court . Anyway somehow she manages to befriend these men and with a select few of the other women she helps them to escape . But of course they're captured again , etc . The Queen hates men , probably due to the fact that there's something she's hiding behind her mask that men were responsible for , etc . etc . This is a rather goofy movie and I read where it was intended as a spoof but seems to be played more-or-less straight , that is , as straight as it can be despite the material . We have plenty of cardboard sets , lots of nice pastel colors , as there probably would be on a planet run by women , and lots of cheesy special effects , and this is not exactly a fine example of classic science fiction , although it is kind of a hoot to watch . .
OK , but Ring is better ( possible minor spoiler )	I haven't seen any of the Japanese versions of Ring except Ringu , so I wasn't sure what exactly to expect from this , but I loved Ring 1 and watched it the night before so I'd be up on my " ringology " when I went to see Ring Two . It still has Naomi Watts and her strange little son Aidan , and I think they even have the same car , but they've moved far away to escape the terrors of the past . Not far enough , I reckon . Seems that Samara is still reaching out from beyond . This has some scary moments , and a general creepiness , and I found the actor that plays Aidan to be stranger here than in the first movie . He seems much older than he is , for some reason . Anyway , that nasty old tape is still circulating around , so of course it must be stopped , but not without a lot of strangeness along the way . MOST unsettling is a race up the side of the well in which Samara originally met her demise , anything where a human body moves in ways other than it was meant to gives me the willies . Overall , this was OK , better than most junk around these days , but a couple times I found myself squirming in my seat , waiting for it to get better or end . .
50's schlock / horror cheese	Let me say first off , that I like cheesy movies , especially far-fetched ones like this . Not that the films of today aren't far-fetched , but they did some pretty good reaching back in the 50's . A small group of people are shipwrecked on what they think is a deserted island , after a big storm ( which hit Surf City , of all places , woo hoo ! ) . They discover that they aren't alone though after finding footprints , and these footprints seem to indicate some kind of ritual ? As in the owners of those feet performed some kind of dance ( one , two , cha cha cha ? ) Then they find a woman on the beach , or at least the body of a woman with the face of a demon . Then they find the Nazis that are experimenting on these women . But of course , they stumble across the women first , and on this supposedly deserted island there's a bunch of white women performing native dances . . . . ? According to the credits these women are the " Diane Nellis Dancers " but till I saw that I was going to assume they were a bunch of strippers hired for the film , it looks like THAT kind of dancing . Of course they eventually get snagged by the Nazis while snooping around their labs , etc . etc . Pretty silly escapist stuff , definitely " midnight movie drive in " stuff , but kind of fun , in a stupid way . .
Sex and gore galore , with a generous helping of bad taste	An egotistic photographer and his ( mostly ) egotistic crew are on a film shoot with some young models , and when they're done and on their way back to the city they get lost in a fog and take refuge in some abandoned house . Of course , some of these models have become " respectable " by sleeping with this particular photographer , and he's not above sharing with his crew , so an evening of wild sex ensues . But nearby , some mud monster has arisen from the , uh , mud , and is stalking them all . I guess I could say that this is interesting in an " I can't believe I'm watching this " kind of way . I did get kind of tired of squeaky little Japanese girl voices though as they hung on the edge of orgasm for what seemed like hours , though . It is rather interesting , too , that most of these girls still call the photographer " sir " even while he's banging away at them . . . what a nice polite society Japan has . Anyway , once the mud man shows up , it's only a matter of time for everyone to enjoy life to its fullest , because mud man is both horny and hateful & after he has his pleasure he disposes of the receptacles . And just by their proximity , the guys get killed too . One young woman is apparently a nymphomaniac , and she always wants more , to the point where she makes good use of the severed arm of one of the dead . Ick . After the mud man has his way with her & she asks for more , he instead merely removes her innards with his hand , through her vagina . Double icky . Not quite sure what to think of this , really , but it's not terrible . It's too gruesome to be sexy , and too disgusting to be funny , although it is a bit amusing at times , again , in an " I can't believe I'm watching this " kind of way . .
how do you think these things get started ?	This is not a movie for people who like rampaging gore and terror , but it may be best appreciated by those who like the power of suggestion and like having things left to their imagination . I've seen this twice now and I kind of got what I think I missed the first time . This begins with a black background to the credits but there's something going on , some people are being attacked in a house or something , and they're scared as hell , and you can hear the bellowing of the attacker , whatever it may be . . . and then we're in the present and a bunch of college kids ( I guess ) are on their way to spend the weekend at a remote house near Lake Durand . Now Lake Durand used to have a different name , an Indian name , but now it's called Durand after a family who was killed round those there parts , oh my . Seems like nobody knows what did it , and all that's left is the ruins of their house & their tombstones . Now , these young folks get to the house they're staying at , have dinner , and then sit around the fire and tell , well , ghost stories , of sorts ; in fact they're more like urban legends . There are three tales , which are not terribly original but they're of the " my best friend knew the sister of the person that this happened to " variety . The second tale is perhaps the strangest of the three , and it's about 3 fraternity pledges that have to spend the night in what's supposedly a haunted building and they all go nuts after finding some strange room . As the evening goes on and the stories get told , the wind builds & it seems as though there really IS something out there by this lake where they're staying . And that's all I'll say about that . I like this movie because while it's super-low budget and has little in the way of " special effects " it does manage to conjure up somewhat of a creepy atmosphere & it has its moments , but I also found it hard to get through both times I've seen it , not because I was bored , but because it seems somewhat convoluted or dense at times . Maybe it's just because it's a cheesy low-budget movie that is somewhat lacking in continuity or something . Still though , I like this film because it has something about it that I can't really explain , although most people would probably say that it flat out sucked . , worth seeing at least once .
AIP Gothic horror take on " The Color Out of Space "	Boris Karloff and Nick Adams star in this take on H . P . Lovecraft's " The Color out of Space " , with mixed results . The settings are great , including Adam's trek through an " dead " area on the way to the mansion where the once prosperous Witley family lives . But while the idea of Karloff starring in a Lovecraft adaptation sounds like it would be fantastic , the film is fun , but only adequate . With a nasal and heavy New York accent , Adams seems wrong for his role as a college student . But that's a minor complaint . Anyway , if you're at all familiar with Lovecraft's work , the Witley family is cursed and their ancestors were up to no good . In fact , the family portraits hanging in the hall kind of make one wonder if they were entirely human . There are some kind of horrible things happening to the people that live at the mansion , like Mrs . Witley , for instance , and their maid , who has apparently gone bonkers and fled into the surrounding countryside , only to show up every once in a while , hooded and ready to kill whomever she encounters . The family retainer , Merwyn , seems rather ill and eventually dies , and Karloff actually hauls him out to bury him in his wheelchair ( ? ! ) . Karloff is in the wheelchair , by the way , not Merwyn . Mrs . Witley has talked to Stephen and wants him , of course , to get their daughter Susan the hell out of there , but of course , in these kind of films , no one ever just heeds & goes , further poking about it required . Stephen ( Adams ) and the Witley's daughter Susan , of course , do begin to poke around & find things that have been locked away from prying eyes , with good reason , like huge plants & mutated animals locked in cages . And eventually they find the source of the problems , but it's a bit late for a happy ending . So , while this is not a great film , it's still a fun film , and perfect for dark & stormy nights . I personally like it but I think it could have potentially been much better . .
" this is going to hurt me a lot more than it's going to hurt you "	Did you know that " Things " is now available on DVD ? Why , yes , it is , and I just got my copy in the mail yesterday , so of course , after dinner , I settled down and put it on , and squandered about 90 minutes of my life that I can never get back . The film begins with , I guess , a dream sequence , in which a woman in a devil mask strips down and then goes to a shower . . . the man that's with her says " you don't have to take a shower " but , she doesn't , she instead removes a bassinet , of sorts , from the shower stall , and when the man begins to " coochy coo " the child inside , well . . . ow . . . Two guys are let out of a car with a lantern and set loose in the woods to wander till they come across a cabin , a cabin where the brother of one of the guys lives . They bang on the door for a while , and one announces that they no longer need their lantern due to the porch light . This was my first clue that the dialog was inane . Nobody answers the door but these guys wander in anyway , get beers from the fridge and a tape recorder & a book from the freezer , and of course the tape recorder has some kind of low-battery fueled incantations on it that put them in mind of some movie that they discuss ( it's of course , The Evil Dead ) . These two boobs then settle down to watch " Groundhog's Day Massacre " on TV and one burns his finger with a match . And when you thought it couldn't get any better , along comes the owner of the house , the brother of the guy with the mullet , and he scolds them because his wife is trying to sleep . His wife then gives birth to something that looks like a queen ant with great bit choppers & promptly expires . And suddenly the house is full of these things but the two brothers are engaged in inane conversations & the other guy seems to have disappeared either into the third , fourth , AND fifth dimension or been " sucked into a mouse-hole " . The rest of the film consists of the two brothers battling the ant-things , despite the fact that most of these things are clearly inert , and engaging in inane conversation . There are some inspired bits , like the examination of lots of children's artwork on the back of a door , and as one brother explains , " my niece did that before we tortured and killed her " . OK . . . . well , at least THAT'S settled . One brother does lose several fingers to one of these ant things & the mullet boy cauterizes the stumps with SOMETHING that's on fire , who knows what , says it's something he " learned at camp " ( ? ! ? ) and tells his brother " this is going to hurt me a lot more than it's going to hurt you " . There is a lot of good paper towel usage in this film too , like using paper towels to wipe your body clean of blood , especially when you're soaked with it , I hope it was Bounty , the quicker-picker upper . Amber Lynn , who apparently went on to be a porno star , appears from time to time in sequences that seem to have absolutely nothing to do with anything , and she's reading odd news stories from cue cards , especially something to do with two missing guys that were dumped by bikers into the Atlantic Ocean . How do bikers dump someone in the ocean ? The DVD does have some extras , and maybe it provides some insight into what sort of spirit this was made in , because believe me , it's not easy to tell . As a fan of really cheesy & bad films , I can say that this is probably one of the strangest and least competently made films I've ever seen , but it still has an appeal to me that I can't really explain . Unintentional entertainment value is a big factor in how I rate a film , so this one rates rather high . There are PLENTY of bad movies out there in the world , but there are not that many that provide this sort of quality entertainment that may or may not have been the aim of the makers . , I may never be the same again .
not great but a goofy take on Lovecraft ?	A young woman disappears while jogging , and her sister is out to find her . All trails lead to a Catholic Halfway House for wayward girls , presided over by a perverted priest and Mary Woronov as a nun , so you know it can't be all good . Seems that girls keep disappearing from this halfway house and due to the nature of these sort of places , Father Fogerty just assumes they keep running away . Larissa decides she's going to go " undercover " to find what happened to her sister and discovers that all is not well at this little haven . Seems that Sister Cecelia ( Woronov ) is a bit on the loony-tunes side and the creepy handyman is her accomplice in SOMETHING that goes on in the basement , involving a one-eyed tentacled monster from beyond , and of course , it all has something to do with a stolen copy of the Necronomicon that disappeared from Miskatonic University a few years ago . Whew ! This is kind of cheesy fun , from a director who has brought us many fine offerings in the past , including Evil Spawn . This isn't really a horror comedy but it does have comedic elements . Nothing to get too excited about but good dumb fun . .
" It's the last days . . . that's why we're having a garage sale "	Joe is a young man who has been diagnosed with a mysterious terminal disease , and does not know how long he has to live . Armed with only a set of tapes stolen from his therapist , a gun , and a bunch of prescription lollipops , he sets out on a journey to find a girl , Joyce , that he grew up with , whose picture he still has . On the way he hooks up with Seth , a religious cult member whose heart isn't exactly into the philosophies of his sect , and he narrowly escapes being shot . Apparently Joyce was at one time a member of this sect too , and she took off for New Orleans with some other member . While driving through Texas on their way to New Orleans , they pick up bad ventriloquist Kyle Gass ( from Tenacious D ) and dump him again after Joe shoots his obnoxious dummy . And then , New Orleans , only to find Joyce has moved on yet again , but they do manage to " rescue " a girl named Fanny who has come to audition for this ridiculous venue in which topless girls roller skate while old men sing karaoke . . . eek ! Fanny also has some awesome eye makeup , literally . Eventually the trio ends up in Florida , and Joe does find a carnival which was Joyce's last known whereabouts . And he does find Joyce , and the viewer finds a rather touching ending , but not for reasons you might think . This is a movie that had a lot of potential but it was not quite realized . It's not a bad movie , its intentions are great & it has its moments , but it could have probably been a lot more powerful than it was . I still enjoyed it . .
Must be seen to be believed	So this guy , Jerry Warren , who I don't think I'd ever heard of before this , must have been a disciple of Al Adamson or something . At any rate , I went into this not knowing exactly what to expect and I found this to be an film that's absolutely SO dreadfully and hideously bad that it's incredible entertainment . The basic story line is that 4 hot-air balloonists and their dog , Melvin , crash land on what they think is a deserted island , only to encounter leopard-skin bikini-clad babes that are part space alien , a mad scientist's wife ( and the mad scientist himself , holding forth from a hospital bed ) , holographic images ( well , sort of ) of John Carradine , repeating the same things over and over and cackling , a bunch of brain-dead ex-seamen who are zombie guards , two cackling old salts that do " odd jobs " and Cameron Mitchell as Jayson , who has been imprisoned for 17 years in what looks to be a building made of balsa wood from the outside . Oh , and there is a Frankenstein monster , but he's underwater for most oft he movie and doesn't show up till near the end . This lurches breathlessly from scene to scene , never stopping once to make sense , and the segues are so amazingly bad that you wonder if the disc skipped . There are an amazing array of gadgets and props to make your jaw drop , for instance , there's something called an oscillator that looks like either a small tackle box or lunch box , painted pink and balanced on one corner to spin endlessly when doing Frankensteiny things . There are all kinds of intangible things that happen , like some force that makes your hand tingle if you talk about certain things , like other places . . . ? ? ! ! And there are the zombie-dudes , who have no blood in the bodies but partake of a local narcotic , according to Mrs . Frankenstein / Von Helsing , whatever her name is . Hmm , so no blood , how does the narcotic effect them ? This is just an absolutely ridiculously bad movie , but it's vastly entertaining and fun , despite all that . I really can't say I would recommend this to anyone but if you like bad movies that provide oodles of unintentional entertainment , then this will be right up your alley .
cheesy & dumb but not without some merit	After " Airplane " but before " Naked Gun " Leslie Nielsen starred in this little parody of alien flicks , which is not the best work he's ever done but still manages a laugh or two . Also starring are Cindy Williams ( Laverne & Shirley ) and Gerrit Graham ( Phantom of Paradise ) not to mention Patrick Macnee ( The Avengers and many , or at least some , far better showcases for his talent ) . This involves a spaceship that lands on a strange planet to bring back a little blob of slime that grows into a singing , dancing , flesh-eating alien . Which of course is the worst monster costume one could ever imagine , some guy in a rubber suit with one big eye . Now , of course the good doctor Stark thinks that any creature that can sing and dance like that must be good , so he ends up in its stomach rather quickly , despite warnings from Morale Office Cindy Williams that it might not be benign since the song it sang was " I Want To Eat Your Face " . What follows is lots of running and hiding in the corridors and rooms of the spaceship , and battling the monster . This has a very cheesy early 80's look to it , which I kind of liked , but the humor is a bit on the weak side and could have used a lot more punch . It's kind of silly but enjoyable , if you're not feeling too demanding . Hard to believe this is out of print and going for lots of $$$ on the internet right now though , I found a copy at the flea market which is an apt venue for buying this movie . .
Decent , if somewhat puzzling , thriller	Lamberto Bava's " Body Puzzle " is an entertaining but somewhat puzzling thriller . A woman has recently lost her husband but she's been plagued by uh , spare parts showing up in her home . The victims have all been relieved of various body parts and the twist is , they're not original equipment . As in , they came from an accident victim , who it turns out was a lover of the killer . Part of the puzzle comes from the fact that there's a lot of mistaken identity stuff going on , and assumptions that are made as to who is who in various photographs . It is eventually determined what designates a possible victim for the killer , and the surviving donees are rounded up for their safety . All except one , a school teacher for blind children who had received a cornea transplant and who is dispatched in front of her oblivious class while they're listening to the tale of " Peter and the Wolf " . Rather a disturbing concept , to say the least . There are plenty of red herrings and twists to keep this interesting but there's also quite a few plot holes . Overall though , it's an entertaining film and worth seeing for fans of the " giallo " genre . .
lesser-known TV creepy from the director of " Don't Be Afraid Of The Dark "	Arthur Kennedy & Theresa Wright play an older couple , retired to the country because of the husband's health . One day a young man comes to repair their furnace & the wife invites him to dinner . The strange young man , Richard , also asks to borrow one of the husband's books , a book of poetry , so he agrees , but then it seems Richard quit his job & has left town . At least , so thinks the other man from the heating company , who comes to finish the job that wasn't properly done . But Richard seems to have taken up residence in the crawlspace under the house , and while the husband tries to lock him out , the wife is so upset that he ends up removing the lock so Richard can get it . Richard is somewhat like a stray cat , it seems , feed him & he comes back , but don't get too close to him . At Christmas the wife talks the husband into getting some nice clothes for Richard & having him invite Richard to dinner with them , which he does finally appear for . After that begins somewhat of an uneasy relationship because Richard wants a family , and so does the wife , but they both have their own ideas of what that should be . And when the husband & wife leave for Boston for a couple days , well , they return to find things a mess and Richard informs them that they shouldn't leave again . So basically they live more or less as a " hostage " family , knowing that bad things will happen if they leave . Eventually a tangle with the locals ends up in tragedy , and the old couple lie to protect Richard . This is a fairly decent TV movie that has a good look and feel to it , but it's nowhere near as creepy or scary as " Don't Be Afraid of the Dark " , the director's most-remembered film . And why , pray tell , isn't THAT on DVD ? But for now , this is nice to have & while it's by no means great , it's still a cool little 70's time capsule . .
hokey 80's hair-metal horror flick is still dumb fun	I was never into " heavy metal " , didn't like it , didn't see the point , but for some reason this kind of stuff makes for great stupid horror movies . Not great , as in really good , but great as in , full of unintentional humor . I do have a good collection of bad 80's metal movies , because even though I never liked the music I sort of think they're fun , in a stupid way , that is . Black Roses is the name of a band , and they're not exactly squeaky clean and wholesome , they've all sold their souls to the devil , apparently , and are out to destroy the youth of America . No " Parental Advisory " stickers will save your soul when they come to town , and come to town they do in the small town of Mill Basin . The parents are , of course , in a big uproar , and they are bound and determined to prevent Black Roses from playing , but all the parents come to the first show and the opening number is so innocuous they all feel relieved and leave the show , leaving the kids to the mercy of Damian and the gang , who then strip off their shirts and proceed to rock the crowd . But since Black Roses does have some Satanic connections they are soon inciting and controlling the kids of Mill Valley to kill their parents , etc . In one household a kid , a big muscle-bound goof , is lifting weights & listening to their album when his dad comes in and tells him to turn that off & go help his mom with the dishes , when he notices his son wearing an earring . " There are only two kinds of men who wear earrings : faggots & pirates , and I don't see no pirate ship in our driveway " . So , of course , after the son leaves the room dear old dad is transfixed by the Satanic Black Roses music and SUCKED INTO THE SPEAKER by some nasty toothy critter . Wow . The transformations and effects in this are rather silly , but still kind of fun . This is by no means a good movie , but I think it's still a pretty fun movie , and sits proudly on my shelf next to " Hard Rock Zombies " , " Trick or Treat " , and " Rock and Roll Nightmare " . This is , of course , now available on DVD from Synapse , for all you head-bangers , or for those who enjoy a good laugh at a ( thankfully ) bygone error . Era . Whatever , dude . .
for all its faults , it's still fairly inventive	I was rather surprised to run across this on DVD the other day , and since it was on my list of " Must Have " films , I snagged it . I'd never seen it before but how could any z-grade movie fan like myself pass it up ? By no means is this a well-made & professional film . It begins with some awful Claymation characters , which are martians in a tiny ship , who come to earth to see how humans have progressed , and they find Vernon , a wino , who is sleeping on a roof-top . So , obviously , they aren't impressed . The decide that perhaps they need to mate a human with a vacuum cleaner , and Vernon is the man . But strangely enough , even though Vernon falls in love with " Dusty " , the vacuum cleaner , they're , uh , both male . Dusty falls into the hands of a guy who needs a vacuum cleaner because his wife has complained that theirs just broke . So Dusty ends up at their house while poor Vernon is distraught that he's lost his love . When the unwitting housewife accidentally spills aphrodisiac tea on the floor and uses the vacuum to clean it up , well , of course she's attacked & ravaged by the vacuum cleaner , but she dies and her poor , voyeuristic hubby is dragged away to jail . And I said voyeuristic hubby , because he's been spying on the hot chick next door who does nude heavy-metal aerobics and leg-shaving in the window of her house . And she's stuck with a new-age-type boyfriend who wants to eat nothing but brown rice & do meditation , while she wants to eat burgers & rock and roll & @ $ # % like a bunny . And eventually , she sort of gets her wish , except her " lover " happens to be the naughty vacuum cleaner , which has found its way into the REST of the aphrodisiac tea and then has its way with her . There's a lot more ( and a lot less ) to this than what I've described , but that's the basic gist of it . Of course , this woman has been impregnated by the vacuum and gives birth to the first " vacusapien " . Etc . For all this film's shoddiness , it does still manage to be fairly inventive . The shots of the vacuum cleaner making its way down city streets with barely a glance from pedestrians is worth a few smirks . Also , the woman looking at a police line-up of vacuum cleaners is worth a laugh , too . Overall , it is a rather stinky film but it doesn't really pretend to be high art , either . Worth seeing for fans of utter trash .
H . G . Well's classic ? Ha . . . . .	Bert I . Gordon certainly took some liberties with his movies , as in " Food of the Gods " and " Empire of the Ants " being based on H . G . Wells ' stories . Yeah , whatever , he took the basic idea and did what he wanted with it . Joan Collins plays a real-estate woman , one that isn't exactly too honest , and with her gigolo she takes a group of would-be prospects on a tour of Dreamland Shores , where the plumbing is phony and the ants are a bit more pesky than normal . Of course the ants are like that thanks to drums of radioactive waste which they sucked up when one of the drums was washed ashore . And , of course some of the folks get munched on by the ants . Now everyone flees upriver in a rowboat only to find themselves held captive in a town where the ants hold rule . Phermones , you know . The effects are slightly better than " Food of the Gods " but only slightly , in one scene where ants are heading towards a sugar refinery to dine you can see several of them climbing up the sky , oops . Thoroughly hokey and laughable , yet not without its moments . Probably not made with fans of bad cinema in mind but definitely fits the bill now . .
just strange enough to be different , but not great	" Laid to Rest " begins with a woman waking up in a coffin , and eventually flipping it off the table on which it sits to free herself , only to find she's in a funeral home , and she has no memory of who she is . She manages to get out of there but not before she witnesses the killing of the elderly funeral director ( or coroner , whatever he is / was ) , and is picked up by a gimpy guy ( Kevin Gage , of the sub-par " Chaos " ) . He takes her back to his place but they seem to be stalked by some character in a silver face mask . . . with a big honking knife , and a score to settle , of some kind . In trying to get help these two hook up with a rural computer nerd , and eventually end up in a standoff with the masked killer , etc . This has some VERY nasty killings in it , plenty of gore but it's also odd enough to be interesting . . . just not great . For instance , who is the woman who woke up in the coffin & where did she come from ? Ah , it's all revealed late in the film , but won't be HERE . There is no apparent motive for this killer though , we never know who he really is or why he's doing what he's doing , and for some , I guess it'll be enough that he's just causing bloodshed right and left . This may also be the first film to utilize " Fix-A-Flat " as a murder weapon . It's not pretty , let me tell you . This is kind of creepy & dark , and has a fairly decent atmosphere to it , which kind of makes up a bit for some of the plot holes . Not any Academy Award winner , but a few good squirms & fairly entertaining . .
OK effort but isn't this kind of like " Feast " ?	Splinter involves the unexplained appearance of some kind of prick-like things that apparently perform somewhat like mold , according to the resident biology student that just happens to be trapped at a gas station with his girlfriend and some dangerous ex-con . The boyfriend & girlfriend are out camping , but have to give it up because the tent gets broken and they set out for a hotel , only to be carjacked by the ex-con & his doped-up girlfriend . While on their way somewhere they hit something in the road , one of these splintery things , apparently , which puncture a tire & the radiator , so they all end up at this gas station , where the doped-up girlfriend is promptly attacked by the former gas station attendant who has turned into one big prickly thing . So , the three surviving people hide out inside the gas station , occasionally visited by marauding prickly body parts & the usual possessed dead bodies banging themselves into bloody pulp against the glass . Overall , this isn't a bad little horror flick but it's somewhat derivative , it seemed , of Feast , only with less people . Isolated place under attack by mysterious critters , folks getting killed , etc . The possessed dead bodies & the prickly things aren't really shown very long or very clearly in order to get a good look at them ( as in with Feast ) . And of course , what's going on has no explanation . I won't say this is nothing you've never seen before ( couldn't tell , really ! ) but while it's an entertaining time-passer it's certainly not the future of horror . .
Atmospheric but also unintentionally hilarious	I found this DVD cheap in a used bin so since it was an old Mexican horror film I grabbed it . The title puzzled me because I thought I'd never heard of it but in watching it , I realized that I'd seen it as a kid , and this is one of the films that K . Gordon Murray brought back from Mexico and dubbed into English for TV . We have a handsome count who is out to avenge his own death ( of course he's a vampire ) and he's after the last of the line of vampire slayers that were responsible for his current condition . So of course he boldly goes to a party where folks are gathered to tell bad jokes and listen to atonal vampire-killing music as played by Rudy , a composer who is vacationing in the country . When the count hears this lovely tune he twitches more than Anthony Perkins and asks him to stop . Meanwhile the count and his cohorts are out to kidnap and transform members of this family , the women will become the undead and the men , well , they seem to get all hairy . . . . is this a vampire or a werewolf movie ? Anyway , like many Mexican films it's wonderfully Gothic with great atmosphere which is generally shot down in flames at every turn by hokey rubber masks and bouncing rubber bats . Abel Salazar , the guy responsible for " Brainiac " is behind this , so if you liked that , then you'll probably have no issues with this cinematic gem . Mainly for fans of incomprehensible Mexican horror , all others can safely pass , unless they're in the mood for a laugh . .
Not laugh-out-loud funny , but an amusing time-passer	I can't say I've thought too much about Mr . Bean's feature-length films , although I did like the short films that used to be shown on PBS years ago . One that particularly appealed to me was one in which poor Mr . Bean was attempting to fix a holiday dinner and ended up with his head stuck in the cavity of the turkey . His full-length films have their moments , but I can't say that I was captivated from start to finish on ANY of them . The premise for " MBH " is that our hero has won a raffle at a church , which is an all-expense paid trip to Cannes AND a video camera . And of course , guess who wins ? Oops , is that a spoiler ? Well , Mr . Bean leaves for France and immediately gets in trouble when he accidentally separates a man and his son on the train by not letting dear old dad in as the train begins to roll . He tries to protect and care for the boy ( Bean-style , of course , which means , not very well ) and eventually they're separated again , and another bunch of misadventures pops up . Probably the highlight of this film is Mr . Bean miming to Opera at an open-air market to a crowd of fascinated onlookers , who then shower him with coins ( his goal , to get money for bus or train tickets as train tickets were left on a phone box MILES away . . . . ) . If you're a big Bean fan , no doubt you'll love this , but otherwise , it's just an OK time passer , with a few giggles & smirks here & there . For a real laugh , Watch " M . Hulot's Holiday " ( Jacques Tati ) . .
Richard Matheson / Dan Curtis teaming equals OK anthology	One would expect such a teaming to maybe be a bit more intense than what this is , but after all , it was a 70's made-for-TV movie , so for all that , it's OK , but not great . A very young Ed Begley Jr . is the main character of the first story , who buys & restores a 1920's " Jordan Playboy " and on his first drive he manages to find himself back in the 20's , where his car is taken by someone . Not sure what to do , he awakens & finds out that he's back in his own time , and the car is gone . Months later he's dating a girl whose grandfather just happens to own a Jordan Playboy , and Begley finds out that his time-travel event of several months earlier may have inadvertently changed the course of fate . The second feature , " No Such Thing as a Vampire " , has a village under attack from a vampire , that seems to enter one house & disappear again with no trace , as this poor woman is being victimized . Husband Patrick MacNee summons a friend to help deal with all this , and there's an interesting twist to what happens , as nothing is as it seems to the viewer . The last & best , is " Bobby " . A woman , left alone in a seaside house by her traveling husband , uses black magic to summon back her young dead son , who drowned . Her spell does manage to bring back Bobby , or maybe something that looks like him . Apparently mommy wasn't as nice to Bobby as she seems to remember , and now Bobby will have his revenge . A good sort of variation on " The Monkey's Paw " . Definitely " the pick of the litter " . Overall , to modern audiences , this isn't all that scary or great , but is fun to those of us who grew up watching this kind of fare . .
Strange and goofy	This odd little trio of films by Ray Dennis Steckler ( sometimes AKA Cash Flagg ) is his tribute to the films of the Bowery Boys , transplanted to So . Cal . in the 60's with rock'n'roll and hula hoops and skateboards and such . I guess the intent was to make family-type films but these come off as The Bowery Boys on acid , really . Steckler himself does a passable Huntz Hall , and does a lot of over-exaggerated pratfalls and such . Anyway , the first two segments come off the best , The Lemon Grove Kids & The Lemon Grove Kids Meet the Green Grasshopper & The Vampire Lady from Outer Space , and those two seem to have been filmed around the same time , but the third segment , The Lemon Grove Kids go Hollywood , falls pretty flat and is the snoozer of the trio . Overall this is fairly fun , in a stoopid ( not stupid ) kind of way . The colors are vibrant and the southern California locations and " fads " of the day make for interesting watching . Steckler's real life wife , Carolyn Brandt , and his daughter , are in most of the segments . It's interesting that on this DVD ( and on Incredibly Strange Creatres . . . ) that there are interviews with Mr . Steckler & I thought I'd get some insight as to what makes him tick , but he seems disgustingly normal compared to his films and screen persona . Anyway , if you're a Steckler fan , you'll probably like this , if not , this is probably not a good place to start , but I enjoyed it .
decent enough independent horror thriller	This isn't top-notch horror but it still has some good creepy moments . A man & his wife relocate to a small cabin in the mountains after their young daughter is killed by an intruder . The wife is distraught ( understandably ) but when she gets out and about and starts taking photographs again , she begins to see things that nobody else can . A visit from some friends up from the city leads to them making excuses and leaving quickly after the husband thinks he saw something and ended up with a big bump on his head . Anyway , the husband , Allen , begins to investigate strange goings on in this particular area , because according to the local handyman , some people killed themselves in this particular cabin & it has a shady past . There's also some kind of abandoned jail that belongs to the county that seems to figure into this somewhere , but it's never explained . Of course Allen gets a bit too close to the truth and must be stopped , but the ghosts of tenants past get to Julie and tragedy occurs . Despite some plot holes & struggling against a low budget , this still comes off fairly well & has a decent enough feel to it . Some pretty creepy moments too . Worth seeing once , anyway . .
I Know What You Did With The Ring Last Friday The 13th , in German	Dead in 3 Days is kind of a gumbo of several American films , with an Austrian setting , which at least makes it a little different . Plus , the kids are more ordinary and don't drive a Cadillac Escalade with rap music blasting , they get around in an old Toyota Land Cruiser that is a company car , borrowed from dad when it's OK . And that in itself is a BIG PLUS , at least to me . A clique of friends are being preyed upon by a mysterious assailant , and are disappearing one by one . One is found in a beautiful lake , weighted down . There has been a glimpse of the assailant by one of the girls who was kidnapped , but managed to get away , and who she thought she saw was a man who has been dead for some time . Turns out that these friends did something inadvertently years ago to a playmate from school , and they're a bit concerned that what might be happening is some kind of revenge act , although with the boy's father dead and the mother moved away , who could be doing all these terrible things ? The key to everything lies at this big house by the lake where this family used to live , and it's of course abandoned , nobody lives there , really and truly , yet of course these kids go to investigate and find that maybe what everyone thought all along isn't correct . What a surprise . This is rather full of clichés , but a different setting and German dialog will sort of make you forget that for a while , despite the fact that the story will seem rather familiar to anyone who has ever seen a horror film . By no means is this terrible , it's just not all that original . .
stop the music !	The idea behind this isn't bad , that two wayward girls pick a house to move in on and pose as being lost , then take over and terrorize the owner . The accompanying music , though , sort of some good-time vaudeville type stuff that would be more appropriate for a kid's show or a comedy , goes on and on and on to the point where you have to wonder why the director wanted it there . The movie itself isn't any great shakes , but overall not too bad , as two psycho chicks ( Colleen Camp & Sandra Bullock ) hold a homeowner hostage and torture him , and yes , even kill a delivery boy , but then there's extended footage of them playing dress-up and trashing things that is a little over the top . All the while the inappropriate music is never far away to intrude on whatever suspense or thrills may have started to build , as in , it's all good fun ? The ending is rather a hoot too . One has to wonder what the folks making this had in mind , because there certainly are some clashes here as to what sort of film you're supposed to be watching . & I'm probably being generous .
Weird Beyond Belief	This is an utterly weird Italian film , in fact , weird beyond belief , since it's a mishmash of so many different things that don't fit together well , in some cases . But in some ways the incongruity actually works to its advantage . We have Broadway-like show tunes ( actually , only one ) and tap dancing and Argento-like stalk and slash and shades of " The Bad Seed " and " Misery " as a little girl prowls the streets of Rome at night seeking to punish wrong-doers . By HER standards , though , of course . She's left alone by her mom who is a very active sort with the men , and she has a credit card and seems to be getting along fine with only a tutor that drops by occasionally . But then grandma shows up to take her back to NYC because 12-year old girls should not be living on their own ( especially THIS one ) and not only does Jenny not want to go , she goes to extremes to stop grandma from taking her back . Power tools play a role in this . Eww . Oh , and Jenny has George , who is shown as a little puppy , she describes him as her " friend and confidant " and now he's " All grown up " and wears a black cloak & wolf mask and rides a bicycle ? Smart dog . I wanted to like this a lot more than I did and perhaps if there were some things that had been done differently I would have , but I will say that the " almost ending " is great but the real ending is stupid beyond belief . The catchy " show tune " continues to haunt my brain and I did like this enough to keep it to watch again someday , but it won't be to most people's taste , I reckon .
David Lynch visits the Twilight Zone	I did rather enjoy the beginning and the end of this film , but there's a part in the middle where it sort of lost its mood and theme , to a point . The idea is that there's a young girl who has come to babysit for a couple , and this appears to be somewhere on another planet . She's first welcomed by " Twelvetrees " ( Reggie Bannister ) and then meets the couple who are set for an evening at a costume ball . All through the first part of the film there's ominous imagery and odd background " music " which is definitely David Lynch territory , and this is filmed in black and white and the overall look is " Twlight Zone " , complete with the young girl's dress and the appliances , etc . Then the baby wakes up and the girl goes to investigate , and tangles with that little monster , and for a while the film loses its momentum , but then gets back on track a bit later . The baby is a bit silly looking , and for me that sort of killed the mood the film had set up . Still though , it's very interesting and unlike " normal " films in just about every way imaginable . Kind of a fun little experiment , worth seeing at least once . .
" He changed from a man to a slobbering oyster "	How can you not like a movie with dialog like that ? Terrified is a very low-budget movie that I know I saw on TV at least a couple times when I was a kid , and I'd all but forgotten it except , Rhino released it on a DVD called " Horrible Horrors " and I started watching it thinking it was something I'd never seen before . As soon as I did I remembered it . It WAS actually more terrifying when I was a kid , though , but it's still sort of fun . A masked man is running around doing nefarious things in a small community , somewhere in Southern California . He may be responsible for the insanity of a woman's brother , who was buried up to his neck in cement before he snapped . Now , this woman has no parents & a nut-case brother & she may be the target of this particular masked man too . The set for this film is an old ghost town , with a cemetery , so that makes for plenty of spooky opportunities . And of course , there's a twist where the masked man is revealed , and it's actually a surprise . Definitely a cheap B-movie but while it drags at times & is a bit talky it still manages to be somewhat fun & is great for a dark & rainy evening or afternoon . .
and to think that this once scared me . . . .	I remember this movie very well , because it was on late-night TV in Houston when I lived there as a teenager , and I was sitting for the neighbor's kids while they were out . I was probably 14-15 at the time and this scared me and for some reason stuck with me for years . Now , over 30 years later , thanks to ( or due to ) the miracle of DVD , I can watch it in the comfort of my living room . And to think this once scared me . Actually , it's a " monster from Space " movie along the lines of " The Blob " , not that any of the critters look like that but it's The Kids vs . The Cops ( and The Air Force ) and of course when the kids encounter the critters the police don't believe them . The Kids are the only ones in the movie that are portrayed as having a lick of sense or brains , of course . The cops have no imaginations and think the kids are drunk , etc . Now the Air Force is portrayed almost less flatteringly than the cops , as two goofy cadets spend all their time using the infrared camera to spy on teens necking in the woods , which is why this obvious flying saucer slipped by in the first place . Larry Buchanan sure cranked out a lot of junk in his time , but for some reason I must have seen them all on TV and am sort of delighted to have them on DVD in my collection now . By no means is this good but to me it's kind of fun and I guess it could be referred to as a ' guilty pleasure ' , although I don't in any way feel guilty for watching it . .
Kind of middling Japanese horror	Carved is about a supposed " urban legend " , a woman with a slit for a mouth & a surgical mask & a long coat who kidnaps little children . It doesn't seem to matter if they've been bad or not , apparently . She doesn't care . When rumors circulate that the slit mouthed woman is back in town , 3 young boys hide in a park & wait to see her appear , and appear she does , and one of them is kidnapped . The problem seems to be though that the woman does not appear on her own , her spirit seems to possess innocent women who then get killed and leave orphans hanging around . Two young teachers from a school where the children keep disappearing from go in search of this mysterious woman & it seems that the man has secrets in his past that tie him to the slit mouthed woman , and he and the other teacher try to banish her and send her to rest , but of course not without at least another innocent mom biting the dust . This is pretty average and I suppose I'm getting a bit tired of " Tartan Asia Extreme " because nothing seems very extreme , for the most part . .
Does it matter if it's matter or anti-matter ?	Planes are disappearing and crashing and just before , there are reports of a " UFO " . Well , the UFO squawks and turns out to be a giant bird made of " anti-matter " that is causing all this terror . The bird is a ridiculous puppet that looks like a turkey vulture ( at best approximation ) with a Mohawk . Egad . One of the silliest looking critters ever to come from the imagination of a special-effects person , I'd venture . Yet , it manages to wreak havoc , fly away with trains and punk kids in roadsters , and even takes a bite out of the UN building , before intrepid scientist Jeff Morrow and his trusty assistants manage to make something that knocks the flying goonie-bird out of the sky . The end . Is this a good movie ? Oh no , not by any long shot . Is this a funny movie ? Oh sure , but I doubt anyone had a rollicking comedy in mind when they made it . Incredibly enough , this is now available on DVD in an " Icons of Horror " collection , giving tribute to one Sam Katzman . Gosh , now I can hardly wait to see the rest of the gems in this set . , chock full of unintentional entertainment value .
Silly little flick	I guess I don't really understand all the hoopla about this flick , having now watched it . It's not really bad but nothing much happens and the humor is pretty low-key , to say the least . Napolean is an alienated teenager living in Preston , Idaho , so you know right there nothing interesting will happen . He helps his new friend Pedro run for class president against the ever-popular Summer , he goes to Future Farmers of America ( or 4-H , whatever that was ) , he deals with his weird but banal family , he feeds the llama , yeah , OK . His brother Kip is pretty lost too , he has an internet girlfriend , and when he finally meets her she turns out to be black & pretty soon he's dressing in chains and do-rags . Hmm . His " uncle " Rico comes to stay with them while Napolean's grandma is in the hospital after a dune buggy accident and eats all their steaks and is generally obnoxious . This guy is stuck in 1982 when he was star quarterback on the high school football team . Anyway , this is mainly one mundane event after another , a couple chuckles here and there , and not a whole lot else . This may be more suited for teens than adults , I dunno . All I know is that I was at Wal Mart the other day & they had Napolean Dynamite t-shirts . . . . . talk about making a lot about a little . , I guess it's not for all tastes .
kind of a classic , of sorts . . . dumb but entertaining	Don't expect edge-of-your-seat horror from " The Car " , but it's an entertaining 70's film with just enough going on to keep your interest . The acting is fairly terrible , especially Ronnie Cox , but no matter , just sit back & enjoy the ride . A big black car has appeared out of nowhere & is terrorizing the residents of Santa Ynez , a small desert community . So far it's taken out a couple of young cyclists and a young man with a French Horn hitch-hiking back home to NY . And yet it's not done . What is the car ? Where did it come from ? Nobody seems to be really sure , but it's killing people and the townspeople just want to defend themselves . After the police chief is run down on the street in town , with only an old Indian woman as witness , it's determined that the car has no driver . And then it terrorizes a bunch of school kids and teachers and traps them in an old cemetery , which the car will not enter . . . so someone puts two and two together & it's apparently something devilish . There are some plot elements that don't go anywhere , like Ronnie Cox being a drunk who has been sober a couple years & yet has started hitting the bottle again , and a dirt-bag old man who beats his wife , but those little tidbits fall by the wayside in favor of lots of horn-honking and engine revving . Of course , eventually you know the good guys come out on top , and yet nothing is ever explained . If you like 70's movies then you'll probably like this fine , but otherwise this is merely entertaining with nothing about it that makes it particularly awesome or anything . But being entertaining is what movies are all about , I think . .
A delightful exercise in incompetent film making	What we have here is a failure to make a good film , but it's so chock full of junk that it's quite amusing , despite itself . We have wrestling women , one of whom has a relationship with a police detective that apparently is limited to her dressing room and ring-side , we have an orangutan that mysteriously changes into some guy in a gorilla suit when it comes time to shoot it with a tranquilizer dart , we have open heart surgery that doesn't exactly appear to meet AMA standards , and we have a mad doctor out to save his son by performing this open heart surgery and replacing his heart with that of an orangutan ( or the heart of a guy dressed in a gorilla suit , one is never sure ) . The mad doctor and his assistant cruise the streets in a Rambler station wagon , which is stylin ' beyond belief . The dubbing is hideous , but considering that this is a cheapie DVD the quality of the transfer is actually quite good , if that matters at all considering the movie . This is a festival of unintentional humor , best enjoyed by folks that love this sort of thing , but if you're looking for a good movie , you've come to the wrong place . .
Beware of Botanical Garden tours	A group of tourists foolishly ( of course ) head for an island on a tour to see some botanical gardens presided over by loony scientist Baron Von Weser ( Cameron Mitchell ) . Had they seen some of his other movies they'd probably have left right away , but of course , they stay , and marvel over the specimens he has on display , especially the nerdy Professor Demerest , who seems to be a botanist . Now , the tourists will spend the night at the home of the Baron , but then strange things begin to happen , like people are getting all their blood sucked out . And how can this be happening ? Well , it seems that the nutty Baron had crossed a Venus Flytrap with a century plant ( I think ) and that makes it a big vampire tree , of sorts . Throw in a big thunderstorm , with the passage off the island impossible , and you have a sort of decent little horror thriller in which you wait to see who gets it next . Of course , Professor Demerest doesn't have to suffer the indignity of getting drained by the tree , since he's figured out what's going on and is dispatched right away . Like that will make any difference as to the body count . This is now available on Elvira's Movie Macabre double feature DVD ( with " House that Screamed " , AKA " La Residencia " ) and while the print isn't the best it's watchable , if a bit washed out . Can be watched with or without Elvira's inane patter too . I saw this on TV many moons ago when I was a kid and it was actually pretty scary to me at the time , but it still holds up as a watchable , if not particularly great , film . .
The Incredible Shrinking Brain	This is one of the few last films that Boris Karloff made , these being the ones where his parts were filmed in L . A . and the rest in Mexico , which is interesting because this takes place in Europe somewhere , presumably Hungary or somewhere like that . Mexican actors and actresses do not look even vaguely European . A group of people that are related to Karloff's character ( Matthias Morteval ) , are brought together at his creepy mansion because he's about to pass on and one of these people will get all his assets . Seems that Karloff & his brother were toy makers for the rich and famous , and those toys are life-sized mechanized dolls , and of course you know there's someone made up to look like those thing , complete with whirring and creaking to give the impression of mechanization . Actually , the creepy dolls are probably the most interesting part of the movie . Apparently , Matthias's brother went bonkers years ago because a family trait having to do with the shrinking of the brain , and there's also some bits about people gouging their own eyes out , yecch . Anyway , of course people drop like flies and who is killing them ? Well , it can't be Matthias , because he has passed on . Or has he ? This is cheesy-bad , very hard to follow , and yet it has some atmospheric moments that were probably entirely by accident , like the room where Karloff's body lies in state , which is decidedly weird . The life-sized mechanized " toys " are kind of interesting too although you know they have to have something to do with what's going on . Not exactly a fine final film , but for fans of horror-cheese & Mexican horror , it's worth seeing at least once . .
Cool to watch but hard to follow	Spaceships from a space-station have been disappearing , and where are they going ? There's something to do with a signal about Eolomea , but what IS that ? Well , it seems that Eolomea is sort of a planet , maybe , but is it real or myth ? Overall , this is a pretty cool film to watch and it has some great & interesting effects , but there's lots of flashbacks ( I guess ) so it's hard to tell in what order things are going until late in the film . One Daniel Lagny , a cosmonaut , seems to be one of the main characters , and he's living on some kind of remote outpost with " The Pilot " , an older man who has apparently some kind of connection with Oli Tal ( another professor , I guess ) and this myth of Eolomea . And there's even a broken-down robot for sort-of comic relief , a robot that is so broken-down that apparently it's lost it's " mind " . With flashbacks & some of the jumping around in the story line ( and locations ) this is rather hard to follow , and yet it's still pretty cool to watch . Reminded me a bit of " Solaris " and maybe " 2001 " but on a much smaller scale . Fun for sci-fi fans but maybe not for anyone else . .
not the best of the Dracula lot , but still plenty enjoyable	Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee return in one of the many of the Hammer Dracula films , and this time they're in the early 70's in London . It seems one young man ( calling himself Johnny Alucard ) has taken the ashes of the fallen vampire back after Van Helsing seemingly killed him in the 1800's , and deposited them near hallowed ground , only to bring him back to life in the London of the 70's , with the usual blood-sucking results . We have a bunch of young people that like to hang out , drink , do drugs , and get up to mischief , and they are unwittingly drawn into the resurrection , resulting in plenty of dead bodies with a puzzling cause of death . Peter Cushing , though , as the descendant of Van Helsing , comes to the rescue & again manages to save the day . The best part of this film is the updating of the usual Gothic 1800's scenario , but this is by no means the best of the Hammer Dracula films . Still though , it's plenty enjoyable and worth seeing if you're a fan , and maybe even if you're not . .
The Lunatics Have Taken Over The Asylum	So this is a retitled " Dr . Tarr's Torture Dungeon " , eh ? Hmm , I tried to find it in my movie book but nothing seemed to match up with this . Anyway , in the tradition of great marketing ploys , this is touted on the box as being Monty Python directed by Fellini on acid . OK , there are some Python-esque moments but only in look , not in feel . I wouldn't doubt though that there was some acid involved in the making of this . It's OK , it's not bad , really , but it doesn't quite go far enough with some of the bizarre antics to be truly satisfying . It has its moments , and some scenes are pretty odd , but nothing really awe-inspiring . Visitors to a large asylum find that the tables have been turned on the doctor and his staff , and they're all imprisoned and the loonies are in charge . Visually interesting but as I mentioned , nothing to make you gape .
good premise , flawed execution	A modern updating ( to say the least ) of Peter Pan , with Peter being a smart-ass punk , and the three children ( Wendy , John , and Michael ) being ethnic adoptees by the Darlings ( " we really have to stop adopting things " , says the husband ) . The idea that Neverland is just an old amusement park and that Tinkerbell's fairy dust could get her some jail time is an interesting idea but overall this comes off with little in the way of soul or feeling . Captain Hook is the head janitor at Neverland and he's also the resident chicken hawk , thankfully all that is mostly implied and not shown . This actually follows the story fairly closely which is kind of weird considering what you're seeing on screen . However , as much as I wanted to like this ( and it certainly sounded great reading the box ) it just didn't live up to the potential that this type of thing may have had . , some may like more than others .
tired plot with many a few new twists	Panic Beats has a well worn plot of a man trying to scare his rich wife into the grave so he can collect an inheritance . But he has a mistress or two , both of whom are rather conniving , and there are a few twists that he didn't count on . This plays out in a fairly standard manner and is predictable up to a point , but then there's a few surprises that don't quite fit the rest of the film ( like one gory killing of one mistress by the other ) and then when Naschy himself is killed his ancestors take over to wreak havoc . Not much here that one hasn't seen before but it's not terrible , just not one of the better films by Molina . Apparently he had rather a following that loved watching him play what is essentially the same character over and over again , so he does it quite well ( lots of practice , I guess ) . The DVD has an extra on Spanish horror films and how Naschy ( Molina ) was instrumental in getting that movement going because the government in Spain under Franco was very oppressive , and that feature is rather interesting to watch . As for the movie though , it's merely mediocre , .
not a black comedy	This is a film by Paul Morrissey who at one time or another has produced some fine and twisted black comedies , usually in cahoots with Andy Warhol , but this , well , I don't know what to say , really . It's about rival drug dealing gangs , one Brazilian and one Puerto Rican , and it's violent and bloody and it's over . It's not that it's without redeeming values , but it's not what I expected at all . The Brazilian drug dealing gang is led by the mother of one guy . She rules with an iron fist , kind of a Godmother , I guess you'd say , and the boys fight for her at any cost , including their lives . We even have a christening party for the granddaughter of this woman and the father is gunned down along with many others . I guess this is an OK " shoot-em-up " film , and it does include footage of one loser shooting up , too , for those who enjoy graphic drug scenes , but overall it's nothing special and not what it's been purported to be . If there was a lot of humor , black or otherwise , in this , it was lost on me . .
better than I expected but by no means great	I got this used , for cheap , so even though I'd passed it up a zillion times before I thought I'd give it a shot and it's not that bad , although I wouldn't venture to call it a masterpiece or anything . Genetically engineered snake heads is a good idea for a film , these things can live on dry land and in the water and they sure do like to eat , that's for sure . And they're loose in the Louisiana swamp , bayou , whatever , and they're not picky eaters . A guy from the coroner's office and an apparently lipstick lesbian fish and game lady go out into the swamp to investigate and they find a small community of houseboats , that apparently are apparently quite spacious inside and even have running water just like houses . At this point when the snake heads do show up it's kind of like " Tremors " on the water and people are headed for the highest point even if it's the top of a sinking boat . Along comes crazed egotistical hunter and crew , who is in part responsible for the existence of the genetically engineered snake heads to begin with , and of course you know there will be some kind of showdown . There's a few holes and things that don't make sense here ( I mean , besides the giant fish ) but overall it's not as bad as expected and I didn't hate it , it was better than a lot of what passes for horror these days . Unfortunately " not as bad as " isn't exactly a ringing endorsement though . Some may like this more than others . .
fun for all the wrong reasons	Lando , an ex-con , is chosen by his uncle to fight the battle between good and evil . And Lando , in his jeans jacket , is the good guy . The bad guys consist of The Prince of Magic and his evil cohorts , of which there are apparently many . Lando and his family are set upon by these evil-doers at his home , and his young son is killed , but then he and his wife and daughter go to see his uncle , who , unfortunately , has just died from wounds sustained by being spun around like a top by the bad guys . Lando & his wife & daughter then hop a catamaran for a distant island where he must take action against the Prince of Magic & Satan , himself , who is clad in red and has horns and a pitchfork , or trident , or whatever it's supposed to be . There are some truly astounding special effects , like rays emitted from people's fingers as they do battle , and so on . The best effect is a snake ( rubber ? ) that turns into a creepy little human with pointy ears , who then proceeds to clamber up rock walls with his back to them . Of course , good triumphs over evil but it's a lot of work and a lot of finger-ray zapping before it's all over . I'm sure there must be some elements to this that I don't have the background to understand , like some religious themes and such , but I still don't feel all that bad when I say that it's fun for all the wrong reasons , because it's so astoundingly silly and tacky at times . .
Belgian bilge	Of course , like any Troma offering , this is packaged to look absolutely tremendous , but while sometimes that's true , in this case maybe not . I will mention that there are TWO , count ' em , TWO , versions of this film on here , one on film ( the one I watched ) and one made by the Troma Team , on video , which I didn't watch . . . maybe that one is at least more lively . It seems that this young woman that lives in a decrepit old mansion is taken hostage by a crazed bank robber , but he has no idea what secrets this old house holds when he forces her to take him inside . Seems like this young lady was the housekeeper for a family that lived there a long time ago and that she knows something about why they're no longer around . Or no longer around in recognizable form , that is . This is cheap and cheesy , and while the settings are good , the effects really aren't . Many might like to watch this to see Lloyd Kaufman himself get zombie-bit , because he plays a police chief in this , complete with his trademark bow-tie . Otherwise , I couldn't really say I found lots to recommend in this version , anyway , perhaps the Troma Team version offers more . .
A Psycho clone of sorts	I guess the ripping off of movies has taken place for a long time , and the phenomenon with many people trying to rip off " Scream " ( which , I think , is still going on over 10 years later ) is nothing new . Anyway this movie is a rip off of Psycho in many ways , but with plenty more dysfunction on display . The date at the beginning of the film says 1969 but I'd say it was older than that . A man has a studio in Los Angeles where he spends time with his models and doing his art , yeah right , and tying them up and punishing them . His wife waits out in the hinterlands at their home and he comes to see her once in a while . After an incident at the man's apartment complex where the neighbors ( who are playing a nude version of " Blind Man's Bluff " ) hear a big ruckus and a man is seen dragging a trunk away , the police are investigating but only find a trunk with clothes in it at the suspect's home . Hmm . No body . There's a mysterious woman lingering about although she's supposedly dead , too . Hmmm . And hubby is decidedly weird and perhaps into cross dressing ? Overall this is one strange cookie of a film , not terribly compelling but fairly odd , for sure . John Ireland plays one of the cops , apart from that no recognizable " stars " . Of course this is on " Something Weird " , what would you expect ? Kind of interesting but not exactly a " must see " , .
sort of a " two-fer " ?	I guess this is sort of a " two-fer " with Vampyros Lesbos , as they seem to share the same cast & the same music , or similar music , anyway . I have a soundtrack to Vampyros Lesbos that also mentions this movie , and it's groovy jazzy 60's kind of music that Franco seemed to like to have in a lot of these movies . Unfortunately , like the " two-fer " of " Two Undercover Angels " and " Kiss Me Monster " , Two Undercover Angels & Vampyros Lesbos seem to be the movies the teams made first and the other two , well , I guess they were pretty tired when they got around to them and they aren't as good . Anyway , in She Killed in Ecstacy , a young doctor who has been barred from his profession for outrageous experimentation finally caves in to pressure and kills himself , and his wife decides to take matters into her own hands to do away with those that wronged him . Of course this is a Franco film so sex comes first and death right after . It's fairly enjoyable if you like films of this period but it's also not top notch Franco ( and yes , there is such a thing ) . Anyway it's not that bad but it's nothing too exciting either . .
decent courtroom drama with a cool soundtrack	Jimmy Stewart plays " humble country lawyer " Paul Biegler , who is hired to defend an army lieutenant , Ben Gazzara , who shoots a man who supposedly raped his wife . Gazzara plays his role as a carefully guarded man , who doesn't reveal too much about himself . Lee Remick plays his wife , a rather free spirit who likes to drink and play pinball & dress provocatively , so it's anyone's guess whether what she says happened is entirely the truth . The courtroom segments are fairly interesting , thanks to Stewart's character's unorthodox personality and some of the things that come out of his mouth , and the judge is a man with a decent sense of humor despite his deadpan demeanor . George C . Scott plays a fancy lawyer from Lansing ( this takes place in Michigan ) , so it's two lawyers against Stewart in this courtroom battle to decide one man's fate . There are some interesting twists to this too , and some revelations shock the town folks , all of whom are quite interested in the case because not much seems to ever happen in Thunder Bay . Eve Arden plays Stewart's long-suffering secretary . Look for roles by Orson Beane , Floyd the Barber ( Andy Griffith Show ) and even the mayor from Jaws , Murray Hamilton . The soundtrack is some rather cool 50's jazz , by Duke Ellington , who has an uncredited role as " Pie Eye " , whom Stewart joins in a roadhouse on the piano . The idea of Stewart as a " would be " jazz pianist seems rather ridiculous , and we see him tinkling the ivories in other scenes too ( like right after gutting fish at the beginning ) but that's a minor complaint . Overall this is a good courtroom drama ( which I generally don't like ) and while the ending seems rather rushed , it's still a very good film . .
Sundown ? Strange things happen ALL THE TIM	Hey now , this is definitely , without a doubt , one of the best Brain Damage movies I've seen , which may not be saying much as some of the others are so abysmal , but this one is cult material , in my book . One strange thing is that sundown shouldn't matter much , because these vampires have no problem hanging out in the daylight . This is a pretty gruesome vampire gore-fest but it's also interspersed with some dark dark comedy , but it also contains moments of comedy that are almost goofy in nature , because they're just so ' out of left field ' . So we have some vampire gangsters , who've just been ripped off by one of their " bag men " I guess , who's taken the money and fled with his vampire girlfriend to parts unknown . We have a " rouge " female vampire who's out for vengeance . We have this male / female team that are " hit vampires " , I guess , who are stuck in the 80's , that are hired by the gangsters for protection . ( says Jimmy Fangs , the gangster leader , " I've got the Thompson Twins watching my back " ) . And , we have The Reaper , a kind of tracker / hit man who always wears a black cloak and hood , who is older than dirt and is supposedly disfigured ( hence , the hood ) . For someone that is to be so sinister and creepy , he actually provides a good deal of the comic relief . . . . . check out his rainbow-striped socks when he bends down in one scene . And let's by no means forget his wife , the vampire-psycho June Cleaver from Hell , complete with pearls , who goes absolutely ballistic every time hubby forgets to clean up after himself , unleashing a torrent of obscenities that would make Andrew Dice Clay blush . The best line in the movie comes from the rouge female vampire that's out for vengeance against the vampire that turned her in the first place : " Eating human flesh does not contribute to a healthy state of mind " . OK , so this is no work of cinematic genius but there was some imagination and humor put into this , and it's not your typical Brain Damage dump truck full of blood , although it is a bloody mess at times . I found it to be pretty darn good , myself , but it won't be for everyone that likes vampire movies . stars .
Surprisingly unstinky	Hey now , I found this at the local trade-in store for $5 . 00 so with a title like that I figured I had a 50-50 shot at getting something decent yet not " mainstream " . It's on Tempe Video , which from my past history is a pretty hit or miss label , with emphasis on the " miss " . However , this is more of a hit but not exactly a direct one . Seems that there's zombies running around New Mexico , and one guy ( Matool ) is on the run after accidentally allowing a bunch of zombies into a small " safe haven " just to pick up some babe whose brother was just munched . He's hit by a pickup truck and finds himself at a remote house in the hills where his reason for rescue slowly becomes clear : The man and the wife that live here have an " alternative " lifestyle and the wife is has nymphomaniac tendencies . Big time . Also rescued from the mess is a young boy about 12 , who never speaks a word , more about him later . Anyway as Matool is having sex with Dexy , the wife , a woman races into the room and starts whacking him on the behind with a piece of what looks like Hot Wheels track ? Turns out that this is Sassy , Dexy's sister , or one of them anyway , the other one lives on Sassy's side and is called Dottie , some green slimy little face that apparently never developed into a fetus of its own or something , perhaps they lived near Almogordo ? Nuclear test sites , y'know ? Anyway , some soldiers happen across this place and are taken in , and of course one of them's been zombie-bit , and when he dies and comes back all hell breaks loose . Also there's a babe in the barn out back , " she'd be hot if she wasn't decomposing " says Matool , upon being show by the proud captor . Seems she was part of a husband and wife team that arrived a while back & while the husband was taken care of rather promptly she was kept around for some reason . At any rate what this all leads up to is every male in the house being forced outside ( and the door locked ) at some point and the credited " spooky kid " being in the house alone with Dexy . Hmm . Comparisons on the box to " 28 Days Later " and " Shaun of the Dead " can safely be ignored because they're bogus . The zombies in this are fairly good , although the majority of them seem to be skate-punk slacker types by their clothes , it seems . The acting isn't bad but don't ask me what the appeal of Dexy is , unless of course one happens to be wandering a wasteland full of zombies and then finds a woman that's ( MORE THAN ) willing and able , despite the fact that she looks like Kathy Bates Jr . I'd give this a , not terribly original but not all that bad either , worth a rental maybe anyway .
Creepy and disturbing and rather restrained	This is a very restrained film , for Dead Alive productions , that is , not that it's not a low budget film like most of their offerings , but it doesn't feature amateur-hour gore and acting and effects like most of the stuff they seem to churn out . I thought this company had gone defunct , and perhaps they have , I bought this used for cheap yesterday . On to the film : Monica has met a nice guy , Scott . Scott picked her up in a bar ( first sign that something should be wrong ) . Scott was video-taping her ( second sign ) . But underneath all that Scott seems to be a swell guy and he's even invited Monica over for dinner at his place , which he's going to cook , and he even sent her a dozen roses to remind her . So she goes to dinner at his house and doesn't show up for work for the next three months . Of course , her friends and co-workers are a bit worried . Seems that Scott is not the swell guy he seemed at all , he's a major nut-case that has chained Monica up in his basement and gets his jollies from messing with her mind . Not to mention , starving her . When the police don't seen to be doing enough , or anything , one of Monica's friends takes it upon herself to try to track down this " Scott " , which includes the help of a private detective . This is a rather understated movie and as I said , quite restrained for the usual fare that one could expect from this particular company , but it's not without disgusting visuals , either . This is not a film that can boast a happy ending , either , so beware . I was surprised that this was as well done as it was , and if you can find it it's worth seeing , depending on your taste . .
Failed TV pilot is still above-average thriller by Dan Curtis	Roy Thinnes stars in this made-for-TV pilot as David Norliss , a supernatural investigator ( and apparently a man of many talents ) who is trying to write a book and who is feeling a bit stuck . Maybe that's due to his recent experience with the supernatural and the fact that the book he was writing was intended to debunk the supernatural . Not much chance of that now , but he's also mysteriously disappeared and now his publisher is sitting in his house listening to the tapes he'd made from which to write his book , and this tale is told in flashback . Seems like this woman ( Angie Dickenson ) has been experiencing strange goings-on around her home since her husband died and maybe he's not dead at all ? And it's up to David Norliss to figure out what's going on , even employing a bit of chemistry and medieval alchemy . I said , he is / was a man of many talents . Overall this is enjoyable enough for anyone that grew up in the 70's and was drawn to this kind of stuff on TV , because it was the exception to the bland and boring fare offered , but it doesn't necessarily stand up well to today's standards . Still , it's moderately creepy and interesting and yes , even sort of fun . .
entertaining werewolf / vampire flick	This is an entertaining werewolf / vampire flick , starring everyone's favorite Spaniard , Jacinto Molina , as Count Waldemar Daninsky . As usual , young damsels in distress come across him living in an old monastery , and choose to hang out with him , only to be there when an ancient vampire woman is released from her slumber , with the usual results . For a werewolf , Daninsky is certainly chivalrous about keeping his young guests free from harm of vampire bites , but he's not entirely successful , because Genevieve gets bitten and then comes back for her friend Elvira ( yes , really ) . Now , there's some atmospheric slow-motion bounding and bouncing when it comes to these beautiful vampires , and their hair looks so sleek , sassy , and full of body , that I thought at times I was watching a macabre shampoo commercial , but that's only a small complaint . Overall this is fairly decent and entertaining , as Naschy / Molina films go , and if you're a fan and haven't seen it , guaranteed you'll like it . .
good thriller minus all the gore ( which came later )	Bird With The Crystal Plumage is Argento's first directorial effort , and it's a good one , if not quite as good as some of what came later . An American ( Tony Musante ) sees a scuffle in a closed art gallery & tries to help when he realizes that one of the people has a knife . The woman he sees is wounded , and he finds himself trapped in between the glass doors of the gallery , unable to help , when the police arrive . Naturally he is questioned very thoroughly , and the woman survives . She is the wife of the gallery's owner . Anyway , this is all shrouded in mystery ( of course ) because the woman says she knows nothing , and yet in this area more women are being killed . Musante is also conducting his own investigation , of sorts ( he's a writer ) and keeps getting strange phone calls at home . There's also something to do with a creepy painting of a woman who is being killed in a snowy setting , and Musante even visits the painter , and gets no enlightenment there , but he does have an interesting meal . As Musante seems to get closer to the truth the bodies are piling up . The real clue is a noise in the background on all the phone calls that are received , a strange grating noise that someone eventually identifies as a rare bird from Siberia that lives in the zoo , right outside of SOMEONE'S apartment building . This is a decent thriller , well done , but lacks some of the sheer terror of Argento's later films , and is definitely lacking in the gore department , although that's fine , I don't mind it but I don't need it in everything I watch , either . .
Steckler's gardener strikes again	I read somewhere that Pierre D'Agostino was actually Ray Dennis Steckler's gardener who he put in two of his films , " The Hollywood Strangler . . " and this one . So fine are his acting skills , you'd never think he was just a humble gardener . Yeah , right . Anyway , this is the follow up to " The Hollywood Strangler Meets the Skid Row Slasher " so you know it'll be quality . After being in prison for several years Jonathan Klick ( D'Agostino ) is out again and headed for Vegas to take up where he left off . The Vegas you see is before all the fancy new hotels and casinos went up , so it's appropriate for this sort of film , sleazy and crummy . Anyway , when a young woman is strangled at a birthday party for star Cash Flagg ( Steckler's pseudonym for his 60's appearances ) it becomes evident that something is rotten in Vegas . Several more stranglings take place in a short amount of time and of course police would like to speak with Mr . Klick . To add to the fun , there's two goof balls that apparently live in the desert and come to Vegas for a bit of fun , like purse snatching , strong arm robbery , etc . They move in and out of the action but they're not exactly central characters . As with his other later films , Steckler pads out the running time with shots of parades , rodeos , etc . Also he makes use of footage more than once , like no one would notice , like bar scenes , women dancing scenes , etc . If you're a Steckler fan as I am , you'll probably find something to like in this , although it's by no means a good film , but all other will definitely wonder why they bothered . .
one of the weirdest movies Hollywood has spewed out . . . .	I guess this movie didn't do too well when it came out and for 1970 the subject matter wasn't quite as acceptable as it is nowadays . Anyway this is the story of Myron Breckinridge , who undergoes a sex change in Copenhagen & becomes Myra . Now , Myron / Myra is / was the nephew of a famous acting school owner ( as played by John Huston ) and he never liked Myron much but while Myra is something to look at he's finding he doesn't like her much either , especially since she's trying to extract money from him . Now , as for believing that , with a little surgery , Rex Reed could become Raquel Welch , well , that's a bit far fetched , to say the least . Myra's goal is to bring the downfall of all men , or something to that effect , and while it is a noble goal it's probably unattainable in the confines of one movie . Also , we have a wonderful performance by Mae West , doing some of her usual racy lines , not to mention appearances by Farrah Fawcett , Jim Backus , and Tom Selleck . This is sort of twisted fun but more a curiosity than a great flick . Without a doubt one of the weirdest things to come out of Hollywood . .
enjoyable Ramsay Brothers effort	Purana Haveli , involves , of course , an old mansion , a hairy beast locked away in the basement , and a bunch of spiteful and back-stabbing rich folks visiting for a lark . And you know , of course , that the hairy beast thing will get OUT , that's a given . The story involves a young woman getting involved with a " cheap " photographer & not the man that her family wants her to marry , and of course the whole gang has to go to this mansion to act out their treachery & be nailed by the monster , one by one . There's also a strange old man lurking about that may hold the key to what's going on , too . Strangely enough , the religious imagery in this film is not Hindu but Christian , as the beast is locked in the basement with a crucifix on the top of the enclosure . None of the usual wielding of the " aum " to drive the creature back . There's of course , the usual singing , dancing , and comedy routines , along with the horror , and Satish Shah does double duty as a goofy tag-along & an " honest bandit " . Not fantastic , but a lot of fun & I do enjoy the music , both the incidental & the songs by the actors & actresses . Definitely a fun film & now available on Mondo Macabro . .
entertaining stuff	I got a few good laughs out of " Wanted " , which is based on a comic book and directed by Timur Bekmambetov , of " Nightwatch " and " Daywatch " fame . This is the tale of one Wesley Gibson , who has an accounting job , and whose best friend is sleeping with his girlfriend , and whose boss is a control-freak bitch , etc . , etc . He takes medication for anxiety attacks and is generally a big nobody . But along comes one Fox , played by Angelina Jolie , and Wesley's life changes forever . It seems that Wesley's dad , who left his mother when Wesley was 7 days old , was a highly-trained assassin and has just been killed and now Wesley is being drawn into this society of super-assassins , headed up by Sloan ( Morgan Freeman ) , who operate out of a textile factory . What happens next is Weslely goes into a sort of training mode because he has what his father had and is now being recruited to put it to good use . If you liked " Nightwatch " and " Daywatch " , then you'll probably like this . It's got the same sort of wild , over-the-top action and lots of strange special effects . I particularly liked the idea that if you put enough " english " on a gun when you fire it , you can shoot around things in your way . This has a twist to it , and that is basically that things were not what they seemed , and that how certain characters were presented is not who they really are , which is kind of standard but I didn't suspect what was eventually revealed . Not a bad film , reasonably entertaining with a few good laughs & lots of over-the-top stuff to keep your interest . It did drag in spots , though , which is my only complaint . My parents were taken by some friends to see this , and they were horrified , which is as good of an endorsement for this as I could get . In watching this , I always kept that in mind which , perversely , probably made me like this even more . .
Well done , a bit scary for small kids , but ultimately not very memorable	Spiderwick Chronicles involves a family moving into an old house somewhere in New England , and the house belonged to one Arthur Spiderwick . It seems that Mr . Spiderwick wrote a book about fairies , goblins , and such , that he called a field guide , but in doing so he placed himself ( and his young daughter ) in danger because apparently the goblins didn't want such things to be public knowledge . The new family has a few issues , like , for instance , they're not complete , as in , there's no dad & they're starting over again . Freddie Highmore ( Charlie & The Chocolate Factory ) plays twin brothers , one calm & cool Simon ) , the other a bit more troubled and apt to " act out " his aggressions due to no dad being there ( Jared ) . The family isn't in the house for long before they realize that small things are disappearing , and a presence reveals itself , that being a brownie called " Thimbletack " ( Martin Short ) who gets rather agitated at times but can always be placated with honey ( of which there is a generous supply in the house ) . Jared finds the " field guide " and reads it and then realizes that they're not alone in the house or the surrounding countryside . Eventually the goblins make their move for the book and while the house is surrounded by a " fairie ring " it doesn't help when the book is removed from the house & the protective circle . Eventually a visit is paid by two of the children to the daughter of Arthur , who now lives in an asylum due to her claims that a goblin bit her when she was a child , which wasn't taken particularly well at the time and she was diagnosed as being insane . Of course , she isn't , and helps to save the day . This is a fairly well done & entertaining movie but ultimately somewhat forgettable , unless you're a small child & have had the crap scared out of you by the BIG goblin , which I think happened to my buddy's 5-year old who was sitting next to me and drew back in his seat as it reared up on the screen . Yes , it's a bit scary for little kids . A good effort but nothing I'd bother to see again , probably . .
stupidly funny low-budget post-holocaust extravaganza	I was expecting to be disappointed after watching this but no , this is good stupid fun . Low-budget , filmed on Super 8 , but still plenty entertaining for what it is . Slangman is a guy who survives by his wits , and his dictionary , and he wanders the wastelands of post-holocaust earth . Seems that mankind did so well in their peace efforts they tried to bring the continents together to make one big happy country but with disastrous results . Slangman comes in contact with a tongueless savage whom he calls Atlatl , and together they set out to find " the source " which is supposedly something that will help the remaining people of earth . Along the way they pick up Femme , a brain-dead " actress " who Slangman is attracted to . They encounter all manner of mutants and slime-balls , sometimes with hilarious results . Eventually they find Dr . Obvious , who knows of the source and even where it is , and they must get to it although they're attacked by still more mutants . The humor is sarcastic & silly , and even at times , " Monty Python-ish " , although this is an American film . The effects are silly at times but imaginative at others , considering the low budget . If you're in the mood for a goofy post-holocaust film , this one's for you . .
a strange thriller	Here's a strange little thriller as an ex-heroin addict leaves NYC for the Cape Cod community of Atwater Commons to attend some kind of seminar on serial killer profiling ? Or something like that . Seems Atwater Commons is quite proud of their curmudgeonly resident author who wrote a book called " Dirt Boy " about a serial killer . Atwater Commons is like David Lynch's version of The Village from the 60's TV show " The Prisoner " , they have a weird radio station that doesn't extend beyond town lines and they're always up to something odd . And so is someone else as people keep turning up dead in the fashion of the killings from the book Dirt Boy . Our intrepid hero is onto the mystery and gathering clues , but little does he suspect the real truth , until he does some real digging , literally and figuratively . This is overall not a bad little mystery thriller but could have been better , obviously a lot of work went into it but it's lacking in some areas . Still though , it's not a bad little flick and worth seeing at least once . No wild special effects , no gore , a bit on the talky side , but not bad . .
were ' Krimis ' meant to be taken seriously ?	I had seen both " The Bloody Dead " and " Creature with the Blue Hand " on VHS until I bought the DVD that has both versions , and I have to say that I enjoyed them although I can't imagine how exactly they were intended to be taken . Here we have a young man who has escaped a nasty asylum and manages to get home ( four miles ) and change into his brother's clothes , and be downstairs in a matter of moments , having assumed his brother's identity and shaved ( and showered ? he was awful sweaty-looking ) . Anyway , this is Dave ( played by Klaus Kinski ) who has assumed the identity of his brother Richard . Dave's been in the nut-house for killing the family gardener . Meanwhile , someone stalks the halls of the estate with the deadly Blue Hand , a metal glove , of sorts , with retractable claws , for those nasty gouges that cause immediate death in all they touch . And , there's something going on with wrongful commitments to the asylum in an attempt for someone to get an inheritance , or something along those lines . It's not terribly clear . There's also a dour butler with deadpan delivery who is quite amusing . This pretty fun to watch , despite its shortcomings , and has a cool jazzy 60's soundtrack which is also very enjoyable . The Bloody Dead version has added footage of cannibalistic inmates at the asylum but none of the additions do much for improving the coherence of the story . Anyway this is fun in a kind of odd way , and if you don't mind some cheesy effects and plot holes a mile wide , you may well enjoy this . It would of course help if you've already seen some " Krimis " and know what to expect . .
My first " non-horror " exploration of Herschell Gordon Lewis is a blast . . . .	I've never watched any of H . G . Lewis's non-horror films until this one and I have to say that while it's not exactly a great film , it's a good one and entertaining , to be sure . A sleazy promoter takes a band that isn't doing so good under his wing and makes them stars , at least , sort of , and yet he's keeping the money for himself . They of course think of ways to get back at him but he seems to usually be one up on them . There's some interesting music in this if you like 60's garage band music like I do , otherwise you'll probably not like it so much . Colonel Harland Sanders even makes an appearance , shaking his elderly booty to their music , I'm sure he really loved it . Anyway this is no great shakes but it is kind of fun , and while the quality of the print on the Something Weird release leaves a lot to be desired , overall it is watchable . .
somewhat enjoyable but runs out of steam before the end	This begins much better than it ends , I mean , when this mysterious cop begins killing people on the streets of New York and is always shown in shadow , now THAT'S cool . When we find out what's going on and why and what he looks like , well , that's a letdown . Anyway , that is what's happening , a man dressed like a cop is killing people and no one on the force is sure if it's one of their own or if it's someone dressed as a cop . Through a twist of fate Bruce Campbell ends up taking the heat for something he didn't do because nobody believes what he tells them so he's an easy target for being " framed " as the killer , although he's done nothing wrong . But with the help of his trusty girlfriend , he escapes from jail and goes off to find the real culprit , who seemed to be somewhat of a psycho to begin with , from what it sounds like . This fizzles out towards the end , once you see this creep , and then there's a big car chase through the mostly empty streets of New York ( right ) and then the big finale of course leaves this wide open for a sequel . And there were two , in case you didn't know . I've not seen them , and I wonder if I need to . Maybe not , I'll stick with this unless I find a reason not to , .
Bollywood remake of " The Others " is not bad	" The Others " is a good film , and this remake ( or re-imagining ) is not bad . The storyline follows the original film fairly closely but in a different setting , and there are a couple differences from this and the original . I enjoyed the original , and this is well done also , so I have no real complaints . The story is that a woman lives in a big old house with her two children , who are kept in darkness because they have a problem with sunlight . Along come three mysterious strangers who claim to be servants sent to answer an ad , and they've actually worked in that house before so they come to live there & help run things . Unfortunately though , Sandra , the mistress of the house , realizes her letter to the agency for servants never got posted , so the arrival of these three becomes a bit alarming to her . There are strange noises & things going on in the house , and that's also rather unnerving . Sandra's husband has gone to a war , although which was is never specified , and since this seems to be taking place in the present day & not in times of WW1 , that's a bit odd . But Sandra encounters her husband in the ever-present fog that seems to linger around this house , & brings him back to their home . The twist with " Hum Kaun Hai " as opposed to " The Others " , though , is that the husband plays somewhat of a different role , and that's where this film takes a different path than the original . I can't really explain this though , without spoilers . Still not a bad film , I rather enjoyed it . .
Super-8 punk rock fun from the early 80's	This is by no means a well-made film , nor does it have good production values , but it does have a raw energy to it and a sense of fun that sort of negates its flaws . Some young girls are out to form a rock and roll band called The Love Dolls . Along the way they meet up with a disapproving mom , rival punks , a sleazy agent , etc . They do manage to get a hit song though & they rise to fame and fortune . Some of the characters were played by members of So . Cal . bands of the time , like the McDonald brothers from Redd Kross , Dez Cadena ( Black Flag ) , Annette Zilinskas ( Blood on the Saddle ) . There is nothing about this that seems particularly professional but yet it does have a murky atmosphere of fun to it and the Venice locations lend to that . Of course once fame has been achieved then rivals become enemies and tragedy strikes and the 15 minutes of fame is over . This is full of wonderful dialog ( Thanks for killing my mom ) and totally unprofessional acting but for the right audience this is a classic , of sorts . Lots of cool music courtesy of Redd Kross & other bands of the time . Not great , but definitely fun . .
Bizarre ? Well , yes it is , thanks for asking . . . . .	Bizarre , the American title for ' Secrets of Sex ' , is presented now on DVD for your viewing pleasure , and it's kind of like an R-rated " Love , American Style " on acid . With quite a few themes that THAT old show wouldn't touch with a 10-foot pole . Plus , it's narrated by a mummy . This has several short episodes , showcasing the " battle between the sexes " and one is fairly macabre , although the rest by today's standards are relatively tame . We have a female photographer capturing acts of torture on film , a woman who has some genetic defect that she passes along to her offspring , and then a fairly silly secret agent type spoof , and the rest is fair to middling . Overall , it's worth seeing because it's different , and yes , even kind of bizarre , but it is fairly dated and while certain things never change , a lot of the skits and ideas put forth seem pretty old fashioned now . , worth a look for the adventurous or bored .
OK , so what's real and what's NOT ? ( minor spoilers )	This is a decent Korean horror film about ghosts and mental illness , I guess , and it leaves you wondering who's really the sick one . After staying in an institution two young girls return home and are faced with their wicked stepmother and strange father . You have to wonder what's going on because the mother refers to " the girls " and the father only speaks to one . This puts me in mind of " The Other " novel & movie by Thomas Tryon , but only in a certain sense . It's a fairly creepy film and has elements of other Asian horror of the day , like Ring and Ju-On , but on the other hand it's in a class by itself . You're never really sure what's really happening because the line between reality and fantasy is quite blurry . There are some disturbing moments and some decent scares but it's not quite all it could have been . Still though it's decent and worth watching , probably more than once just to pick up on what's going on , if you can . .
oh come on , it ' s not THAT bad . . . . .	Murder Rock ( AKA Dancing Death , Slashdance ) is not one of Lucio Fulci's best films but it's not THAT bad . Granted , there's about 15 excruciating minutes at the beginning that you'll wonder what on earth he was thinking , with lots of 80's dance routines type stuff that will have you yearning for maggot-infested zombies ( with or without leg warmers , doesn't matter ) to wreak havoc on these dancers , but thankfully most of that is over and done and we're on to a fair to middling " Giallo " after that . Seems that there's lots of competition in the dance world and that not everyone plays fair in the scramble to the top of the heap , as is evidenced by several deceased women who met their untimely deaths as the result of a big hat pin ? Yep , that's the murder weapon . You can even hear it going in . All evidence seems to point to a mystery man , one that one woman has seen in her dreams and then sees him on billboards , etc . Is he the one ? Or is he a red herring ? You'll have to watch to find out . I've seen some of Fulci's " lesser " efforts , which were pretty abysmal , like " Sweet House of Horror " , and that was terrible , so it's hard to say this is one of his worst films , because he did find ways to dig deeper . If you stick with this it's fairly decent and there's a sometimes-interesting soundtrack by Keith Emerson , too . .
Guess Who's Coming To Dinner ?	Marcus is a fairly creepy little flick that takes place at Christmas time , and no one will feel in a festive mood while watching nor afterward , believe me . Brooke was apparently planning a Christmas get-together for her estranged family & friends , and one thing she didn't count on was Marcus . And who the hell IS Marcus , anyway ? Well , apparently he's not very nice and doesn't really like Brooke too much , otherwise she wouldn't be tied up in her bathtub after having her head smacked against the tile wall . But Marcus has gone out for a few things at the store , and while he's gone the guests have arrived and are quite surprised to find this stranger in their midst , as they had no inkling that dear Brooke had a boyfriend . Now , for the most part none of the guests are exactly too enamored with each other's company , and Roger has showed up with his new fiancée and wasn't expecting his ex-girlfriend Kim to be there , etc . etc . No festive holiday mood here , and absolutely no peace on earth , except perhaps for Brooke , who has now had her throat ripped out by Marcus . Are you starting to get the idea that Marcus is a psycho and that there's something quite sinister going on here ? And that these dinner guests have wandered into something far worse than a family squabble ? This film has a rather claustrophobic feel to it , and considering it's the holiday season I guess you might call it " cosy " , that is , if there wasn't so much animosity and if the atmosphere wasn't so filled with dread . This is effectively creepy but it's also rather short and sweet and doesn't give certain things time to develop , but on the other hand it does not overstay its welcome like some other films , either . , check it out .
Mack the Knife ?	To be perfectly honest I was a bit disappointed in this film , which I've wanted to see for years . It does pretty well at capturing the look of an early 1900's picture , but most of the dialog is typical Allen . Which is not to say that either of those things were bad points , it's just that this is sort of over with before you know it and ends on a rather silly and inconclusive note . But then again , so do a lot of films from that era too . The story begins with vigilantes after a mysterious killer , and then there's a circus on the edge of town with two performers who are lovers but they've had somewhat of a spat and she ( Mia Farrow ) heads to town to get away . She is taken in by a prostitute ( Lily Tomlin ) who brings her back to the whore house to spend the night and she is desired by a rich young student ( John Cusack ) who gives her $700 for a roll in the hay , after which she's arrested for practicing without a license , etc . . . lots of intertwining lives and such in this flick . Anyway , in a way it's cool to watch with the B & W photography and looks great , it's just that it kind of falls a bit flat as far as humor or suspense . I guess it's OK , I just was hoping for a bit more . I suppose there's references to " M " and " Cabinet of Dr . Caligari " and some other early 1900's German films thrown in too . There are a lot of fairly big names in this cast that have bit parts , like Cathy Bates , Jodie Foster , Fred Gwynne , David Ogden Stiers , so it's kind of fun to try and spot them . , I'd really expect better from Allen .
" What's Up Tiger Lily ? " kicked up a few notches on the " crude-o-meter "	What we have here is an Indonesian wrestling women / crime drama film dubbed over by some goofy guys into an " R " rated " What's Up , Tiger Lily ? " sort of film , and it mostly works . Seems that there's a young woman that must obtain money for her young brother's operation and she gets involved with seedy elements to do so . There's a big lug with an Elvis voice involved , as well as lots of strange people in masks and lots of women wrestling . The Troma DVD contains both the original Indonesian version ( badly dubbed in English ) & the goofy re-dubbed Troma version , both of which are pretty funny . I watched some of the " original " first then switched over to the Troma version & while the original was pretty funny ( unintentionally ) anyway , the Troma version was probably much more funny . Silly and juvenile stuff but still pretty entertaining for a slow afternoon . .
getting pregnant from the internet ?	A very strange and eerie Korean film , this one . Women who find a website associated with a women's hospital die in two weeks but not before they seemingly become pregnant . One woman is a news reporter who is pregnant ( maybe ) by her boyfriend who works on the same new show as she , and the scandal this creates leads to trouble for both of them . But , that doesn't stop her from messing around with this website and investigating into the strange deaths of several women before her . This is a bit hard to follow but I think that's a cultural thing , I've found that of a lot of Korean films . Overall this has a good look and feel to it and is fairly suspenseful , although I wasn't ever satisfied that I understood exactly what was happening . Lots of strange happenings and imagery in this , and that makes it a good watch even if you never do fully understand it . .
low budget mix of horror and action mostly works	Here's a strange tale owing a bit to David Cronenberg ( especially Videodrome ) , David Lynch ( especially Blue Velvet with a tad of Lost Highway ) and perhaps a couple other influences I couldn't put my finger on . A strange young man ( Noble ) lives in a seedy hotel in a incongruously cheery room ( daisy wallpaper ) and receives a couple strange notes shoved under his door . He see some strange stuff on TV from a pirate station and goes in search of this attractive young woman ( played by Debbie Rochon ) and finds himself in a mystery . Who is this woman and does she exist ? He hooks up with some deranged folks like a guy with an umbrella and some serious complexion problems , and also some wacko pornographers . He is also having strange dreams and seeing some man that wears a white mask that nobody else seems to see . Despite the low budget it's a fairly effective film and even has a fairly decent shock that was totally unexpected ( well , to me , OK ? ) . I gave it a slightly lower rating because the low budget and the way it was filmed sort of detract a bit from the viewing experience but overall it's pretty darn strange and interesting . And what does it all mean ? Who the hell knows , but I liked it . A decent effort and fairly original despite the obvious influences . .
watch out for the babes in the Foster Grants	This is a fun , if rather silly and improbable movie , about some women in a small California community who are , for some strange reason , becoming human bees , maybe in spirit because they still look like women , for the most part , except their eyes , which are completely black . And they hum when they have sex . Which is often , and always with men who will die afterward . In a secret lab , new initiates are slathered with honey and put into a geodesic jungle-gym thing , where they are then covered with bees and emerge with a need to wear sunglasses and seduce men . Of course , once scientists at this remote lab start dropping dead , the Feds send one Neil Agar ( William Smith ) to investigate , and he eventually finds out what's going on ( but not why ) but not without some rugged action-adventure type stuff first , of course . There's some nudity , there's some cool electronic equipment with flashing lights ( and maybe even a machine that goes " ping " ? ) and enough other entertaining stuff in this to make it interesting . Plus the theme song is rather cool and even a tad haunting too . Fun stuff , AKA ( for some reason ) " Graveyard Tramps " . But on a double feature from MGM as its original title . .
Not a film to watch before , during , or after eating	" Last Supper " is about a plastic surgeon who develops a taste for human flesh , most notably , that of young women . You see him putting oil on one young lady who is seated in his living room and telling her that he wants to eat her , and she says , " you may eat me " . Little does she expect his comment is something other than what SHE seems to be thinking , and she's rather surprised to see him wielding a large butcher knife right before he lops her head off . It seems that this doctor started with eating fat from liposuction ( vile ) and then found a housewife that had hung herself and stocked his freezer with her for a while . He also made a trip to Hong Kong for a seminar and ended up finding a place where human meat was consumed , and a " date " that wanted to be eaten , at least for a fee that she could send to her family back home . Ugh . Being eaten without one's consent is bad enough , but WANTING to be eaten is something entirely different . At any rate , due to the great number of young ladies disappearing the police are investigating and one detective ( who looks like a Japanese take on " Columbo " ) has zeroed in on our doctor , although he has ulterior motives . And the grand finale is a wedding feast , prepared by our good doctor and followed by a present that kind of brings all the proceedings to a halt when it's unveiled . A really creepy and disgusting film , although well done , not for the faint of heart or weak of stomach though . .
A diet of rubber lizards would make anyone cranky	I'm not sure how people can say this was the low point in Joan's career , as she did make " Berserk " a few years earlier . And how respectable is " Straight Jacket " ? Well , all I can say is that I was never a big fan although I do own Straight Jacket , Whatever Happened to Baby Jane , and the very strange Johnny Guitar . And now , Trog , on DVD for the first time ever . We begin our film with three young men who are exploring a cave they've found , and within that cave is a stream or river , which leads to another part of the cave , as two of these young men find as they strip to their skivvies and wade in up to their chests . One never returns though , as he's encountered SOMETHING in there that attacks and kills him , and another is heavily sedated after rescue , and the third one , well , he really isn't sure what happened because he didn't want to get wet . But somehow he gets hooked up with noted anthropologist , Dr . Brockton ( Crawford ) and manages to take her down into this previously unexplored cave via a different route than he and his colleagues had chosen before , presumably so her designer caving outfit wouldn't get wet . Conveniently , they also find another cave and a hole through which Dr . Brockton is able to photograph a troglodyte which is ready to hurl a paper-mache boulder . Of course , this picture is treated as a joke and scoffed at by haughty people that know better , but eventually this creature is flushed out of the cave where he goes berserk and throws more paper-mache boulders , and Joan gets her dart gun ( which sounds suspiciously like a rifle ) and shoots the thing and brings it back to her laboratory . There , she wins its confidence by feeding it rubber lizards and eventually , she's exploring the link between prehistoric man and modern man by showing this thing ( which she has lovingly named " Trog " ) how to wind up dolls and roll a ball . Unfortunately , rolling a ball is also a favorite game of a neighbor's German Shepherd who intervenes at that point and pays with its life . Of course , local big-mouth Sam Murdock ( Michael Gough ) is not happy that this thing is around and has killed , and of course he chooses to sabotage Dr . Brockton's efforts by letting it loose . Of course you know , no good end can come of this all . And Trog even invades a children's playground and plucks one sweet young girl ( who looks like the dolly he's been taught to wind up ) straight off the slide , and flees back to his cave with her . Dr . Brockton , is , of course , forced to intervene at that part but sadly , it's too late for Trog . This is , by no stretch of the imagination , a great film , but it's one I always enjoyed on TV back in the olden days before video , and I still think it's kind of fun . Not exactly the high point in Freddy Francis's career either , I'd say . .
Kind of makes you think . . . . .	Finally this is out on DVD ( under the name Clonus ) . I've been wanting to see this film for years & yet not willing to pay the outrageous prices for the long-out-of-print tape . Contrary to its reputation , I didn't find this to be a lousy film , but I actually rather liked it . Seems that a group of young people who have an idyllic life are only in that position because they're being farmed . Yep , they're clones , and once they reach a certain stage in their life they leave for the fabled " America " . America is not quite what they expect it to be though . Seems like something very sinister is afoot . One young man finds a beer can in the river near their compound and asks what it is , and that starts him thinking about what's going on and he starts snooping around and eventually escapes to the outside world , to find he already IS in America , the real one , that is . After being pursued by an agent of Clonus , he manages to elude him and is taken in by an elderly man ( Keenan Wynn ) and his wife , and eventually is taken to the man that he thinks is his father , the brother of an important senator running for President ( Peter Graves ) . As more is revealed it turns out that there is something very sinister indeed going on , which involves extended lives for important people , thanks to the organ bank provided by the residents of Clonus . Oh my ! This is not top notch , but I still found it to be a pretty decent movie . Kind of makes you think , yes it does . .
interesting , but is there some deep meaning ?	A bunch of dwarfs , who are institutionalized ( probably in some kind of asylum ) , rise up against the President ( Pepe Hermine ) and raise a little hell , so to speak . This appears to have been filmed in South America somewhere , and in a fairly desolate area . There's a compound in which there are plants and animals , all supposedly to be taken care of as part of rehab or something , but all those things are set upon and plants are burned and a few animals are killed and tortured ( which was rather uneasy viewing for me ) . A car is jump started and the steering wheel is tied so that the vehicle runs in endless circles , and a motorcycle is even rolled out , and started , with the tiniest of the dwarfs sitting on it , unable to go anywhere , for a very long time . One woman shows off her bug collection , the dwarfs find some porno magazines and look at them , and there are even several attempts to storm the stronghold of the president , who is holding one of their own hostage . There are also two blind dwarfs , who engage in strange little games , with the others quietly intruding on them just to mess with them . A very strange little movie , and well filmed but disturbing , and is there a deep meaning to it ? Some viewers think so from glancing at their reviews , I unfortunately , don't have a gift for reading in things that may or may not be there . I still kind of liked it though , definitely bizarre and bizarre is what I like . .
cheesy low budget horror comedy is kind of fun	From the director of Bloodsucking Freaks , " Blood Bath " is fairly bloodless and not straight horror , but rather a sort of cheesy horror comedy along the lines of movies like Deadtime Stories and such . This is a horror anthology with a wrap-around of actors having a dinner after working on a play together and they all have tales to tell . Certainly no masterpiece but then again , neither is Bloodsucking Freaks . They both have a rather scuzzy charm to them though , despite the low budget , and this is definitely entertaining if you don't mind little in the way of scares or gore . P . J . Soles , later of Carrie & Rock ' n ' Roll High School , is in this , but I didn't recognize her . And also Harve Presnell , who I believe is in Fargo many years later ? Not a bad little watch , nothing too exciting though but entertaining enough . . Now available on DVD from Subversive , too .
Low-key Aussie comedy is well worth seeing	Malcolm is a mildly retarded young man who is fired from his job at the tram yard for making his own tram from spare parts , etc . I guess the " building it " part wouldn't have been so bad , but he took it out on the tracks & rode it around . Anyway , Malcolm makes up for his other shortcomings by being something of a tinkerer and inventor , and he lives by himself in his mum's old house , with mum having passed on the previous year . When Malcolm is cut off from getting milk & such at the local store , the proprietor suggests he takes in a border , and along comes Frank , fresh out of jail . Frank moves in , and then his girlfriend Judith . Malcolm takes it all in stride , but after a letter arrives for Frank he reveals to Malcolm he's been in jail , but Malcolm is basically indifferent to all that . Frank has been hanging out with some shady characters & pulling some jobs , but eventually Malcolm becomes fascinated with how to pull off crimes & puts his inventing skills to good use . There's a little yellow car ( the " getaway car " ) that splits in half & one rides it like a motorcycle , and there is a model car equipped with speaker & gun to rob armored car guards , and the best is the quintet of mobile ashtrays in the final heist . Malcolm is of a mindset that what he's doing isn't wrong , he's merely helping his friends , but that's OK , this is just a movie & not a guide for living . A fun movie , rather low key humor of the Aussie type but I still enjoyed it a lot . . Now available on DVD in the US for the first time , too .
Andy Milligan's best	I guess one could say this is Milligan's best film because it's more technically competent , which is a big step up from some of the earlier films of his that I've seen . The camera holds still , the actors can almost act , and it's got more or less of a story line , however confusing it may be . A young couple get a visit from a vicar & his wife that claim to be distant relatives of theirs , they being of the Ford family , a centuries-old line of vampires . ? ? There's lots of relations running around , so it seems , and this doesn't seem to focus on the various ones for too long , because people appear and disappear while you wonder why they were there and where they went as the film goes by . I kind of like the idea of a vampire masquerading as a vicar , seems appropriate , though . Anyway , when folks start to visit Carfax Abbey they seem to never leave , and there is the trio of green-faced vampire babes that seem to be just everywhere too . I suppose what this boils down to is that they vampire clan wants to go to the USA where they can have more freedom since they're questioned at night as they wander the London Streets . . . ? Of course us Americans are stereotyped as " pimps , prostitutes and religious fanatics " . . . ? Oh , and the scum of the earth . Yeah , well , kinda , but not ALL of us . Anyway , this is pretty meandering and incoherent , a Milligan trademark , I reckon , but still it isn't all that bad , just very strange . I guess the only Milligan film made outside of the US , maybe that's why it's so . . . elegant . Yeah . .
now here's a man who knows how to show when he's had enough	This is my first Fassbinder film , and I had read about it and didn't even know it was out on DVD so when I saw it , I snagged it immediately . Being somewhat familiar with the works of Lars Von Trier and also familiar with Harmony Korine ( who employs Von Trier's Dogma 95 style ) I wasn't put off by the style of this film , although to many this will seem like a bunch of people doing ordinary things and rambling on about nothing , which basically it is . Herr Raab is a very drab and bland man who leads a very bland and drab life , going to the office , hanging out with his wife and child , hanging out with neighbors and relatives and not talking much about anything in particular , and smoking lots and lots of cigarettes . You sense he's somewhat unsatisfied with his life though and he finally shows just how unsatisfied he is by wielding a candlestick and taking out a neighbor , his wife , and kid , and then getting dressed and going into the office as though nothing was amiss . Of course he's such an ordinary man that nobody can believe he'd do such a thing . I guess this is decent enough portrayal of a quiet descent into madness , but it won't be for everyone because it's very talky and improvised and you spend most of the picture anticipating exactly WHEN Herr R . will run amok . I kind of liked it but definitely not for everyone . .
Not exactly screaming	I am disappointed . This is nowhere near as funny or weird as I expected and I certainly would expect better from Bruce Campbell . This is a tale that takes place in Bulgaria , why there I don't know , but it does . Campbell plays an " ugly American " type that comes with his wife on a business trip . In many ways he reminds me much more of John Cleese ( it's the mustache ) than Bruce Campbell , but I would have expected better of John Cleese too . Ted Raimi pretty much gives the funnier performance here as kind of a Russian Hip-hop Huntz Hall ( and assistant to inventor Ivan Ivanov , played by an almost unrecognizable Stacey Keach ) . Anyway , Campbell runs afoul of a knife-toting Bulgarian gypsy maid who also happens to be the ex-fiancée of their ex-KGB Russian cab driver , Yegor , and gets his skull bashed in , and Yegor himself doesn't fare too good either . Along comes Pavel ( Raimi ) to collect the bodies so the good doctor can experiment and we end up with two person's brains in one person's body , and they aren't exactly compatible . Campbell finds delightfully atrocious clothing in a bin to wear and cruises around on a pink Vespa , and also engages in a bit of rehashed " Evil Dead II " shtick and he smacks himself around with his own hand . There are a few encounters with Euro-trash thugs and gypsies and the like , oh , and by the way Campbell's wife also gets experimented on and her brain ends up in the body of something like a crash-test dummy . This is mildly amusing , and mildly weird , and mildly intriguing , but certainly not screaming . For a better taste of recent Campbell goofiness that is more weird and bizarre , try Bubba Ho Tep if you haven't seen it . It's a more satisfying watch . .
chilling thriller	This is a good little low-budget thriller filmed in ( I think ) Georgia , or so I think from a car license plate . It begins rather abruptly the the sharp swing of a baseball bat and there's no time to build up to what caused that , it's just there . Through flashbacks we find out the woman that was just killed ( by her husband ) was caught in bed with another guy , and now the husband finds himself wondering what to do with the corpse . So he packs it in ice in the trunk of his car and heads off to a farm in the country ( owned by his sister ) to chill a bit and think things over . While there he finds a freezer and puts her in it but he's up against the nosiest bunch of rednecks in the world who are all snooping into his business and finds he has to deal with them one by one . He also finds that he's rather attracted to the wife of one of them who hangs out there a lot because her husband gets mean when he's been drinking . Anyway , the nosier these rednecks get , the deader they get , and the bodies are piling up fast . To make matters worse the now-deceased wife's lover-boy has come looking for her , too . A decent enough thriller , somewhat gruesome but not bad , leaves something to be desired in some of the acting but otherwise it's pretty decent . .
Interesting Japanese anthology	Zoo is several tales of the macabre , for want of a better description , and is at times quite good and others merely adequate . In the first story twin sisters who are treated very differently by their mother switch places with interesting results . In another segment a group of people are held in windowless chambers awaiting death by a psychotic killer , and a young boy who has been captured with his sister moves from chamber to chamber through a narrow canal to visit with each captive to find out what's going on . In another segment a man and his girlfriend stop at an abandoned zoo on a whim and he ends up killing her when she wants to break up with him , only to return every day to take a picture of her as she decomposes . This is apparently made for Japanese TV and yet it doesn't have the cheap " shot on video " look of many of these sort of anthologies , and the stories are actually quite good and well thought out . Definitely has its moments of creepiness and yet a good dose of humanity too , no matter how ugly at times . , well worth seeing for fans of Asian films .
above-average 80's slasher , now on DVD !	Just for the record , the Code Red DVD contains the original theatrical version , plus the director's cut . The director's cut , however , is kind of " warts and all " , being that it was pieced together from various source materials & " is not up to the usual quality " of Code Red , but still , it's watchable . To be honest , I haven't seen the film in so long that I couldn't tell you what's in the director's cut that's not in the " theatrical release " without watching that again . The story is that of a small Texas town , where people seem to be dying horribly & mysteriously , mostly cut up . Just new to town are an archaeologist ( Patrick Macnee ) , his wife Joanne , and lovely , over-developed , 15-year old Melissa . And is seems as though all this bloodshed has only happened since they've arrived . There are some local Indians , though , that are blamed for what's going on , and one , Greyfeather , seems to have run afoul of the town's racist rednecks , although the man has never done anything wrong . And Jason Longshadow , nephew of Greyfeather , is a suspect in the killings . So who is really responsible ? Melissa seems to get around a lot , in many ways too . At her 16th birthday bash , things get out of hand and eventually the culprit is revealed . Also features Bo Hopkins as the sheriff ( does he ever play any other roles ? ) . Not that this is necessarily a good thing but he's at least tolerable here . A decent , above-average 80's slasher that manages to rise above the usual clichés associated with the genre . Not bad , in fact . .
Not so much a " movie " as a visual treat	I had the opportunity to see The Screamers at some forgotten venue in San Franciso almost 30 years ago ( with Tuxedomoon & the Units ) and remember it being one of the strangest shows I've ever been to . Since the Screamers never released a record ( at least , officially ) , I have a hard time remembering their music , but seeing " Population : 1 " did evoke some memories of that show . This isn't so much a movie as it is a visual treat , as our " host " , Tomata Du Plenty , the last surviving human being on earth ( supposedly ) , takes us on a fictitious historical journey through his twisted past . This is pretty much an extended music video with Tomata's rambling , but not uninteresting , monologue , with his reminiscence of days gone by , and his mom calling him in from the fields ( she did NOT call him Tomata , I'm sure ) , and his love affair with Sheela Edwards ( who also does a hot little number called Jazz Vampire ) , to his rather bizarre & almost " rap-like " take on " Pillow Talk " . Tomata gets some opportunity to do his strange crab-like moves and bizarre little dances as he fills us on on the past . This film will have a rather limited appeal , but if you're at least familiar with The Screamers & anything to do with the LA Punk scene of yesteryear , you'll definitely want to get your mitts on this . Disc two of the set has a Screamers performance at the Whiskey in 1979 too , and it's fairly decent visual quality , even if the audio is kind of muddy . , very weird stuff , but kind of cool .
film is derivative but still enjoyable	Hawa is sort of a combination of " The Entity " and " Poltergeist " with an Indian flair to it . A young woman moves with her daughters & her brother to a bungalow in a remote area ( after divorcing her husband ) and finds that there's strange things going on there after some kind of lightning strike nearby the house . Seems like the local folks felt that there were inauspicious things going on too , as they gathered to " exorcise " the supposed demons . But apparently they didn't do a very good job of it , because there seems to be poltergeist-like activity in this house , and there is also a seemingly malevolent force which actually rapes this woman and she's scared to death . Eventually a doctor becomes involved and sees that the woman is not crazy and there really IS something strange going on , and it all leads to the nearby location where lightning struck , which was apparently an ancient site of punishment for evil-doers and not exactly a good neighborhood in which to build a house . There are some so-so CGI effects near the end but overall most of the effects in the film are fairly decent . Can't really complain too much about " copying " Poltergeist or The Entity since both of those films are well over 20 years old now and " Hawa " is a rather fresh updating of both . .
Written but not directed by Roman Polanski	Bernard is a drunk and an accomplished sponger , who takes a young girl , Winnie , on a trip to the seashore one day in the rain . The girl may be his daughter , with his ex-wife remarried , but she may also be his niece and she does call him " uncle " . It's a bit hard to say . At any rate , poor Winnie has leg irons as the result of some handicap , but they don't appear to dampen her enthusiasm for a day at the beach with her uncle . At any rate , Bernard does not have a squeaky clean reputation & he is barely trusted with his charge , and he's accosted at the train station before they've even left by someone to whom he owes money . At any rate , he and Winnie do reach the shore , and the weather is terrible , but Winnie is with her uncle and she loves him . And her uncle loves Winnie to , to an extent , but it appears he loves alcohol more , and proceeds to spend the day acquiring and consuming vast quantities , until he's unable to continue and that's kind of where things leave off . Bernard is a rather pathetic figure , yet his niece apparently adores him and is fiercely loyal to him , despite the fact that he's left her on her own a couple times & she's been left in tears . Bernard does appear to dote on his niece too , but she's obviously not the most important thing to him . Overall this is somewhat of a depressing film , with lots of rain and a desolate feel to it . The screenplay is by Roman Polanski but this was made around the time his wife , Sharon Tate , was murdered by the Manson family & therefore apparently he had other things to worry about . Still though , if you're a fan of Polanski's films , it's worth seeing , and is sort of an oddity . A very different release for Code Red DVD too , branching out a bit from their usual " schlock horror " flicks ( which I still love ) . The DVD looks great & it worth seeing . .
strange , bleak , and eerie	When I got this I sort of cringed , because I don't care much for Ron Perlman , but while he plays his usual " human bulldozer " type , he was at least tolerable in this . Pollack ( Perlman ) is a rough , gruff , oilman , apparently the boss-man of this particular Alaska site . There is a crew there to check the feasibility of drilling but two of the crew are " Green " and aren't as keen about this whole thing as the oil people are . James Hoffman ( James LeGros ) feels there's something VERY wrong where they are and wants them all to leave , but Pollack is insistent that Hoffman sign whatever papers are necessary to bring in equipment to start drilling . Part of the " wrongness " seems to come from the fact that it's too warm , and there's the possibility that the permafrost is melting and releasing " sour gas " which may be causing the people there to act oddly . One young man , Maxwell , is the son of a friend of Pollack's , and he's rather overwhelmed by the great expanse of nothingness there . When Maxwell disappears for a while , near an previous ( and mysterious ) proposed drilling site , he returns a rather changed person , claiming to have seen things . Eventually he wanders away again ( this time with a camera ) and is found later but only the camera can tell what may have happened . And it's rather disturbing . Larry Fessenden seems to have found a niche in quiet ( but disturbing ) horror , and this is at least on a par with " Wendigo " , which I thought was rather impressive . There are some barely glimpsed " Wendigo " type creatures in this film but the fact that they're rather indistinct made them even creepier . The strangest part of this film is the ending , which I guess can be interpreted a couple of different ways , one of which negates all that you've just seen , and the other , well , I don't know , really . Either way though , it was rather bleak . I was a bit disappointed with the ending but it didn't completely ruin the film for me . A decent watch , more horror for those with patience and attention span rather than a fast-paced whirlwind of mayhem . .
OK horror / thriller , but somewhat derivative	Krishna Cottage looks good , and is well done technically , but the story is , in part , based on Ringu , except the twist is that we have a creepy book that's making the rounds cursing people instead of a video-tape . Now Manav , has a new admirer in Disha , although Manav already HAS a girlfriend ( Shanti ) . But Disha is rather mysterious and through some poking around and prying , it's discovered that Disha is no longer among the living , and hasn't been for 20 years . Through this mysterious book Manav manages to find out what happened and then finds out that he himself is chosen by Disha for one very important reason . This is a fairly decent thriller and while , like many Indian " horror " flicks , it seems to borrow liberally from a variety of films & genres , it's still different enough to be enjoyable . .
Forgive them . Forgive them . For . . . . ?	Mad Room is a odd little late 60's thriller that seems to be incredibly obscure . I might put it in somewhat the same category as " The Big Cube " because while it has recognizable stars it wasn't made in the US & it has an odd feel to it . Mandy and George , who were four and six years old , spent 12 years in a nut-house for killing their parents . No one is sure which one did it and they , themselves , don't remember . When their uncle , who was apparently their benefactor , dies , they go to live in a big house with their sister Ellen ( Stella Stevens ) , who lives at the house of her future mother-in-law , Mrs . Armstrong ( Shelley Winters ) . The two children are , of course , brought into the house without revealing their pasts , and despite grilling from Mrs . Armstrong , they manage to hold their own as far as being inscrutable and mysterious . Mandy has asked Ellen for a " mad room " , a place that is quiet and neutral , where they can go to think out their problems , and they choose the disused study of Mrs . Armstrong's late husband , much to her dismay . When Mandy leaves behind a book in the room that is stamped with the institution's name & address , Mrs . Armstrong begins to suspect something is off , but then she never has the chance to do anything much after that . So Mrs . Armstrong is now deceased and Ellen is trying to cover up for her siblings , and manages to do so quite well until Major , the dopey dog , helps himself to a body part that he begins to carry around with him . And then , of course , it is revealed , after a lady's auxiliary get-together , where a drunken & jealous woman tries to kill herself with a piece of glass , that Ellen seems to have a few issues herself , and that perhaps things aren't at all what they seem . This is definitely an oddball little film & has a great atmosphere to it . I have to wonder why it's so obscure & it's worth seeking out , if only to see once . Not great , but entertaining and enjoyable whodunit . .
" you're a successful advertising executive " ? ? ! ! ha ha ha ha haha . . .	This is some film , let me tell you . First off , it's directed / produced by Doris Wishman , of whom it was said , directed movies like she'd never seen one . . . as in , focusing on floors , walls , ashtrays , etc . instead of the person talking , so she didn't have to take too many pains with the dialog after . And in THIS particular film , she had a couple MORE things to focus on besides inanimate objects , for the star is none other than Chesty Morgan , and I say that like I have any idea what she's ever done besides these two movies with Doris Wishman , both of which are absolutely terrible but chock full of unintentional humor and jaw-dropping visuals . . . . two of which belong to Ms . Morgan herself . In this film she's billed as Zsa Zsa , and the gist is that her boyfriend or fiancée gets killed by the mob , so she takes revenge . And how does she take revenge ? Well , I won't reveal that but this is called " Deadly Weapons " so I'll leave that to your imagination . Best line is when Chesty is speaking with her father & he says to her " You're a successful advertising executive " . . . that's about as improbable as you could probably get , especially since she wouldn't even be able to sit down and get close to a desk . The seventies decor is exquisite as always in Wishman's films , and Chesty's outfits are rather , uh , well , OK , they look like maternity clothes . In some cases part of her breasts are bulging out her top , and that made me think of icebergs or something . . . as in , isn't it like only 10 % that's visible and the rest underwater ? Well , whatever . If you've seen other Doris Wishman films you may know more or less , what to expect . . . if not , give this a shot , I can't say you won't regret it though , because you may well . Worth a few laughs and worth seeing just for the " what the F ? " value . .
wonderfully incoherent	Take Frankenstein , Dracula , a werewolf , and put them into the hands of Jesus Franco and ta-dah , you have his wonderfully incoherent take on all of those legends with twists that only he could add . Now , don't get me wrong , I didn't think this was terrible , but it's certainly not what I'd call a traditional rendering of classic horror . Franco regular Howard Vernon plays Dracula ( with no speaking parts ) and is apparently rendered helpless by a stake through the heart , but seemingly just a couple little taps with a tiny hammer ? What are we doing here , hanging pictures ? Everyone knows you need a mallet for that job , but at any rate this action turns the vampire into a bat for easy transport . The kidnapper is , of course , Dr . Frankenstein ( but apparently just a relative , not the original . ) He performs some experiments in bat resuscitation ( I guess ) and is bent on creating an army of vampires , or some such thing . Anyway it's best when watching this to just turn off your brain and go along for the ride , because it's fun to watch but damn , is it loopy . .
short , weird , and noisy	I was surprised I'd actually seen one other movie by this director and it was " Angel Dust " which is quite unlike this one in every way . That one is more a thriller / mystery , quite creepy , this one is a " wham bam thank you ma'am " sort of comic book adventure , along the lines of Tetsuo meets Guitar Wolf or something . A young boy climbing an electrical tower is shocked and it's awakened a part of his brain that I guess is mostly dormant in most humans , that makes him rather aggressive . He was apparently an orphan or something , living in a group situation , because you see him break out in fights and then getting dragged to have another electro-shock session ( over and over , as he gets older ) . He finds solace in making lots of electric guitar noise though . There is a new guy in town , though , Thunderbolt Buddha , who wears half a Buddha head over his face and was apparently struck by lightning , and these two eventually face off in some huge and shocking ( he he ) battle . And noisy . This is all filmed in black and white and is quite odd , but it's also very short ( 55 minutes ) and was over with before I knew it and my thought was " that's it ? " . Well , it wasn't bad ; appealed to my sense of weirdness , but it seemed like it was lacking . . something , I can't put my finger on it . Still it was watchable and weird , and the " music " served to exact revenge on my downstairs neighbor for playing Bing Crosby Christmas music all weekend . .
worthwhile if not for everyone	Here's a creepy little chiller / thriller by William Friedkin , the guy that did The Exorcist over 30 years ago . Ashley Judd plays a young waitress , holed up in some fleabag hotel in Oklahoma , who's trying to stay away from her ex-con husband and still grieving ( after years ) her young son , who mysteriously disappeared one day from the grocery . Along comes Peter , introduced to Agnes ( Judd ) by one of her friends , R . C . Peter seems like a nice guy , if a bit odd , at first , so Agnes invites him to stay on her couch if he likes , since he's " between addresses " . The longer Peter stays , the more strange he seems to become , and he's talking about being experimented on and about bugs living inside his body & the more he goes on about this the more Agnes begins to believe him and she's dragged down into his disease . When a doctor from where Peter was " locked up " for a while comes looking for Peter , he finds a room covered with plastic & aluminum foil & tells Agnes that Peter is mentally ill , but by that time so is Agnes . This is a chilling descent into madness for these two & by no means does this have an uplifting ending . This is definitely a worthwhile film but it by no means will be for everyone . .
not as freaky as expected	Instead of a evil gruesome comedy this is more juvenile than anything , unfortunately . This is a " claymation " recreation of the Charles Manson " legend " , for want of a better word , and of course doesn't use real names , for fear of a law suit ? I was at one point put in mind of a twisted version of Davey & Goliath , and that was pretty much the quality of the " claymation " . Art Clokey would not be happy with that , I'm sure . I suppose I expected something more outrageous than this , which is basically a lot of blood & sex jokes , and some fairly bad taste but not bad enough to be that shocking . Like for instance , Sharon Hate & her baby . She's snorting coke by the bucketful and tells someone not to smoke around her . Yeah , OK . I guess if you're of the right frame of mind you'll like this but I expected better . .
Oozing with creepy goodness	I was pleasantly surprised how good this was , since the box said it was a cross between " Silence of the Lambs " and " Scanners " ( ? ? ! ) . It does have a few elements of both , perhaps , but is nothing like either . A hypnotist who suffers from visions tries to help a little girl that was kidnapped by a serial killer but escaped . As things move along , he finds himself more involved than he ever wanted to be and is on the trail of the killer . Once you see who the killer is , you're not sure who the killer is , and that's all I can say about that . This is more a thriller than straight-out horror but it has the best of both . Most creepy is a church converted into apartment homes , I wouldn't live in a place like that on a bet . This is kind of low key but I was riveted to the screen because it's very compelling to watch . stars .
not a bad little thriller	Juliette Lewis plays a young woman who has inherited an apartment from her aunt , a nice apartment in the requisite creepy old building with the requisite creepy old neighbors . Her boyfriend , weatherman Greg ( William Hurt ) isn't particularly happy she chose to do that instead of moving in with him , but she's pretty strong willed so she's busily moving in and setting up and figuring out that the neighbor downstairs isn't too happy with the noise she makes . For an eighty year old woman ( which is what the downstairs tenant is purported to be ) she's pretty energetic and after several shots to the kitchen floor that broke tiles , Lewis takes revenge with a punk rock exercise workout , with the speakers of her stereo face down on the floor . Of course she feels better for a while but does that stop the weirdness ? Not a bit . As the film goes on and then winds down it certainly appears that things are not what they seem , especially after Lewis climbs down to the apartment below and snoops , only to find that NO one lives there and there are diagrams of the placement of her furniture on the ceiling ? Of course things get a bit out of control at that point and she's forced to move in with Greg . Sort of a twist ending too , at least an ending with a clue that will make you wonder . Not a bad little film and worthwhile entertainment , although no great shakes . .
A western dressed in sci-fi clothing , but a good one . . . .	I had never even HEARD of this film before it was released on DVD with " When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth " . This film begins with a jazzy theme song and animated opening credits which make it seem like it might be a comedy of sorts , but no , really it's a western dressed up in sci-fi clothing . It seems that one Bill Kemp ( James Olson ) , former Mars explorer and all around surly guy , now runs a passenger service for people on the moon , and he also ( with the help of his engineer , Korminski ) collects salvage to sell . It seems that he's been railroaded into helping a very rich man with highly questionable morals to " land " an asteroid on the dark side of the moon so that this man's thugs can get all the sapphires off of it . In the meantime though , one Clementine Taplin has come to Kemp , looking for his help in getting HER to the dark side of the moon so she can find her brother , who is a miner ( forty-niner ? ) who was supposed to meet her but hasn't been seen or heard from in a long time . And it's possible that the reason for that has something to do with Hubbard & his band of thugs , who want to land their asteroid in the general vicinity of her brother's mining operation . Olson does take Clementine on the trek , but what they find is not good , and they're also ambushed by Hubbard's men , but do manage to return to what passes for civilization on the moon . This is rather an odd change for Hammer , but still a fun little film , with more than a little sly humor thrown in . Bright colors , cool music , go-go dancing space gals in futuristic saloons , and even some folks playing Moonopoly ? Yes indeed . Not a great film but certainly a fun one , a space oater , I guess you could say , but thankfully minus the horses . .
( School ) Girls in Chains , now on DVD from Code Red	Frank & John live in a great big house in the middle of nowhere with their domineering mother , and they bring home girls to keep in the basement , mainly for John , who is a bit simple-minded ( to say the least ) to play with . Of course , John likes to play games with the girls , but he likes to play doctor , and they like to play hide and seek , except most of them don't get to hide for long . And sometimes they try to get away , but they don't make it . John likes to operate , too , apparently , but that's only hinted at , we don't get to see it . Frank ( as played by Gary Kent , of Al Adamson films , etc ) is the quiet one . That doesn't mean he's sane , though . When having a nice chat with one of the chained-up girls , we find that he was once engaged but that his bride-to-be was a bit put off when she found out that he still wet the bed and had sex with his mother . Our dynamic duo make one mistake though in one of their choices of girls to kidnap , because her boyfriend comes looking for her & proves to be their undoing . In some ways this is reminiscent of Psycho , Texas Chainsaw Massacre , and Mother's Day , and even a dash of The Sinful Dwarf , but except for " Psycho " , this one predates all the others . A nasty exploitation film and if you don't think it's quite nasty enough , it WAS made in 1973 so it was very nasty for its time . .
A creepy French flick ? Yes , really . . . . . .	How many French horror movies have YOU watched lately ? I have a few myself , not many though because I guess there's just not very many that have been released , at least that I know about . Zombie Lake comes to mind as one of the funniest unintentional comedies I've ever seen in my life , and there's a few films by Jean Rollin that come to mind but there's just not a lot of GOOD French horror films out there . Now Deep in the Woods , well , it's not fantastic but it's actually quite good . The premise is rather odd , as in a group of young folks cruise around the country doing Little Red Riding Hood for whoever wants them to . This time they're being paid ( supposedly ) to do it for some rich millionaire and his grandson , who's a rather traumatized little kid with some issues . While they are at the château of this millionaire they find that they can't leave ( plus they haven't been paid ) and so they decide to stay the night . Now what you've all been waiting for : the killer . Someone in a Big Bad Wolf costume is stalking and killing people . And it's a right creepy costume . If you own " Company of Wolves " and have a Little Red Riding Hood fetish , this could be right up your alley , but seriously , this is a decent , if at times , slow-moving film and is worth your time to see at least once . Plus , it's one where you can bypass the French-with-subtitles and watch it in English , if you choose , so no excuses about having to spend all your time reading . 7 of 10 stars .
good , interesting , but probably too long and slow for many	Carrie Snodgrass plays Witchita librarian Louise , who has worked at the library for 19 years , ever since her fiancée disappeared the day of their wedding . His disappearance was never solved and Louise has led a drab life , working at the library and taking care of her invalid father ( Ray Milland ) . Now the time is coming when she's retiring from the library and she's training her replacement , a young lady who actually becomes friends with her although Louise is prepared to hate her . As the movie goes on Louise reveals things about herself and she seems to be so under her father's thumb that she never does much of anything . She does get laid with someone she picked up at the movies though . Oh , and she drinks , and apparently almost burned the library down once . Anyway , Louise sees a monkey in a pet store window and adopts it , but her father of course doesn't like it and it magically disappears . Sort of like . . . . . ? Hm , nah , couldn't happen . Anyway as the film goes along more things are revealed that I can't reveal because they'd ruin it for anyone who would like to watch this but let's just say a few questions were answered . Overall this is rather long and slow , but stick with it , if you can , it's worth it . And don't make the mistake of thinking this is a horror flick because it's not really that either . More of a character study , I guess one could call it , and a pretty decent one too . Can't really think of anything to compare it to but while it's not exactly my cup of tea I thought it was pretty well done and interesting , despite the pacing . .
ultra-high squirm factor	" Katiebird " takes a while to get going but when it does you will be squirming and cringing in your seat . It's right up there with " Scrapbook " for utterly uncomfortable viewing . While the director shows great promise there's some things about this that bugged me though and one is the music which is rather overpowering at times . The other thing is the split screen stuff which is kind of distracting at times . If you were uncomfortable with the " dentistry " scene in " Marathon Man " then look out , because some scenes here far eclipse any discomfort you may have felt there . This begins with Katiebird having a session with her psychiatrist , and she rather quickly dominates the situation , chaining him to a bed , and submitting him to all kinds of torture . This is sort of a wrap-around throughout the film . I guess the overall story ( as told in flashbacks ) is that Katiebird is a chip off the old block , her dad is a serial killer as was his father before him , and his father , etc . In fact they show these old geezers at one point and one actually waves at the camera , probably the only glimpse of humor in this whole film . Now dad has lovingly collected the tools of his trade , and when she becomes distraught because a boy she likes is seeing some other girl , he introduces her to the pleasures of torture and killing . And she takes to it like a duck to water . This is not a film for folks with weak constitutions , and may not be a film for a lot of other folks either . It's sick , it's disgusting , and it's vile . Having said that though , it's also worth seeing at least once if you have a sense of adventure . .
interesting but rather odd for its time	Pyro is the story of an engineer , who has moved to Spain with his family to work on a project . While there he finds a house that he buys from a woman who seems rather taken with setting things on fire . He buys the house & the family moves in , but he's got the side thing going on with the firebug , and she eventually figures out that if she burns down the house with the wife & kid inside , she'll have him all to herself . Which is true , but not quite in the way she envisioned , because while his wife and kid die , he lives , but is horribly burned and scarred , and he's stalking her and her daughter . This is a rather odd film for its time and has themes that would later be used in other and more shocking thrillers . Not bad , amazing what Troma will dredge up sometimes . .
better than the usual Naschy fare	Don't get me wrong , I like the films of Paul Naschy ( Jacinto Molina ) but they can't by any means be called " good " . This one is a bit of a step up from the usual fake fur and shoe polish werewolf stuff he seems to be so fond of , and it's about an evil man and his evil assistant who were killed back in olden times and now ( thanks to modern stupidity ) have been summoned back to haunt the living . There's some nice settings ( especially the swamp , I love swamps ) and a touch more class to this one . Now , the Mondo Crash DVD features 3 versions , and I watched the " uncut " International version , whatever that means , but there's also a " clothed " version and a US release version , which I haven't gotten around to seeing yet , but if the " uncut " version is any indication the other two must be quite tame because I though this version was too . The camera pulls away from too much nastiness and it's left to your imagination , which is fine , but then again this WAS the early 70's and folks could not get away with what they do now , which in some ways was probably much better . Anyway , probably a must for fans of Euro-horror , I kind of liked it but it's not worth raving about or anything . .
weird journey into Lynch territory	This is a very strange , eerie movie about a Wisconsin security guard who is obsessed with finding the killer of his wife . His wife was mysteriously killed by a man at the mall where he works . His obsession leads to watching surveillance tapes over and over again looking for clues and piecing them together . He asks about a strange house , one across the road from where he lives , ostensibly to move there but the real estate agent tells him it is leased to some corporate account . He then breaks in and finds photo negatives which he has developed and goes in search of the people in the photograph which leads him to Montana . I guess while watching I did find out who killed his wife but the why was really never explained , it was all quite sinister . A lot of this reminded me of the films of David Lynch and probably that's why I liked it , but it also left me feeling like I missed something and that perhaps ( here & there ) there were gaping plot holes . I mean , I can certainly see someone carrying around a picture of their wife and kid but a negative ? Anyway , this does rate pretty high on the strange scale and yeah , it's a tad on the slow side but I personally found it to be fascinating and liked it pretty well . Not top notch but if you're a Lynch fan & like odd movies then you should have no problem with this . .
Still creepy after all these years	It's been a while since I've seen this and I watched it again last night , and it still works for me after all these years since I've last seen it . A couple and their small child move to New England ( Boston area ) from New Yawk , and move into a house that has seemingly been a problem to rent , at least to those that are familiar with its history . However , these suckers aren't , so they find themselves haunted by things that have happened in the past . There's a little girl who appears and disappears , seemingly a ghost to warn off at least the little boy , because the parents are a lost cause , no matter what happens . I've seen the actor that plays this little boy at least one other Fulci film and maybe something else too , he's got this mop hairdo and talks in a voice that can only be an adult dubbed over his own voice , if I had a kid like that I'd put him in the basement with whatever is there & leave them to it . Other than that , this is not the best Fulci film , but it's still pretty good and has the requisite gore and nastiness down to a " T " . I will mention that the version of the DVD I watched is the Diamond Entertainment version , not the Anchor Bay version , and for $2 it's quite good quality , actually . Not that I'm a hard-core technical kind of guy but this version is quite adequate and the colors not washed out like some of the others I've seen on that particular label . Not an endorsement , just an FYI . stars .
A strange western	OK , I'm not entirely dense but if this film is meant to be some kind of allegory or satire that was all lost on me . It's a western , and a strange western , to be sure , because the main protagonists are women ( Joan Crawford & Mercedes McCambridge ) . It's all beautifully filmed in saturated colors , and has lots of famous folks in it , and is enjoyable overall , but I guess I'm just not sharp enough to read more into it than what's in front of me . Vienna ( Crawford ) has a saloon with gambling , and she's hoping for more business when the railroad comes through , but then there's this dude called The Dancing Kid ( Scott Brady ) , and his gang , who may or may not be responsible for death of the brother of Emma Small ( McCambridge ) . Of course Emma hysterically insists that they are and that Vienna is ' one of them ' . When the Dancing Kid and his gang hold up the bank while the rest of the town is at a funeral , all hell breaks loose and a posse of black-clad men , led by Emma , is after the gang and Vienna . Now I don't know much about Mercedes McCambridge except her voice was used in " The Exorcist " , but here she certainly seems rather , um , manly . At any rate the chase is on till the bitter end when the two women face off , which is rather odd for any western I've ever seen . There are a lot of familiar faces in this ; John Carradine , Sterling Hayden ( who IS Johnny Guitar but who pretty much overshadowed by Crawford ) , Royal Dano , etc . This is entertaining but I'm at a loss to read too much into it . .
decent 60's exploitation / horror flick	In looking at the director for this film , he has some rather impressive ( ? ) credentials , also being the director of " Creature from Black Lake " and " The Brain Machine " . OK , well maybe NOT so impressive to people that don't care much for cheesy psychotronic films . Anyway , I like " NOBH " with Gerald McRaney ( later on " Simon & Simon " and " Major Dad " , neither of which I watched ) playing a young man who has done some time ( 13 years ) in an asylum for . . . something naughty , we're not sure what . He's not apparently in the best of health still , either , since he is given to spells where psychedelic pinwheels appear on screen signifying that something is apparently amiss . And he has a series of girlfriends that all die , mysteriously , or not so mysteriously as you can see how sometimes . His mother is quite worried , of course , and eventually after several visits with the police for questioning his old doctor from the asylum comes to visit , only to become yet another victim . There is , of course , sort of a twist to this , and I didn't expect it but it wasn't too surprising either . Still though , for fans of bad films , this isn't bad at all , with wonderfully overwrought performances and cheesy gore effects . Not to mention the psychedelic pinwheels . Also there's a brief performance by some cheesy psychedelic garage band called The Bored which is notable for its badness . Kind of a fun cheesy flick and worth checking out if you don't expect too much . .
a dry land " Jaws "	OK , if " Abby " got pulled from theaters and banned for being a " Exorcist " rip off , how come " Grizzly " didn't get pulled for being a " Jaws " rip off ? Had that not happened maybe Abby would be readily available on a decent label for your viewing pleasure on DVD now . Like Grizzly is . However , Grizzly is nowhere near as good as William Girdler's Abby , or Asylum of Satan . Still , it isn't a bad little crazed critter movie . Campers in a national park are being preyed upon by a giant bear , although the mayor of the town ( not unlike the mayor of Amity in Jaws ) is unwilling to admit there's a problem and doesn't want to close down the park . Interesting that this mayor bears ( no pun intended ) a distinct resemblance to the other mayor as well . Now Christopher George , Mr . Chainsmoking Outdoorsman Forest Ranger , goes to battle to keep folks out of " his forest " until the bear is stopped . Of course he doesn't do that great of a job , because there's still lots of footage to shoot and folks to be mangled . Girdler regular Charles Kissinger plays a doctor , a rather minor role . Of course , at the end , they get the bear , but you knew they had to , there wasn't any sequel to THIS one . , definitely not Girdler's best but OK .
what am I to make of this ?	This is my first Pasolini film and if I am to believe one reviewer , Water Bearer Films has screwed up the sequence of reels but while I wondered about the reel change showing up on the screen , you couldn't prove it by me . Since it seems to be rather tough to figure out what exactly the purpose of this film is anyway . I did find this pretty fascinating but I'm not enough of a cinematic genius or a metaphor seeker , so perhaps some of this was lost on me . There are two tales that intertwine , one of a young cannibal in medieval times and one of a young man in modern times and his rather disturbing family . Seems this young man is rather disturbed himself as well , something to do with pigs , which is implied rather than shown , thankfully . I don't know exactly how this was supposedly to have been laid out in its original form and it's so jerky anyway that if I've had the wool pulled over my eyes by the distributor I wasn't aware of it , but that's also rather disappointing that if the parts of the film are out of sequence that they wouldn't know enough or care enough to make it right . At any rate this is certainly strange and kept my attention till the end , although it is rather talky and doesn't necessarily make lots of sense , but there is a sense of wrongness about it that made it appealing to me , and I did like it , to an extent . I doubt I'll be paying hundreds of dollars any time soon for the Criterion version of ' Salo ' so I guess I'll let this be my intro to Pasolini and leave it at that until these slackers re-release what I've heard to be his best , yet most disturbing , work . .
biker / Nazi / spy / pseudo-psychedelic drive in trash FUN	I'm not sure why I'm drawn to the films of Al Adamson but they always leave me a bit tired out , because they're so full of stuff and a wild mix of genres slapped together that they're super hard to follow and yet they have a certain charm . Maybe in some ways it's the music , I don't know . This one is about bikers who are in cahoots with a re-united Nazi party , and a Nazi War Criminal , and an agent for Israel who is after him , and a double agent who works for the syndicate AND the FBI , and a counterfeit ring , and who knows what all else I might have missed when I blinked . The Nazi Party is , of course , running the counterfeit ring which is in the secret basement of some shack in the woods and consists of two fat German guys in aprons that are using a hand press and hanging up fake $20 bills on clothes pins to dry , and with this they're going to achieve world domination ? There's lots of abrupt clothing changes , hairstyle changes , and scenario changes , like at one point this woman is about to be ravaged by the bikers and runs out into the road in torn clothes , and the next scene she's dressed differently and driving her cool Mustang Fastback and looks like none of that ever happened . Mark Adams is the FBI plant in The Syndicate which of course operates out of Las Vegas in a hotel room with cheesy hanging lamps , bad paintings , and of course , a bar . And gosh , Broderick Crawford is in this too , playing to usual sort of Broderick Crawford role . Not to mention Scott Brady , who made a career out of being in bad movies . For the right viewer , this is awe-inspiring and quite entertaining in ways other than was intended . However , for someone that's perhaps seeking a good biker movie , or perhaps even just a good movie period , well , this probably isn't it and you should avoid at all costs . I thought this was just one more example of Al Adamson's uh , unique talents , and I loved it . .
absolutely stunning . . . . . .	Not familiar with Al Adamson ? Well , I guess you could say one should never expect too much from his movies , except that they always seem to be rather . . . interesting ? Bad ? Incompetent ? Yeah . . . something like that . Horror of the Blood Monsters , AKA Vampire Men of the Lost Planet , and probably other titles , is probably one of the finest works of splice and dice one could ever hope for . I couldn't say how many bits and pieces of different movies / ideas and pieces of stock footage are combined together to make this mind-blowing extravaganza of crap . Seems like there's vampires afoot on earth , and they came from another planet a long time ago , and then some folks are on a spaceship ( complete with the requisite scientist John Carradine ) and they happen to crash land ON THIS VERY PLANET from whence earth's vampires originated , now how's that for coincidence ? It also happens that this planet is much like earth although there are cavemen and dinosaurs milling about , and of course some of the cave-dwellers are vampires , and there's even lobster men and people with snakes hanging out of them ? Of course these intrepid explorers from the space ship do their exploring a find a young woman who was being chased and implant a communication device in her so she can talk with them , and where'd she get the one-piece bathing suit she wears ? This is interspersed with footage of a man and woman making love the modern way , with blinking lights and electrodes attached to their bodies , a fine example of the " what does this have to do with anything " school of film making . This is full of jaw-dropping segues and lapses of sense and is about the most jaw-dropping piece of crap I've ever laid eyes on . But I LIKE movies like this so therefore I thought it was pretty cool stuff . For crap , that is . , definitely a " so bad it's good " hunk of junk , a must for fans of bad cinema .
better than average but not great	Wolf Creek begins very promisingly as 2 girls and a guy head off to spend some time at a remote reserve called Wolf Creek . . . . seemingly it's the world's largest meteor crater and it's absolutely beautiful . . . . and remote . As they go to leave , their car won't start so they're settling down for the night and along comes a friendly local who offers to help them . He tows them back to his camp and says he'll fix their car in the morning and all of a sudden it's lights out and the girls are suddenly tied up , one by herself and the other in a shed with Mick himself , who is threatening her , and this is where the movie begins to fall apart and head towards leaving a bigger meteor crater than the one they just viewed . Most of the rest of the movie involves the girls trying to escape and there's no mention from either of them about the young man they came there with , like where is he and does he need help ? He does appear again eventually but it's a long time coming with no explanation as to where he's been all this time . This was a very promising movie up to the point where you realize that something isn't right and then plunged downhill from there . Oh , it's OK , don't get me wrong , it'll probably scare the heck out of some folks , but it lost its footing and never regained it . Also somewhat chilling is when the girls realize how many other cars are stored there and there's even a nice little scrapbook of sorts , on the wall , of former victims , with their driver's licenses , other pictures , etc . Not to mention footage on the large number of video cameras also there in a big box . All the bits were here for a good movie , it's just that at a certain point it just became another " Wrong Turn " ( minus the inbreeding ) or Texas Chainsaw Massacre . And it's based on a true story too , hmm . .
garden-variety family curse flick	This is an OK Hammer-wannabe , from Amicus studios , which concerns the fate of a young woman who marries into the cursed Fengriffen clan , and finds that her new home doesn't exactly suit her needs , what with disembodied hands crawling about and eyeless apparitions at the windows and such . Now , it seems like there's a checkered past to this family and some bad things were done which are being paid in kind from beyond . Peter Cushing plays a psychiatrist but his role seems rather minor , Herbert Lom makes a brief appearance as Lord Fengriffen of old , doing the deeds that brought this upon the family in the first place . The atmosphere is fairly good , and it looks great , for the most part , but it's nothing to get too worked up about . Of course , the lady of the house is now expecting but she's not quite expecting what she gets , either . Not a bad little film but not the most original or exciting either , OK entertainment though . .
actually quite good , as bad biker flicks go . . .	In the intro to this Sam Sherman , who was one of Al Adamson's buddies and partners , calls " Satan's Sadists " the " Citizen Kane " of biker movies , and I wouldn't go so far as to call it that , but this is higher than usual quality Al Adamson stuff , maybe because it was shot in 10 days with no splice-and-dice and welding together of other totally different films like usual ? Uh , maybe . Russ Tamblyn plays " Anchor " a sadistic biker gang leader , and he has some swell pals along with him , like " Acid " ( Greydon Clark ) and Firewater and a few others . Now these biker dudes stir up trouble at some remote roadside café and harass and eventually kill a couple of tourists , while the hitch hiker that rode in with those same tourists takes to the hills with the waitress from the restaurant and they're running for their lives ( well , moseying , is more like it ) with the bikers in pursuit . And , as with most good / bad biker movies , the bikers either turn on each other or kill themselves in other moronic ways while the good guys , well , you know . Anyway this has some fairly groovy music ( but would self-respecting bikers listen to it ? Maybe not . . ) and it also has some pretty decent scenery and seems almost like a professionally done , if low budget , outing . Probably one of the best movies Adamson ever puked out , .
Low key early 70's werewolf flick is kind of fun	OK , there's not a lot of scares in The Boy Who Cried Werewolf , but it is fairly entertaining & not a bad entry in the early 70's low budget horror arena . A man ( Kerwin Matthews ) is camping with his son in the mountains when they are attacked by a werewolf , and in trying to save his son , the man is bitten himself , and I guess I don't need to tell you what happens later . Or do I ? Well , big surprise , the man becomes a werewolf when the moon is full . And he seems VERY interested in going camping a lot during the full moon these days too . Now the son sees what his dad has become but being that he's a kid and the product of a broken home ( his folks are divorced ) , nobody believes the little guy . Until Mom comes on a camping trip with them and finds out for herself . There's also sort of a fun hippie religious cult thing going on , brother , and they know something's up with this guy , they're just not quite sure what until the werewolf joins them at one of their prayer meetings , whoops ! Of course , nobody lives happily ever after and there was even an opportunity for a sequel that was left wide open too , but thankfully that never happened . This isn't a bad movie but one of its kind is plenty , thanks . .
Good dumb fun	OK , this is a parody of " Scream " and " I Know What you Did Last Summer " ( not to mention anything else that got in the way ) but I saw Scream a long time ago and frankly didn't care for it . So dragging it through the mud suits me just fine . Of course the Wayans brothers are behind this so you know it's going to be tons of tasteless humor and all , which also suits me just fine . Carmen Electra , in her brief role as Drew , pulls it off just fine and there's even things like signs pointing towards ' safety ' and ' certain death ' to help her along . Of course you know which one she chooses . The humor in this is hit or miss at times but it hits more than it misses . The killer is the archetypal " Scream " guy in a black robe and mask , however he's a bit bumbling and inept in this , of course . If you're one of the few people that's never seen this and are reading this review , it's OK to see it , really . . . . it's stupid , tasteless , disgusting at times , but never ever takes itself one bit seriously . Just good dumb fun for when you're tired of movies that are too ' heavy ' . .
strange little Canadian film from the 70's is not all bad	This film is often slammed and it's definitely not at the top of Christopher Lee's best films , but it's got a certain charm to it and it is nowhere near as bad as some people make it out to be . Seems that Lee plays " Keeper " , a man who has found that he can collect the inheritances of his patients as long as he's making sure that their beneficiaries die off . Meanwhile , he keeps everyone in his charming little asylum well hypnotized and dosed on some kind of machine that keeps them in his control . Tell Schreiber ( who is the father of Liev Schreiber , who played Thorne in the remake of The Omen ) , plays Dick Driver , a private detective who is trying to expose the Keeper for a crook , with a " plant " among his patients in the form of Driver's assistant . Some of this seems played for laughs while other parts are quite eerie , and those are the parts that truly make this film for me . It's got a good atmosphere & the settings are great too . This is by no means a top-notch film and definitely not one of Lee's best performances but it's got a certain something to it that made it quite appealing to me . .
If you don't believe it can't hurt you .	I'm a sucker for any movie set in swamp land , where it's dark and gloomy and strange stuff that only certain folks understand goes on . And there's a lot of that in this . There's a good build up as a young woman ( Kate Hudson ) takes a job as a care-giver to an old man that is paralyzed from a stroke , and finds the house full of creepy things , and that all is not what it seems . As the film goes on one discovers that a Hoodoo priest and his wife were servants in this house many years ago and there's still a " hoodoo room " ( the attic ) full of all kinds of nasty secrets . The husband is apparently terrified of his wife but he can't speak and she tries to act as though nothing were wrong . He's also terrified enough to manage to climb out the window and fall off the roof into the garden , despite the fact that he can't walk . Oh yeah ? As things start to take off though it's a little ridiculous to think that some chick from Hoboken , NJ , could become so versed in the art of hoodoo so quickly that she could cast spells and make things happen in the space of a couple days , or hours , maybe . What begins as a fairly creepy movie quickly becomes more hooey than hoodoo . I liked this fine up to a point but then it became a little hard to take and I thought the ending was rather lame . Love that swamp land , though . .
Pat Boone sings ? ?	I guess for its time this was a spectacle to behold , and the wonders of special effects wowed the audience way back then , but now the special effects are pretty tepid and while some of the scenes are pretty good overall it's not that great . Minus a couple points for musical interludes , especially the one in which Pat Boone sings . ? ? ! ! Of course he was a big star back in that day and age so I guess someone felt that had to work it in , but it doesn't really make it nowadays , not with me anyway . The story is a familiar one to anyone who knows Jules Verne's work , and it's about an expedition that is to go where one man apparently failed , Arnie Sagnusson . He didn't exactly fail to find the center of the earth really , he merely failed to come back alive . The expedition consists of James Mason , Pat Boone , Arlene Dahl and some big Icelandic galoot and his beloved duck Gertrude . Gertrude sports a circle around her eye which makes her look like Petey in " The Little Rascals " . Of course there's the ancestor of Arnie Sagnusson who feels all the honor and glory belongs to him lurking about to sabotage the journey . Overall this is more rainy-Sunday-afternoon entertainment for the family than the great science fiction adventure it could have perhaps been , and while I'm sure I saw this as a kid at least once it just didn't hold up well for me . .
Kerschplatten galore	I'll start out by saying that I like this flick , not because it's necessarily great but because it's just so jaw-dropping weird . It's a little hard to know how to take this all when you see pseudo-historical type footage , like that of Jesus being crucified , and folks wandering the German forests during the black plague and such , and then we switch off to Troma-like tasteless goofiness and then back again . This put me in mind of many films , Dead Alive ( AKA Brain Dead ) , Bad Taste , Evil Dead , Rabid Grannies , and there's even a dose of Monty Python throw in ( mostly when things get blown up ) . So I'll take a deep breath and try to describe this as best I can : Premutos is a fallen angel . He's lived through the years by taking human form and is still hanging out . A man finds a briefcase of stuff in his yard while digging and brings it into the house . When his step-son , who just got a soccer cleat in the crotch , comes home from the doctor he accidentally spills some goop that was in the briefcase on himself and begins to be overtaken by Premutos . Meanwhile , it's the step-dad's birthday so the guests are having a drunken put-each-other-down session and they suddenly are overrun by flesh eating zombies . Yikes ! Yep , this is all over the map , pretty much . But I still liked it . Now , as I mentioned the gore scenes ( of which there are more than plenty ) are tastelessly done ala Peter Jackson's Dead Alive , but in fact there's enough of them to almost make that film look tame in comparison . At the end there's even a " body count " meter that registers 139 . Now , as for the bad things . . . . the acting is rather poor , the casting is rather strange , and please tell me that the part of the sister is not played by a woman , I'd feel much better . . . . hard to tell with the dubbing . And by the way , the English dubbing is terrible , read without any feeling by whomever was chosen , but I do recognize the talentless voice of Brinke Stevens as the mother . What's kind of dumb is that this DVD ( on Shock O Rama ) has the original German version of the movie but no subtitles ? I would have preferred to watch it that way but my German isn't good enough to keep up , not that the dialog is key to this movie , really . Anyway , if you're a gore fan that doesn't worry too much about plot this is a wild ride , although the ending goes on a bit too long . This is one that must be seen to be believed , really . . . . a bit hard to do it justice in writing . , maybe best for those with a sense of adventure and humor .
OK 80's film could have used a bit of editing	I've had this on VHS for years , purchased probably 15 years ago at the Wherehouse in Calfonia , and now I have it on DVD , and I guess it's been a while since I watched it . This is an OK film but it's also too long for what it is , I guess time was needed for character development or something ? Yeah , right . Michael Ironsides plays a nut-case that has a thing for a woman's activist , played by Lee Grant . . . . no , he's not wildly in love with her , he just wants her dead . Because she's an interfering type and he lashes out at anyone that speaks up for others . He breaks into her home & hides out until she arrives and then attempts to kill her , but she's only injured and ends up in County General , where security doesn't seem to be too tight because he doesn't seem to have too much trouble getting in to stalk her . There's also a young nurse that is assigned to care for her & since she's there she apparently needs stalking too . William Shatner has kind of a throw-away role in this as the editor of the TV program Grant has , of course he's always the voice of reason and political correctness and you wish the stalker would take him out too . This has a good 80's feel to it , but it really is quite long for a slasher flick and could have used a bit of editing . There's also some chick that Ironsides picks up in a bar and beats up , because he's unable to perform in the sack & so takes his frustrations out elsewhere , which was a bad move on his part because she and some friends come back to trash his apartment and she finds evidence in his closet that he's a bit of a wacko , like pictures of dead people in his closet that he took at the hospital , oops . Anyway , this is overall an OK flick , just a bit long to squirm through . .
The first " Sex-Horror " film ? Well , not really , but still interesting	Blood Rose is sort of a remake of " Yeux Sans Visage " ( Eyes Without a Face ) . The story is that of a man who has married the woman of his dreams only to have her horribly burned and scarred and then finds a former doctor to restore her . Howard Vernon plays the part of the former doctor who went to prison for his attempts to operate on a child many years previous , and who is actually quite reluctant to participate in this new venture . This begins almost like a fairy tale , with voice-over narration . Of course , lots of potential donors are required for this particular operation and young ladies are lured to the château for this purpose . The burn victim is never shown entirely , just her eyes in some scenes , or filmed from the back , which is just as well , thanks . This has a good atmosphere & is fairly interesting but seems to lack some focus , and there's really not much sex to go with the horror . There are two strange little men , Igor & Olaf , that are the servants of Frederic , the tortured artist , that lend some extra weirdness to the film . This isn't particularly scary but it does have some creepy moments and is not at all bad . And what exactly is the Blood Rose ? Well , I thought it was a plant that was introduced early in the story that has thorns that secrete poison & is responsible for the death of one person in the film , but that's just dropped and never heard from again . ? ? Overall though , not bad , if kind of derivative . Now available on DVD from Mondo Macabro . .
someone was dipping into the stardust	There's not a lot of East German sci-fi floating around but I got this as part of a box set from First Run Features , and I've not been disappointed with the quality of the films nor the content . This is a rather interesting ( and amusing ) tale of a spaceship that goes to a planet to investigate a call for help , only to find there's seemingly nothing wrong . The people that live on the surface of the planet are party-animal types , and give the impression that all is well , but they seem to be hiding something , like , the fact that they imprisoned the real inhabitants of the planet to do slave labor in the mines underground . Most interesting is " the boss " , who is kind of a combination of David Bowie and Liberace , maybe , who wears interesting spangled outfits and has his hair dyed in strange colors for no apparent reason . Both campy and creepy . The cast also has Leon Niemczyk , one of the main characters from " Knife in the Water " . Anyway , the supposed rescuers do discover the dirty secret of the planet and set about to make things right , but with dire results . This is quite entertaining in a strange way , and a very odd sci-fi offering but quite fun . If you get the chance and are of a mind to , check this out . .
strange and sterile	Visually this is a rather strange mix of David Lynch , Guy Maddin , and who knows what all else . Story-wise , it's a tale of a man who goes to a school ( Instituta Benjamina ) to learn how to be a servant because he's not expecting much out of life . And beyond that , you've got me . The school is run by a brother and sister and there's only one lesson taught , over and over . The institute itself is full of strange things , all presented in a rather creepy way , and these strange things include secret rooms and passages and even an opportunity to sniff powdered deer ejaculate , wow . And for some reason deer parts play some kind of role in this , but who knows what . It seems the sister is rather lonely and so is her brother and they both have their sights set on young Jakob , who just enrolled . But really , beyond that , nothing is particularly clear . Visually it's quite interesting but it's not particularly moving and is just sort of " there " . Definitely an art film , but not one that would probably have wide appeal . .
Decent psychological horror flick	I read the book Pin by Andrew Niederman many years ago and i have to say this is a pretty decent adaptation of the book . Pin ( short for Pinocchio ) is a plastic dummy , one of those " see through " ones with all the internal organs showing , that universities and such have . Pin talks to Ursula and Leon when they're small children , but only when Dad is around ( he's a doctor ) . What they don't know is that he only talks to them when dad's around because dad ( Terry O'Quinn ) is a ventriloquist . As the children get older it's obvious that one ( Ursula ) know that Pin's a dummy but Leon has taken all this a bit too seriously . . . . . well , FAR too seriously . And when mom & dad die in a car wreck Pin comes to live with Ursula and Leon and Leon continues to have wonderful conversations with him . . . it . . . whatever . Now , Ursula is living life like a normal person , having dates , getting a job , etc . , but Leon writes poetry , cooks , and chats with Pin . When Ursula brings home her date , a young man who she finds to be very nice , she tells him that her brother isn't all there and then the real trouble begins because , of course , he overhears . This isn't really bloody or gory but it's got a good feel to it as far as horror movies go , and it's well done considering that the cast is mostly unknown to anyone in the US ( this is a Canadian film ) . A decent little horror thriller , to be sure , worth seeing . .
Decent enough adaptations of King's short stories	I can't believe I watched the whole thing . . . but of course , I didn't do it in one setting . First is one of the best stories of the lot , which is " Battleground " , with William Hurt as the main character , in which he's a hit-man besieged by toy soldiers after he's whacked a toy magnate . I was surprised how well this one works , and it's without dialog which makes it even better . Also a standout for me was " Umney's Last Case " in which William H . Macy plays a 30's detective who notices odd changes taking place around him only to find out he's merely a character in a story and that his writer is considering changing places with him . I did like " Autopsy Room Four " although the suspense works much better on paper than it does listening to irritating characters go on endlessly . " You Know They've Got a Hell Of A Band " is a fairly decent adaptation two but the couple is so annoying that they get on your nerves quite quickly . At any rate , there's a few goodies here , and a few middling episodes , but no real clunkers , although I felt like a couple went on far too long . This is apparently an Australian / US collaboration , so it does have a bit of a different slant to it , but still comes off fairly well . .
decent prequel is better than the remake	The remake of TCM from 3 years ago took modern teens and tried to pass them off as teens of the 70's and that just didn't work , it was too forced and just not very believable . This film seems to have toned down that part a bit as we have 4 teens ; 2 young men going to Viet Nam and their girlfriends , driving across Texas to say goodbye at whatever base they're headed for . Of course , they don't realize that the area they're in has just been affected by the closing down of the local slaughterhouse and one of the best employees , Tom , the " overgrown retard " has reluctantly been told to get out . Of course , Tom is our budding young Leatherface and he takes his aggression out on the boss before forlornly heading for home down the lonesome road , chainsaw in hand . We also get to see how R . Lee Ermey got to be sheriff , he killed the other one and took his uniform . Anyway , our young teens venture along to a country store , run by the charming Luda Mae , and run afoul of some bikers , one of whom tries to rob them on the road , causing an accident after which the not-so-kindly sheriff comes along to " help " , of course bring them back to the charming Hewitt residence for torture and slaughter . Watch for the Tea Lady , as played by Kathy Lamkin , she's a wonder to behold and makes a good door block as well . In many ways this is more true to the original in feel , if not in looks , so maybe that's why I liked it more . The location is perfect , and all in all this works far better than the remake , in my book . Worth seeing , .
eerie stop-motion fairy tale	Blood Tea and Red String is an eerie stop-motion animation fairy tale of the battle between aristocratic white mice and strange little forest creatures over a doll . The white mice have commissioned the strange little forest creatures ( who look rather like mice with fox ears and bird beaks ) to make a doll for them , and when the creatures have finished their creating they don't want to part with it . Of course the mice come in the dark of night & steal it , and take it back to their strange little lair , and the creatures set out in pursuit to get it back . They encounter a strange castle with a garden with killer plants , a frog that saves them , and also encounter a rather creepy spider with a human head that captures birds in its web and eats them . The mice , meanwhile , sit in their lair and drink blood tea & play cards with cards that have no values on them . This is a rather odd little film that is recommended only to fans of creepy stop-motion animation , along the lines of Jan Svankmajer or Jiri Barta , but it's definitely not in their league . A good little story , but non-narrative , and you don't really need dialog to figure it out . A good try , but could have gone a little further with the weirdness . .
I was not aware of the history behind this film ( which is now on DVD ! )	I have seen Slaughter High several times over the years , and always found it was an enjoyable slasher flick with an odd sense of humor , but I never knew that it was filmed in the UK , and I never knew that the actor that plays Marty Rantzen ( Simon Scuddamore ) committed suicide after the film was released . I guess I did notice while watching it last night that the actors phrasing seems rather odd for Americans , and a few of them aren't very good at hiding their English accents . All that aside though , this is the tale of the class nerd , Marty , who is the butt of jokes from his classmates , and on one particular day , April Fools Day , he's lured into the girl's locker room by one Caroline Munro ( yes , playing a teenager ) and humiliated big time on film . Of course , the coach catches the gang at work & they're all given a vigorous workout to punish them , but not before a couple of the guys slip Marty a joint , which he tries to smoke in the chemistry lab , but it's full of something that makes him sick & when he runs to the restroom , one of his classmates slips in and puts a chemical that reacts with something Marty is mixing , which results in a fire and the spill of a bottle of nitric acid , which leaves poor Marty burned & horribly scarred . Ten years later , this same gang is headed for their class reunion at good old Doddsville High , which seems oddly boarded up and inaccessible , but thanks to ingenuity they manage to get in and find the place seemingly derelict . . . except there's a room where a banquet and liquor is laid out and so of course , they eat , drink , and be merry . For soon , they will die , of course . The gang is stalked one-by-one by a figure in a jester's mask , but could it be Marty ? They don't know , they figure he's either in a loony bin or working for IBM , they're not sure which . But whoever it is , he's making quick work of them . Particularly nasty is the girl that takes a bath to wash blood off her from one of her classmates whose innards popped all over her when he drank poisoned beer . She is victim to an acid bath which I believe may have been one of the parts originally cut in the tape version , because it seemed extra nasty when I watched it this time . I could be wrong but I believe that wasn't on the tape . At any rate , there's somewhat of a twist ending , and that also contains footage not on the tape , I believe . There's also a bit of frontal nudity early on that was also excised , but apart from that I didn't really notice if there were other bits on this uncut version , probably so but it's been a while since I've last seen it . At any rate , if you're a fan of 80's slasher flicks then snap up the new release DVD , because it's a fun little slasher with a good atmosphere & feel to it . .
creepy and disturbing stuff	This is a pretty good early 70's Euro-Trash Horror flick , wherein a young man ( John ) is released from a nut house after he supposedly tried to rape his cousin , and he's released to go live with his aunt and her three daughters , one of whom was supposedly his intended target . But he's not exactly approaching this from the " I want to get better and make things well again " method , his motives are revenge . John is also rather adept at practical jokes and also a little words or statement here and there to turn people against each other . When things really get rolling it's rather disturbing , for sure , like his putting his slaughterhouse training into action when he trusses up his three cousins . Bot no fear , auntie and cousins don't fare too badly at all but John seems to , or does he ? This is full of rather creepy moments and good atmosphere , and owes one particular scene to a story I've read sometime in my life , the scene where the three daughters return from fishing on the sea , which John has set up for a guest as a ghost story , since the three girls " drowned and whenever there's a fog auntie leaves the doors open for them " . This isn't great but it's well worth seeing for fans of Euro-horror . .
Mad Cow Disease Zombies	When you think about it , the idea that people eating tainted meat and becoming zombies is really more realistic than a space probe returning from Venus and spreading radiation with the same basic results . That is , if flesh eating zombies were realistic to begin with . A good idea but a pretty low budget , and not that much different really from Night of the Living Dead , despite the Irish location and actors . I guess nailing zombies with a cricket bat is kind of cool though . A woman and her boyfriend or husband are on the road , on vacation , when they hit a man , and when the put him in the back of their car to take him to a town , he suddenly sits up and removes a chunk of the driver's neck , therefore causing him to become a zombie . . . of course the woman is having none of this and runs for her life , where she meets up with a young man ( a gravedigger , to be exact ) . Eventually they hook up with a man & his wife in a jeep , all the while trying to get to safety . I think I'm going to give this one another chance and watch it again but as much as I wanted to like this I found it to be only so-so . The makers of the film seemed to give a couple nods to Romero here & there , but overall this is low budget and amateurish , and at times the Irish accents are almost indecipherable . OK , but only close , no cigar . .
Strange black comedy , finally got it on DVD !	Donald Pleasance and his lovely French wife ( of 10 months ) , Françoise Dorléac , live in an isolated castle in Northumbria . Two criminals ( of some sort , it's never clear what they've done ) , become stranded in the area near the ocean & one ( Lionel Stander ) goes for help and sort of takes Pleasance & his wife hostage , while he tries to call for help & rescue . Stander is waiting on his rescue , which never seems to come , but he wasn't counting on the obnoxious guests that show up to visit . This is a strange black comedy and didn't grab me like a lot of Polanski's early work ( Knife in the Water , Repulsion ) . But still , it's an interesting film and if you're a Polanski fan , it's well worth seeing . The stark black & white photography really makes the film worthwhile , and the music is also pretty cool . Pleasance & his wife & Stander co-exist uneasily in this claustrophobic setting , and as Stander lets down his guard , thinking that they're too frightened of him to stand up to him , he's proved wrong . I got this on a Mexican DVD , no frills but a very nice transfer , all one need to is turn off the Spanish subtitles ( or don't ) and voila , a very worthwhile purchase . Perhaps the nature of the film is why it's never been released in the U . S . , who knows , but if you're a Polanski fan it's worth seeking out . .
Open your mind for a " re-imagining " , not a " remake "	In the original " Halloween " by John Carpenter , the sequence where Michael Myers has his little clown mask on and kills his sister , goes to the nut-house & grows up and escapes , takes only a few minutes at the beginning of the film . In this " re-imagining " by Rob Zombie , that sequence is expanded to include a lot of character development of Michael and show a little bit of how wonderful his home life was and no WONDER he was so messed up . It also reduces the whole Laurie Strode and Friends " Halloween night of frights " to a greatly diminished portion of the film , which was also fine with me . Anyway , back to the beginning : Michael is part of the white-trash Myers family ; Mom ( Sheree Moon Zombie ) is a stripper , dad is dead , some scummy boyfriend of mom's lives with them , Michael's sister is a slutty little thing , etc . Michael is not well liked at school , in fact he's considered rather creepy , and picked on by some of the other kids . There are also some parent-teacher conferences brought on by dead cats and pictures of tortured animals found in Michael's locker , etc . And then there's Halloween , where Michael goes trick-or-treating while mom goes to work at the strip club , and Michael comes home , eats candy corn , and goes bonkers and kills his sister and his mother's boyfriend and leaves only the baby , after which , of course , it's off to the nut-house . Michael has increasingly taken towards wearing masks to cover his ugly face , and grows more and more silent with time . Dr . Sam Loomis ( as played by Malcolm McDowell ) is on his case & is puzzled by the silence . Eventually Michael's mom kills herself , and the baby is put up for adoption , and Michael grows up to be a big strong ( but quiet ) nut-case , after which he escapes . The story , as we know it from the 1978 version , from there on out , is greatly condensed , but while I do love the original I didn't mind this either . Laurie Strode is of course , going to babysit for Tommy , and she and her girlfriends have cooked up various reasons and excuses to see their boyfriends and party . And if you've seen the original , then most of this segment of the movie should be fairly familiar to you . I did rather like that Michael goes back to his old house & that this is where the teens choose to hang out & party and screw , because it makes more sense that they'd do that than what they do in the original . And what they did in the original is screw and drink and smoke in the bed of the people that they were babysitting for , and do you think they wouldn't NOTICE that when they came home ? Anyway , for the grand finale , of course Laurie is pursued by Michael , and it leads up to a rather final ending , one that leaves NO room for any sequels , and if only the original had such foresight . Overall , I think this was pretty good & interesting , and my only real complaint is that towards the end there were some spots where it dragged , like when Laurie is trying to hide withing the walls of the old Myers house , and finally ends up falling through the ceiling , so she could be out in the open again finally and properly pursued . I liked it , and anyone that expects a carbon copy of the old " Halloween " is in for a big surprise , like it or not . .
What the hell ?	What struck me first about this is that while everyone is supposedly dressed in clothing of the 15th century , there wasn't a lot of attempt at SPEAKING as people did during that time , or attempting to hide New York accents . While the clothes are perhaps close to that time period , maybe , there's definitely some oddness about this whole proceeding and at one point Guru himself is wearing something around his neck that looks like it belongs around the bottom of a Christmas Tree . The story is that there's the priest ( named Guru , of course ) lives on this island , which is sort of a prison island , I guess , and he presides over a church called Lost Souls ? Comforting . He has a henchman named Igor that scuttles about bent over double with what looks to be a pillow on his back under his clothes for that realistic hunchback look . He also hangs out with some chick named Olga who does not really fit her part very well , since she delivers her lines like she was from Staten Island or something . I guess she's some kind of beast of vampire but the one glance I caught of her in some kind of supposed " tranformation " looked like some kind of fake buck teeth instead of vampire fangs . Now I'm not sure what the plot or point is exactly , providing that there really was one when this was made , but the gist seems to be that unwary travelers and lonely wanderers ( on an small island ? ) come to the church for aid and comfort and after a few important questions ( are you alone & does anyone know you're here ? ) the unfortunate get turned over to Olga for whatever she does with them . Of course not everyone that wanders in fits that criteria but by then I guess Guru is off his rocker so he's not being very careful anymore . This is chock full of unintentional humor , and there's plenty here to entertain , although technically this is all pretty bad , by most standards . I guess it all depends on your taste ( or lack of taste ) how much you'd like it . .
beautifully remastered on DV	If BCI Eclipse keeps up the good work on some of these old Spanish horror films from the 70's ( remastered in high definition ) they may actually achieve some respectability ( the films , that is ) . Loreley's Grasp is one of the latest releases and it looks great . The story is that of a small town ( on the Rhine , I suppose ) that is menaced by some sort of killer who is removing the hearts of beautiful young ladies ( and the occasional guy , when he sticks his nose where it's not wanted ) . Playing the part of the ( un-rubber suited ) Loreley is the beautiful Helga Line , who is quite fetching in her bikini with fringes , but tell me , is she running through the marshlands in heels ? Hope not . Anyway , the exclusive girl's school which is nearby seems to be the prime killing ground for this nasty green monster which is ripping hearts out , and a man ( Sigurd , as played by Tony Kendall ) is hired to guard the school & the girls . As time passes Sigurd encounters the beautiful woman who is the Loreley again & again & finally learns the secret . This is not a great film but it's a pretty good one . There's beautiful women , some gore , and even a bit of suspense . If you can forget that this is supposed to be Germany and everyone's speaking Spanish , you'll do fine . This looks and comes off much better than the stinky American VHS release which came out as " When the Screaming Stops " . .
most weird and what the hell does it mean ?	First off , I can see here and there , obvious comparisons to " Dead Ringers " although THIS came first , so what's up with that , David Cronenberg ? However , the idea of twins both after the same woman is about all that these two films share , and this twins in this are lusting after a woman with one leg , not a sexual mutant . So this is much more wholesome . There's a traffic accident in which one twin brother loses his wife and the driver of the car loses a leg , and the twins express their grief by hanging out with the one-legged woman and talking to her ( and having sex with her ) and also by photographing rotting animals and fruit . All of this is , of course , accompanied by a jaunty little soundtrack that seems to be present in many of Greenaway's films . The twins also happen to be zoologists at some zoo and spend a lot of time letting animals loose and are generally pretty well mentally unbalanced , to say the least . In many ways parts of this film resemble a painting : for instance , the camera will linger on a " still life " subject like fruit and flowers , or something along those lines . It will also linger on dead animals though , so beware . And what , exactly , are Peter Greenaway's films supposed to mean ? I'm sure there's someone out there that can tell you , but it's not me . However , that doesn't mean they're not fascinating to watch , even if they don't necessarily make a lot of sense . I give this fairly high ratings for visual entertainment , but a bit low on the lucidity scale . .
dark , nasty , scary stuff	Supposedly this is the " pick of the litter " of the new set of " 8 films to die for " and so I picked it first , having been mostly disappointed with what I saw of the first go-round . Not bad , very dark , very creepy , pretty scary stuff . Three buddies go to Mexico to live it up before college & run into some kind of cult that sacrifices people . You'd think you can't swing a dead cat in Mexico without running into some kind of wacko cult , and perhaps that's true , but if these folks had been watching their horror movies , they'd have known better . Of course , after an evening tripping on magic mushrooms , one of them decides to wander off on his own , and disappears . Now , these cultists are not very nice people at all , and if you mess with them , you are pretty much guaranteed to not live very long . The two remaining friends hook up with a former police officer whose partner was killed by these loonies & go in search of their friend . I have to say this was a far better than average film , and was very well done . Sean Astin also plays the part of an American who is part of this cult & who is a rather despicable character , not exactly his kind of role . Good stuff for those who like stuff like Hostel , etc . , and have strong stomachs , all others should probably proceed with caution . .
bleak , deadpan comedy / drama	Tasi is a miner , who is out of a job now that the mine has been closed . His father " wills " him his old Cadillac convertible , just before going into the restroom at the snack bar in which they're talking , to blow his own head off . So Tasi goes home , gathers up a few belongings , empties his savings , and hits the road . . . with the top down , in the dead of winter . Yes , he can't figure out how to put the top up . Tasi stops for a hamburger on the way and makes the mistake of flashing his wad of cash , after which he's robbed . He makes his way to a local dock where he finds work , and then meets up with a woman who has a young ( but worldly ) child , and begins a sort of romance with her . But Tasi also runs across the man who robbed him , and while in the process of beating the crap out of him to get his money back , he's arrested and sent to prison . There he gets to know his cell-mate rather well , and they engineer an escape , which eventually leads to an ambiguous but possibly happy ending . This is an interesting little comedy / drama , but it is pretty bleak , and if you can get past that , you may like it . The only other work of this director that I've seen is " Man Without A Past " thus far , although I have more to watch . His style seems to specialize in " bleak " , but that may have something to do with his films taking place in Finland , as well , which doesn't seem like the " carnival atmosphere " country , exactly . The humor is pretty deadpan but it's there , not " laugh out loud " humor , but still amusing . Worth seeing if you appreciate an odd sense of humor . .
A spy movie like you've never seen	OK , technically , I guess this isn't really a spy movie , or maybe it's sort of a secret agent movie , or maybe . . . well , I don't know , Doris Wishman directed & produced it , so maybe it's just one of the strangest things you've ever watched and let's leave it at that . Chesty Morgan plays Jane , who apparently is some kind of agent , who is called in to investigate a drug ring who have been smuggling bad heroin into the US . To aid her in her quest , she has had a camera installed in her left breast , and all she has to do is squeeze it to take pictures , which is actually probably far more strenuous than it sounds . Having recovered from her surgery , Jane ( Chesty ) is up and dressed in a bevy of eye-catching outfits and out to find the leader of this gang . Along the way she meets up with a dispatches various gang members and is always careful to strip and photograph them after each killing . One man dies with his mouth crammed full of ice cubes , etc . As with most Doris Wishman films , the " what the f ? " factor is always in overdrive , and with the continuity ( or lack thereof ) and the ridiculous outfits on Chesty and the fact that she's some kind of agent to begin with , well , that just makes the viewer gape in awe . As always we have Wishman's trademark filming of unimportant objects to draw the viewer's attention away from the dialog being dubbed in afterward . Heaven forbid that anyone would think they were watching a poorly-made film . One good thing about this is that there's some jazzy-twangy horn & guitar music , suitable for a spy movie , and not just Wishman's trademark elevator music for the background . After having watched both of Wishman's epic films with Morgan though , I can't help feeling a bit sorry for her , because she truly doesn't look very happy & I'm sure she wasn't the most comfortable person in the world . But at any rate , if you're a trash / cult movie fan , you'll probably enjoy this , if you have no idea what any of this is about , you'd be best off to stay the hell away . .
very strange and actually quite cool , if you like ' em weird . . .	This film has been bashed and trashed in almost everything I've read about it in movie books , but it's got somewhat of a cult following so I thought I'd give it a shot , and I was surprised how much I really liked it . Elizabeth Taylor plays a very strange and disconnected woman who goes to Rome on " holiday " , and who has a goal , it seems , but you don't really know what it is until much later in the film . On the plane to Rome she apparently frightens a strange young man who flees to another seat , and that leaves her with seemingly manic Ian Bannen , who is on a macrobiotic diet that requires him to have one orgasm per day ( any more gives him indigestion ) . Liz wears colorfully tacky clothes and comes up with wonderful non sequiturs and generally plows her way through whatever comes along with her one goal in mind . Along the way she goes shopping with an elderly Jehovah's witness , witnesses a bombing / assassination , avoids a rape , and generally draws attention to herself because of her odd behavior . Interspersed with the rest of the story are interviews with police or some officials , it seems , asking enough questions about her to make you wonder if she's some kind of international terrorist or something , but no , it seems she's only come to Rome to find someone to kill her . A very strange film , which may only appeal to those who enjoy " cult " type movies , because it's not very normal , really . But maybe that's why I liked it . .
From the same guy that made " The Corpse Grinders " ? ? ! !	Ted V . Mikels , director of many infamous Z-grade horror films , some of which are my ultimate favorites , actually made a movie with social consciousness ? Well , sort of , yes and no . This is more an exploitation flick than anything , but it's still an exploitation film with a message . A man in L . A . , who is a light-skinned black , goes back to Alabama to look into the reason for his daughter being killed by a bomb outside a church . The reason isn't hard to find , it's the local KKK members , and this man , Jerry , decides that he can pass for white with a few tweaks , and joins up with the Klan to infiltrate and bring it down . There are some guys from New York that have come down to stir the pot too , and try to rally the " shack town " people , but they're not having any part of it . However , Jerry manages to infiltrate the Klan and deal with the cowardly leader , who is responsible for his daughter's death , while also managing to seduce the guy's daughter . See ? It's not entirely socially conscious . This is definitely not for everyone , but it's not really all that bad . Of course , now it's rather dated ( except for the stupid attitudes that live on in some people ) . . And it is available on DVD from Blax , I got the impression it's not too easy to find though , but I got it off Amazon for fairly cheap , and the quality is fine .
I see a red glow . . . . . .	This is one strange conglomeration of stuff thrown together , in this Filipino vampire movie . We have sequences that are in color and sequences that seem to be lavender tinted that I guess is supposed to signify night-time . We also have night-time sequences that are also tinted red , I guess that means vampire feeding time , at night . We have a vampire with a shaved head and cool sunglasses . We have a priest that says vampires can be overcome by faith in Christ . We have a vampire that is supposedly ill , and needs a heart transplant ? And that's where I'll jump into the story , which is that a small clan of vampires are seeking the heart of a healthy girl , the estranged daughter of a woman who is unwittingly ( ? ) assisting the vampires , and this girl is the intended donor , like it or not . This little story is quite busy and strange , a twist on the typical vampire stuff done Filipino-style . Whenever the shaved-headed vampire appears to do evil there is Theremin music ( or noises , whichever you prefer ) . The evil servants of this vampire are a hunchback ( of course ) , a dwarf , and Basra , a rubber bat on a string who bounces up and down menacingly as his string is jerked . Oooooh , scary stuff , kids . This isn't bad but the " serious " stuff is tempered by the goofy special effects stuff , to make this not-so-serious of a movie , albeit unintentional . Not a bad watch , I'd say , but rather silly at times and entertaining for all the wrong reasons . I have to say though , I lived in California for many years and knew many Filipinos , and it was actually a little comforting to hear those lilting accents again , just watching this . Anyway , this is an OK flick , , if you like your vampire stuff a little different it's worth seeing .
Ultra-cool trash	This is one of my favorite bad movies . It has a great look to it and if you just turn off your brain and sit back for the ride you'll be just fine , really , no lasting brain damage as a result . I don't think . A mad scientist ( Carradine , big surprise in THAT type-casting ) creates a race of supermen , they can't be killed and they have damaged brains and Halloween masks , and run around with machetes . Some agents from some undisclosed country ( Tura Satana & friends ) are after the secret . Some CIA agents are too . They try to find some of what's going on by hanging out at a nightclub . Tura & friends operate out of what must have been the luxury apartment complex of the day , but it's furnished with the absolute worst styles of furniture of the 60's , all that modern looking stuff that only looks super-tacky by modern standards , so that's worth a good smirk right there . There's also lots of important looking lab equipment that makes all kinds of weird noises , and one item looks like two plastic water bottles balanced on top of a garbage can painted red . Top notch props , in other words . Oh , and Carradine's mute deformed assistant gets lessons in everything Carradine is doing . . . . it's all explained very carefully to him , as though he had a clue . OK , this is a mess and SURE it's terrible , but it's also incredibly fun in a trashy " I can't believe I'm watching this " kind of way . Tune in , turn off ( your brain ) , and drop out .
Didn't make it in out-weirding Twin Peaks	Here's a strange little mini-series , now available on two DVD's for your viewing pleasure if you're trapped inside due to bad weather , agoraphobia , etc . It's 2007 in L . A . and the latest thing is to drive 60's cars and listen to 60's music , and either be one of the Fathers or one of the Friends . And what are those ? Political organizations , I guess . . . . . . the Fathers is headed up by Robert Loggia , so you know they're bad , because he's never a nice guy . And Angie Dickinson is his evil henchperson & sister , has she ever thought of changing her hairstyle ? Overall , this is an OK made-for-TV sci-fi drama , with holographic TV , rhinos , strange little kids as would-be messiahs wearing yachting outfits , and while it has its share of weirdness it also has its silly-beyond-belief moments too . Lots of old familiar faces in this , like Robert Morse who plays a lounge singer . And what's the whole idea ? Something about folks being so complacent that a bad person can do anything and get away with it . If you liked Twin Peaks you may also like this but it doesn't really compare too well , but this does have an ending , although it's pretty " vanilla " . Still though , it's worth seeing but you may have a hard time keeping track of the players without a score card , and some of them seem to change sides on a regular basis . .
Fabulous Stains , now on DVD !	This isn't a fantastic movie but it sure is fun . Diane Lane plays a 15 year old orphan , who with her sister & cousin ( Laura Dern ) escape their dead little town to go on tour with The Looters ( Paul Cook , Steve Jones , Ray Winstone , and Paul Simonon ) and the Metal Corpses , led by a loopy Fee Waybill of the Tubes . Of course , at the first gig , The Stains can't play , but Corinne " Third Degree " Burns ( Lane , does manage to strike a chord among the young ladies in the crowd by telling them to hold back , don't put out , etc . Plus , she does a great job of telling small-town losers that this is exactly what they are , which doesn't go over well . However , as the tour progresses , she finds they have a growing following of girls that have " skunk " hair just like she does , that dress just like she does , and they're a sensation , all without having been recorded . It gets to the point where they're upstaging The Looters , even stealing one of their songs , and Winstone is after Corinne , but she's " not putting out " , as per her beliefs . Now , the Metal Corpses are out of the picture after the death one of their musicians , from a drug overdose , and the Looters & Stains carry on but with plenty of internal strife . Eventually Winstone turns the tables on their " opening act " by making the audience think about why they've spent all this money on dyeing their hair & their outfits , etc . , and the Stains fall from grace like a stone . But there's somewhat of an upbeat ending , although it's hard to say if it's a fantasy or reality . Definitely a fun movie , and it's great to see some old punk stars cranking out some music . . . the Looters actually sound pretty good . Fee Waybill is rather amusing as the over-the-top singer for Metal Corpses . And a brief appearance by Black Randy and the Metrosquad , ha ! I enjoyed this , even though it sort of plays out like an " After School Special " at times , with punk rock . .
absolutely bizarre no-budget nightmare	There's a lot of this film that I didn't understand but it sure looked cool while it flew by , considering the extreme low budget that this was supposedly made with . A young man , who has broken up with his fiancée , runs into some young lady in the subway , who he is drawn to , but who disappears and leaves only a tooth behind . Later he finds ( when visiting his mother ) that this is his sister , who was thought to be dead but was in a coma for many years in Paris . He brings her back to NYC with him , and lets her stay with him , but they get a bit closer than brother & sister have a right to , and pretty soon they're lovers . There's some strange things going on like the ubiquitous DNA 21 advertisements , and red cockroaches skittering around in the foreground and background and wherever . Seems that acid rain is causing mutations and these cockroaches are carriers , or something . There's also some creepy thing found in this tooth that sis left behind the first time the young man encountered her , and there's always a feeling that something sinister is going on behind the not-very-normal every day life we are presented here . This is a surreal nightmare and while parts of it are not for the faint-of-heart , it's well worth seeing for the adventurous . This is supposedly part of a trilogy , and I'd definitely like to see more , for this is one creepy flick . .
I'm hard pressed to describe this	" Screwed " begins with a very surreal and disturbing scene of people , mutated and perhaps rotting , on a beach or something , writhing and wriggling and moving in rather creepy ways , and then it shifts gears into normality ( for a bit ) with a tale of a young cartoonist ( played by the guy from Ichi the Killer & Electic Dragon 80 , 000V ) who is poverty stricken and he and his young wife / girlfriend / whoever are having some troubles and have been thrown out of their apartment . She finds lodging at some dormitory as a cook ( think " Residence Inn " , not college dorm ) and he finds lodging with some strange dude that lives in a place where people have committed suicide previously , and after taking stock of his situation , no money , girlfriend / wife sleeping around , etc . , he decides to commit suicide as well , but he's found and saved , and ends up going to some seaside town where he hooks up with more strange people and then the film slides off the edge of reality into a bizarre surreal world once again , although this time you're REALLY not sure what's going on . Apparently the young man went swimming in the sea and his arm was laid open by a jellyfish ( I didn't know they were capable of that ) and he's searching for help but can't seem to find any except for a gynecologist ? And then perhaps ( and I say perhaps because I'm not sure ) you find the meaning of the title , and it hasn't got anything to do with sex . Now , I'm sure my description does this little justice , but if you were to watch this you'd probably understand why it's hard to describe . It's by no means bad , it's just like someone's bad acid trip committed to film . I liked it because it's cool to watch , but otherwise I'd have to say I was pretty lost about what it was all about . , extremely weird and perhaps even unfathomable . But like I said , cool to watch .
oozing with sarcastic humor	I've only read about this until it came out on DVD so i grabbed it . This is pretty funny in a sarcastic way , as only maybe Alex Winter ( Bill & Ted's E . A . ) could do , and supposedly under all that makeup there is Keanu Reeves too . A major star ( Winter ) is hired by a toxic fertilizer manufacturer to give a better image to their product in South America , for 5 million dollars , so off he goes , and ends up in a Freak Show run by Randy Quaid where all the freaks have been created by coating them with this particular fertilizer ! Mr . T plays a bearded lady with just the right amount of delicacy , and there are lots of other goofy freaks too , like Bob Goldthwait as Sockhead , a kind of cookie monster wanna-be . This is a rather hard movie to describe but mostly everything is thrown at the viewer and it's up to you to decide how to take it . There's a few good laughs and lots of gross-outs , but the run time is kind of short . .
Not the shocker we might expect , but Romero IS 68 years old . . .	I'm not quite sure what people were expecting from this film , but I found it to be to MY liking . It's certainly no " Dawn of the Dead " but I thought it was well done & had its share of chills . The story : A bunch of college students filming a horror movie hear reports of the dead rising , etc . , so they all pile into a Winnebago to try to get home . One is filming everything with a camera , documenting the events to put online so that people can see the truth , since of course , the beloved government is censoring what's going on so the public doesn't get upset . Seems like everyone's more in danger of getting et than upset . There's not excessive gore & such but it's still there & it's enough , believe me ( at least for me it was ) . As events unfold and as the group dwindles , the feeling of hopelessness grows . There's some eerie moments as the remaining people band together in a big mansion that has a surveillance system & some of the action takes place on these cameras , which lends a detachment to some of the horror . This isn't a kick-ass zombie flick but Romero hasn't lost his touch . Expecting another " Dawn of " or " Night of " from him is unreasonable , just like expecting Cronberg to kick out another " Scanners " or something . I liked this . .
not bad but not awesome	This is a fairly entertaining horror comedy which is somewhat marred by the usual action shots that move so fast you could be looking at about anything . The deal is , that there's a group of people that are randomly drawn to some low-rent desert watering hole and then trapped in there by some marauding critters that came out of nowhere . I kind of liked the mini-bio's established for each character , and their life expectancy . Especially , Hero , Heroine , and Heroine number two , which of course means that while you may think you're being given a tip to the character's fate , you're really not . Anyway , when all these folks are in this place playing pool , drinking , etc . , some stranger rushes in and tells them that " they're coming " and that you'd best be prepared . So of course they all close the shutters and nail stuff over the doors and windows and yet critters still manage to get in . Now the critters themselves , I mentioned , are a bit hard to see , but it seems that their true identity is masked by dressing up in roadkill , for some reason , but you do get to see what they look like later , somewhat . The characters in this are mostly pretty good , stereotype action-horror flick types , including cowards , leaders , wise ones that sort of hang back , a guy in a wheelchair , an old lady ( whose bio , by the way , said something about having done something for Mick Jagger . . . recently . . ) . Anyway , this is entertaining enough but not quite as good as expected , and I actually liked some of the humor more than I liked some of the " horror " . Oh , and Jason Mewes is in this , briefly ( life expectancy : exceeded all expectations already ) . , kind of fun but nothing fantastic .
not much for real scares but takes the cake for weirdness	I've read about the infamous Coffin Joe , AKA Jose Mojica Marins , for years , but finally had the opportunity to get my mitts on one of these films & found it to be right up my alley when it comes to utter weirdness . This guy wears all black , including a top hat , & has two inch long fingernails . As for the storyline , he wants a kid and is shopping for a suitable child-bearer . He's found one but he sort of discarded all the unsuitable ones and perhaps one is coming back to haunt him ? There is a dream sequence near the end that's all in color , and it really made me wish that the whole movie was filmed that way , it would have been so much better , a real bad acid trip of a movie , not that I know anything about that , though . I noticed in one review as I went in to review this that one person had called this an Italian movie , well , it's not , it's filmed in Brazil , they're actually speaking Portugese , so we get a different take on things , South American style , and it's different enough to delight any fan of the weird and unfathomable . I got a big kick out of this myself , and will be searching for more of his stuff . stars .
The Odd Couple Meets Texas Chainsaw Massacre ? ( minor spoilers )	This is a very strange little flick about two young actresses , living in the same luxury apartment not by choice , but because they've been placed there by their employer . They're both auditioning for a role in the movie " Yakuza Wives " and there's a slight bit of tension between them . One is from " hicksville " ( Sado Island ) and the other is a city gal , who spends money like it was going out of style . At first they're somewhat civil to each other on the surface , but you also get to see their true thoughts about various situations . After several minor spats over the use of shampoo , leaving hair in the bathtub , and other little indiscretions , things begin to spiral out of control and it's all out war . Sometimes subtle , sometimes quite in-your-face , especially when it comes to bathroom cleaner . There IS actually a chainsaw in this movie but it doesn't do any bodily harm , mostly thanks to a short extension cord . This is a pretty dark comedy and also has elements of drama and horror as things escalate toward the ironic ending . You'd not think young ladies in Japan could be so vicious but these two are top-notch in that field . This is a fairly fascinating film but it's not for everyone . .
Beware the bunny in the basement	Bloody Reunion is a rather entertaining Korean slasher flick for most of its run time , but on toward the end , I became quite lost , as it seems almost as though most of what you'd seen did not happen but something ALMOST as bad did , and then there were FURTHER twists after that , as if you weren't confused enough already . The premise is good : it's a reunion of students from this one school to see their ailing teacher , Mrs . Park . Mrs . Park is delighted that these people have come to see her until she is reminded that she was not very nice to any of them while they were in her class and that they are all losers in life and by golly , not a one came to see her because they LIKE her . Not a good realization for someone who is invalid and in a wheelchair . But , it seems that one by one , these students are disappearing , and the perpetrator appears to be wearing a cute bunny mask . Now , years ago , Mrs . Park gave birth to a deformed child that she kept in the basement , and he disappeared one day , but he often wore a bunny mask to hide his face . . . could it be him , returned to protect his mother ? Well , it could be a lot of things really , but as I mentioned this changes gears a few times right on toward the end so I wasn't sure WHAT the hell happened except that a bunch of people died . Not bad but somewhat confusing . .
Good vs . Evil , but who are the REAL evil ones ?	Despite the title , for those who are unfamiliar , this isn't a horror movie , it's a biker movie . Members of a motorcycle club are framed for the rape of a young girl , although the real perpetrator is none other than a sadistic sheriff's deputy . Of course when the girl's dad is told that it was the bikers ( by the deputy , of course ) then it's war , and he recruits a big game hunter and the sadistic deputy and they go after the bikers . The bikers , of course , think it's a rival club that's shooting them down , until , of course , they meet at a drive in to talk things over and they're indiscriminately gunned down there . Of course , they're not going to take this anymore and they go visit a wacko gun enthusiast who loans them plenty of hardware and even grenades . There's a big funeral planned for the three fallen brothers but the upstanding citizens who have decided to take matters into their own hands of course use that event to catch the bikers as sitting ducks . Of course , despite their looks , the bikers aren't evil , and they even change the tire of one terrified couple that are cowering in their car until they realize that despite the fact that the bikers looked like they meant harm they were only having a bit of fun before they actually helped them . The town folks though , are another matter , as they go by looks alone and in the name of decency they need to eradicate this scum from the face of the earth . Unless , of course , you are of THAT particular frame of mind , you'll certainly wish that more rednecks and bitten the dust in this , although it seems things all work out in the end , although the ending leaves a little to one's imagination . Not a bad flick with non-professional actors for the most part , and there's plenty of action to keep the viewer interested . .
acceptable if not exceptional Jesse Franco flick	Here's yet another Franco film released on DVD , this one as " Night of the Skull " yet the Spanish title doesn't seem to contain the word " skull " . This is in Spanish with subtitles but I did see a brief flash at the beginning that writing credits went to Edgar Allen Poe , and " The Cat & The Canary " and Edgar Wallace is also mentioned . ! ! So given all that it should have been better , but it's a pretty straightforward murder mystery and not much more . No lesbian vampires or leather babes and torture chambers here . A rich man is murdered , and his heirs gather for the reading of the will , and of course he has two wills , one that stipulates whom his assets should go to if he's murdered and that's his daughter , who he had out of wedlock with a servant so therefore she's not been treated well . The part of the daughter is played by Lina Romay , who is the lead in " Mari Cookie and the Killer Tarantula " many years later but would probably have been much more effective in that role had she been the lovely young thing she was here . If you have ever seen THAT movie she hasn't aged well . At any rate of course nobody is happy with the results of the inheritance but someone's busily taking care of the remaining heirs anyway so they're not around to complain too long . Definitely nothing to get too excited about here but it's still acceptable entertainment and has a good look to it . .
sort of a low-budget " Captivity " but actually , better . . .	I didn't care much for Captivity but I did find a copy of " The Cellar Door " for pretty cheap , so picked it up and watched it . . . and surprisingly , for the low budget , it's actually much better & held my interest more than Captivity . James Dumont plays Herman , a tubby , middle-aged guy who dresses in khakis and looks rather normal . . . except he's got more than a few screws loose and kidnaps women & keeps them in his basement . The last one managed to escape but Herman managed to chase her down & make sure she'd never tell anyone . So now he needs a replacement , and finds one in Rudy , who seems to be someone who doesn't LIKE men , being that she and her house-mate are hanging all over each other , but it doesn't really seem that Herman notices , or even understands . So pretty soon Rudy is in the wooden pen in Herman's basement and the game of cat and mouse begins . Dumont does pretty well in his role as mild-mannered Herman , who changes into psychotic nut-case Herman with only the slightest provocation . Michelle Tomlinson also stands out as Rudy , who can certainly take care of herself , given the opportunity . This film probably won't be for anyone who doesn't care for films like Hostel , Saw , etc . , but for all its nastiness , it doesn't come off as being quite as exploitative . .
Dolly Dearest from the Land of the Rising Sun . . . .	Here's a strange little Japanese flick that combines elements of Dolls , House of Wax , Crucible of Terror , and who knows what all else . I guess it's not a ' professionally ' made film either , since it has the look of being filmed on video yet still manages to succeed rather well . It's rather gruesome it parts , yet it does have a strange sense of humor to it . Seems like there is an artist that makes dolls , very expensive dolls , that is a loner and works in his isolated studio . He has a rather unsavory assistant , who has apparently taken over a lot of his work in creating dolls but not in the way that he was originally making them . Now you can forget about credibility , since when people get water from this pond on them they turn to wax , and therefore they can be made into dolls . The assistant has also fashioned a machine that uses pond water in a more efficient way than having to chase down the victim and push them into the pond . So we have a bunch of missing girls and a bunch of dolls that seem to be created from them , although they're not apparently , entirely dead or entirely alive . This is a surreal and strange film , and at times you haven't really a clue what's going on , but it was still very interesting to watch and while it lacks high production values , it's still worthwhile to see , if you're a fan of Asian weirdness as I am .
weird little WWII film	I'm not sure I know how to begin to describe this but I'll give it a shot anyway . A bunch of solders , basically " walking wounded " , come across a member of the aristocracy in Belgium , out riding his horse , and are invited by the man to come stay at his castle . Little does he know what he's bringing down upon himself but the men take up residence in the castle and make it their base of operations . Their leader ( Lancaster ) takes up residence in the bed with the Count's wife , niece , whoever she is . Peter Falk takes up residence in the bakery of the nearby town , as he was a baker back in the US and the baker's husband appears to have gone away . There is a young man called Private Benjamin who is a writer who is busily taking notes to write his book called " Castle Keep " . Overall , none of these men would win any prizes in the Mental Health Sweepstakes . The dialog and scenarios are rather strange and surreal and in some ways this reminds me of " Catch 22 " but this came first and the comparison is merely that they're both strange and surreal war films . I'm not really much for war films and while this one doesn't overly seem like one until the last part it's well done and several notches to the left of " left field " . I guess this could be described as a black comedy but it's more surreal than anything , I guess . , not your basic war film , but what exactly , is hard to say .
Rule number 1 ; don't eat while watching this	This is the first of the " Guinea Pig " series that I've seen , a double feature of " Mermaid in a Manhole " and " He Never Dies " . Will I go in search of others in this series ? Well , it's possible , but it will take some time to get over THIS one before I'd even consider that . Mermaid in a Manhole is somewhat obvious in its subject matter , as a struggling artist finds a mermaid in the sewer and when he discovers she has an infection from being down there he brings her home & tries to cure her , only she only gets worse . Pretty soon the infection has spread and it's not some little rash , it's great big pustules and sores and on occasion they flare up and spray and squirt blood . Of course the neighbors are wondering what's going on because there's half-eaten raw fish in the trash every day . The mermaid tells the man that within her sores there are seven colors , and that he must burst them to get the colors to make a painting of her before she dies . Of course this is painful to her , disgusting to the viewer and messy , to boot . Of course the artist goes on with his painting , but the mermaid gets ever worse and soon the frantic artist is busily picking all manner of creepy crawlies off her , worms of many kinds to be exact . Meanwhile I'm squirming uncomfortably with my mouth hanging open wondering what the hell I'm watching . I read somewhere about this Guinea Pig series and it seems it's dedicated to extreme gore and horror and this would seem to be a prime example . There's even a twist ending which sort of neatly wraps things up . The other film on this DVD , " He Never Dies " , is more extreme gore but with a sense of humor to it , however disgusting it may be . This one though , well , you'll feel as though you've been bludgeoned . How much you " like " this will depend on your threshold for disgusting visuals , and you may actually have to re-evaluate what is considered " disgusting " , because this crosses the line in that area . Whew . . . . . .
bizarre Indian horror / romance / drama / comedy and is my DVD complete ?	I have to wonder if the DVD I bought of this film is complete because it seems to jump from one scene to another with little sense , maybe it's just a westerner viewing a film from another culture but I'd bet that the source materials might not have been complete or usable and therefore there's this sort of lack of continuity . Or maybe this is the way the film is ? Not a clue . The story is that of brides in traditional red dresses all disappearing and the source of this remains a mystery to those involved , but not to the viewer . Whenever the wedding procession stops at a certain point to offer blessings the bride disappears . That doesn't stop anyone from continuing to do this , for some reason though , although precautions are taken , with little avail . I had a hard time keeping track of who was who , especially the women who were all similarly dressed . This does have some interesting song and dance segments that I really enjoy though , and it also has this somewhat laughable " thing " that resembles a werewolf , that is involved with all these mysterious disappearances and killings , but it's not whatever it is ALL the time , and therefore it's got to be someone from the village . This " thing " is sort of explained at the beginning of the movie , it's something to do with a wealthy man who was poisoned by his bride on their wedding night , so she could take his money and marry the man that she wanted to in the first place , so it's a sort of vengeance that's going on here , but unfortunately for all the blushing brides , it's in no way discriminating . As with most Indian movies there also lots of action , some comedy ( of the intentional variety ) and some romance and drama . This is for the most part well done but I can't help but think the version I viewed is missing some parts because of the way it jumped scenes . .
cheese freaks rejoice !	OK , this is not one of Ray Dennis Steckler's better films , if any of them could be called " good " , but it's got his trademark cheesiness , and it's got the usual incoherent story line , so if you like his other films you'll probably like this . Pierre D'Agostino , a photographer , supposedly , looks up ads in sex mags and goes to photograph young women baring their breasts and then strangles them . He's looking for a replacement for his old lady friend , I guess , but they're all " garbage " . Except , perhaps , for one , and that's Carolyn Brandt , the owner of a crummy book shop next to a porno theater . He thinks she's beautiful , although I've never seen her look creepier , and in this she speaks not a word . She seems to have her own hobby as well , like dispatching the winos that wander into her shop with a switch blade . Not in the shop though , of course , in the dark alleys after closing time . This kind of goes on for a bit , with him doing his thing and her doing her thing , and when they do finally hook up , well , that's the end of the film , and they may not live happily ever after but I'll leave it to you to find out if you want . Steckler hides behind the pseudonym of " Wolfgang Schmidt " for this one , but nobody else could have probably made a film like this , plus Carolyn Brandt is his wife and I don't think she appeared in anything except his films . , cheesy !
I wanted to like this more than I did	After seeing " Desecration " & " Horror " , Dante Tomaselli's two older films , I had some great hopes for this , especially since it's about the Jersey Devil & the Pine Barrens , which holds some interest for me even though I know very little about it . I was rather disappointed though because this sticks more closely to conventional horror stuff than Tomaselli's older and more imaginative stuff . A station wagon full of people are headed out to the Pine Barrens for a lovely family vacation , I guess , when of course they get stuck in the mud and someone has to go for help , to an old house that is populated by a weird old woman and her weird daughter and son , and there appears to be devil worship stuff going on in the back yard , etc . Of course when dad doesn't come back , one by one the family ventures out to find what happened and find a phone , only to meet with the same fates . There is something out there in the woods , it's never shown but it's apparently quite sharp , as in , well honed , because it manages to inflict quite a few fatal wounds to all it comes in contact with . This all has the feel of a twisted nightmare but not as twisted as it could have been , considering the director's earlier stuff , and in that I was somewhat disappointed . There are what appear to be " regulars " to Tomaselli's films in this , including some from both of his previous two films , for what that's worth , including Felissa Rose from " Sleepaway Camp " . Hopefully Tomaselli's new film " The Ocean " will be a bit better than this . I've found promise in his work so far & while this was a disappointment in some ways I will hope for better with the next . .
Has its good points but overall somewhat confusing	This is the story of a family that heads for their summer home in the French countryside to live after some nameless incident that has caused great catastrophe , although exactly what happened is never revealed . Immediately upon arrival at their cabin the husband is shot and killed and the woman and her two children are left without their car or the supplies they brought and forced to rely on the kindness of others . And there isn't much of that going on . Everything has a price in this new order . Eventually they stumble across a strange young boy and are led to somewhere near a train track where others are living , in hopes they can eventually stop a train and get to somewhere better . That is , if there really IS somewhere better ; one wonders if that could be the case . The problem I had with this is that at times scenes seem to jump to another scenario with no segue , really , and I was lost . The ending was very odd and left me wondering what had happened , and I supposed I was supposed to use my imagination , but I don't think I had enough facts or clues to be able to successfully do that . Overall , it's not bad , as " end of the world " type films go , the last people , if they ARE truly the last people , fighting and squabbling over food and who's in charge . And heaven forbid that some of the last people happen to be foreigners too , Polish , I guess , since when they speak in their native tongue there's no subtitles , and when they speak in French it's broken . . . so I see the French don't treat " outsiders " any better than Amercans do . This is kind of an interesting watch but it did lose me a few times in what was going on . , some may like it more than others .
It's my party and I'll kill if I want to . . . . .	Young Ginny ( as played by Melissa Sue Anderson ) is part of an exclusive clique at her prep school , Crawford , but there's something not right . Little things seem to trigger repressed memories in her , little things like jumping the crack in a rising drawbridge in a car with her friends which sends her screaming off into the woods . And other things , as well . Now , it seems like Ginny had some kind of surgery before , she was in some kind of accident it seems , and as the movie goes on , more is revealed . And , of course , as the movie goes on , one by one her friends in this exclusive clique seem to be disappearing . This is not terribly graphic , gory , or scary , but it does have some good qualities to it and the piecing together of what exactly happened to Ginny is somewhat interesting . I can't really say much more without giving it away the ending though . And the ending itself is pretty odd too , being that there are several twists ( none very likely ) thrown at the viewer in the space of only a few moments . If you like the slasher flicks of the late 70's & early 80's you'll probably like this just fine , I know I like most of them , anyway , but I won't say this is the best film of that genre that I've ever seen . Still though , it's fairly entertaining and you'll be wondering what's going on right up till the end . .
The Fun is mostly in the look	This is a fun film to watch just for the look , the Japanese go-go dancers and the " black tights " girl gang . As for the story , well , it's there but it pretty much takes a back seat and isn't anything to get too worked up about . That is , if you can really follow it . I guess this is kind of a Japanese " Matt Helm " type film , a sort of spy meets 60's pop art kind of thing . The story , such as it is , is a reporter on his way home from duty in Saigon , meets up with a stewardess on the plane and asks her out for a date , where she's promptly kidnapped after dinner . Most of the rest of the film consists of trying to figure out who did it , why , and getting her back . There's a gang of girls that wear black tights & use Ninja chewing gum bullets , deadly tape measures and other such things , which are pretty cool . Also there's guys in trench coats , sinister , of course , but who are they and what is their quest ? Overall I was a bit disappointed because I sort of expected better from what I read & heard but this film still has a good look and feel to it and I guess the plot is pretty secondary to everything else . Also had a bit of trouble with the subtitles as white on white gets a bit hard to read sometimes . Maybe the key elements of the story were lost on me due to this , but probably not . .
A step down from Reflecting Skin , but not bad	After Reflecting Skin , Ridley had some pretty big shoes to fill in coming up with another film as good . And it's nowhere near as good but it is adequate . Darkly Noon ( Brendan Fraser ) is a strange young man who escaped death at the hands of a lynch mob that attacked and killed members of the religious sect he belonged to . He's found lying in the road by a young man who happens along in his truck and he's taken back to a big house in the forest to be cared for by Callie . Callie nurses him back to health & as she does he finds out that Callie ( Ashley Judd ) has a lover who is currently out wandering to get his head straight ( Viggo Mortenson ) . All is mostly well till Clay ( Mortenson ) returns and then Darkly begins to become jealous . He's wandering through the woods and encounters an odd lady ( Grace Zabriskie ) who tells him Callie is a witch . . . . . because Clay is her son and Callie apparently " stole " her husband too . And of course because Roxy ( Zabriskie ) has run her mouth all over the place the local townspeople think Callie is a witch too . Darkly becomes so jealous that he begins to drift into madness , and wraps himself in barbed wire and other abnormal activities . Also odd is a strange floating silver shoe on a lake that he witnesses . . . . looks kind of like a 70's disco shoe ? Or perhaps pimp footwear ? What the hell is THAT ? And later when Roxy's dog dies you find that she sees it too , it's not just a hallucination , and they turn it into a floating funeral pyre for the dog . OK . . . Anyway Darkly finally snaps and goes after both Callie & Clay , and there is a rather tragic ending to this . But that isn't the very end , you do find out where the shoe came from . I guess while Reflecting Skin was weird and had a great flow to it , this one is more forced and forced weirdness doesn't quite work for me . Still , this is mostly a good watch , it just felt a bit empty or that there was something missing . Still though , if you liked The Reflecting Skin you'll probably want to check this out , and it's not bad . .
Interesting and overall , fairly well done adaptation of Lovecraft	I had to read the box a couple times , because at first I thought I'd actually found an actual silent movie made in the 1920's of an HP Lovecraft story . No , that's not what this is , it's a film made in 2005 in the style of a silent 1920's film , so I thought I'd give it a shot . For the most part a good job is done in re-creating the sort of look and feel of a silent film , except that it's too clear at times . The story is of a young man who is in an asylum , he poked around too much into his late uncle's papers and went kind of mad . Most of the film is told in flashbacks and it has to do with exploration of strange and creepy places and what was found there , most notably the Old Ones , and Cthulhu himself , who had been dreaming in the sunken city of R'lyeh for many years and doesn't look too happy at having been awakened . I thought this seemed pretty faithful to Lovecraft's work , although it's been years since I've read some of his stuff , although I had read most of his books and stories at least several times over . The team behind this does a creditable job with the look & feel of the film & the material as well . I'm not sure what all these negative reviewers were looking for or expecting from this , but I thought it was quite decent and well worth seeing , if you're a Lovecraft fan . .
Worth seeing for the Voidoids	Richard Hell & The Voidoids have always been one of my favorite bands , despite the fact that they made about 2 albums & disappeared , although Mr . Hell himself still pops up from time to time . Their music was mostly distinguished by Hell himself & guitarist Robert Quine , who lent a strange quality to their music with his off-kilter guitar twanging . At any rate , this movie is more of a love story between Billy ( Hell ) and the beautiful Nada ( Carol Bouquet ) and while it's not my usual cup of tea I still like it fine , even though it's no work of genius . This is by Ulli Lommel who did The Boogeyman , Devonsville Horror , Brainwaves , Tenderness of the Wolves , etc . Lommel himself has a part in the movie , and there's even a cameo by Andy Warhol and some freak with flashing goggles and a violin that is Warhol's assistant . There's a few live performances by the Voidoids , some wandering the streets and meeting odd people , and a few odd enough characters to make this watchable . As I said this is no work of cinematic genius but it's definitely watchable and a decent little slice of NYC back in " the day " . .
I guess I liked this but I didn't necessarily understand it . . . .	Japanese movies can be a bit tough to follow sometimes , and this is one of those . I know it begins with cops staking out an organ-harvesting operation but beyond that it's one big " what the hell ? " . Not that this isn't creepy and weird and interesting to watch , it just a bit hard to follow . Maybe another watch , or two , might help . Maybe . The stake-out on this organ-harvesting operation went bad , I guess , and one cop lost his job and now he's out for vengeance and to find his former partner ? I suppose that may be about as close as I could come to the plot . There's a brother and sister that are extremely dysfunctional , he's some kind of school teacher or something , and he collects butterflies and does strange experiments with plants and humans ? And his sister , Yoko , is missing an eye , thanks to their deranged mom who also tried to cut off her brother's penis . Seems that brother also has some other problems , like malignant growths and stuff . One scene has a woman , the headmistress at a school ( I guess ) coming on to him and getting rather excited about his suppurating pustules . . . . yow . This is a rather sick and twisted flick , most of which left me in the dust but it was sort of interesting to watch . I've read comparisons to David Lynch but to my knowledge he hasn't produced anything this " out there " . If you're a fan of Asian Cinema , of the abnormal kind , then you'll probably like this a lot , if you have a weak stomach and everything has to make sense to you , why would you watch this in the first place ? .
Another from the Pang Gang	This is a mostly decent film about a young woman who becomes obsessed with photographing death , and scenes of death , but it then wanders off into snuff movie territory for some reason and I had to wonder what the hell I missed ? Jin & Jas are two young women that are friends ( and possibly more than friends ) and Jin photographs a car accident and then is increasingly drawn to photographing scenes of death . Jas is , of course , a bit worried about this behavior , and rightfully so , because Jin appears to be going off the deep end . About halfway to three-quarters of the way through the film though , a new scenario is introduced and it's seemingly unconnected from everything that's come to pass so far , so I was a bit lost . The identity of a certain person is revealed toward the end and I had to wonder if I'd seen this person prior in the movie ? What the hell . . ? Overall , this is pretty good , but it's something I'd have to watch again to see what I missed , because I apparently wasn't paying close enough attention . .
Icky the killer	Hey now , I will admit that I thought the blond guy on the cover was Ichi for a while but once I realized who he was I enjoyed the movie more . It seems there's an issue with a Yakuza guy that ran off with a bunch of money , and of course everyone is looking for him . And then there's Ichi , who somehow figures into all this . Ichi is this little milquetoast guy who gets violent when he gets upset . He gets REALLY violent . Anyway he's supposedly out for revenge on people that had bullied him when he was younger but it seems he's rather impressionable and that's not exactly what's going on at all . This film has some rather icky moments , as in gore galore , and there's even someone that literally splits . . . . . . . amazing . The blond gentleman pictured on the cover has a rather interesting mutilation that allows him to open his big mouth when he chooses . . . . . which is quite the ghastly effect . Overall this was a decent movie but it was a bit hard to figure out who was who for a while and in the opening the editing is quite confusing but once everything settles down a bit this becomes quite an interesting film . Miike did much better with Audition though , and I'd prefer that over this if I had to choose .
gut punch of a flick	If you're a horror fan , and a hard core horror fan , then you'll most likely want to see this , but I've been a horror fan for decades and no film I've ever seen quite affected me like this . I won't tell you that I enjoyed it because that wouldn't be the right terminology . One can look at it from the point of view that the documentary makers whose film we're seeing were worse than the cannibals they set out to film and feel a little better , but not by much . 4 cocky and experienced documentary film makers set forth into the Amazon jungle to film cannibals , and they never come back . A professor at a university goes to find what happened to them and manages to come back alive and with the cans of film they ran . Seems like the natives were glad to be rid of those things because they were bad juju . As this rolls on we find that other footage ( like in Africa ) taken by these documentary makers was less than pure , as in it was staged . And as we watch the film they took we see also how they staged events which caused the deaths of many tribesmen which pretty much labels them as human monsters . The film makers , that is . They do plenty of other things to endear themselves to these natives , like rape their women , kill their livestock , etc . Some of the scenes with live animals being killed were not staged though , these are real , and they're probably the most disgusting and uncomfortable part of this to sit through . The turtle is the worst by far . Anyway , as arguments ensue between the staff of a TV station back in New York over what to air and what not to air , they're finally shown all the remaining film of the expedition and it's absolutely soul-deadening stuff . Nothing like having a member of your party snatched and filming their demise . . . . . VERY disturbing stuff . And it's finally decided to air none of the footage and just burn it . One has to wonder about Ruggero Deodato , who cranked out later pictures like " House on the edge of the Park " and " Dial Help " which are wonderfully tame in comparison to this . I can understand some of the realism but not killing live animals on camera . Also , something I've noticed in watching a lot of Italian horror films is that the soundtrack music in many is quite inappropriate for what you're seeing and this one is no exception ; the music is quite lilting and beautiful and would be more appropriate in some romance or drama , not a movie where folks are being gutted and strewn about . If you can watch this movie and not feel very disturbed and yes , even a bit sickened afterward , then my hat is off to you even though I hope I never run into you in a dark alley . .
The US answer to Shaun of the Dead ? Not even close . . .	One of the statements on the cover of this movie calls this " The US answer to Shaun of the Dead " but that's a rather unfair comparison , because this is neither as clever nor as funny , but it's still not all that bad . A bunch of young folks , on their way to a wedding in Galveston , get lost and spend the night at this little town called Lovelock , where the Bed & Breakfast is run by creepy David Carradine as Mr . Wise . Seems like Mr . Wise has a secret to hide in a little Tibetan ( ? ) box , sealed by a ribbon , and when he dies of a heart attack the box is eventually opened which causes a few problems . Seems like the box is full of evil and whomever possesses it becomes a zombie-like creature . Now one of the better scenes is the Zombie outbreak at the Hoe Down , a local bar , particularly when one potential victim grabs a cymbal off the drum kit and throws it like a Frisbee , only to have it become embedded in a zombie's head . Yeow . This has several gory and way over-the-top scenes , like one girl that is stuck in the bed & breakfast with a hoard of zombies and she eventually takes them all out , ala " Dead Alive " . There's also one scene where the sheriff is gathering ammo and finds a chainsaw , as he comes out of the room where he's found it you see an " Evil Dead " poster on the wall . Hmm . At any rate , this has its moments , and it does have its humor , which is nowhere near as funny as " Shaun of the Dead " , but it's still pretty passable and worth seeing if you like gore movies . .
Good but not entirely satisfying	A young girl ( Nami ) inherits a house where she lived until she was 3 , and she and her ex-boyfriend go check it out . They're part of a team of video game designers , and they transmit their findings to the rest of the team because they want to use the house & some ideas for a new game . Nami knew the house belonged to her father but that's all , she didn't know who her father was . Apparently he was a great artist , but from some of the other things that they found in the house he had other interests too . Not wholesome ones , either . One of my complaints lies in the making of the movie , wherein certain parts are made to look like a video game , so you're never sure if you're seeing a game or the movie . However , considering that I've seen " House of the Dead " which is the worst-ever movie-based-on-a-video-game , this is done quite well and was more intriguing and mysterious . This is not a top-notch film but it's decent entertainment . .
Low Budget Kids in the Hall stuff	This is somewhat reminiscent of the material of Kids in the Hall , although much more low-budget , and unfortunately because of the budget it isn't as outrageous as it could have been , but it's still pretty odd and entertaining . Seems as though the lesbian population of Ottawa is being decimated by Vampires , and Jesus Christ and Santos team up to save the day . That's Santos , the pudgy Mexican wrestling dude with the mask . I suppose the entire " alternative " population of Ottawa teamed up to make this movie , at least that's how it seems . But why not have priests with Mohawks , while you're busy making fun of a Savior ? The guy that plays Jesus does a good job , he's pretty deadpan and innocently naive , while still knowing plenty of outrageous Kung Fu moves to put vampires & atheists in traction . The scene at the night club is the best , Blind Jimmy Leper up on stage ( look at his teeth , ugh ) and when the little team of vampire hunters realize they're in a room full of vampires the staking begins , my favorites being the toothpick & plumber's helper . This could have been much more outrageous than it is but it's obvious that it's pretty low budget and they did pretty good despite all that . I wanted to like it a lot better than I did but it's still entertaining and I only wonder what they could have done with more money . .
Interesting as a curiosity but not as good as the 80's version	The book 1984 by George Orwell , is one of my favorites of all time , and I really liked the film version made in the mid-80's . Now I've had a chance to see the 1956 version and I'd have to say that while it's fairly good it doesn't pack the punch of the later version . I know when I saw the " remake " in the theater when it first came out and some of the scenes were pretty rousing and emotionally charged , whereas the original one just sort of goes through the motions of telling the story and not much more . Still though , I found it interesting if not terribly moving . Donald Pleasance plays Winston Smith's neighbor , quite young but still quite bald . The DVD print isn't bad , in fact I was quite surprised because I wasn't expecting much but it's pretty clear and crisp . I did enjoy seeing this but I'm much more a fan of the version with John Hurt which seems to do a better job of portraying the hopelessness and the grimy environs . Worth seeing as a curiosity , mostly , but that's only my opinion . .
Indonesian Muslim version of Phantasm ? Uh . . . .	OK , I picked this " Eastern Horror " movie box up and was reading the back & saw this was an Indonesian version of Phantasm , so I thought , how can I go wrong ? Well , it is , and it isn't , a version of Phantasm . It does seem to lift plenty of ideas and bits of plot but it's got no balls ( of the silver kind ) and it's also got a lot of religious themes to it , Muslim , that is . After the death of his mother , young Tommy gets into some weird stuff . Like meditating or self hypnosis , I can't tell . He also sees his mom come back as a ghost or something . Now , unlike Phantasm , he has a living parent ( his dad ) and a sister . His sister sees him with the ghost , so she believes something is up ; dad , of course , just thinks they're both nuts . Along comes a housekeeper from Hell , who has something to do with all the spookiness in this . When the young girl's boyfriend dies in a motorcycle crash , and the caretaker at their house hangs himself , they come back from the dead and wander around , menacingly . Now at one point the boyfriend had fangs , later he doesn't , are these vampires or just the living dead ? In some ways this is a little confused , but in other ways I found it somewhat fascinating because it's the first Indonesian horror film I've seen . This is in some ways comparable to Phantasm but is ( I guess ) with more of an Eastern Muslim twist . And no balls ( of the silver kind ) to increase the special effects budget . Oh well , worth seeing for the curious . .
Pieces : It's not exactly what you remember it as	I saw " Pieces " many years ago at the Meridian Quad 6 in San Jose , THE place , back in the day , for all the sleazy slasher-trash . . . perhaps the closest thing to a " grindhouse " theater that San Jose had to offer . Now , Grindhouse Releasing has put out a version where you can watch this in Spanish and it has different music , so it's like a whole different film , sort of . I actually prefer the Spanish version , and the music works better than the " Dawn of the Dead " rip-off music of the US version . It's still more or less , the same film though , with more than a few things to laugh at . A young boy is caught by his mother while putting together a jigsaw puzzle of a nude woman , and while she's gathering it up to put in the trash , he's gathering up a large knife to hack mommy to bits . And please note : they didn't have push-button phones or plastic garbage bags in 1943 . Anyway , years later , this little boy has grown up and is terrorizing a college campus with a chainsaw , etc . , and collecting the best parts of beautiful coeds , to make his own jigsaw . But who is it ? Is it the burly gardener ( Paul Smith , from Popeye , Crime Wave ) ? Is it the gay teacher ? Hard to say , but from the reactions of the girls just before they get killed , they know him . Christopher George plays a cop ( big surprise ) , Linda Day George plays a woman who is acting as a decoy . And they have their own little helper in one of the students , who almost witnessed the carnage of one attack . Of course , in the Spanish version , the voices of the American actors are dubbed in . I guess my favorite scene would be when one girl is waiting to get into an elevator & someone ( the killer ) comes along , and she acknowledges him as someone she knows , and they stand waiting for the elevator while the killer hides a 50-lb 2-foot chainsaw behind his back . BEHIND HIS BACK . Now , despite its shortcomings , and there are a few , this is still kind of a fun film , and not intentionally , I'd say . The Spanish version is the superior one , I'd say , and the music makes it seem like you're watching it for the first time , ever . And for those of you who haven't seen it , well , I guess it would be the first time , eh ? Supposedly this version is uncensored , but I'd have to go watch my grainy Diamond Video DVD again to see , and that seems like too much work . .
Enjoyable trash	Hey now , I've been wanting to see this for years because I have several versions of the theme song on CD , so I wanted to see what this movie is about . It's kind of a fun , trashy movie , nothing to be taken too seriously and I could watch and listen to the kids dancing to this theme song in grubby basement clubs over and over again . Seems this girl is a bit wild , and when Dad , who is divorced , gets re-married , it seems he's picked a girl that used to strip in Paris , among other things . This gives the girl the option of " pushing the envelope " with her bad behavior , now that she has something on dad's new wife to hold over her head . I love the music in this movie , and while this is no work of cinematic genius , it was very enjoyable to me . Christopher Lee has one of his few non-horror roles , I guess , as the manager of a strip club . Oliver Reed is also in this as one of the kids . If you enjoy beatnik rock'n'roll trashy " teens gone wild " movies , then check this out , you'll probably enjoy it .
Classic 50's monster flick	The Blob is the classic 50's monster flick , with the gelatinous red thing that sucks up people and grows to humongous size . Takes place in a small town , where the kids cause trouble all the time so when REAL trouble shows up in the form of this alien thingy , no one believes them until it takes over a movie theater and the patrons run screaming into the night . This was Steve McQueen's first starring role , of course , and while this isn't a work of cinematic genius , I saw this on TV many times as a kid and it still has a special place in my heart . Left ventricle , I think . By today's standards it's rather hokey , but today's standards ain't nothing to write home about either . If you're a fan of 50's monster movies this is one of the best . stars .
excellent 3D experience	It's kind of ironic , that in the same week that the 1981 version of " My Bloody Valentine " was released on DVD with the restored scenes that would have gotten the film an " X " rating back then , that THIS film was released . Female full-frontal nudity , eyeballs hanging on the end of pickaxes , an delightful chest cavity view , etc . Wow . . . Now , as for the story , well , it's been transplanted from Valentine Bluffs , Canada , to a town in West Virginia , and the story has been changed around considerably , but the 3D effects will kind of make you forget all that , if you happened to have grown up with the original . Of course , Harry Warden is still the " boogeyman " . In this version , Harry has been in the hospital in a coma for years , but he wakes up , takes out most of the hospital staff , and goes back to his home town to open a can of whoop-ass on a bunch of kids partying at a mine . He gets some but some get away ( but not without a pickax through the windshield , which is , of course , thrown , for that super-duper 3D effect ) . One that doesn't get away is Tom , and while the sheriff ( Tom Atkins ) and his deputy appear to have gotten Harry , Tom ends up in a mental institution for years . Tom's now come back to town , being the major shareholder in the Hanniger mine , and his intentions are to sell it . Of course , nobody wants that , especially the mayor ( Kevin Tighe , from the 70's TV show Emergency ) . There's a rather fun scene with a trucker and a local woman at the Thunderbird Motel , where she takes exception to the fact that he filmed their entire tryst , and chases him through the hotel parking lot wearing only her shoes , but of course when he gets into his truck , well , Harry's waiting . And of course , the camera is dropped , found , and taken in as evidence , and when the sheriff ( Axel ) and gang watch it , well , there's Harry . Hmm . Now , some of this is kind of far-fetched & there's some plot holes , but the original had those too . But the story here really takes a back-seat to the gory 3D effects and that's fine . . . that's what the real draw is here . And that's really the only reason why anyone would see this probably too , and that's fine , it has no pretensions to be anything other than what it is , a gory 3D horror flick . , a must for horror fans .
The negative effects of punk rock	Back in the day when I was a lad , and listened to punk rock , I had never heard of this movie . Thankfully I wasn't into power tools and grew up fairly well adjusted , more or less . Here we have the story of a young tortured artist ( played by Abel Ferrara himself ) who finds his creativity somewhat stifled by his room mates and his new neighbors , a punk rock band called The Roosters , who practice day and night ( but never get any better ) . Does he take his frustrations out on these folks ? Nooo , he gets a Porta Pack and drills holes in a bunch of winos . Hooo-eeee ! We're basically watching a man take a dive into insanity and it's not pretty . Still though , for any horror fan , this is probably worth seeing . It has its share of creepy and dark moments , and it's even a bit amusing , like the antics of The Roosters . These people are ed up , especially the leader , who spouts psycho-babble and even pays to have his portrait done . Does HE get drilled ? Unfortunately , no . Anyway , this is raw and gritty , and when it first comes on you are instructed to PLAY THIS MOVIE LOUD , and basically you haven't much choice there , it IS loud . Worth a look if you're into punk slasher movies .
bizarre , goofy , and worth seeing	Peter ( Reece Shearsmith ) and David ( Andy Serkis ) have kidnapped the daughter of a club owner and intend to hold her for ransom money . However , given that they're bumbling idiots , things don't quite go as planned . They arrive at a remote cottage with their hostage , and all is well until they take her out of the trunk and Tracey ( Jennifer Ellison ) seems to be a bit more than they can handle . Now , the club owner sends his son Andrew ( also a bumbling idiot ) , with a bag full of the ransom money , but Andrew is also in on this and doesn't bother to check the contents of the bag before he shows up , and it doesn't turn out to be anything negotiable . And Andrew has been followed by the boss's Chinese henchmen , who apparently have a liking for sharp objects . However , there are worse things in the area around the cottage to be concerned with . Now , due to failed cell phones ( dead batteries ) , David is forced to go find a phone to call the club owner , and while he's gone apparently things go south with the hostage situation and Tracey manages to get loose and take Peter hostage . They come across an isolated farm house and then the real trouble begins when they meet the owner . This is quite funny at times and quite nasty when the mayhem starts , and it's not absolutely top-notch but it was interesting and quite watchable . Jennifer Ellison excels as the foul-mouthed club owner's daughter & none of the would-be kidnappers are any match for her . Reece Shearsmith also excels as Peter , a nerdy , hen-pecked little guy who has an extreme fear of moths . An odd little film and quite fun at times . .
Finally available on DVD in the U . S .	Peter Cushing stars in this Amicus film as a man who collects various arcane books , artifacts , etc . , to help him with his writing . His main interest is finding why people fear these things . He's sold a book by a man who has questionable sources ( Patrick Wymark ) about the Marquis De Sade , and is promised that Wymark will return with something more interesting . He has returned with a skull , which he claims belonged to the Marquis De Sade himself , although Cushing is not convinced & doesn't buy the thing . While shooting a game of pool with his friend and fellow collector , Christopher Lee , it's revealed that the skull DOES belong to The Marquis , since Wymark stole it from Lee . Cushing realizes that he must have it and is drawn into a bizarre , almost dream-like state after he gets his hands on it , during which state unfortunate things happen to others , for this skull has terrible powers , and is not content to stay in its display case . A decent film , really , I'd never seen the whole thing before , just a bit on TV once , a long time ago . The film has a rather dark & claustrophobic feel about it , being that it's mostly filmed inside in dark & cluttered rooms . If you're a Hammer fan or an Amicus fan , of course you'll want to get your mitts on this , but this may also appeal to fans of 60's horror too . Not particularly graphic or nasty but it does have an atmosphere of dread about it . .
if you can get past the cheesy look , it's actually a rather good horror omnibus	Years ago I bought Cremains on VHS , and it was the wrong movie inside . I returned it to the store & got a replacement with the same result , so I got something else instead . And forgot about it . Now , about 7 years later , I found it at a used store on DVD so I thought I'd try this again . To me , things filmed on video ( instead of film ) always have a incredibly cheap and cheesy look , and most things I've seen filmed that way are not worth seeing , but I was pleasantly surprised that behind the cheap look , this isn't a bad film at all . It begins with a brief little " skit " that's really not worth mentioning , and then there's a man in a suit being grilled by some voices ( you never see the people ) about something he'd done . He's an undertaker , and he has apparently mixed someone's remains with those of someone else , and for that , he's being detained . . . somewhere . The first real story is of a young woman meeting her dad at some café , and then following him to wherever her mom is hospitalized , but they become separated on the road & she ends up in the town of Wyndham , Mississippi , where once in a blue moon ( which it happens to be ) , the town folks select someone for a special " honor " . There's also a tale of a young man kidnapped by someone who he thinks sounds " very familiar " , and it's eventually revealed that this particular man is using his job as a means of preying on those who are troubled . And , there's also a woman lawyer who has lost her child , who is approached by a woman she represented in court a couple years previously , who happens to be a witch , who has told her that she can make things like they used to be . Meaning , bring back her dead child . Of course , you know that this sort of stuff never works right . Too bad her child was the one that the undertaker co-mingled with someone else's ashes , and that someone happened to be a killer . Despite the sometimes-low production values , and the sound , and the look , this still manages to be a worthwhile film for fans of B-movies . I was prepared to be disappointed but was quite surprised that the stories were as good as they were . Of course , the acting isn't top notch but all involved did a pretty good job for a low-budget independent feature . .
not a " feel good " movie but still worth seeing	Most folks don't have things quite as bad as the anti-hero of this film . This guy is a Viet Nam vet , who exists with his wife and his mutated baby son in a dirty run-down apartment and can't get a job to save his soul . He wanders the streets endlessly looking for work or whatever , because thanks to being captured and tortured by the Viet Cong he's not doing too well with his mental health . There's no food at home and the baby cries all the time , and it's sort of a cross between a melted child's doll and the goat-baby thing from Eraserhead . We have plenty of drug dealers making a living though , and lots of desperate people out there wandering the streets through landscapes that are depressing and barren . Most notable is a junkie trying to get his fix with a coat hanger . This is by no means an uplifting film and yet it has a certain gritty nastiness about it that's compelling to watch , kind of like a car accident where you don't want to look but can't stop yourself from doing it anyway . Creepy and depressing , but still worth seeing if you can stomach it . .
Pikeys . Gypsies . Chavs . Hicks . Small Town Folk	I'm not sure what people are expecting from this film , since some reviewers seem to think that " it's the worst film ever " . That phrase is used rather liberally on IMDb and I get a little tired of that . The back of the box mentions this being as if Terry Gilliam made a horror movie , and that's somewhat accurate , as this does almost have the look of one of Mr . Gilliam's films , with bizarre sets and odd perspectives . What it doesn't quite have is the sense of humor ( dark , of course ) that is in many of Gilliam's films , but some could argue that some of his latest don't have that either . Especially " Brothers Grimm " . But we're here to talk about " Small Town Folk " , not Terry Gilliam . Our story has husband and wife on holiday , taking a drive through the countryside on " an adventure " . They stop to ask directions from a slack-jawed knacker-man , who has a mini-knacker-man in his backpack , in the form of Warwick Davis , who is effectively creepy and thankfully has a rather small role in this . The couple are warned NOT to go to Grockleton , but when they're underway again and the wife's asleep , hubby decides that they're on " an adventure " and takes the road there , despite the warning . They arrive at a very strange house in the middle of nowhere , and get a room from the creepy landlord , and when wife looks out the window and sees a young girl who has just been captured being dragged across the yard , she insists to hubby that they MUST leave . And try they do , but they don't get far , as young Dobbin has just drained ( and drank ) most of the fuel from their gas tank . Then begins a chase to retrieve the woman and eliminate the man . In a subplot , there were some young kids messing about in the woods and most of them were killed or captured . One young man , Marcus , he of the ever-present bicycle helmet , manages to elude capture and goes up against some of the hooded hicks ( which seem to think they're scarecrows ) and ends up helping the young couple . The characters are definitely strange . . . with dental work to put Bobby Peru ( Willem Dafoe's character from " Wild at Heart " ) to shame . Truly disgusting . There's cross-eyed Pooch , the creepy landlord , the two scarecrow brothers , cackling loony Dobbin , and the Smithy , a monstrosity in a welder's mask that fires horseshoes from a cross-bow setup . There's not a lot of character development , but for sheer weirdness , this is a must-see . Not sure exactly why this is " unrated " because the gore and all is not quite THAT bad , but that's only a minor quibble . This may not be a box-office blockbuster or feature major stars , but it's a strange little film that's a weird horror / dark comedy & it's certainly well worth a look . .
classic garbage from the Golden Age of Troma	Class of Nuke ' Em High is great , stupid fun , and if you're expecting anything else from it , you've come to the wrong place . Tromaville High School is ( of course ) near the nuclear power plant , and a leak starts turning the students into mutants , but in some cases it's kind of hard to tell . There's a group of punks ( sort of ) called The Cretins , and they have been harvesting marijuana from the grounds of the nuclear plant , and selling it to students as an " atomic high " . Two rather innocent students get stoned off this pot & one becomes sort of an avenging mutant , while his girlfriend merely miscarries some kind of parasitic thing that gets flushed down the toilet to mutate in the basement into something far more nasty . And , of course , the ever-corpulent J . P . Ryan is present to throw his considerable weight around . Ick . Plenty of bad mainstream 80's music , of the sort I never listened to except by accident , lots of cheesiness & just plain bad taste in about every area you can imagine . This is the kind of stuff that made Troma great . .
food for thought , but a very slow film	This is a rather slow moving and quiet movie about a woman who gradually begins to lose her tolerance for chemicals and toxins all around her . Julianne Moore plays the timid housewife who is beginning to react strangely to her environment and become ill , despite the fact that her doctor really can't find much wrong with her . Xander Berkeley plays her puzzled husband , with all the gusto he usually give to his roles , he's just kind of an ordinary guy . As time goes by Carol ( Moore ) does some research and finds a place in New Mexico that is for people like herself that can no longer tolerate their environments and goes there to stay . The founder of this place is a man who also found he had this problem but since he helps others ( for a fee ) his house is nicer ; everyone else lives in cabins . The gatherings of the afflicted ones here become something like a 12-step program complete with the usual get-up-and-dance to oldies stuff , which is actually a rather tired cliché . This is a slow moving film , and at times a VERY slow moving film , but it is food for thought and a little scary at times : really makes you think about how much in the way of toxins are around you in everyday life and what if . . . ? This is a pretty low-key movie compared to other stuff I've seen from this director ( Todd Haynes ) but while I don't think it's any great success it certainly made me think . .
decent sci-fi film marred by choppy ( sloppy ? ) editing ( perhaps minor spoiler )	" Sunshine " is an oddity these days , because there just aren't a lot of decent science fiction films released anymore . This one is about the crew of a ship ( Icarus 2 ) bound for the sun ( no , they didn't go at night ) and the reason for that is that the sun is dying , therefore the earth is dying . The goal is to launch some sort of device that will plunge into the sun and restore its power . How anyone knows this isn't very clear but if you can ignore that part then you'll be fine . There are some fantastic special effects those will have you gaping in awe . Unfortunately there is also the choppy ( or sloppy ) editing which will have you scratching your head , as in , how did we get from THAT point to THIS point ? Case in point , the crew finds the FIRST ship that was to have done this deed , Icarus 1 , and there seems to be a huge gap somewhere because all of a sudden these two ships are hooked up & somehow , during all that , something from Icarus 1 finds its way into Icarus 2 . You know that because once the computer in Icarus 2 has decided how many people can still survive with the remaining oxygen it tells the crew that there are FIVE aboard , not four . And the identity of the fifth ? Unknown . Seems that someone on Icarus 1 did survive , though , and they are not doing well in the mental health department . Not a bad film , but a bit confusing at times . We're left hanging as to the fate of the ship at some point as we cut to a scene on earth where children are building a snow man ( with the Sydney Opera House in the background ! ) and then all of a sudden it seems that the mission was successful . I would like to see this again on DVD to see if I could follow it better but still I kind of liked this , and it was really the stunning effects more than the rest that did it for me . .
weird Euro Trash with cool music	Part of the joy to me of Italian films is their incoherence , and this is no slouch in that department . We have a hideous hag of a woman , who's a doctor , no less , a scientist , to be more exact , and she steals a formula from her boss and turns into a beautiful young woman . The problem is , she doesn't stay that way for very long so she stocks up on the formula and then assumes the role of a dead gangster's girlfriend in order to steal lots of money , or something . This is quite trashy and has bits of horror to it but it's more a sort of espionage kind of thing more than a horror movie , although that's not quite it either . The music is groovy with lots of twangy guitar and plenty of lounge lizard type stuff , so I loved that . The storyline is fairly thin and the action is scatter-shot , but overall I rather liked this as a whole . I'm a bit confused with what I read about this as the main character was supposed to be something along the lines of Diabolik and I didn't see that at all , but I still liked this . More or less . The Retro Media release features some skips in the film and it appears little bits were missing but overall that didn't detract a whole lot from the film . , not for all tastes .
Prequel fills in some blanks	Ringu 0 fills in a few of the blanks in the Ringu series , like , for starters , why she was shunned and how she came to be in the well . Young Sadako is part of a theater troupe , and a reporter knows who she is but the rest of the cast doesn't , at least , not yet . There are glimpses of Sadako's strange powers , which she can't seem to control when she's threatened . There are snippets here and there about her mother and her father , and her childhood , and it all eventually leads up to the Sadako that we all know and love , the one in the well . Now , she's also cast as an understudy ( or as they call it here , apprentice ) in a play , and somehow the star dies , horribly , while sitting right there in the midst of her fellow actors . Sadako then ends up with the leading role in the play but when the meddling reporter slips a tape in that isn't meant to be part of the play , it changes everything and Sadako's telekinetic powers are unleashed on the unsuspecting audience and cast , but stopped just short of harm to anyone . . . . except , herself . After this point the film takes off but I'll leave that to you to find out what happens , if you like . Not the best of this series that I've seen but good for filling in a few blanks here & there . .
Only two chapters of a mini-series ?	I was fairly excited when I saw this and figured it was another movie by Takashi Miike , whose work I really enjoy , but was rather puzzled when I watched it until I figured out at least part of what was going on . This isn't a movie , it's only the first two episodes of a mini-series from 2000 . The big question is : Why release only the first two episodes ? At any rate , I'm sure the rest will be along eventually , and from what I have seen so far I'm not sure it'll matter if I don't recall exactly what happened in the first two . I've read things about this that make comparisons to Twin Peaks and that's pretty darn close , there are lots of things that are presented as " given " rather than offering any explanations , like people with bar codes tattooed on the bottom of their eyeballs , and a detective who changes personalities , and ( surprise ! ) a bunch of eccentric characters . One thing I found annoying is that the nasty ( or naughty ) bits were blanked out on the screen , like the women that were used as flowerpots & the bodies of the women that had their babies ripped from the wombs . Not that I necessarily needed to SEE all that , but I resent someone deciding what might be disturbing to the viewer and blanking it out . Miike's films are not for the kiddies , EVER , so why bother with all this ? Of course this was made for Japanese TV , did they show it THERE , or was it blanked out like this ? Anyway I found it to be distracting and probably more disgusting that if they had just shown the icky parts . Overall this is very intriguing and I guess maybe that's why there were only two episodes released , to whet one's appetite to snap up more of this when it's released . . . . . and I assume it will be , but I guess it also irritates me that this was not released complete . For Miike fans , and David Lynch fans , all others probably should take a pass .
Eyes Without A Face updating with an 80's disco beat	This is not quite like most Franco films I've seen , being that it's more in line with 80's sort of sensibilities , in that it has some 80's disco music in it and I really prefer the jazz of Franco films of old . No matter though , what also seems to be missing is the boatload of girl on girl perversions and all that kind of stuff , and what we have in its place is good old fashioned slice and dice . Actually I'd take that over two women groping each other for 10 minutes . A doctor's wife is burned by acid , thrown in her face by an apparently dissatisfied customer . Therefore she doesn't like to go out in public . And the good doctor is always searching for suitable face donors , although no one is exactly lining up to be first , so he gets them brought in . Most delightful are the scenes of women's faces being removed while they're still conscious . . . yeah right , like they'd hold still for that . Anyway , this is not too bad but it's not very Franco-like to me . . . doesn't necessarily seem to have his " trademark " on it but that's not all bad . .
thriller in the Hitchcock style isn't bad , just has some strange ideas	Hywell Bennet plays a young man who lives with his mother & stepfather , and while his stepfather wants him out and working , his mother babies him endlessly , perhaps because he was born " normal " and his brother suffers from Mongolism . Now , young Martin ( Bennet ) calls himself " Georgie " and feigns simple-mindedness to get closer to Susan ( Hayley Mills ) and worms his way into the family boarding house as a guest , who is quite harmless and sweet , sometimes , anyway . He does let his cover slip a couple times though , yet Susan isn't yet suspicious . Now , Martin has taken the time to slip out in the middle of the night and take out his stepfather with a pair of scissors and then slips back into his " Georgie " incarnation . And of course , Martin is supposed to be abroad in France so no one is the wiser , but at least a few people are suspicious . Eventually everything begins to come together and Susan is more than a little alarmed to find out that " Georgie " isn't what he seems at all , but by them it's a bit too late to be realizing all that , as Martin has been quite busy with sharp objects . This takes some time to get going , but it's not really bad once it does , and it's somewhat like Hitchcock's films in style . The music by Bernard Herman is probably somewhat responsible for that too , as he scored many of Hitchcock's films . The strange thing is that there's supposed to be some sort of connection between Mongolism and lunacy , as put forth by some doctor during the course of the film , and while in this case it might be true , it's not exactly very scientific . Still though , overlook that bit , because it's not vital to the enjoyment of the film . .
An interesting premise ( maybe a minor spoiler )	An investigative reporter is plagued by phone calls and changes her number and relocates to a big empty house owned by her sister and brother-in-law , after writing some articles that exposed public figures for doing naughty things . Apparently the phone calls haven't stopped though , because her niece picks up the phone while the woman and her sister are at a museum , and whatever she hears sends her off the deep end . The key seems to be the identity of the person that had this particular phone number previously . This is a fairly decent film that uncovers dark secrets where there don't appear to be any , and some of the revelations are quite surprising . The niece is a cute little thing , until she gets one of her " spells " and then she becomes the child from hell that puts many of the other " child from hell " films I've seen to shame . Some decent twists and turns make this worthwhile , but it could have been a little better , I thought . Perhaps I wasn't in the mood when I watched it , but it's by no means a bad film . .
better than average but minus a point for Donnie Wahlberg	I thought Dead Silence was full of lots of creepy imagery and goings-on , and it was a pretty solid horror flick , but the irritating prescence of Donnie Wahlberg was somewhat of a distraction . A man and his wife receive a mysterious package , which contains a ventriloquist dummy , hmm , no return address ? But they of course just rip it open and hubby leaves his wife to go pick up Chinese food and returns home to find out she's dead in a rather nasty fashion and after that Wahlberg is glued to his butt for the remained of the film . Now , both this man and his wife are from some small town called Raven's Fair where the local populace were fearful of some old woman called Mary Shaw , who was apparently responsible for rather nasty goings-on back in the day , and she was a ventriloquist but also apparently some kind of a witch , and she had tons of dolls that she lived with . Parents used some poem about her to scare their kids into submission when they acted up , apparently . So the young man returns to his hometown to make funeral arrangements for his wife and encounters plenty more strangeness . His father has had a stroke and his new " stepmother " is a few years older than he is , and there haven't been much happy family feelings for years . The local mortician has a loony wife that seems to be a late-stage alzheimer's victim and tells him plenty of strange things too , and there's also a creepy theater on a lake that holds many dark secrets as well . And all the while , the presence of Wahlberg , making sarcastic comments and acting all the while like the young man is the prime suspect in the killing of his wife , which absolutely rubbed me the wrong way . If you can get past Wahlberg though , this is truly a well-made creepy film , but it has a few holes , hey , it's a horror movie . I thought it was far better than most of what I've seen these days that tries to pass itself off as horror and I certainly would buy it when it's out on DVD . Definiltely eerie & the settings are a big plus . .
" Did ya get me sinners and hippies ? "	I guess you could say that in the look and feel of " Long Pig " that it's either very low budget ( it is ) or it's an attempt to capture the same sort of look as Texas Chainsaw Massacre . Either way , that part works . We have several different stories going on that all eventually converge in an isolated barn where the nastiness takes place , for the most part . It's not pretty but I've seen worse . We have a young woman who is going in search of her environmentalist brother , who disappeared with several of his colleagues after they chained themselves to " old-growth " trees to prevent them being cut down to put in more power lines . We have three nerdy guys ( one wearing a t-shirt that says " Uwe Boll Ate My Dingo " ! ) that are conspiring to crash a frat party with lots of babes & lots of beer . And , we have the frat boys & sorority girls who want nothing more than to get drunk & screw . And one young woman who is devastated by her recent break-up with her boyfriend . Unfortunately for all of them , none of their little troubles seem to matter much when they find themselves in an isolated area with masked killers stalking their every moves . Once these young folks are captured , they're not merely slaughtered , they're put through the torture of sharing some of their deepest , darkest secrets first , and not necessarily about just themselves . There's something about a creepy and crazy man with long white hair , who comes off as sort of a preacher or something , and if you need a protagonist to replace " Leatherface " from TCM , it's this guy . He stalks one young woman in the barn with a chainsaw on a long handle until he connects . Piggy , where are you ? Very creepy stuff . There's also some scenes of some well-dressed and greedy old man , just waiting to sink his teeth into some long pig , which is pretty nasty . There's also a strange white pyramid-type building with a cross ( which is a window ) on the side , which left me a bit puzzled but I guess is an alternate entrance to the barn structure . I find it really hard to do this film justice in writing , because while I thought it was fairly well done for an independent effort , it's also fairly complicated at times & you really need to just watch it , if you're interested . There is certainly the implication " long pig " is being packaged and transported outside of that area , and there are also seemingly connections between the long-haired preacher man & various US Presidents . . . yow . Anyway , it's a creep-fest , and it's nasty , and it's about cannibalism , so if that appeals to you , then by all means check it out . Perhaps someone else can explain this all better than I . .
A decent vampire film with a good premise	Barrow , Alaska , the northern-most city in the US , is preparing for its annual 30 days of night , meaning a good portion of the townspeople who can't handle it have up and split , and those that remain are pretty much stuck there for the duration . What better pickings for a group of vampires , eh ? This is a brutal and bloody film , and the vampires themselves are quite nasty , no little plastic Halloween fangs for these suckers , they have rather frightening mouths full of razor sharp teeth , and they're also messy eaters . The small group of folks left behind in the town have banded together and are determined to survive , despite the fact that these vampires are pretty clever . This has a decent amount of suspense & the atmosphere is very claustrophobic which makes for a taut film . I did get a bit tired of the vampire screeching though , although they do talk sometimes , in their own language . Some of the characters were sort of " action-adventure " stereotypes too , like Mark Boone Jr . as the surly snow-plow driver with a heart of gold , etc . Still though , a pretty good film & worth seeing for fans of the genre . .
Nothing really new except the location , but still not bad	Greek Zombies ? This is a new one on me , in fact , this may actually be the first Greek movie I've ever seen , yes , I believe it is . A group of men find a cave while working at a construction site , and they go in to explore , thinking they might find some ancient ruins . But , nothing . . . that they can see , anyway . For after it's quitting time and they all go home to dinner , off to a party , a soccer game , etc . , something from that cave kicks in and they begin to change . And not for the better . These men bite people , who in turn bite other people , and pretty soon the town is overrun with flesh-eating zombies , while a few survivors manage to escape and try to remain safe . Eventually those survivors that are wandering the fringes hook up and go to a restaurant for a bite to eat , and end up under attack and show an amazing demonstration of new uses for kitchen utensils . Lots of gore , some low-key humor , and the Greek setting make this more than just another Romero copy . The ending is rather stylish and takes place at a soccer field , where the few survivors band together against what may come . Overall this isn't bad , nothing terribly new but still far better than most zombie crap that's foist upon the world these days . .
decent sci-fi with great effects by Ray Harryhausen	It Came From Beneath the Sea is , of course , about a creature that came from the depths of the ocean , disturbed by atomic testing . First a submarine crew tangles with it , but they don't know what it is , except a piece of tissue the size of a barrel is caught in their propeller . Along come a couple of scientists ( one being Faith Domergue ) and examine the thing and find it to be a sea creature of some kind . Strange occurrences are taking place though , along the coast of America , up off Oregon , and it seems that this thing has worked its way to the coast of California . Why , it's a giant octopus & it's destroying the Golden Gate Bridge ! Actually , the Golden Gate Bridge has withstood a lot over the years , it's the BAY bridge that comes apart easily , but this octopus isn't picky . What's amazing is that the grumpy critter pulls itself out of the water & begins to reduce the population . But of course , the army comes along & takes care of the thing . Great special effects by Ray Harryhausen make this film a notch above other 50's sci-fi , and Faith Domergue is nice to look at . Kind of a fun 50's " giant monster on the loose " flick & well worth seeing if you haven't & like this sort of thing . .
And the medical system is only like this in Romania ?	According to the box art of " The Death Of Mr . Lazarescu " , it's a black comedy ? Well , there are some humorous moments but if this is a black comedy then it's darker than any I've seen before and I didn't find anything to laugh at . I was drawn into this movie though and watched it with growing disbelief as poor sixty-something Mr . Lazarescu was shuttled from one hospital to another by ambulance only to be confronted with still more medical staff who were either arrogant or caught up in their personal lives to bother with doing their jobs . The interesting thing is that one realizes that it's not only in Romania that such things occur . Now , Mr . Lazarescu is living on his own with three cats , he has a sister somewhere else in Romania , and a daughter who emigrated to Canada , and his wife died 10 years ago . One day he has a headache that won't go away & his stomach is bothering him so he calls an ambulance , and when it finally arrives , he's attended to by a paramedic who seems the most caring out of all of the people that he will encounter during his long night's journey into night . There has also been a bus accident on that very night though and all the hospitals are full-up with the victims . So therefore Mr . Lazarescu is treated like a drunk because he smells of alcohol and he is berated by one doctor and merely shuffled around by many more . As the evening grows on Mr . Lazarescu becomes more incoherent and soils himself and is even rejected from a surgery because he " refused treatment " , meaning he was conscious and yet couldn't sign a release form . And finally when he's gotten to a hospital where he's prepped for surgery , the film abruptly ends . Did he die ? Well , maybe so , it wasn't clear to me , he was still moving when the film ended . This is a rather fascinating film but it's also fairly depressing , and while I'd say it was pretty good it's a pretty sad commentary on ANY medical system . .
cheesy & tasteless but not bad	A happily married man is out cruising for babes all the time with his sleazy friend from the clinic where they work , and one night they just happen to pick up a pair of babes to bring back to one guy's house , and one of them isn't at all what she seems . . . . she's a he , and she's just bitten the guy on the butt . There's a small band of citizens that have been following this " thing " and it turns out that it's a " queer-wolf " and when the moon is full , it becomes limp-wristed . OK , so of course this will probably be offensive to gay people , but then don't watch it , OK ? It's rather silly & the humor isn't a far cry from stuff like " Naked Gun " and things like that , just on a lower budget . An amulet of John Wayne will keep the wearer from turning , says a gypsy woman , so of course the guy wears it at all times . If you've seen other films by Mark Pirro , then you should pretty much know what to expect ( Polish Vampire in Burbank , Death Row Gameshow ) and this holds no big surprises but it is rather tasteless so if you have good taste you'll definitely want to pass on this . Also notable is the method of killing the queer-wolf , it's a silver , um , adult toy , and the gypsy does mention that it's rather hard to get anyone to clean it once it's been used . Anyway , a silly and cheesy film , kind of fun in its way and good for a few laughs . .
interesting and amusing " mockumentary "	Here we have a documentary maker filming Werner Herzog and his crew preparing and embarking on a quest to find The Loch Ness Monster . It begins in Werner's L . A . home at a dinner for the crew and then they all depart for Scotland where the real fun begins . Zak Penn ( playing himself ) is a rather weaselly producer who is bound and determined to make this a blockbuster instead of a documentary , and we have a sexy sonar operator in a bikini and a fake Nessie all queued up to make the film more exciting . Plus , he's had matching uniforms made for the crew , of course Herzog refuses to wear his , calling them " ridiculous " . There are plenty of misunderstandings and some planted crew members ( chosen by Penn ) to make this all seem more " realistic " but then things take a turn for the weird when it seems that the crew have actually found something . This is not as hilarious as " Spinal Tap " or as creepy as " Blair Witch Project " but it's entertaining , for sure , and I found it amusing enough to be appealing but weird enough to keep me riveted to the screen . If Zak Penn is anywhere near as obnoxious as he was here though I'd hate to meet him in real life . I do enjoy Herzog's presence though , his deadpan delivery works very well in serious scenes and humorous scenes and it all sounds pretty much the same coming from him . I like stuff like The Loch Ness Monster anyway , be it real or not , so when I found this I had to see it , and while I didn't think it was quite as good as it could have been it's certainly worth seeing & some may like it more than others . .
NOT a low point	I just briefly read a comment from another " rater " and see that he thought this was a low point for Jesse Franco . Hmmm , that's really hard to say with him . I rather liked this movie and if one needs to see a low point for Franco then check out " Tender Flesh " , or better yet , DON'T . A band ( Killer Barbys , of course , although it's spelled " Barbies " within the movie ) is on the road , and they get stuck and stranded . They get invited to a castle belonging to a Countess and of course this is no ordinary Countess , she must have a special mixture of blood & semen to remain young , and it seems like all that's been in short supply lately . Hmm , well , not anymore . We have a roving henchman with two little dwarf side-kicks , rooms & freezers full of body parts , and of course the band , who are glad to have a nice place to kick back until they realize something is not quite right . By no means is this Franco's worst , I've seen much worse and it all depends on your tolerance for trash . Because this is trash , but it's kind of FUN trash . Lighten up people , Franco ain't Bergman . .
very weird , even for Franco	Jess Franco has had a busy career and has done movies in Spanish , German , French , and English , and this one just happens to be French . This is kind of an arty film , and one that may carry some viewers right off to dreamland . The film itself is rather dream-like , and is about a young woman who has never met her relatives going to see them for the first time and finding that they're kind of weird . Her father has just passed away ( hung , actually ) and there is to be the reading of a will . The relatives all live in a big castle in the middle of a distant valley , and all behave rather strangely . The second wife of her father is near death when she arrives and passes soon after and at the wake the body is presented sitting up and one woman paints her toenails while the service takes place . All very hard to tell what's going on as dreams become reality and vice versa , I guess . Some typical kinky Franco stuff thrown in here and there for effect , too . I guess the idea is that perhaps all these relatives are not living beings , and they're in some sort of limbo awaiting release , but you can decide for yourself because I can't say for sure . Maybe this is some sort of tribute to other directors that Franco liked ( or envied ) , not sure , but it's sure as hell weird . Despite the cover art , there's no zombies in this so be warned , if that's what you're after . .
Interesting , but not quite what I expected	I had seen 12 Monkeys in the theater when it first came out , and being a hard-core Terry Gilliam fan , I know that he said he used " La Jettee " as his inspiration for 12 Monkeys . Now , 12 long years later , I've finally had the opportunity to see the film from which Gilliam's inspiration came , and I have to say that I was not overly impressed , although it is interesting . This is a 28 minute film using only static images , that tells a tale of a devastated world where people now live underground , and after some botched experiments with lesser test-subjects , a scientist finally finds a man whose memories are strong enough to be able to move to another place in time , which is the past . The man's memory is of a day at Orly Aiport where he saw something disturbing that stayed with him for many years , but he also sees a woman there who was at the far end of the observation deck and somehow becomes close to her . By way of this " time travel " ( which in this film seems only mental , not physical ) , the man is eventually able to procure something to help his people , etc . , but then finds his usefulness is over and he's time-traveled back to the place that he remembers best , only to have been followed by his executor . This is a rather haunting piece but after all I've heard about it I suppose that I really expected more . Maybe it would have been better had I seen this first ( before 12 Monkeys ) so that my viewing experience wasn't clouded by thoughts of that film while watching this one . .
Not just another dead teen movie	A group of young folks venture out into the redwoods for some kind of camping trip , and I guess they're all potential forest-ranger types . Woe unto our National Forests . But it seems that there is someone out there that perhaps shares my opinion on whether or not these mostly insufferable young folks should live , and is making sure to keep our forests free of vermin . They've also taken along some young ladies , one of which is Darryl Hannah before she was famous , woo hoo ! I bet she's proud to have made HER start here . And this was right before " Splash " ? Hmm . Anyway , this is a better than average slasher flick with a nice gloomy atmosphere courtesy of the deep woods , ALWAYS a good place for a slasher flick . However , since they're in the redwoods how come everyone sounds like they're from Tennessee or something ? More southern accents in this than Deliverance , if'n you ask me . There's also a twist to this that has something to do with a campfire story one of the guys tells , and apparently it's not just a legend . And now , this is actually available on DVD for a cheap price too ( along with several other grade-Z horror & slasher flicks , my heart goes pitter pat . . . . ! ) This is one of the better early 80's slasher in the woods flicks , probably better than most of the Friday the 13th sequels and is worth seeing if you're into that sort of thing . .
sick & twisted exploitation film pretty much has it all	I finally was able to get a copy of this delightful ( ? ! ) film & watch it , and I have to say I was not disappointed . A young couple who are down on their luck , take a room at a very seedy and rundown boarding house , which is run by Lila Lash , a former performer , and her dwarf son Olaf . Olaf's specialty is luring young girls in with mechanized toy poodles & they're locked in the attic and given heroin and used as sex slaves . The heroin comes from a kindly old man named Santa Claus who runs a toy shop & smuggles heroin inside stuffed teddy bears . Egad ! Now , the young couple move in , and the husband is so concerned with finding work that he doesn't share the same uncomfortable feelings that his wife does , that they're always being watched . And they are always being watched , because Olaf has a convenient peep-hole . Now , the husband , who is a writer by trade , takes a job out of necessity with the kindly Santa Claus , not realizing that he's helping to smuggle in heroin . These must be very special teddy bears if he has to go to Paris to get them . And of course , while hubby is away , the wife goes snooping and finds the " harem " in the attic , and she quickly becomes part of it . Lila Lash is a rather creepy woman , and she and one of her cackling old drunken friends spend rather a lot of time drinking gin and talking about the old days . Olaf , however , steals the show as the creepy and leering dwarf , who has an affinity for all manner of toys , and even sets them up in compromising positions . If you're a fan of exploitation films of the 70's , this one is worth seeking out , for sure . I managed to get this on a Dutch NTSC region 0 import , from Xploited Cinema . .
Topless babes	Fred Olen Ray has had a rather checkered career , and I guess he's the mastermind or owner of Retro Media , which does put out some decent ( depending on your perspective ) old horror flicks . Scalps is actually one of his better films but this is pretty low budget and this restored version contains bits and pieces that were censored that are obviously spliced back in . I have a " double feature " VHS with The Slayer & while it's been some time since I watched it , it was still obvious to me which scenes were " new " since the quality is a bit poor . Still though it's a good film with a decent atmosphere of dread that stays with you throughout . And yes , there's a few topless babes , as in the tops of their heads go missing . College students doing illegal Indian artifact digging are the grist for the mill here , and one by one they fall victim to this evil Indian spirit that practiced black magic . A truly charming film that's a must for most horror fans , and while it's pretty low-budget it still beats most of Ray's later works ( with the exception of Hollywood Chain Saw Hookers ) .
Interesting background on why you'll never see The Man Who Killed Don Quixote	I guess you could call this the documentary of a failure , which is kind of sad right there , because I love the films of Terry Gilliam , and this looked as though it could be a great one . It offers an interesting look at the man himself , and how he envisions things that others don't think can be done . It also offers up the reasons for why this film will never get off the ground , and most of those would be acts of God , so it appears . A huge rainstorm / hail storm during shooting on the 3rd day , a double-herniated disk for Jean Rochefort , the man who was hired to play Don Quixote himself , and lots of red tape and insurance issues that dragged the film to a halt . Now it seems like the making of most Terry Gilliam films are total chaos , and that while the finished products are generally top notch , we never get to see the sausage factory that all this runs through before hand , and it's not very pretty . Interesting also , to note that Orson Wells also attempted a version of Don Quixote and never finished it either . While Gilliam often comes off as a somewhat of a tyrant , and hard to work with , he's also up against obstacles that there doesn't seem to be any way around . Gilliam's films are few and far between but more than worth the wait , however , I'd be quite surprised if we're ever treated to this one . .
decent 60's Filipino horror offering	A NY sex-crimes expert heads to the Philippines to help out an old friend , who is investigating some strange murders of women in the Manila area . Seems that the victims have been drained of blood & that a lot of the women all seem to work at this night club called " The Barrio " . Adamm Rourke ( Robert Winston ) poses as a writer to avoid being pegged as a cop , and manages to meet with the owner of the night club , who seems a bit concerned that his employees are disappearing , but he's also a rather strange man , and he guards his privacy heavily . Of course , he's assisted by two men who look after his interests . One of the women at the night club , the star attractions , seems to have some secrets of her own , too , and there is definitely something strange about her , considering the arm bands she wears , which seem to be from some ancient culture . Eventually , with the help of some unlikely allies , Roarke gets to the bottom of what's going on , and we get to see the strange creature that we've seen several times earlier in the film , who mostly has been lurking in trees and such , just before pouncing on victims . It's something along the lines of " Attack of the Mushroom People " , but still , it's kind of cool . This film has a decent atmosphere to it , and the " Something Weird " release ( with Blood Suckers ) is surprisingly clear and crisp . This film was actually made in 1965 but not released in the US till the 70's . If you enjoy Filipino horror films , then this is possibly one of the better ones . .
a dysfunctional family film ?	Two young boys go camping and fishing with their dad , who has mysteriously returned years after he left the family . It's never clear if he just left or if the parents were divorced , but that doesn't really matter . The oldest son is rather taken with dad but the youngest is rather a stubborn individual and is quite suspicious and bitter . Dad himself seems to have another agenda too but you're never sure what it is , you see him doing mysterious things and making phone calls but you're never sure what's up . As the trip goes on for longer than planned the youngest son suspects that dad means to do them harm , and doesn't exact seem like a very loving and caring type , actually more strict and almost brutal at times . This is beautifully photographed & well done , but while it's very watchable to me it never really took off and there's enough going on that is never explained to make it somewhat disappointing . Overall it's not a bad film but I would have liked to find out a bit more about what was happening with the dad & why he dug up a mysterious box , etc . .
Creepy , disturbing , but disjointed .	OK , so this film doesn't make oodles of sense , but it's cool to watch and it's at times , pretty disturbing . If anyone saw Tomaselli's previous film , " Desecration " , well , it was kind of that way too . Also , if anyone has seen one of many Italian films from the 80's , or perhaps even other times , they are too . Yeah , I know Tomaselli's from New Jersey but whatever , he has the look and feel down . This is about a 75 minute nightmare , drifting from what seems to be reality to different realities and then to good old delusion at the drop of a hat . There's a young girl who thinks that her grandfather is still alive ( an old priest played by . . . the Amazing Kreskin ? ) and she's also not well but then again , who are all these 20-somethings with the guns and the big bag of drugs that have shown up ? Overall I'd say this was a combination of madness and a nightmare and to the best of my knowledge none of the dreams or nightmares I ever have make sense when I can remember them . Strange that people pick apart horror films for not making sense , they're HORROR films , they're not real , they're about things that ( hopefully ) don't exist . Anyway , I liked this movie and this is the second I've seen from Tomaselli , I think I'll be seeking out his next , Satan's Playground . . . . I'm a sucker for movies about the New Jersey Pine Barrens . .
gritty NYC cop action / drama is worthwhile !	I'm not much for " cop " movies , but this one is supposedly a classic & when I found it cheap I bought it and stuck it on a shelf , only to finally get around to watching it yesterday , and I LIKED it ! Now , you can have New York City , but as a setting for a film like this , in the winter months , it's perfect . Roy Scheider is a member of an elite police task group called The Seven Ups , which are 5 guys that fight crime undercover . In an opening scene they recover a shoebox full of money from an antique store by distracting the crooks with a " bull in a china shop " routine . But that's only the beginning . Seems that there are two guys , posing as cops , that are kidnapping mob types and holding them for ransom . Richard Lynch happens to be one of these sleaze-bags , and he's as creepy as ever . When one of the Seven Ups , who is posing as a limo driver at a funeral , gets his cover blown , he's beaten and stuffed into the trunk of a car , which then leads to perhaps one of the most exciting car chases I've seen . Amazing though , how light traffic in NYC is for chase scenes , but still this is rather amazing as Scheider follows the two kidnappers through what I'm guessing is the Bronx and then onto a turnpike and then eventually , Scheider's car comes to a screeching halt in one of the most heart-stopping finales to a chase scene that I've ever witnessed . Anyway , since the cop ends up dying , Scheider and his men are under suspicion because the police commissioner knows so little about their activities he wonders if THEY'RE on the make by kidnapping mobsters , so of course this kind of thinking needs to be nipped in the bud & Scheider is relentless getting to the bottom of things . Overall a decent cop action / drama , not really my thing but I liked this one . Look for Joe Spinell ( Maniac ) in a small role . .
there you go again . . . . .	" The Tripper " is sort of a fun throw-back to the 80's slasher flick , with hippies ( of the modern sort ) who have gone to attend a music festival in the redwoods ( Humboldt County , CA , I believe ) and there's someone out there in a Ronald Reagan mask who is acting out his dislike for tree-hugger types . . . with an ax . This has a good atmosphere to it and some decent humor , although it does seem a bit strained at times . A van full of drug-addled kids has arrived for this music festival , and one of them , Sam , has just gotten out of a bad relationship with her boyfriend , who is a rather possessive and well , conservative type . Of course , the woods in this part of the country are full of surprises , nasty ones too , and an old hermit-type warns the kids about wandering into pot fields and watching out for traps . . . although he himself doesn't last much beyond his warning . The mayor of this little logging town is adamant that this festival will go on because it will bring in money , the organizer of the festival ( Paul Reubens ) is adamant that this will go on because HE wants money , but the sheriff wants the whole thing shut down because people keep getting killed in fairly nasty ways . The prelude to this film will show you approximately who is responsible for what's going on but the problem for the viewer is that you don't know which person represents the " grown up " version of one particular unbalanced child at the beginning . But that's fine , it gets revealed when it's supposed to be . And there's even an ironic twist to this particular person being on the loose , which dates back to something Reagan did in California in the 70's . A rather fun , if derivative , film , best enjoyed by people who like slasher flicks & don't like Republicans , although many references will probably sail right over some people's heads . .
Good but . . . . ?	Like all Tim Burton movies , at least the ones worth seeing , this is well done and kind of the living cartoon answer to the drawings of Edward Gory . And I like the macabre and strange . But I wasn't entirely comfortable watching this for some reason . Dead things made to be cute seemed to be rather morbid to me , for some reason , and watching the semi-beautiful bride herself , " semi " meaning in this case that part of her looks just fine and the other part , well , you can see her teeth through a hole in her cheek , one leg is normal , the other bone , for some reason that just didn't make me feel like I should be watching this . The story is that there has been an arranged marriage between two families that consider each other to be wealthy ( while neither are ) , and upon failing miserably at his wedding rehearsal lines , the young man is sent to the woods to practice and while there he stumbles across the " bride " and is taken to the land of the dead . Note that during all scenes among the living all is grayish-blue and depressing , and the land of the dead , well , it's all bright colors and stuff , perfect for the kids , that is , if you want them waking up in cold sweats at night , I guess . This is not a bad movie , and the animation is definitely in the style of " Nightmare Before Christmas " , but I didn't feel uncomfortable watching THAT , for some reason . One of the friends I went with told me that it's " edgy " meaning it makes some folks uncomfortable . OK , well I can sit through just about any zombie holocaust cannibal massacre thing without batting an eye . . . . maybe it's that this seems to be a children's tale that children shouldn't watch ? , good but to me , uncomfortable viewing .
OK early 80's horror	This is an OK early 80's horror flick in which a young girl ( Meg Tilly ) is wanting to shed her " goody two shoes " image and becomes part of a girl gang called The Sisters . Their initiation for her consists of spending the night in a mausoleum . Too bad the mausoleum is the " final " resting place of some psycho Russian psychic and he's not quite dead yet . Seems this guy was found in his apartment with lots of things stuck into the walls from his telekinetic target practice , plus there is a pile of young dead girls found in the closet . All proof that hitch hiking can be dangerous , so listen up girls . The daughter of this man ( Reymar ) is rather distraught about her father's death and is confronted by a man that said he knew Reymar and given a tape to listen too . Her hubby ( Adam West , of Batman fame ) is there to laugh and scoff , and not much else . But it seems that perhaps Reymar's daughter may also have some abilities that she doesn't realize . Anyway , having deposited their unfortunate pledge at the mausoleum , the rest of The Sisters take off to go get stuff ( like masks , sheets , etc ) to come back and scare the crap out of her , but little do they suspect what's going on and they get more than the crap scared out of them . For even in death Reymar is kind of a busy guy and he's reanimating lots of corpses for entertainment . And it would also seem that he has a thing for jail bait . Overall this is acceptable horror , nothing too intense but not terrible either . The DVD from Media Blasters also contains another version of the movie that's a rough cut , I guess , I only watched a little of it so I don't know how different it is from the theatrical release but from what I saw I guess it's a " warts and all " presentation . .
follow-up to " Tales from the Crypt " is not quite as good	" Vault of Horror " has now been released in the US on DVD as part of a set with " Tales from the Crypt " , so if you've been yearning to have these in your collection grab them now . VOH is not as creepy as TFTC but is still decent and entertaining . 5 men find themselves in a descending elevator that proceeds to the sub-basement and lets them out into a room set up for 5 , with drinks , etc . And there's no push-button for the elevator on that floor either . So the men make the best of it and tell each other their dreams , one by one . Years ago I had the opportunity to read a collection of the original EC comics on which these tales were based on , and the only one I remember is the first story , of a man who goes searching for his sister in some strange town where it turns out that most of the residents are vampires . In the second segment Terry-Thomas and Glynis Johns are newlyweds and having been a life-long bachelor to that point , he is rather bent out of shape with his new bride's inability to be neat and orderly , which she eventually overcomes & puts him in his place ( s ) . Another man seeks to commit insurance fraud by being buried alive but he's expecting his partner to dig him up and hide him so they can get the money , although he wasn't expecting medical students who lived in his rooming house and knew of his fate to want his body for experiments . Tom Baker ( who played one of the " Dr . Who " incarnations ) is a painter who wants vengeance against the men who wronged him and turns to voodoo . And so on . All in all an entertaining set of tales and paired with " Tales from the Crypt " makes an great evening's viewing . .
The Hostile Hostel , Spanish-style	This is a fairly creepy yet mostly tame Spanish production about two wacko sisters that run an inn and carry out moral judgements against young women that dress in mini-skirts ( or have their breasts exposed ) . In other words , they are old fashioned and rather jealous of modern styles that don't look good on them ? Or maybe they're just nuts . I think they're just nuts . Of course they're famous for their specialty of the house , which I guess is " lamb " cooked in red wine . Beautiful young tourists check in but " left very early " if anyone asks . This is OK entertainment but nothing too gruesome or intense . I guess an unintentional garnish on the plate of one guest is their undoing . Not bad for 1970 but not great , worth seeing if you're a Euro-horror fan but not really for anyone else . . It is available on DVD in a collection , the quality is OK ( as in , I guess , not digitally remastered ) but rest assured it's not Alpha Video so it is watchable .
not bad , has its moments	Ted Raimi plays Dennis Skinner , a presentable young man who has a few secrets hiding behind his genial facade . I guess his life was changed forever at age six when his dad insisted on performing a post-mortem on his mom . Wow . At any rate Dennis wanders into some small suburban hell in California where he rents a room at a big house that's owned by Ricki Lake & her never-present trucker husband . He then gets a job at a local factory doing janitorial work and finds a place where he can set up shop to indulge in his hobby , which is skinning people and wearing stitched-together suits made from their skin . Wow , again . A very strange , trench-coated , limping woman also shows up in town ( played by Traci Lords ) and checks into the hotel . Seems that she's a former victim of cheery Dennis that managed to escape and she's out for revenge and follows him everywhere . Overall this is not bad and is mainly creepy because the perpetrator , Skinner , is such a normal looking and cheerful guy . Not that him dressing up in the skin of someone who made fun of him and running through the city streets isn't creepy , though , mind you . Not bad , not great , but entirely watchable , that is , if you like this sort of thing . .
Fairly scary for comedy	I normally pass on horror comedies but this one caught my fancy , probably because it's more horror than comedy . It's got familiar faces ( Norman Fell , Phyllis Diller , and that other guy that has been in a million TV shows ) and it's got awesome little zombie kids that are pretty creepy . Throw in a reluctant psychic to help figure things out and there you have it . Seems that a coroner is part of a long line of people that are honored ( or doomed ) to keep watch over these nasty little things , and it seems as though some improprieties were found ( like the kids munching on fresh corpses ) so off goes Mr . Chin to jail . Unfortunately that leaves no one minding the store and all hell breaks loose . Up until a point this is more or less creepy horror , but then comes the comedy as Mrs . Poopenplatz ( Diller ) and her nasty little fluffy white poodle transform into the living dead . It's not played entirely for laughs which makes it all the better , and I found it to be a pretty entertaining watch . .
Strange yet bland	Some of the " strange behavior " in this movie is that it's supposed to take place in Illinois yet it's filmed in New Zealand using actors that don't always do very well in suppressing their accents . Other than that , this is your basic " mad scientist experiments on kids and turns them into killers " . People are volunteering at a university clinic to make a few bucks and letting themselves be experimented on . Then , mysterious killings take place and is there a connection ? I'd say yep . Overall this has a fairly good idea and is well filmed but there's just a sort of blandness to it that never seems to change . It's not a terrible movie , it just doesn't really get too exciting . For a gage of how unexciting it is , check out the " deleted scenes " on the DVD , it's pretty obvious why they were deleted but not very obvious why someone would feel they needed to be included as an " extra " . A better NZ movie with kids experimented on by mad scientists would be " Death Warmed Up " but that isn't out on DVD , at least not here , and not yet . , OK entertainment for a rainy day , but nothing to write home about .
Kind of a " Stepford Wives " kicked up a few notches	The town coroner of Potter's Bluff ( Jack Albertson ) seems to enjoy his work , a lot . And he seems to have quite a lot these days because anyone that wanders near Potter's Bluff seems to die a horrible death . The sheriff ( as played by James Farentino ) seems to realize that there's something not right but he's apparently not sharp enough to pick up on things too quickly . Otherwise it'd be a pretty short movie . Seems that folks that get killed are re-surfacing as new town folks , with new roles in life . But it also seems like the sheriff isn't picking up on all the new residents and the town truly doesn't seem that big . Oh well , it's just a movie . This isn't a bad little horror thriller but it's not great either , it's kind of like The Stepford Wives kicked up a notch or three on the gore and violence . I got the single disc DVD version , this is not a movie that's worthy , in my mind , of a two-disc set with lots of extras . .
Decent 80's Wes Craven thriller , now on DV	I saw " Deadly Friend " at the cinema when it first came out , so usually anything I saw in the cinema that I liked back then has a soft spot in my heart . Paul & his mom are moving to a new house , in a new town , with Paul's robot " BB " . Seems that BB is a pretty versatile & multi-talented robot too . Paul befriends the local paperboy , Tom , and the girl next door , Sam , who lives with her very dysfunctional dad who likes to punch her around . Now , things are mostly OK in the neighborhood until someone gets the idea for BB to unlock the padlock of neighborhood psycho-bitch Elvira Parker ( Anne Ramsey ) who then opens fire on BB with her rifle and destroys him . Paul has only the main chip in a box to remember him by . Not long after neighbor Sam is over for Thanksgiving dinner and upon her return home , her drunken dad knocks her down the stairs where she sustains a blow to the head that leaves her brain-dead and unable to survive without the assistance of machines . But Paul , being a bright young guy , decides to save the day by implanting BB's computer chip into Sam's brain , which was a nice thought but he wasn't exactly prepared for what he had created by doing so . Of course , one of the most important things that Sam / BB does , now that she / it is up and around , is break into Elvira Parker's yard and house again , and to make certain that this mean old lady will not steal any more kid's basketballs if they stray into her yard , Sam commits what is probably the only " murder by basketball " in film history . And so on . For since BB was very protective of Paul , and Sam was sweet on Paul , Paul is now either doubly protected or doubly in trouble . Of course , you know that no good could possibly come of a dead girl with a computer chip brain running around the neighborhood , and things all eventually come to an end . Not a bad little flick , and kind of a fun one too , at that . .
not your usual TYPE of horror movie	Hey now , this is an overlooked little gem of a horror thriller . A famous writer pushes himself to write the ultimate horror story and just can't ( in his own mind ) seem to get it the way he wants it . He says he uses horror as a metaphor to comment on today's society ; which does not endear him to his critics , but still he's successful . As he toils away to get just the right theme , his life is falling apart around him . . . . . his wife feels neglected so she gets up to some hijinks with someone else and turns to booze and drugs . The kids want some attention but daddy's always busy so two of them get his attention by watching one of his movies and then re-creating one of the scenes in the basement with their sister . Oops . The scenes that are the visual presentation of what he's writing as it unfolds in his mind are the best part of the movie , for the most part , and they are a real treat for the horror fan . Punk rockers with a " killer riff " , bathtubs full of blood , fun with grandma , all great stuff . As his family degenerates though , so does the writer , and the ending is both rather wide open and also rather depressing , but all in all a really good and apparently overlooked Canadian film . See it .
Where'd they get the glow-in-the-dark paint ?	This movie is on a Hammer Collection that was just recently released here in the US , and I randomly picked a disc and put it in and picked this movie mainly because I'd never heard of it . It's not a bad little flick and Peter Cushing plays a role that's a bit of a stretch for him , at least in my mind . Most movies I've ever seen with him portray him to be rather a wimpy sort , and here he trades fisticuffs with the opposition and all kinds of heroic type stuff . There is a group of men that are smuggling wine and liquor from France to these shores ( Romney ? ) and to keep the local snoops away they've devised a tale of horrific creatures that roam the marshes at night . Seems that years ago these pirates had left a man to die on these shores and someone found him and rescued him and now he's in this village , helping the King's soldiers to hunt down smugglers . He may not be the brightest guy in the world but he's got a good memory for faces and he certainly recognizes someone in the town that done him wrong , all those years ago . When the " night creatures " are shown , they're certainly creepy enough but where did they get the glow-in-the-dark paint in the late 1600's ? Maybe they smuggled that in too . Also , note the scarecrows , which seem to move . If one has ever watched any movies with Oliver Reed one can tell that these are his eyes you're seeing . What isn't clear is how one gets into and out of the scarecrows ? Anyway , I think I much prefer the straight-out Hammer horror flicks , and this is mostly smuggling and swashbuckling with horror overtones . Not top notch but decent enough . .
at least this has more plot and less naked old men	I had ordered 2 films by Giuseppe Andrews at the same time from different places so saw " Period Piece " before I saw this and thought , what the hell have I bought ? Thankfully , " Touch Me In The Morning " at least has something of a plot and doesn't prominently feature any 80-year old man rubbing pork rinds on his body . . . however , it does feature more than enough disgusting people and acts to rival the earlier films of John Waters for sheer . . . uh . . perversion , yeah , I guess that's it . Some young man named Coney Island ( Andrews ) kind of drifts through life . His mom is a addled coke fiend and his dad is a drunk , and they're not together anymore , mom lives in a trailer park and dad lives in some motel . Coney goes around during the day with his Casio keyboard & makes up tunes to cheer up old folks & shut ins . His mom either has Alzheimer's or is far gone , his dad is a disgusting pig who hangs out with disgusting friends and drinks and smokes dope , and the birthday party for dear old dad is something to behold too , with a cheery and accommodating stripper / prostitute , complete with stretch marks , bleah . . . . In other words this is thoroughly perverted , disgusting , and you won't want to know how Andrew's came up with his ideas , I guarantee you . Some of these same folks are featured in his other films , I have to think they're people he must know , because my first though in looking at most of them is that I would not go near them . , uh . . . what talent .
Cow's Head ?	OK , I found out while watching this that Gozu means " Cow's head " . That's as apt a title as any for this bad trip of a movie . Which doesn't mean it's a bad movie , it's just insanely weird and above and beyond any Takashi Miike movie for just plain surreal viewing . And he's put out some doozies . So if I can follow the basic storyline , a Yakuza employee & his brother are going somewhere , his brother gets killed and he has him in his car , and he disappears in the parking lot of some strange little café . The rest of the movie is mostly about the search for the missing brother , dead or alive , because you're not really sure at this point . Miike must be a David Lynch fan , this ( to me , anyway ) combines elements of a lot of Lynch's films but doesn't copy from him . This is a little more low-key than some of his other films , in the gore department , because there isn't any to speak of . There are , however , a lot of " off the wall " characters , many of whom would benefit from a stay in the local rubber room . We have a innkeeper & her brother , who are both quite unhinged , a local in this Japanese " hick town " ( which it must be due to the subtitles , which makes them sound like hicks ) that has a facial pigment problem , among other problems , a café that serves complimentary chicken custard with it's coffee ( apparently not very GOOD chicken custard ) , and who knows what all else . If you're truly a fan of the bizarre and surreal in Japanese films , you have to see this , it's practically indescribable , as is evidenced by my babbling . stars .
Not bad but lacks the charm ( ? ) of the original	Alien Factor 2 isn't bad for what it is , a low-budget movie by a cult director ( the late Don Dohler ) whose movie-making skills really hadn't changed a lot from the 70's . But this sequel seems to be missing some of the charm ( and yes , it has charm , of sorts ) of the original , the grainy look , the imaginative monsters , etc . In this sequel there's two FBI agents that find a strange woman whose stolen uranium & in trying to recover it they anger the cyborg that's still back at the woman's space ship , and it comes looking for anyone that might do her harm , that is , after creating a force field that will fry anyone that touches it . And it's fairly standard stuff after that , including the usual shooting folks from other planets with earth weapons and thinking that this is good enough to get rid of them . Plenty of that for sure . Still it's not a bad low budget offering , and kind of refreshing in this day and age of pyrotechnics and horrifically loud sound effects that will blast you through a wall . , cheesy fun and don't expect much more .
Christmas Nightmare is a better name . . . .	So it's time to drag out those holiday horror chestnuts , when everyone else is watching " Holiday Inn " and stuff . A man is a presidential candidate's campaign manager , that is , until the candidate is gunned down by an extremist organization , after which the man & his wife are taken to a ' safe house ' by an FBI agent . Things at the house are not what they should be , in many ways , but firstly in that there's no furniture and it's not all set up for occupancy as it should have been . The other thing is that years ago there were some grisly murders there & that the house is haunted . As time passes by the young couple begin to realize that Mr . FBI agent isn't very sane , when in fact he's becoming influenced by the ghost of the man that committed the murders . For a low budget film this isn't bad , and is in some ways reminiscent of The Shining , without being a rip off . It's eerie and odd , and the sense of isolation is what made it for me . Not a bad little flick , and certainly one that will at least make your neighbors think you're not so weird after all as it begins and ends with ' It Came Upon A Midnight Clear ' . .
Pretty strange , pretty nasty , pretty good	I wasn't too sure about this film going into it , despite the fact that it had Bill Moseley in it and was on the Synapse label , both of which usually mean good things . What I found was that this was a pretty strange horror flick with some very nasty moments and while it doesn't make oodles of sense , it's still well worth seeing . It begins with sort of a low-key Christmas get-together ( well , that's not the VERY beginning but what the VERY beginning has to do with anything was beyond me ) . Out of the blue , a smiling Bill Moseley shows up with a suitcase full of razor blades and proceeds to quiz the attendees about who they really hate , after which he cuts himself with razor blades for each person named . And guess what ? Those folks begin to die . Moseley's part is rather small though , but effective . The parts played by the actors are rather strange too . Two of the guys that were at the party are funeral home attendants , one of whom really looks the part . There's also their boss , who moves in across the street from a drug dealer & makes an effort to be neighborly by dropping by to let him know that he's a registered sex offender . Eek ! And then there's the girl who has come back from California to visit , who has apparently had some problems while she was out there due to the marks on her wrists . As the film rolls on and more people begin to die , two of the guys come up with a plan to get their hands on some weapons and go visit one guy's uncle ( or dad , it's hard to say , this IS Alabama , after all ) . The man ( played by Tom Towles ) is a crazed chili cook and arms collector , and of course some of these drunken and not-too-swift types shouldn't have their hands on firearms at all , as is evidenced by an accidental shooting . And , there's some kind of creature , too , who enjoys messy killings . What is it , and where did it come from ? Well , I'm sure it's something to do with Mr . Suitcase , but it's never really explained . Also of note is the scene with a garage mechanic ( wearing sunglasses ) and an ax , played in slow motion . . . . very weird and creepy . Still though , this is a weirdly enjoyable low-budget horror flick , and if you're not worried about anything making perfect sense ( it's a HORROR flick ) then you'll probably enjoy it . I'm probably not doing it justice but it is rather hard to get your brain around the proceedings at times . .
care for a brownie ?	This is not one of Peter Seller's best films but it's still not bad . Sellers plays an uptight Jewish lawyer in L . A . who has been engaged to a woman for a couple years and finally sets a date . He ends up having his car wrecked and while its in the shop he has to drive a hippie van , painted up with flowers and slogans and such , and also attend the funeral of the local butcher which means he has to track down his hippie brother to bring him to the funeral . And the brother's girlfriend comes along for the experience . She ends up sleeping at Seller's apartment after the brother abandons her to go frolic elsewhere , and before she leaves to go to work the next day she surprises him with a batch of special brownies she made . Of course Sellers comes home with his fiancée and his parents and they snack on the brownies and things are never the same again , including Sellers abandoning his bride at the altar to purse the hippie life . But he finds out that being a hippie isn't all it's made out to be and he still is himself underneath all that hair , and doesn't like the togetherness and free love and people sharing his bath . But is what you're seeing all true ? You'll have to watch it to find out I guess . How much you enjoy this may depend on whether or not you're a Sellers fan . It's kind of a fun little trip down flashback lane , but not as funny as it had potential to be . .
weird , trashy , and lots of tunes . . . . . .	I have to wonder , in the wake of flicks like Rocky Horror , why this was not more well known ? I've never heard of it or seen it until recently , and it does have a sort of " Rocky Horror " tone to it but perhaps not with as strong characters . For me , though , there's far too much music but there's a few things that compensated for that . Like , for instance , the sets and the cars . The cars , especially , are a wonder to behold , like the Chevy Impala station wagon and what looks like a Ford Maverick , all done up to look " ultra-futuristic " , complete with spoilers and all , that was hilarious . The story itself is nothing terribly exciting , a young singing couple are dragged into the hell of big business , with the woman being tempted by the evil agent ( Boogalow ) and the man choosing to forgo temptation in favor of pressing on by himself until he realizes how bad he ( Alfie ) needs her ( Bibi ) . This was made in 1980 and has " futuristic " sets , all someone's idea of what life would be like sometime in the future , and the only thing the truly hit dead on was how bad the music would really be in 1994 . Lots of um , cool looking futuristic clothing and stuff though , even triangular metal baby carriages with Plexiglas domes , wow . There's even a monorail that looks right out of Disney World but this is all filmed in West Berlin . A lot of the cast is gender suspect , too , sometimes you're sure about their orientation and other times , well , you probably don't want to know . I guess this is kind of fun in a Rocky Horror way , I also felt influences of " Phantom of Paradise " and yes , even " Jubilee " at times , but for me to truly enjoy it , well , it had too many musical dance numbers , definitely not my thing . If you like that sort of stuff you'll probably enjoy this more but I enjoyed it mainly for the ridiculous portrayal of " the future " which is now 12 years past . The ending is somewhat odd too , as at one point thing seem to jump ahead with no segue and the film ends . . . like so did the budget ? Dunno , anyway I give it a , loopy and weird , not for all tastes , but probably great for some .
interesting take on " Dracula "	William Marshall plays Mamuwalde , an African prince visiting ( unfortunately ) Count Dracula in Transylvania , with his beautiful young wife , Luva . They are basically campaigning against slavery , but when the Count expresses some rather unpopular ideas on that subject , his guests start to leave , only to be attacked and bitten by the undead , and Mamuwalde is re-christened " Blacula " . Fast forward to the present ( which in this case was 1972 ) and two " faggot interior decorators " have bought the castle in which all this took place , and are delighted to have a big coffin to take back to L . A . with them too . Of course you know who is inside and as soon as the coffin is opened , Mamuwalde ( who by now is very thirsty ) attacks . Pretty soon the police realize that they have a very strange problem on their hands . Dr . Gordon Thomas & Lt . Jack Peters are on the case but they aren't entirely sure what they're dealing with . To complicate matters , the sister of Dr . Thomas's " main squeeze " is a dead ringer for Luva , Mamuwalde's dead wife , so of course he has the hots for her . More and more people get bitten , etc . . . . typical vampire stuff , but the creepiest resurrection is a cab driver who has been in the morgue who launches herself at morgue attendant Sam ( Elisha Cook Jr . ) from down the hall , in slow motion , one of the creepiest scenes in the film . Not timid about feeding time is this lady . Overall this is a fairly decent film for " blaxploitation " and it also seems to have a bit of commentary on race relations , although I can't be sure that's how it was intended . .
left me in the dust , mostly	Pi is a mathematical nightmare . Perhaps if you're into numbers or something then this would seem fascinating but it kind of lost me a lot of the time . Max is a paranoid genius type , spends most of the time locked in his Chinatown apartment doing calculations to find patterns in nature or something . Max is also not a well man , having stared at the sun when he was a kid and " something else changed " inside him . He partners up with some Hassidic Jews who are interested in the numbers associated with the Hebrew language and the Koran . All this is plenty weird enough but Max also starts to see things and you're never sure what's real and what's not . Lots of creepy imagery which is aided and abetted by the black and white photography . This is a very strange movie and I can't really judge it by one viewing but I felt a lot of it was WAY over my head . Still though , from the way it was done it has a certain creepy appeal and I will watch it again just to see if I change my mind a bit about how I felt about it . Definitely weird and not for everyone .
Odd & amusing	This is an odd little Korean film about 4 slacker-types who rob a gas station , and come back to rob it a second time . When they're mistaken for the attendants they realize that they'll do better by taking OVER the gas station and collecting the money . As time passes ( this all takes place in one night ) they amass a roomful of hostages that they've taken , all guarded by Bulldog , a not-too-bright lad with a floppy hat and a big stick . This says a lot about Korea , I guess , in that most people don't want a full tank of gas because it's so expensive , and a few other things that flicker by that indicate that the economy isn't exactly booming . Some of the comedy to this is pretty standard but there are some touches that put this above most action / comedies . There are flashbacks to failures of the 4 young men that show the frustrations that got them where they are at the time they decided take matters into their own hands . There is dumb humor in this but there's also some sly and dark humor thrown in here & there which redeems it . Overall I found this to be an amusing film but still it's a touch on the " light " side , a little more black humor could have made it a bit better .
Night of the Living Dead , Swamp-style	I've seen this before but didn't pick up on the fact that I grew up not far from where this was made , as in they show the Oviedo Drug Store , and one license plate is from Seminole County , FL , huh . Interesting . Which is not necessarily how I'd describe this low budget effort from the infamous Fred Olen Ray , but if you're familiar with him you'll probably understand . This is kind of a waterlogged " Night of the Living Dead " , and it's all wet for more than one reason . The acting is pretty atrocious for the most part , although there are plenty of womenfolk that get naked and jump into the swamp water , despite the fact that there's something in there killing people . Is it gators ? Nope , it's some friends of the director in bad makeup and soggy fright masks cruising around and killing folks . Seems that there was a houseboat full of " yankees " that were partying hardy a while back that done got hit by a meteorite , and after that all the gators disappeared and then people started disappearing . This features Buster Crabbe in his last role , which is something akin to Veronica Lake making " Flesh Feast " her last role , as in , nothing much to be proud of . Still , for all its faults , I find this to be a fairly enjoyable piece of trash , and the newspaper reporter that sits down to take in some vittles with the swamp trash and finds out it's possum is still pretty amusing . Overall most people probably won't like this but if you want to know how Fred Olen Ray started out , here's your chance . .
decent Hammer-wannabe from Amicus Studios	Not-bad British horror anthology flick can't quite live up to " Tales from the Crypt " ( and where is THAT on DVD ? ) but is still entertaining . A young psychiatrist goes to interview at an asylum and must speak to four patients in a test to gain employment . Of course each patient has a story to tell of how they got there and so we're along for the ride . Probably the best of the four is the one with Peter Cushing , which is about a man who requests a suit to be made by a tailor out of special material . A few familiar faces are in this too , like Charlotte Rampling . Overall a decent flick but nothing to get too excited about . The new Dark Sky DVD is fine and hopefully they'll also get their mitts on the rights to Tales from the Crpyt , it's probably the best of the best from Amicus . .
Way better than expected	When I started watching this I saw what is supposed to be the " gimmick " for this film . . . . it claims to be restored footage from 1972 . Well , despite the pains taken to make it look that way , the pretense gets lost a few times but there is actually a decent attempt to recreate the look and feel of an early 70's film , complete with not-so-loving flower children . A woman is released from a mental hospital after she freaked out while making a porno movie and injured her co-star . The doctor releases her with the stipulation that she go home and let her parents care for her for a while , but she sees her old house and knows she can't go back there , so off she goes into the desert , where she breaks down after being harassed by rednecks . She hooks up with some hippie types , does lots of drugs , and has flashbacks to things she did in her life that would probably disturb anyone . Something to do with her sister , who is apparently the little girl she keeps seeing . The gang heads for some house that is " on the edge of the woods " and nobody that has lived there has ever done very well . With continuing to live , that is . At that point , of course , bad things begin to happen and things get bloody . It even has a typical 70's " ending that's not really much of an ending " thing down perfect . This fluctuates between actual attempts to make this look like an old film and just a bunch of people dressed like hippies , but overall the acting and the attempt to capture the feel of an early 70's movie is much better here than in the remake of Texas Chainsaw Massacre from a few years ago . The people seem to actually fit the parts better here . This is weird and offbeat enough to be enjoyable and doesn't seem to take itself completely seriously , so if you enjoy the weird and offbeat then you may not be disappointed . , much better than ever expected !
British black comedy is well worth seeing .	Death at A Funeral IS a funny movie , and I enjoyed it , but it has a rather light touch to it and I was actually expecting that it would be more outrageous than it was . For some , it's probably outrageous enough just as it is . Firstly , we begin with the wrong body being brought to the funeral in the coffin , so of course it has to be taken away & the correct one brought back . Then , we see various family members on their way to the funeral , and one couple stops to pick up her brother , who is a studying to be a pharmacist , who also dabbles in LSD . While there at her brother's flat , the woman gives her fiancée , Simon , a Valium , or something that's in a Valium bottle , and by the time they get to the funeral Simon is acting rather odd . Eventually Simon ends up nude on the roof . And then , there's the strange little man Peter ( Peter Dinklage ) who has shown up at the funeral and who no one else seems to know . He apparently knew the deceased rather well , and has photos to show it . And he'd like some compensation to not share those photos with anyone else , too . Of course he ends up detained ( as in , bound and gagged ) and ends up with some of those " valiums " to keep him quiet . And then we have curmudgeonly Uncle Alfie , whose foul-mouthed rants from his wheelchair are enough to keep any funeral lively . And friend of the family Howard , is the lucky " stuckee " to pick Uncle Alfie up to drive to the funeral . He's also fortunate enough to help Uncle Alfie to the toilet when nature calls , and ends up with a bit of a mess , which is unfortunate for Howard because he appears to be somewhat " germaphobic " . Overall , this is quite funny but still has rather a light touch to it , which left me slightly disappointed . Jane Asher ( former fiancée of Paul McCartney in the 60's ) has the role of the widow , and does quite well . .
I love foreign horror films . . . when they have something different to offer	Cold Prey is a Norwegian horror film ( the first that I've seen , to my knowledge ) and while it's not bad , it's nothing one has not seen before , for the most part . Different setting , different language , same old scenarios . Having said that though , it's not bad , just not terribly original . A group of young folks head up to a HUGE mountain in the exact middle of nowhere for snowboarding during Easter weekend ( I guess ) and when Morten Tobias breaks his leg , there's somewhat of a panic since he needs help and there's nowhere to go . Jannicke spots a cluster of old buildings and the gang heads for there , to find that it seems to be an old resort hotel in which no one appears to have stayed since the 70's , when apparently a tragedy of some kind took place . Morten's leg is set , the gang settles down to rest , and someone is able to fire up an old generator so they have power & Norwegian pop music from the 70's ( some of which I thought was pretty cool ) . Now , Mikal & Ingunn are " really in to each other " and sneak off to bed down in one of the old rooms but Mikal gets rather upset with Ingunn when she refuses to " put out " , and leaves . Ingunn is then brutally attacked & no one misses her until the next day when they realize she's missing and go check . Eirik has vowed to hike to the car or the village for help but he doesn't get far . Jannicke and Mikal have gone into the basement to check the generator but find a sort of hidden room that seems to indicate that there HAS been someone here since the 70's . Several someones , in fact , all of whom have also apparently never left , at least not on their own power . And then the hunt is on as the hooded and masked killer stalks the remaining young folks . There is rather a twist ending to this but I'd kind of figured it out already . Comparisons to " The Shining " are kind of superficial , because apart from a lonely hotel in the snow , in the middle of nowhere , there is no comparison . This probably owes more to stalk & slash flicks like " Friday the 13th " than it does to " The Shining " . Different settings , but more or less , the same old stuff . But I did rather like the film , it's just not anything particularly new . .
guess who didn't take their medication again ?	Confessions of a Psycho Cat is actually one of the better 60's exploitation flicks I've seen from Something Weird video , and this one is a take-off on " The Most Dangerous Game " , but the hunter ( huntress ? ) is an unstable woman , Virginia , who has just had a nervous breakdown so she couldn't go on safari in Africa with her brother . So , of course she does the next best thing , in picking three men who have all killed before in some manner , and stalking them in the wilds of New York City . The idea is that the hunt begins when they all received checks by courier for $100 , 000 and they don't get the money unless they survive for 24 hours . And Virginia has vowed she won't lose . There's apparently some footage inserted here of some party where young folks are groping each other which has little to do with the original story , and that tends to slow things down a bit . Virginia is rather resourceful in her attempts to lure her prey out into the open and it's apparent that there was at least some decent writing behind this film . This is kind of a fun movie & it also features Jake LaMotta ( former wrestler who was portrayed by Robert DeNiro in " Raging Bull ) as one of the three men being tracked down . We do also have Virginia's kindly but very concerned doctor who insists that she has to take her medication but his concern & intervention is pretty much too late at that point . Besides being a kind of fun movie it's also a decent print so the viewing experience is a bit more pleasant . . . in stark black and while and actually pretty well done . , fans of 60's exploitation stuff should eat this up .
slow moving but ultimately rewarding	Schultze is a retired salt miner in Germany , in a small town in the former DDR . He is at loose ends with his retirement , as his wife is in a nursing home & his friends that were retired with him don't have much more exciting going on in their lives . One day Shultze hears Cajun music on the radio and picks up his accordion ( he's a polka musician too ) and tries his hand at it . He has an ear for music so pretty soon he's obsessed with Cajun culture and even tries his hand at Jambalaya for his buddies . Pretty soon Schultze is working odd jobs to raise some money to go to Louisiana but before he can he's sent as a representative of his town to their " sister city " of New Braunfels , Texas . After fleeing the music festival there ( maybe it was the polka version of " La Paloma Blanca " ? ) he appropriates an old boat & makes his way into the bayous where he finds some unlikely friends and gets a taste of music and culture first hand . This is pretty slow moving at times but try to stick with it . The ending is a bit downbeat but the trip there is worth it . .
not a bad little thriller	Joachim Fuchsberger plays Inspector Holt in this Edgar Wallace mystery of wealthy old men who are being murdered in London and fished out of the Thames . Seems there's something up with an insurance scam , blind men , and gambling debts . Inspector Holt's sidekick Sunny is presumably present for a bit of comic relief as he puts Felix Unger to shame in his fastidiousness . Overall this is a decent little mystery thriller with lots of twists , turns , and red herrings . A very early appearance by the ever-creepy Klaus Kinski too . The atmosphere is dark and dreary and just right for a film of this sort , including London fog . The blind behemoth that is on the loose is rather creepy too , somewhat like a Tor Johnson character that apparently suffers from excessive body hair . This is a bit dated and looks far older than 1961 but it's still not a bad little flick and worth seeing . Good atmosphere & a decent story , .
goofy little sci-fi spoof	First off : Larry Raspberry ? He's the " star " of this odd little picture and while his bio says he was in the Gentrys back in the 60's I seem to remember an album called " Larry Raspberry & the High Steppers " or something to that effect . Anyway , there's another Raspberry in this movie too , his brother , I'd guess . I imagine they got razzed in school about that . ANYWAY on to the movie : This takes place supposedly in the 50's or early 60's , and it seems to waver between when it wants to be as it talks about seeing Invasion of the Body Snatchers and then mentions a roomful of people as looking like the casting room for ' Psycho ' . 50's or early 60's stock footage is interwoven with the actual film to give it a more authentic look , I reckon , and it usually works , except for the modern hairstyles and the distinctly non-period soundtrack . We have two escaped convicts , space aliens , and two rival Cola companies that all come together to make zombies out of the people of Pleasantville . I didn't know where this was filmed until the end and it's in Tennessee , I could tell it was somewhere in the south because of the obvious accents . Overall this is an interesting little movie and yes , even somewhat strange , but it's nothing terribly astounding . The look and the atmosphere is good , but trying to follow what's going on is a bit tough . I'd say this was fairly fun if you watch it in the spirit in which it was made , but don't expect a work of cinematic genius . .
be it ever so . . . . ?	A somewhat interesting look at 5 different family units and their homes , none of which are ordinary ( the homes or the people ) . One Louisiana dude lives in a houseboat and messes with alligators for a living . An Illinois man lives in a electronic " house of the future " and has strange neighbors and lots of interest in the occult . A new-age Kansas couple live in a converted missile silo . A California couple live in a converted house that has been modified to accommodate their umpteen cats , complete with " catwalks " and tunnels in the walls , etc . And an elderly , also new-age woman lives in a tree house in a remote valley in Hawaii . She mentions that she sprained her knee swimming with the dolphins , who she also talks to . All right , then . This is not as interesting as the film maker's " American Movie " but it's still not bad and gives some interesting perspective on how people adapt their living environments . I particularly like the tree house and the cat house but I'm also glad that none of the people in this are MY neighbors . Despite the alligator thing the Louisiana guy comes off as the most " normal " of the bunch . Not a bad view for a rainy Sunday afternoon , .
very eerie and creepy	This is filmed all in one take from a supposed dash-mounted camera in a police vehicle . There's something going on involving meteorites landing in an isolated park area in Lawton , CA . The officer at the wheel , one Brick Bardo ( ! ) is reporting back to base about what he's seeing on his patrol , and he stops to look for someone who has abandoned their truck & is attacked & " possessed " by something from this other man . He then proceeds to get back into the car & go back to where he saw two kids from the prom that were parked , and infects the boy but the girl grabs the car & takes off . Most of the rest of the film is the girl in the car , trying to get out of the park & facing all sorts of eerie scenarios as more and more people become infected , while she speaks with another deputy back at base . Reports from the deputy are that the townspeople seem to be infected . Really , there is not a lot to this film as far as action , gun play , or anything TOO wild , but it's pretty creepy in general and it's quite eerie and claustrophobic as the trapped girl goes round and round in the park looking for a way out that doesn't seem to exist . Comparisons to Blair Witch are probably inevitable but that film is either a love it or hate it film , and if you liked it you'll probably like this . But it's not quite the same thing , not at all . An interesting experiment from Albert Pyun . And by the way , the name " Brick Bardo " ( the aforementioned officer ) is the name used by Tim Thomerson's character in " Dollman " . .
Enjoyable spoof on old science fiction movies	The premise here is that a big producer ( Tony Curtis ) is in trouble with the IRS and needs a film that will flop so his company will lose money . A young kid has been working on his own film for a while & finally Shelldrake ( Curtis ) agrees to see him and view his film . This is the minor introduction to the real star of this , which is the film itself , " Lobster Man From Mars " . If you're a fan of old cheesy science fiction , you'll have a great time spotting direct lifts from some of those films , like " Robot Monster " , " Invaders from Mars " , etc . The story involves a young couple who are traveling and see a space ship crash , then end up stranded in this little town . The Lobster Man & his assistant Mambo ( who looks suspiciously like Ro-Man , from Robot Monster ) cruise around this little town vaporizing the residents , and they're here , it seems , because their planet is running out of air . This gleefully parodies every old science fiction motif it can get its sweaty little palms on and you'll appreciate some of the references . Also involved is Patrick Macnee as a moon-shining scientist , and Tommy Sledge as a monotone wise-cracking detective that gets off some good one-liners , every once in a while . This is a fun movie & best enjoyed if you've seen some of what it makes fun of . .
I like it but I don't necessarily get it . . . . .	I have now watched this twice , and while I like it I don't suppose I can fully do it justice trying to tell the reader what it's all about . This is a very character-driven movie , and there's sure lots of characters staying at this sad old hotel . There's Greta , an ex-porno star , there's Suzy , a Chinese woman looking for her biological mother , there's a man looking for the person who sold heroin to his son ( who OD'd ) and there's a sailor on shore leave , not to mention Jay , the hotel manager , and Wim & Godfrey , the cooks . Now Nelson , the obnoxious sailor , says it's his birthday so Wim & Godfrey whip up a cake . Afterwards , during a card game , Wim tells the guests that there is a room where nobody stays , room 207 . The card players draw cards and the one with the lowest has to stay the night in that room . Lucky Suzy gets it and weirdness ensues from there . So what's the deal with room 207 ? There's something to do with Jay & his wife , ex-wife , or deceased wife , one isn't quite sure . At any rate , try to stick with this because during about the last 20 minutes it gets pretty bizarre and that ( to me ) was worth the wait . This is pretty intelligent film making , maybe almost TOO intelligent , and while I'm all for things being left to the imagination and not just shoved in your face , I thought that maybe things needed to be a bit more explicit . This is a film that defies categorizing , and doesn't always make a lot of sense , but I give it an .
" . . . . and when she was bad , she was HORRID . . . . . "	" Madhouse " ( AKA " There Was A Little Girl " ) has just been released in the US on Dark Sky Films , and it looks & sounds great . The story is that of a women , who has an identical twin , who is in an asylum and who is now disfigured . That identical twin terrorized her when she was young , so while there is still a bond between the two women , the one on the outside shuns the one on the inside . That is , until Uncle James ( who is also a priest ) tells Julia that her sister has been asking for her , just before their 25th birthday . So Julia goes to visit , only to have that terror she had as a little girl rekindled when twin Mary reveals that she's still crazy , after all these years . Now Julia lives in an old building , a former funeral home , that's being renovated for apartments , and apart from her goofy new-age landlady , she's there all by herself . Strange things begin to happen & it seems like Mary is there , with her nasty Rottweiler , and Julia becomes extremely disturbed . Of course , no one believes Julia because Mary is safely locked away . Or is she ? As time goes by strange things begin to happen , including the death of a young deaf student of Julia's , and a friend of hers who stayed over to keep an eye on her , who strayed away when Julia's cat escaped to chase it down , and met with a nasty fate , although Julia thinks she just went home to change for work . And then the day of Julia & Mary's birthday arrives , and it seems as though kindly Uncle James ( the priest ) has arranged quite a surprise party . And it's a surprise in many more ways than one could imagine , for Uncle James doesn't seem to be too stable himself . Not a bad film at all , rather creepy & suspenseful , and with a couple of rather gruesome scenes , especially one involving a power drill . Nice to have this on DVD , finally . .
Wonderful Corman trash	This movie has always been a favorite , for reasons I'm unable to explain since it's pretty much a piece of low-budget junk , but then again , lots of stuff I enjoy is like that . I will say that I was extremely disappointed by the Alpha Video version since it was very poor quality and skipped and was generally unwatchable , but I did find a Goodtimes version that , while not digitally remastered , plays just fine and looks pretty good . On to the movie : It's sort of a cold-war spy spoof thing with Antony Carbone playing a gangster and he and his gang of thugs ( including a woman ) attempt to scam a bunch of Cuban soldiers out of gold from the Cuban treasury by making them think there's a sea monster on the loose . The bad part is , that , there really IS a sea monster on the loose . The monster is something to behold , I think the critter was the prototype for Sid & Marty Kroft's " Sigmund and the Sea Monster " ; yes , it's THAT scary . Anyway , this is a very tongue-in-cheek tale of treachery , greed , and double crosses , and while it isn't really laugh out loud stuff , it is amusing . stars .
Etherhead	This film brought to mind Eraserhead , only because it's filmed in black & white and has a lot of industrial-type settings . However , there's about where the comparison ends . This is kind of like a 50's mad doctor movie , only those movies never featured tons of splatter & forced sex and crazy ether-addicted scientists . This is not an easy film to watch , because as people being experimented on are put through their torture , you suffer along with them , thanks to the screams and just a general assault on your senses . At one point there's a strobing effect that was making me wonder if I was going to grab a kitchen utensil and take to the streets if I continued to watch it , but thankfully it ended and I was fine . There are two scientists working on a DDD ( Direct Digital Drive ) thing , one is obsessed with that and the other with ether . They round up street derelicts and use them as guinea pigs with ether injections right up the wazoo , literally . This enhances their psychic abilities , or some such thing . They are in danger of losing their funding due to their little project being " unauthorized " ( go figure ! ) and hold the woman that comes to tell them the bad news hostage and torture her too . In some ways this also reminded me of Tetsuo the Iron Man , but only for the " squirm factor " . This is not an easy film to watch ; it's ugly , it's dark , it's creepy and it's an audio-visual assault on your senses . However , if you have a sense of adventure and like really strange movies , it's worthwhile to see . stars .
Three horrific themes rolled into one , and then some . . . .	In " Dr . Jekyll and Sister Hyde " , we have three British horror themes rolled into one . Obviously , the first is " Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde " , but then we have " Burke & Hare " and then " Jack The Ripper " . And all with a Hammer Studios twist . Dr . Jekyll has been experimenting with hormones , it seems , and what he's succeeded in doing is turning a male fly into a female , which even lays eggs . Of course , he then tries the serum on himself , with delightful results , as he morphs into Martine Beswick . He finds that he LIKES being Martine Beswick , though , a little too much , maybe . No wonder he doesn't want to hang out with nosy neighbor Susan upstairs . Dr . Jekyll , of course , needs bodies for his experimentation , and when the local morgue has run out , he enlists the help of two rather shady characters named Burke & Hare . However , when those two are found out , the good doctor himself must take to the street to find suitable . . uh . . specimens , usually prostitutes , who seem to be in great supply in this film . Supposedly only one item is removed from the victim's person , and that item is never made clear , but it's obviously naughty . At any rate , Dr . Jekyll is obsessed with his new identity and must perfect his formula to remain female , but due to constant interference from his neighbors and others , he's eventually found out and meets with a tragic end . This is an entertaining and strange mix of three different tales , but it does work fairly well & even has a bit of humor to it . A decent entry in the later Hammer films . .
The Green Slime , revisited . . . . ?	This is a strange movie , and while all the elements are there for a kind of supernatural or bio-horror movie , well , it kind of fizzles out there . At an isolated and understaffed hospital , something very strange seems to be going on , or several " something stranges " , that is . An ambulance driver leaves a seriously ill patient sitting in ER when he was told that the hospital couldn't accommodate him , and this patient seems to be suffering from a severe case of slime , green drippy yucky stuff all over the place as his innards liquefy . Eww . It seems rather contagious too , as others are oozing the stuff out their ears and such . Madness seems to spread as quickly as the disease and pretty soon just about everyone has it . The catch is , that most of what you're seeing isn't really what's happening . This is quite the mind-f of a film , and either you'll be surprised at the end or you'll feel it's a cop-out . Not one of the best Japanese films I've seen lately but I still liked it and thought it was worthwhile . Thankfully I found it used as Lion's Gate put their usual outrageous price-tag on their usual no-frills DVD . .
" wait , little girl . . . . "	" Tourist Trap " is among my favorite late 70's / early 80's horror flicks . A group of young people are heading somewhere , one pair in the car ahead , & that car has a flat , and our film opens with the young man , Woody , pushing the tire along looking for a service station . He finds a seemingly abandoned place , and yet hears voices and investigates , and ends up with a piece of pipe through his stomach for his efforts . Along comes the rest of the young folks ( in a VW Thing ) and they pick up Woody's girlfriend , and find this very same place , Slausen's Oasis , or some such thing . . and then Mr . Slausen happens along while the girls are enjoying a dip in the stream . Of course , the VW Thing has mysteriously died at that point , so odd Mr . Slausen ( Chuck Connors ) offers his help . Mr . Slausen has a museum , with lots of wax figures , and he lives in the museum but behind is a big house , where he says Davey lives . And who is Davey ? Why , Davey Crockett , he says . . . but if it were Davey Crockett , they'd all probably be safer . The girls are left alone while Slausen goes to help with fixing the car , but of course curiosity gets the better of one & she goes to investigate , and finds the house full of creepy mannequins and one rather animated one named . . . Davey . What follows is a rather creepy night of terror as one by one , they're taken prisoner by Davey , who says he's Slausen's brother . One girl ( kidnapped earlier ) is treated to a plaster facial , which results in her death when it covers up her air supply . At any rate there's somewhat of a twist to this and kind ( but weird ) Mr . Slausen is not exactly what he appears to be . A good , creepy late 70's horror flick , and lots of mannequins make for a very creepy atmosphere . .
plenty of balls but not enough budget	First off this is based on a Manga , which should tell you something of what it will be like ( that is , if you've ever read one ) . We have two rival baseball teams , Seido ( the good guys ) and Gedo ( the evil guys ) and they will play baseball to the death , something which takes about 10 seconds with the first go-round . We have a " new student " who is a transfer from another school , whose past is shrouded in mystery . . . he killed his parents , he just got out of prison , he killed his parents by tearing them to shreds and was never caught , etc . , the rumors are flying . Turns out he does have something regretful in his past but it was a baseball-related accident involving his father and he vowed never to play baseball again . . . even though he's the only one that can save Seido . The acting in this is over-the-top and there's plenty of hamming it up and mugging , and the Gedo team is a wonder to behold , all ghastly greenish-gray skin and bad hairstyles , not to mention bad clothing styles . This is pretty fun in a stupid way but doesn't quite go as far as maybe it could have , due to a rather limited budget , apparently , but it's not bad and I did rather like it . I would dare to say this sort of resembles Clockwork Orange , The Warriors , Rollerball , and Bad News Bears , all rolled into one , as perhaps channeled through Zucker , Zucker , and Abrams ( Airplane ) . But maybe I'm wrong , I've been wrong before and told so by fellow " critics " . Whatever . I liked this . .
A fun and goofy flick , not to be taken seriously ( no matter HOW it was made )	It's hard to say with some Asian flicks whether they were made to be serious or if they were made as spoofs . If this one was made to be serious , it's also an excellent spoof . The story is not that much different from that of King Kong , except home base is Hong Kong & the Peking Man has been spotted in the Himilayas , so a heart-broken explorer and a team of men head off to find it . Our heart-broken explorer had just caught his fiancée in bed with a friend and therefore was ready for anything to get out of town , but maybe this . . . he finds the Mighty Peking Man but he also finds Ah Wei , a beautiful blonde who wears a ragged loincloth and top , who can communicate with Peking Man & also all the other animals in the jungle , except for perhaps a cobra , which bites her . Seems like she was in a plane crash with her parents years ago & they died but she lived with the animals . After bidding a tearful farewell to her favorite leopard ( which is shown making choked-up faces when she walks away ) she sets sail for Hong Kong with Mighty Peking Man chained to the deck of the ship , and from then out out it's more or less like " King Kong " only funnier . There's the obligatory shoot-out on a tall building at the end , and the usual treachery from those who don't understand . Strange that Ah Wei communicates with Kong in " native language " in the jungle but then in English towards the end , maybe he's as fast a learner as she is . Some of the earlier parts of this film are beautifully done , and somewhat fun and exhilarating , but it bogs down a bit toward the end with the seemingly endless shoot-out . There's some truly priceless bits in this , like someone getting their leg bitten off by a tiger near the beginning , and a gun battle with rear-projected elephants , and so on . A fun film , hopefully not meant to be taken seriously but if it was , you won't . .
Fun monster flick , now on DV	" The Monster Squad " is not Academy Award winning material , but it's a fun movie and there's enough for adults to enjoy that it's a film for about any age . Except perhaps , for some of the language , which really , I don't care about , but the little five-year old girl does say " chickens " , so that might be about it for SOME family viewing . There's a small group of kids that have a tree house and a club , and they're self-proclaimed horror fanatics . Little do they know that trouble is heading for their little town in the way of a plane full of monsters , on their way from Transylvania . Seems that years ago there was an attempt made by a gentleman named " Van Helsing " to stop these monsters but it failed , somewhat , and now they're back & this group of kids has to save the world from them . Dracula seems to be the real instigator of the group , and there's also a Frankenstein monster , a Gill Man , a Werewolf , and a Mummy . It's amusing to see this little 5 year old girl playing near the water's edge and to look up as a shadow falls over her , in a takeoff from the original " Frankenstein " . Although she shows up with the monster in tow , and proves that she's a bit braver than the kids that won't let her join their club . At any rate , these kids team up with a strange old man who lives in a creepy old house , that turns out to be German . He says he knows something about monsters , while showing his concentration camp tattoos , nothing kids would probably understand , so there is a level of this aimed at adults . It seems that one of the kid's sister can read German and she says she's a virgin ( a requirement , it seems ) so she's reading the incantation that will send the monsters back & has the magic amulet but nothing seems to be happening , and she does finally admit she's not a virgin ( but THAT guy didn't count . . . ! ) , so the five-year old is commissioned to read the passage with the help of the old man to dispatch the monsters into the limbo from which they can't return . Good special effects and an overall creepy but fun atmosphere really make this worth seeing , and it's never boring or dull . , good fun but caution should be used for younger kids , most likely .
enjoyably cheesy	Hey now , for some reason I liked this low-budget effort , filmed in New Hampshire , of all places . It's suitably weird & creepy , just off-beat enough to be enjoyable . Has to do with entities in the water pipes and stuff , hence the title , I guess . Mostly takes place in a rental property that is being " fixed up " by some unsuspecting teens . Not bad , although not for everyone , I guess . Maybe you have to be in the right mood . I liked it though .
what the heck is this about ?	Spasmo is rather cool to watch but for the most part , don't ask me what it's about . There's lots of life-like mannequins popping up everywhere , and usually in some sort of compromising positions , there's a man who is onto a mystery but what kind , he's not sure . It's something to do with a hit man that he thinks he killed and a beautiful young woman that he has just taken up with , and lots of mysterious characters . The most mysterious character of all seems to be this man's rich older brother , who we don't see until toward the end of the film , but he seems to have something to do with everything that's been happening to his younger brother . There is also something to do with the family tradition of insanity . As in , it's in the genes , hmm . This is a fairly disjointed and sometimes hard-to-follow movie , but it all looks fairly cool and I didn't consider it disappointing . And why oh why , is it called Spasmo ? Another mystery I guess . Hard to believe this was made by the same guy that got into cannibal-operas a few years later . Weird , but not bad . .
Not really much of a comedy but strangely interesting	If you're to believe the box art then this is a " laugh out loud " comedy , but it's really not much of a comedy at all . Still though , it's not bad , if actually a little creepy . Chuck and Buck were childhood friends , and while Chuck has gone on to bigger and better things and has a good job and a fiancée , Buck still lives at home and plays with children's toys and sucks on Blow Pops all day , that is , until his mother dies and he's forced into checking out the outside world . Buck still thinks of Chuck as his best friend and that's due to something they did when they were children that probably changed Buck's way of thinking forever , and perhaps not in a healthy way . When Chuck and his fiancée show up for Buck's mom's funeral , Buck tries to grope him , but Chuck and his fiancée leave immediately after and flee back to LA , throwing out a superficial invitation for Buck to come visit , never thinking he will , but of course Buck just packs up some of his favorite things and MOVES to LA , where he becomes Chuck's very own personal stalker . While hanging out in front of a small theatrical production house across from where Chuck works , Buck begins talking to the woman that works there , Beverly ( Lupe Ontiveros , in an excellent role ) and finds out that he can stage his own play if he wants , so of course he writes a thinly veiled story of his friendship with Chuck called " Hank and Frank " and proceeds with the production . Of course Chuck and his fiancée are invited and Chuck isn't exactly amused , but he makes a deal with Buck and after he keeps the deal they come to a sort of understanding . This is a tale of obsession but it's also a tale of just plain coming an understanding of reality too . Overall it's a decent little watch but it's also a bit creepy . .
Ingredients are everywhere !	Ingredients are everywhere , so speaks the owner of a questionable cat food factory when he realizes that they don't need freshly ( or even not-so-freshly ) dug-up corpses to make Lotus Cat Food . That's at the point where winos start finding their way into kitty's tummy . Seems like even house cats are in a " savage state " and like their larger counterparts , tigers , they develop a taste for human flesh after they've tasted it , and after eating Lotus cat food they turn on their owners . A doctor and his nurse ( man & wife or boyfriend & girlfriend ? ) start investigating when their own cat gets a bit crazy after eating this particular brand of cat food . Now on to the factory itself , which is quite a wonder . Tessie is a deaf-mute with one leg , the janitor is a wino , and I guess there are supposed to be other employees besides the owner and his partner but you never see them . The production " line " consists of one machine that apparently you feed one corpse and a little bag of grain and out comes kitty food . Now there was analysis run on the cat food by a lab and by the doctor & nurse and by their OWN lab , but nowhere in any of the food did they find hair , clothes , car keys , etc , which considering what gets fed into the machine they might find traces of . The machine itself is a wonder to behold , for some reason I thought of the " transmogrifier " from Calvin and Hobbs cartoons , a cardboard box with buttons and such drawn on it , and while it has moving parts and such in the movie , it's not far removed from that . This has a cheesy look and feel to it but still it's a classic of cult trash , a grim but still kind of fun movie , and by fun I mean stupid fun . And Arch Hall Sr . had writing credits ? Too bad Arch Hall Jr . wasn't around to be fed into the machine . I purchased this simultaneously with Corpse Grinders II , which I will watch and review soon . for this , if you're a fan of cheap 60's & 70's horror exploitation flicks this is for you .
A decent little thriller	This is a decent little thriller that takes place in Scotland but it's an Italian film . Now , apparently Blue Underground put some restored footage in or something because suddenly we take a few brief detours from Scottish brogues into Italian with subtitles ? Hmm , that kind of ruined the mood , but still , this is a perfect movie for a rainy day or evening because it's got some creepy moments and you're not sure really what's going on up until the end , without suspecting for a moment who the killer is . At least I didn't . The witness to all the murders in this movie is a big yellow cat , and yet my big yellow cat didn't care to watch the movie , go figure . The cat was apparently distraught his mistress was killed and threw itself on the coffin , which , apparently , is a legend in Scotland ; when a cat follows a corpse it means that person is a vampire . Doesn't help when the woman is mysteriously no longer in her coffin , either . Anyway , this is kind of a cool little film , no great shakes but still not a bad little " giallo " , and yes , I think it's one of those . . . . it's never referred to as one but I think it fits the bill . Good gloomy day material . .
didn't quite meat with my expectations , but still good	I have Jan Svankmajer's films on DVD , like Alice , Faust , Conspirators of Pleasure , Little Otik , and when I watched all these for the first time I was sucked right into them and absolutely delighted with them all . Not so with this one , really , and I hesitate to say I was disappointed , but I suppose I was . This is the tale of a man who may or may not be insane and ends up in an asylum where it's gradually revealed that the lunatics took over and the staff was tarred and feathered and locked away in the basement . There's a strange character that fancies himself to be the Marquis De Sade , and oodles of other odd characters as well . And , there's lots of slithering and oozing meat , and eyeballs , and other sorts of Svankmajer's usual surreal and creepy stuff . But this film is considerably darker than his usual whimsical ( yet creepy ) stuff , and I guess you could say it's more of a horror film than anything else . There seems to be a lot of Svankmajer's usual style missing from this , and while I would say it was interesting it just didn't quite grab me like all his other offerings . I will have to watch this again to see what I think but upon a first viewing I would have to say I wasn't enthralled so maybe a second viewing will help . .
Old-school horror / comedy isn't bad , but way too LOU	Hatchet isn't particularly new or original in its themes , but it is at least sort of a throwback to the slasher heyday of the 80's , so that makes it a bit more appealing in my mind . My one complaint about this film is that it's WAY TOO LOUD . The dialog is fine but the thunder and gunfire and monster noises are mixed up so loud that even with the sound turned down it's a sure-fire way to get an eviction notice for apartment dwellers like myself . Good thing my neighbors are away for the holidays . At any rate , a bunch of young folks are in New Orleans for Mardi Gras , and Ben ( who recently broke up with his girlfriend ) and Marcus go on a " Haunted Swamp Tour " . There's also a Mr . Shapiro who is supposedly a movie director and two young actress types whose sole acting seems to be flashing their tits for Mr . Shapiro . There's also a few others along , an older couple , and a very quiet young lady who seems to want to be left alone . When the boat gets stranded the trouble begins , and it seems that the tour guide isn't exactly very experienced . There's evil lurking in the swamp , and when the tourists come across the old shack that used to be the home of one Victor Crowley , then the trouble really starts . For it seems that Victor was a deformed young man who was burned to death in a fire years ago . . . but then again , maybe not . For someone out there has a big ax to grind . . . or perhaps a hatchet . This is kind of fun " old school " horror so if you like 80's horror & slashers , you probably won't be disappointed . There seems to be references to older films like maybe " Madman " and of course , " Friday the 13th " . Newbury Comics in Massachussets should be happy they got free advertising throughout the movie as Ben is wearing one of their shirts . Not bad , overall , just way too loud . .
A great " how to " guide using your basic " horror clichés "	Behind the Mask : The Rise of Leslie Vernon , is the take of an up-and-coming young man who see himself as a possible successor to the throne of Jason Vorhees , Freddy Krueger , and Michael Myers . It begins as a small group of grad students film & interview this young man as he lays out the groundwork for his rise to notoriety . But somewhere along the way , the grad students realize that this is perhaps a little more than they bargained for and they have second thoughts about their complicity in Leslie's schemes . Now Leslie has staked out his prey , and he's divided the potential victims into categories , including the lone girl that has the distinction of being the " survivor " . She's a good girl , she's a virgin , and she keeps away from the alcohol & drugs . Of course , Leslie has made one mistake in his assumptions but you'll have to see the film to find out why . Leslie has also set up the location for the spree he's planning , and it's the old farmhouse where the young boy , who he is stealing the identity of , was dragged out & thrown over a waterfall many years ago , and now he's poised to " come back " for vengeance . Leslie has made a lot of preparation for his rise to infamy , including plenty of cardio and training , for all those long chases through the woods . Leslie is also a former mental patient but he does play that down a bit . There's also an " Ahab " , a rescuer , a sort of adversary , in a character played by Robert Englund , of all people , who knows ( or seems to ) what's going on and is bound to stop it . This is a very clever film and comes off as sort of a cross between " Man Bites Dog " and your basic clichéd horror flick . But it makes use of those clichés as though they were some kind of training course for the demented killer . A fun , clever , and twisted little horror romp & some of it's genuinely funny . Well worth seeing , .
Wild , weird , and well worth watching	To date , the only other films I've seen by Luigi Batzella are " Devil's Wedding Night " ( abysmal ) and " Beast In Heat " ( SUPER abysmal ) . However , " Nude For Satan " is a much better film in many ways , but it will definitely not be for all tastes . A doctor , racing to an emergency call , sees what he thinks is a woman in the road and slams on his brakes . His little Volkswagen has been screaming along the back roads like it was a Maserati , from the sound of it . But , before he can get out of his car , there's a crash & there's a woman who has wrecked her car and is hanging out the door , so he puts her into his car , which will then not start . He sees a nearby house so he goes for help , but encounters a very strange man who then disappears . The lights in the house go out when he calls for help , but the front door is open so he wanders in to find the house seemingly abandoned & full of debris . In exploring , looking for someone , anyone , he opens various doors to find nasty surprises inside . And then , he seems to find the woman that he rescued from the accident , surprised to find that she has made it to the house . As the film goes on it seems that the doctor and the woman are in some kind of alternate reality , in which they have doubles . And there's a mysterious man who seems to preside over all that is weird there , presumably , Satan . In encountering the Satan character for the first time , the woman appears nude , while we get a close-up of Satan's eye . . . talk about undressing someone with your eyes ! For the most part , this is very dream-like ( or nightmare-like , to be more accurate ) , and while it's somewhat nonsensical it's still quite interesting and a far better offering than the other trash I've seen by this director . If you like weird Italian horror films , this is definitely worth checking out . .
Has its good points and its bad points	A vicious rivalry between dysfunctional children's TV show stars sounds like a great idea , and it is , it's just that with Danny DeVito at the helm it gets a little heavy-handed at times . After Rainbow Randolph ( Robin Williams ) gets caught on the take with a briefcase full of cash , he's washed up and his show is off KidNet . That leaves them with exploring the options of who will replace him , and they find a squeaky clean guy named Sheldon Mopes who is busy playing his guitar at methadone clinics while wearing a pink rhino costume . From there , Smoochy is born to TV and the kids love him . The problem is that TV is all about shoving sugared treats and toys down the kids throats and Smoochy don't play like that . He ends up getting a manager ( DeVito ) who makes sure he's executive producer of his own show so he can keep away all that stuff , but there are more sinister things going on in the wings . First off , Rainbow Ralph , drunken and homeless , is out for revenge , and then it seems like some vicious children's charities are out to get some big bucks by using Smoochy for their own gains , etc . etc . Mostly this is pretty funny at times but might have been funnier if some subtlety had been used . No light touches here . Edward Norton is great as the bewildered star who can't believe things are really like they are but still fights for what he thinks is right . Williams is pretty over the top as the vengeful Randolph , but that works OK mostly too . Good for a few laughs but despite the bright colors and all , this isn't for the kiddies , although they may well know some of those words already . , fun but might have been better handled by someone with a lighter touch .
A better " homegrown " than " Flesh for the Beast "	Anchor Bay's " homegrown " movie is far superior to Shriek Show's " Flesh for the Beast " but that wouldn't be very difficult . However , while it's old school horror , it's still not top notch but actually nowhere near as bad as what I've read about it . It's very well done technically , it's just got a few plot holes and kind of a let-down ending . It's even got a Michael Myers / Jason type figure that wears a white cloth over his head and when he's dead , well , you look back at the spot where you last saw him and voilà , he's not there anymore . After a bank robbery , the crooks head for this house , only things don't quite go as planned & complications arise when one is forced to carjack a van with a little girl & her mom in it . They're taken to the planned meeting place to hole up & wait for the others , only when the others arrive plans have changed more still and so has the body count . To me it was obvious who the killer was , and I was right , so boo hiss for that , but overall it's not a bad little watch . Compared to " Flesh for the Beast " it's Oscar Winning material though , so message to Anchor Bay & Shriek Show : Just keep releasing obscure old stuff and forget your own " homegrown " movies .
Live fast , die young , and leave a good looking pile of dust	Here's what Robert Quarry did after Count Yorga , if you're interested : he donned a wig and caftan and became a Charlie Manson type hippie guru vampire . This isn't exactly up to the standards of the Count Yorga movies , at least the first one , but it's OK for a hippie vampire movie . And it even features John Fiedler , as Pop , who wears a medallion and a hippie vest but still looks pretty much the same old geek . . . . he who voiced ' Piglet ' in the Disney movies for years . The idea is that there's this commune type set-up with all these groovy hippies that live in a big house near the ocean . One of them , a creepy looking dude named Barbado , seems to set off invisible wind chimes wherever he goes , it can't be his necklace , that seems to stay pretty still . When Barbado sits near the shore one day and plays his flute , this coffin washes up on the shore and of course you know who's in it . The coffin gets dragged to an undisclosed location and suddenly the commune has been blessed by the appearance of this Khorda guy , who spouts psycho-babble and has them all drink bottled water . Groovy . Of course , behind all this groovy mysticism Khorda is still nothing but a vampire and pretty soon so are most of the hippies in the commune . Except for one , Pico , who you suspect is wearing a wig held on by his headband since that never comes off . Of course he comes back to save his girl , and so on . This never really rises above cheesy drive in fare , but that's fine , I like this stuff . No great shakes , this , but entertaining enough . .
Decent giallo , but not one of the best	I guess when this was made the director , Antonio Bido , was making a rather valiant attempt to follow in Dario Argento's footsteps . He does manage to succeed on some levels but fails at others . The music in this ( by Trans Europa Express ) is very much like that of Goblin from Argento's films , and it sounds hauntingly familiar , as in it was lifted almost entirely from " Deep Red " if it's not the same exact music . There's even an attempt to capture Argento's stylishness , but that fails because the film is rather murky and almost grainy at times , unlike the crystal clear work of Argento . Still though , this isn't a bad film , although it's rather typical Italian stuff where you have to pay attention because otherwise you can't keep track of the players without a score card . It begins with a man killed in a pharmacy and a woman who accidentally witnesses the murder and then of course , she's a target . But there are other targets too , and they're all linked to something that happened many years ago , and it's seemingly a series of revenge killings . Overall it's not bad , it's just not top notch stuff . , recommended for those who like Argento and don't mind " wanna-be's " .
something is rotten in Denmark	Homicidal isn't bad but William Castle apparently was a serious Alfred Hitchcock " wannabe " . This is overtones & themes lifted from Psycho but it's also got a twist at the end that I'm sure was rather " exotic " for 1961 and perhaps left a bunch of people puzzled ? Anyway a beautiful woman hires a bellboy to marry her and then kills the justice of the peace after the ceremony and promptly disappears . . . . we see her , of course , but nobody else can find her . Now , she lives at a big old house in the middle of nowhere with an invalid lady ( yes , there really is one , we can see her , it's not some guy that cross-dresses as a dead woman that's stuck down in the fruit cellar ) . The old lady probably knows everything that's going on but she's also paralyzed from a stroke & mute . And therefore ripe for being kept from revealing anything to anyone . There's the usual passers-by meddling in affairs in which they are not wanted , etc . , like the good doctor , and the local pharmacist . The ending was actually rather a surprise to me , and as I mentioned I'm sure it was quite controversial for 1961 but for now it seems a bit silly , maybe even " normal " but not really . This isn't quite as hokey as Dr . Sardonicus or 13 Ghosts but it's still not the greatest film ever . It does , however , have that little twist to it that raises it above other such fare . Not bad , overall , really , worth checking out . .
the downside of grave desecration	It's the Whitlocks vs . the Laniers in this tale of witchcraft from England . Seems that the Laniers are busy digging up a graveyard to make way for a housing project . Seems like the Whitlocks strongly object to that , being that their family plot is there . And in their family plot is the grave of a witch that was buried alive , not burned , and whomever thought that was a good idea was sadly mistaken . Now , the Whitlock clan , as led by Lon Chaney Jr . , makes a big deal of all this grave desecration but they still practice witchcraft , unknown to the Laniers . And the witch , who was buried alive , is back and busily making short work of the Lanier clan and anyone associated with them . Voodoo-type dolls do some of the work , as a man drowns in his bath and a woman , who thinks she's on a main road , actually drives through a garbage dump and off a cliff . This is pretty effective and decent old-style horror , in gorgeous sharp black & white ( and now on DVD ! ! ) and is great for a dark rainy evening . It's also by Don Sharp ( who also did Psychomania ) and he seems to have this thing for graveyards & frogs . .
Could have been better but still worth seeing	I had only read about this film prior to finding a used copy , so since it was cheap decided I'd take a chance , and I wasn't completely disappointed , but a little , though . It goes pretty far but I'd say they could have gone a bit further . A bunch of disaffected youth in some big English city go " shopping " which means they steal cars , smash into department stores and either loot or just trash the places , and all in the name of fun . The need for speed is always there , literally and figuratively . The cops are virtually powerless to stop them and even lose a few cars here and there themselves to vandalism . It's plenty violent enough but I guess I've seen too many Takashi Miike films so now I'm expecting that the whole world should act in that manner . In films , that is , not in real life , oh please no ! The one thing that never works for me is films in which the disaffected youth still wear punk styles but now listen to trance and rave type music . Bleah . If they're going to be trashing the bourgeoisie the gimme some Clash or something . Overall it's a decent film but actually kind of depressing and grim . .
your basic psycho road picture	David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes play a young journalist couple who want to go to California , but can't really afford to , so they ' ride share " with another young couple ( Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis ) to save on expenses . The idea is for them to stop at various murder sites along the way , sites where serial killers did their thing , since Brian ( Duchovny ) is a writer and Carrie ( Forbes ) is his photographer . What they don't know is that Pitt ( Earley ) and Lewis are serial killer and girlfriend who just goes along with whatever HE says . I don't care for Pitt as a rule but he does justice to psycho roles . The scary thing is that he does them so well ; I've actually KNOWN people like him before , no , not killers , but with pretty much the same mindset . Anyway , as the road trip goes along , Carrie guesses that the others are about out of money , but Earley seems to always come up with the cash somehow . . . . never mind that he leaves someone dead here and there to do it though . Lewis does her role well , one that she excels at , a not-too-bright waif that has a good heart but doesn't understand that she doesn't have to put up with being beaten up by Earley when she does something he doesn't like . As things begin to get more unacceptable Carrie insists that the other couple be put out at a gas station , and unfortunately it's at that point where she's inside that she sees a news bulletin that tells her exactly who they've been ride-sharing with , after which things go downhill for them at a rapid clip . This is not the greatest flick in the world , but it's not bad . . . I watched what was supposed to be the ' unrated ' version but I wonder how much was cut out of the rated version , because this seemed fairly tame to me , really . . . not that this makes it family fare or anything , unless it's maybe the Manson Family . .
decent black comedy / horror	Severance is the story of several employees of a defense contractor who are on a team-building exercise somewhere inside the former Iron Curtain . . . . like , Hungary . When they encounter a tree across the road the driver refuses to take an alternate route & find themselves left to their own devices in the middle of nowhere . Their destination is a lodge & they think they've found it but things don't seem " quite right " and they've actually stumbled across an old asylum which was home to a bunch of psycho soldiers . . . . ones that " liked the killing too much " . And guess what ? Maybe they haven't really left the area . This starts out fairly funny but for a long period of time it's more as if it were a straight horror film , but then the humor kicks back in for a bit . . . the ending is a nice touch with scantily clad women with machine guns , always a crowd-pleaser . The box description of " The Office meets The Hills Have Eyes " is actually fairly on target , too . Not bad , thanks to whomever traded theirs in so I didn't have to pay full price . .
let's get one thing straight here	What exactly do people expect when they watch an Al Adamson film ? Are they expecting classic cinema that is wonderful beyond belief and will leave them with lasting memories ? You'd think so by some of the reviews . Al Adamson's films are trashy and sleazy and cheesy , not much more , so if you go into them knowing that already it helps , and they aren't necessarily to be taken at face value , especially when they have so much unintentional entertainment value . First off , this starts by ripping off the end theme music from Outer Limits , so you know things are looking promising . This is the story of some wacko cult that lives in the hills and while trying to raise a dead body , the leader suffers a heart attack and ends up in the hospital . Of course Nurse Sherri tends to his needs and all , and when an operation is needed she just happens to be hanging out in the operating room when the guy passes on so his spirit invades her . And Nurse Sherri begins to change . No longer the nice nurse , she develops a taste for blood and sharp objects . There's a couple little side stories going on like folks trying to burn the body of the dead cult leader and a blinded football star that has become the love object of one of Sherri's co-workers who also just happens to dabble in voodoo . This is not bad if you're a cult film fan , but it may be bad if you're a " Spiderman " fan because you won't like it . At times this actually lurches towards " respectability " ( for Adamson , anyway ) but then it " unredeems : itself with some ridiculous event . If you enjoy Adamson's films and similar trash you may well like this , for anyone else who may be looking for a lost treasure , keep digging . .
Good but could have used a bit less music	This is a good 60's sci-fi / sex romp but despite the fact that Jane Fonda bares quite a bit and the sets are imaginative and cool , it could have used less 60's style pop music . It is pretty funny at times and cool to watch but my biggest complaint was the music , which I thought detracted from some of the action . John Phlip Law as Tygar the blind angel is good , and this is the same year he did Danger : Diabolik . These are the only two films I've ever seen him in , to my knowledge . Anyway Barbarella is on a quest to find the evil Duran Duran , before they make more bad 80's new wave music ? Actually Duran Duran is a sort of rogue mad scientist kinda guy , out to start war again after the galaxy has lived in peace for quite a while . Also amusing is Ugo Tognazzi and a virile ice warrior or something like that , interesting that he went on to " La Cage Au Folles " . This is the first time I've ever seen this in all the years it's been out and while I wasn't entirely disappointed I just thought it could have been better . Maybe it just wasn't my cup of tea but I really wanted to like it , it's just that I found the music to be a bit overpowering . Also interesting is that maybe one can see where Stuart Gordon and Ed Naha got the idea for " Dolls " . Anyway , , a cult movie for sure but there are other " cults " I'd prefer to be in .
Wow . . . I guess I wasn't expecting something this hard-edged	When this film started I thought it was going to be a bunch of trashy , slutty Japanese girls taking advantage of old men & stealing their watches and wallets so they could go out drinking , which is basically how this starts . Little did I expect this to turn as dark as it did so quickly . This is perhaps one take on gang violence in Japan back in the late 60's / early 70's , and parts of this are definitely not pretty . There's a " guy gang " whose main concern seems to be ridding Japan of anyone not of pure Japanese blood , so of course they've selected a few people to pick on that fit that category . The girls also get set up for a " rape party " but they're rescued by some friends ( not soon enough for some though ) who attack the party with Molotov cocktails and soon a cheery fire is blazing . I thought this was interesting viewing but how realistic it may have been , I can't say . Some good background music in this one two and even a couple " live " bands playing . . . the " girl pop band " scenes are kind of fun too . If you like foreign films and 60's / 70's exploitation , you might find that this gives you the best of both worlds . .
Zuni Fetish Dolls rule . . . !	This creepy little made-for-TV movie from Dan Curtis ( creator of Dark Shadows ) features Karen Black in 4 different roles . The first two segments are rather low-key but creepy , but of course the standout is the last one featuring everybody's favorite , the nasty little Zuni Fetish Doll that runs amok after it's little gold chain falls off and chases Black through her apartment with teeth gnashing . There were many " made for TV " movies made in the 70's but anyone that was growing up then probably remembers this ( and perhaps " Gargoyles " ) best . It's an entertaining film but not much in the way of scares by today's standards , but I still like it a lot . The DVD has been out of print until just recently and I just got my hands on the new print this week and it's great . Recommended for fans of Karen Black AND anthology horror . .
Refreshingly weird & creepy	Hey now , I have never laid eyes on a Manga comic , but apparently this movie is based on one . Ah well , such is life . Anyway , this is a pretty bizarre , to say the least , movie , as things literally spiral out of control in a small Japanese town . People are becoming obsessed with the uzumaki ( spiral ) and this young girl watches her friend's father videotape a snail , and later in the movie , people start becoming snails ? It also seems this boy's dad becomes so obsessed he somehow commits suicide in a household appliance . There is some bizarre humor here that might be at home in a Tim Burton movie , but there is some nastiness & gore like only the Japanese can do with justice . As with a lot of Japanese films though , the ending is the ending , and did anything get resolved ? Well , not to my mind , it didn't . There are some hints as to why this is all happening but they aren't explored and there's a lot left to either the imagination or else it wasn't deemed important . Still though , there are lots of things for the eye to feast on and if you aren't obsessed with everything making perfect sense , this is well worth seeing , because it's just so original and bizarre . My favorite was the father with the spinning eyeballs , personally . stars .
good solid thriller	The idea of this movie intrigued me so I finally found a copy and watched it last night , and I was not disappointed . Rockville Falls is a small town in the Midwest ( Kansas ? ) and census taker Steve Kady is headed for there to do his work . It's rather hard to find though and none of the locals near there can or will tell him where it is ( first bad sign ) but he does manage to find it but not without two flat tires on his SUV . He gets a ride into town with a sheriff's deputy and meets the mayor , and gets a place to stay . Now it seems like this town has held its population count since the 1800's , somehow , mysteriously . And at the very beginning of the film you get a bit of insight into how that's been accomplished . Seems that folks are a bit into numerology and some other even stranger things that have kept their little town safe , protected , and prosperous . There are folks though , that aren't right , they have fever , and they are locked away . What kind of fever isn't clear at first but it seems to be more a case of " let me out of here " . And of course , since no one in their right mind would want to leave Rockville Falls , these folks are treated until they are compliant and happy . Most revealing is the festival where they welcome Mr . Kady to town with lots of food , music , fun , and something else that he wasn't quite expecting . Seems like he's going to live there , like it or not . And in order for the population to stay the same , well , someone else must give up their place for him . And THAT'S when things really start to become alarming . Overall this is a solid thriller that maybe owes a bit to older movies and stories , like perhaps Shirley Jackson's " The Lottery " for one . But it's also fairly original and stands well on its own merits . , a good watch .
" The chicken has declared Jihad on us all ! "	I think I've been seeing trailers for " Poultrygeist " for about a year or more now , as I do watch a lot of Troma stuff . And now , I have it on DVD , and I watched it last night . . . . and it does live up to all the hype . For those unfamiliar with the plot , it does involve the bulldozing of a Native American burial ground to make way for an American Chicken Bunker restaurant . Young Arbie , who has just discovered that his former girlfriend is now " bumping tacos " with her new love interest , marches in and demands a job there . And strange things are beginning to happen , which are , in part , because of the restaurant's location . Which of course , involves angry spirits possessing the chickens and the people that were foolish enough to take jobs at the restaurant or eat the food . As with many Troma films , the humor is a mixture of juvenile & clever , and it is pretty funny . And there are even several song and dance numbers , which are pretty well done . And there's more bodily fluids and spew and disgusting bits to satisfy even the most hard-core fan of such things . The " chicken zombies " are rather creepy and disgusting too , and you may want to hold off on snacking while watching this . So yes , it does pretty much live up to the hype , and is fun , stupid , and disgusting . Lloyd Kaufman even plays a sort of major role and even SINGS , fer chrissake . .
dark dark comedy	On the eve of a visit from Queen Elizabeth , things seem to be in shambles at Brittania Hospital . Union workers are on strike and challenge ambulances as they bring patients in , not to mention doctors and staff . Preparations are falling behind schedule , there's an African dictator in the " priveleged wing " and therefore there are tons of protesters outside the gates . Oh , and one head doctor is up to something quite unusual as far as collecting body parts . Now , the press is up to their usual antics to get inside and find out what's really going on , and Malcolm McDowell is one of the ones who gets inside . . . too bad the folks down in the TV van are enjoying far too many pharmaceuticals to be useful . This follows the trials and tribulations of the staff on one particular day as QE2 is to be visiting and all must be in order for her visit . Being good Brits they all press on despite the turmoil around them . This isn't laugh out loud hilarious , but it's worth seeing for some of the dark humor and commentary on the state of the British Empire of that particular day and age . Lots of familiar faces are present for fans of British humor . but you probably won't like it unless you have a soft spot in your heart for British humor .
an extremely surreal treat	I hadn't seen much of Malcolm McDowell's earlier work in films , only Clockwork Orange , so I was curious to see what else he'd done earlier on in his career , and along came " O Lucky Man ! " . What a great film . McDowell plays Michael Travis , a young man who works for a coffee company and due to circumstances ( of the extreme kind ) ends up working for an extremely rich man and then ends up in prison , only to find himself penniless and on the street in London . There are all sorts of interesting adventures that he wanders through on the way , and it's all done in sort of a deadpan humor , with occasional musical breaks by Alan Price and his band . Fans of British TV & film will find several familiar faces here . McDowell moves through his adventures with a sort of calm naivety , no matter what happens , and he is often taken advantage of , but still manages to keep his good attitude . This may not be for everyone since the humor is rather dry at times , but it's a good satirical look at society and morals and a very interesting movie . .
Decent 80's Mexican horror	A bunch of young folks go to party at an abandoned mansion & get the idea to steal a corpse to go with this cool book of incantations they just found . Lucky them , they just chose the corpse of some psycho occult guy that the book belongs to and he's more than happy to come back from the dead . Also along ( unwittingly , of course ) for the ride are a bunch of kids trick-or-treating , who get trapped in the cemetery and if all that had happened so far wasn't enough , the dead begin to pop up out of their tombs and walk . A police inspector ( whose kids are missing ) and a doctor ( played by Hugo Stiglitz , Night of 1000 Cats ) are racing around looking for the corpse and the missing kids . This is somewhat derivative in parts ( Friday the 13th , Halloween , Night of the Living Dead ) but still it's quite fun and not bad . Lots of 80's big hair and fashions , yes , even in Mexico . Interesting though that when a car license plate is shown it's from Texas ? Hmm , and is this ironic ? Maybe it was cheaper to film there , ha ha . . . . Anyway this is an interesting little Mexican horror treat which will most be enjoyed by those who like 80's horror . .
strange and creepy black comedy	Not sure I've ever seen a black comedy from Denamark before but this is quite good actually . The humor is suitably low-key and deadpan to go with some of the gruesome activity . Svend and Bjarne are fed up with working for their boss , because he's always putting them down ( in fact he mentions that they weren't bright enough to unzip before peeing at one point ) . They do what they have to to start their own butcher shop and when a workman is accidentally locked in the cooler overnight while fixing a light , they hit upon something that makes their butcher shop far more popular than their old boss's . In fact , he's the one they sold their first " filets " to , and it's partly his fault , since he served them at a Rotary dinner at his house and the guests raved about it and showed up at Svend and Bjarnes the next day . Bjarne is somewhat horrified what Svend has done but it doesn't stop there . Svend has risen above his sad little existence to be someone of some popularity which is new for him and he doesn't want to let go of that , so the freezer continues to fill up with all manner of acquaintances ( and , at one point , " a small Swede from the park " ) . Suspiccions arise , though , because ex-boss Holger thinks something is wrong . Bjarne is also haunted by his twin brother Eigil , who lived in a sanitarium for years in a coma and whom Bjarne wanted the plug pulled on so he could get inheritance money to help open the shop . When Eigil was taken off the respirator he was revived , much to Bjarne's horror . And Bjarne has a love interest too in Astrid , who works at the cemetery . Neither Svend nor Bjarne are well adjusted individuals and so things start to spiral out of control . The deadpan humor really makes this , and while this isn't exactly laugh out loud material it certainly is amusing . It is somewhat creepy though considering the cuts of meat and body parts casually lying around , especially since these two take it all so matter-of-fact . If you're a fan of black comedies this is recommended , I liked it quite well myself . .
Cool horror comedy is pretty entertaining	Slither is a cool little movie , with lots of deadpan and understated humor and plenty of gore and ickiness , for those who prefer it . A meteorite with a parasitic alien hitch hiker crashes into the woods near a small town smack dab in the middle of Redneck Land right at the start of Deer Season , and things just aren't the same after that . The guy who stumbles across the thing , Grant Grant ( as played by Michael Rooker , " Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer " ) ends up with a little dart into his chest and becomes the host for this alien , and then apparently impregnates the local slut with whatever it is and she becomes his " queen " , meaning when the sheriff and deputies ( and mayor ) investigating strange goings-on find her , she weighs about 800 pounds and soon gives birth to thousands of little slug like things that begin taking over this small town . And of course they need help , having no limbs , so they enter human hosts via the mouth and those humans become spew-spitting flesh eating zombies . Gregg Henry has a rather fun performance here as the foul-mouthed good old boy mayor , and the rest of the cast does pretty well too . This is a gross and fun movie , and very entertaining and well done . I guess it owes a bit to " Night of the Creeps " and " Night of the Living Dead " but it doesn't seem particularly derivative . I missed this when it was in theaters here , it came and went pretty quickly so I thought it stunk , but I received this as a Christmas gift and it was far better than I expected . , yee-ha !
Nasty & Ugly , but great	Takashi Miike has got to be one of my favorite film makers these days , I'm out searching for his stuff left and right . Visitor Q is probably the weirdest of his weird movies that I've seen yet , maybe more so because it's missing any of the supernatural elements present in most of his other films . I guess the closest thing that I could compare this to is " Happiness " by Todd Solondz , but parts of this drag that through the mud and make it seem somewhat wholesome in comparison . Almost . This takes dysfunctional family behavior out to the " n-th " degree , and yet I didn't find it that hard to watch . We have incest , parental abuse , heroin addiction , prostitution ( runs in the family ) and just good old fashioned insanity . Miike apparently has some thing for mother's milk , too , if you've seen Gozu then you know what I mean . Dad is a failed TV reporter , whose downfall had something to do with a televised interview with some young punks that inserted a microphone where he didn't want it . Mom is a mess , the young son beats her & she turns tricks to support her drug addiction . The young son is bullied and takes things on on mom , apparently . And the oldest daughter , who is no longer living at home , well , you'll see . Along comes a mysterious visitor who becomes a house guest after hitting dad on the head with a rock ( twice ) . His purpose is somewhat unclear but he somehow brings the family closer together , not that any of what they're doing is particularly Ozzie & Harriet but they're still doing things as a family again . Heartwarming . Yeah , right . Anyway this is a disturbing watch and I enjoyed every minute of it . Highly recommended , if you enjoy the current wave of strange Japanese films .
Interesting slice of Japan with crazed music and visuals	Back in the olden days I was a big fan of punk rock and grabbed it from anyplace I could find it from , but mostly it was from Europe and the US , Australia , etc . , not much available from Japan . Now here's this interesting little document called " Burst City " on DVD and it gives the viewer a little taste of perhaps what some of their punk scene was like . There's even a couple parts that could actually be " music videos " but a lot of it is crazed punk rockers playing and screaming while audiences pogo and police and others clash . According to something I read ( the box ? ) there's actually some kind of story here but it's rather hard to pick out of that's the case . There are some awesome night car races and lots of strange and cryptic imagery , and riot police aimed at eliminating either punk rockers or demonstrators , hard to say and whatever dialog is provided doesn't really provide the viewer with much to go on . It's cool to watch though . I've seen two other films of Sogo Ishii , " Angel Dust " ( NOTHING like this ) and " Electric Dragon 800000 V " and that one is a bit more like this in spirit , I guess . I believe I've found a new Japanese director that I need to explore , not sure what else of his is available though . Burst City is in my book , as one other rater said , it's kind of " Mad Max " meets " Rock and Roll High School " and for want of a better description I'll go with that .
chilling ( in more ways than one ) and eerie thriller is great . . .	I watched this on a very cold day & I was already bundled up to keep warm , so it didn't help to see Max Von Sydow as Salem running through the snow in his boots , t-shirt and boxers . Brrrr . Salem is an inmate at an asylum , so why is he out and about ? Well , revenge , it seems . But how does he get out ? Ah , that would be telling . It seems that there was something that happened years ago & Salem was locked away , but is he the one responsible ? Apparently not , but the ones that are , well , they get visited at night ( hence the title ? yeah , I think so ) . This is filmed in Sweden and Denmark in the winter so it's pretty dreary looking , but that just adds to the mood of the film . Von Sydow is excellent in his role as the clever Salem . Trevor Howard plays a police inspector who is not discounting that something weird is going on but he's also not believing that it's possible that Salem is getting out , although one person claims to have seen him and the others that saw him , well , they're no longer available for comment . This is a well done film , with lots of clever twists , and well worth seeking out . .
great 80's low-budget indie horror	Here's a fun low-budget indie horror film from the early 80's that seems to stand the test of time . When a meteorite crashes in a rural New Jersey area , it brings with it lots of little wormy hitch-hikers , which take refuge in a nearby wet basement and begin to grow , into big toothy horrors . Of course , for the resident humans , this can't be good . The monsters are well-done , considering the low budget of this film , and there's even some grisly humor here and there , like when mom goes to see why dad didn't come back from the basement & is finally relieved when he puts his hand on her shoulder . . . . except his severed arm is hanging out of the mouth of mom's worst nightmare come true . A young boy , who is a big monster movie fan , manages to save the day by utilizing his array of magic tricks and props , although mankind's salvation seems to be rather temporary . With a bunch of unknown actors & a small budget , this manages to rise above pretty much most films of the era and of its type , and to me , it's still very enjoyable and scary today . Well worth seeing , if you like monster flicks , and the Syanpse DVD is great . .
overlooked & underrated horror flick	Milo is an overlooked & underrated horror flick from the late 90's but the feel and atmosphere is more that of an 80's horror flick . Seems a bunch of little girls are taken to " see things " at the office of Milo's father , a gynecologist , and as a reward for getting to see what's there in jars ( yes , a gynecologist plus something else . . . ) one girl plays " doctor " with Milo . Hmm , his first patient and he lost her . Now Milo is a creepy little kid that always wears a yellow rain slicker , rain or shine , and he talks funny . . . . but that's not all that's strange about him . Fast forward to the present where these girls are adults and there's a wedding planned for one of them but tragedy strikes and leaves one girl that came in from out of town with a choice of whether or not to replace her friend as a school teacher , which she does . And then strange things begin to happen again . Which of course involve this little kid in a rain slicker . This isn't overly violent or graphic but has a distinct creepiness that you don't find in many modern horror flicks , and it's well worth seeing . One wonders why it's so hard to find any good horror flicks in this day & age but here's one that's criminally overlooked and definitely worth your time if you check it out . .
feudal Japanese werewolves and Yokai , oh my !	A cool little Japanese flick taking place in maybe the 1800's , in which a lone wanderer ( Kibakichi ) takes on thugs and then takes shelter in a small village of Yokai , which are monsters in human form that are trying to hide away from men . But Kibakichi seems to fit in pretty well here , being that he's not exactly human himself . Enough sword-play and gore and horror to please any fan of that sort of thing , plus a very interesting period setting that's always dreary and gloomy . Kibakichi is accepted by the villagers and takes up residence there , and helps them when they're under attack by humans who want to test out their new guns . As I read from some other reviewer , they picked this up at Blockbuster used , on a whim , and gee , so did I , and I was very pleased at how good it was . If you're a fan of Asian cinema , most likely you'll enjoy this . .
Interesting , dark , complex sort of " superhero " film	I knew nothing about Watchmen going in to see it , except what I'd heard briefly , about it being by the same guy that wrote the comic ( illustrated novel ? ) " V For Vendetta " , so since I liked that , I thought I might like this , and I did , quite a bit . The film begins with a rather dazzling sort of " alternative history " and we find ourselves in the year 1985 , with Richard Nixon in his third term ( yikes ! ) and with the Soviets and nuclear war much on everyone's minds . You might ask yourself which you find more terrifying . The Watchmen are sort of vigilante types , and they're real people , not necessarily people with super-powers , well , except for Dr . Manhattan , who is blue & has very strange eyes & powers that came from an accident involving some kind of radiation or something . Dr . Manhattan is also partly responsible for the US winning the Vietnam war , being that he can change his size & was pretty good at making Viet Cong explode with his mind , or something . The opening of the story is one of the Watchmen , The Comedian , getting his butt kicked by a mysterious assailant & finding himself at the bottom of the high-rise he lives in , much the worse for wear . And perhaps , other of the Watchmen are on a " list " as targets for whoever this assailant might be . Some of the Watchmen are very strange indeed , like Rorschach , who wears a face mask that always changes in uh , Rorschach-type patterns . Some of the Watchmen were protégé's of earlier versions of their lot , others are offspring of the same . Matt Frewer makes a rather small appearance as Moloch , a retired villain with rather interesting ears . OK , so I doubt I'm doing this film any justice with my rambling , but for someone who knew nothing about Watchmen going into the film , I found it rather fascinating , although toward the end I began to get a little lost as to what was going on . Still though , this is an interesting combination of " alternative history " and the superhero genre , without really being a " superhero " kind of film . . . . ordinary people with odd motivations in a world on the edge . The sets are for the most part , fantastic , and the whole film is very well done . I was impressed , and I didn't expect to be . Well worth seeing , even for the uninitiated . .
extreme & nasty with a very odd , but unique , premise	Martyrs starts out sort of in the torture-porn vein , but as it goes along , and the reasons for what you're seeing become a bit clearer , it becomes quite an original , if extreme & nasty , film . A young girl , held captive in an abandoned warehouse / factory ( something ) , manages to escape & elude her captors , to end up in an orphanage , where she bonds with another young girl who takes care of her . Fast forward several years , and these two young girls still have a very strong bond , but one is haunted by another young girl she left behind to die in the hands of their captors , and while what we're seeing of the contact between the living girl & her " haunt " seems very real , including all inflicted wounds , nobody else can see this horrible beast . Now , after a lot of tracking , this one particular girl has found who her captors were , a seemingly normal suburban couple with two teenage children , and she gets into their house & blows them all away . The two girls hole up in the house , but the vengeful spirit of the girl is there with them . In the first of the odd turns in the film , a group of people show up and haul away the two girls . At first it seems they might be police but they're about as far from that as you can get . And they subject the one girl to incredible torture to get one tiny bit of information from her , which is the REALLY strange twist to this . Seems like this group specializes in testing the waters to see if there's really anything " on the other side " . This is a pretty horrifying and bloody film , but it's got a certain something to it that raises it far above others of its ilk , and that would be the extremely strange premise that is eventually revealed . There is nothing in the way of humor to this film , it's all quite dark definitely chilling , and if you're a true horror fan , you owe it to yourself to give it a look . .
decent early 80's horror	This has always been one of my favorites , despite the fact that it's not a work of cinematic genius . Jack Palance and Martin Landau are great psychos , and Erland van Lidth isn't bad either but he's not particularly a standout except that he weighs 400 lbs . and is a child molester . Dr . Dan Potter is new at " The Haven " and meets the head of the place , Leo ( Donald Pleasance ) , a new-agey kind of guy that smokes pot and refers to all the patients as " voyagers " . Now , the doctor's sister comes to stay with them at their new house and drags him and his wife off to see a " great band from NYC " ( The Sic Fcks ) who are of course playing " Chop Up Your Mother " with Tish & Snooky ( the Fckettes ) brandishing cardboard cleavers . During that concert there's a blackout and since " the men on the 3rd floor " ( Palance , etc ) are contained in their area by electricity only , and well , you can imagine what happens next . They think that their old doctor was killed by the new doctor so they have to go and fix that situation . There's a few twists and turns and some intense moments after that as the doctor and his family are trapped in their house and under assault . A fun extra on the DVD is an actual interview with former members of the Sic Fcks , which I didn't exactly expect but was delighted to find . All in all this ain't no great movie but as I said it's one of my favorites and beats lots of stuff these days hands down . .
Wow . . . .	Here we have a post-apocalyptic retro-futuristic surfabilly samurai Mad Max type flick . I'd say that's about the best I can describe it without sounding like it's not a good movie , because it is . It also would probably take the cake on weirdness , but I guess my only complaint is that it wasn't quite weird ENOUGH . So we have this mysterious Buddy Holly-Elvis Costello look-alike type , who wanders the wasteland on his way to become King of Lost Vegas . Along the way he picks up a sidekick , who happens to be a small boy , and meets up with Ozzie & Harriet Cannibals , over-the-top mutants ( in a pickup truck , no less ) and Top Hat / Death , and his gang of henchman who also seem to be transformed crows ? Have I lost you yet ? I'm not trying to , really . PLUS , as an extra added bonus , we have The Red Elvises , an ex-patriot Russian band complete with oversize guitar and weird hairdos ( or don't's ) . They provide most of the soundtrack which varies a bit between rockabilly & instrumental surf music with a rather pleasant ballad to boot . Now if you've ever seen someone that looks like Buddy Holly open up a can of whoop-ass on a bunch of interlopers with his samurai sword , then you will probably enjoy this movie . I can't even begin to describe how this conglomeration of unlike styles and things come together , you'll have to see it to believe it . And see it you should , because it's an enjoyably weird little ride . stars .
Bizarre & nasty " French Twist " on TCM , etc . . .	In the wake of post-election riots , a group of young punks flee Paris with a bag full of money . One of them has been shot & Yasmine ( who is pregnant ) has gone to the hospital with him but he dies and she's forced to flee . One pair , Farid & Tom , have gone ahead with the bag of money and have found a hostel to hole up at , and Yasmine & Alex ( I think ) follow later . It's rather an interesting hostel that these guys have found though , and the people that run it are a bit strange . But Tom & Farid don't realize quite how strange until they get them upset . When Yasmine & Alex arrive they don't realize the situation & soon find out that their hosts appear to be from the French branch of the Sawyer Clan , only a bit nastier . Because not only are they a bunch of sadistic cannibals , they're also apparently run by a gentleman who had ties with the Nazi party back in WW2 , and fled to France for safety . Talk about your bad luck . Of course , what follows is a bunch of very brutal butchery and torture , and it's not for the faint of heart . Starting with " High Tension " , the French are proving that they can do really nasty horror films , and have generated quite a few squirm-fests over the last few years , of which this is one . If you liked " Hostel " , " High Tension " , " Inside " , etc . , this is for you . . . but it's definitely not for everyone . Bring a strong stomach , for this is nasty stuff . .
fairly intense for its time	I will admit to never having seen all of Dracula , the original 1931 version , and now I have , and I have to say that while I don't necessarily care all that much for older films , this must be considered a horror classic . Bela Lugosi is properly odd and creepy as the count , Dwight Frye is unnerving as the creepy Renfield . The " famous " lines that are always quoted appear in the first 20 minutes or so of the movie , especially " I am Dracula . . . . I bid you welcome " . Yeesh , and who wouldn't feel welcome with the way that line is delivered ? Most people would be looking for any way to depart the premises , but our stalwart Renfield , of course , stays , and becomes Dracula's little insane buddy , who accompanies him on his trip to England via boat , and eats all manner of bugs and such , only to be locked up in a loony bin after everyone on their ship is found dead . Dracula is , of course , out and about , doing what he does best , and has his sights set on at least a couple young ladies . Overall a very impressive film from Tod Browning , whose only other film I've seen to date is " Freaks " . I have to wonder though , in one early scene when Renfield arrives at the castle , are those . . . . armadillos wandering ? Yes , I believe they are , armadillos in Transylvania ? Well , whatever , a fine movie , and well worth seeing if you never have . .
Bowling-themed slasher flick is WAY nasty & great fun	Gutterballs is definitely a throwback to the slasher & exploitation flicks of the 70's & 80's , and yet it's FAR more nasty than most of those films , that is , the uncut version certainly is . I wonder how long the uncut version is , perhaps , 30 minutes ? Can't imagine why anyone would WATCH an uncut version of this . Two rival bowling teams get into it & trouble breaks out at an after-hours bowling tournament at Xcalibur Lanes , but the manager runs the troublemakers out , and one woman , realizing she's forgotten her purse , goes back in to get it and is gang-raped by members of the rival team . Three of the guys take their turns but the last one won't , but he is coerced into using a bowling-related item on the victim . . . ick . The next night , again after-hours , the teams show up again , this time with one guy on crutches after a beating the night before , and the girl that was raped is there but keeps wandering off . As do a lot of the other members . But most of them don't wander back . Strangely , a new name appears on the electronic score board , the initials " BBK " . Hm . Could it be the strange person with the bowling bag over their head that has begun killing various members of both teams in grisly ways ? It's highly possible . Whoever it is , they sure seem to be scoring a lot of strikes . I especially like the killer with the bowling bag mask ( BBK ) , as there's a large umbrella on the bag so when worn upside down it looks like a big smile . And the killer is armed with several bowling pins too , including a very sharp one . We get a guy's head stuffed into a ( bowling ) ball waxer , we have a head come out of the ball return , and there's a scene with a transvestite in the restroom that I won't even begin to try to describe , it's just too gruesome . For a fairly low-budget film this is well done , bright , colorful , a cool bowling alley , and lots of VERY gory killings . Think " Dead Alive " for gore quotient , but slightly restrained from that . Only just slightly . There is a sense of humor to this , and the music does put one in mind of an 80's style film , definitely . , a real hoot for the right viewer .
Nifty little Canadian 70's thriller	Elliot Gould works in a bank at a mall , and has noticed someone seeming to case the joint . Someone in a Santa Claus costume . And Santa even seems to have accidentally left a deposit slip behind with a " stick-em-up " note on it . Apparently , this bothers Gould because HE'S been planning on appropriating some money from that very bank for his own , so when Santa ( Christopher Plummer ) does finally make a move , he doesn't get quite as much as he expected because Gould had stashed HIS share away prior to the robbery . What follows is a rather complicated but interesting tale of Plummer trying to get the money from Gould , by hook or by crook , and Gould trying to act like everything's fine when he's got a thug ( and a " thug-ette " ) on his tail . This is kind of a fun 70's heist flick , and Plummer plays a rather unsavory heavy in this one . Gould is great as the mild-mannered bank clerk who is trying to keep the fact that he's stolen a lot of money from where he works from being found out , and Susannah York plays a good love interest . John Candy also has a minor part as another employee of the bank . Well worth seeing if you like heist flicks , and it's kind of fun too . .
Interesting and bizarre film of magic and mystery	I've wanted to see this for a long time and now that I have I'd like to watch it again . This is a very strange tale of a drifter , a man who has learned Aboriginal magic while in Australia and now is in England and has become the " guest " of eccentric musician John Hurt and his wife , Susannah York . The man ( Crossley , as played by Alan Bates ) claims to have learned a particular technique in which he can kill by sound , a shout , that is . One morning he takes Hurt out into the dunes near their home & shows him exactly what he can do , and a bunch of sheep keel over , along with another man that happens to be out there , too , oops . There are certain bones and stones that apparently are part of this all , and eventually they prove to be Crossley's undoing at the hands of Hurt , but not before Crossley disrupts his home life and commandeers his wife . All this is told by Crossley , now apparently the resident of an asylum , to a very young Tim Curry , during a cricket game that is a wrap-around to this whole bizarre undertaking . There are very few films that seem to deal with Aboriginal magic and I find anything to do with that fairly fascinating , like " The Last Wave " and " Stones of Death " . This is an interesting film but a bit hard to find too , I got a Brazlian DVD that's both NTSC & region 1 , & the quality is excellent . Recommended , .
three twisted tales of scuzzy Scots	Here's 3 twisted tales by the guy that wrote " Trainspotting " and it comes complete with subtitles because thanks to the thick accents you can barely make out what the actors are saying , although technically it IS English . In the first tale a young man who is rather a worthless sort is turned into a fly by God ( who he meets in a pub ) and takes his revenge on his family , friends , and rivals . In the second tale , a young man marries the pregnant town slut , and even though the baby isn't his it becomes quite important to him even though his wife is still up to her old tricks , especially with creepy new neighbor Larry . In the third tale a young man is struck by lightning while on an acid trip ( Super Mario ? ) and changes personalities with a baby being born nearby . This is all pretty strange and these tales are populated with all manner of scary and weird characters . Very entertaining and odd , and if you enjoyed ( ? ) Trainspotting and its imagery and tone , you'll like this . .
enjoyable beatnik horror / comedy / trash	Dick Miller plays Walter Paisley , an ordinary schmuck who works as a busboy at the Yellow Door coffee house , a beatnik hangout where folks are just too cool . Except Walter , of course . He decides that he's going to be an artist and when he accidentally kills his landlady's cat , he covers it will clay and calls it a sculpture . Of course everyone down at the Yellow Door is quite impressed , and one woman is so impressed that she gives Walter a little something to remember her by , which happens to be drugs , I believe , and an undercover cop ( played by " pre-game show " Bert Convy ) follows Walter home to bust him , but gets nailed by a frying pan and Walter now has material for his second " work of art " . And it goes on from there . Now Leonard ( Walter's boss and owner of the Yellow Door , as played by Antony Carbone ) accidentally knocks over the cat sculpture and a piece of it breaks off , enough for him to be able to see that there's a real cat underneath , and he's quite alarmed , and tries to discourage Walter from any further sculptures , but Walter's on a roll . This is a classic piece of cheesy but fun cinema courtesy of Roger Corman , and if you've never seen it it's well worth seeing , a cool little movie . .
money money money money	Pusit is a salesman for a musical instrument company , that has lost his job due to poor sales & is deeply in debt , and sinking into despair . He gets a call on his cell phone from a mysterious party , telling him he can win money if he swats a fly on the wall and kills it with the first strike . So he does . He immediately gets a call again , telling him that a large amount of money is deposited into his bank account , and the caller tells him for MORE money , he must eat the fly . So he does . There are 11 more tasks that he must complete to become incredibly rich , but they're all a BIT more difficult than the previous ones . How far would you go for money ? I guess it depends on how desperate you are , but Pusit easily completes some of the tasks , like making three children cry , stealing coins from a beggar , etc . But then , he must dine on ( expletive deleted ) in a nice restaurant , complete with garnishes on the plate , and the tasks continue to escalate in nastiness and actually include killing people . A lady friend of Pusit's becomes quite suspicious of what's going on and manages to find a website that is the cause of all this , and she tries to stop him , but his eyes are on the prize . A very nasty Thai film , rather " over the top " and actually quite well done for the subject matter . I was thinking this was going to be somewhat of a rip-off of " 13 Tzameti " from the title , but it's not similar in any way . If you like nasty , disgusting Asian films , give it a look . . . but this is definitely not for all tastes . .
Incredibly good indie flick with great twists	Given the volume of independent releases out there , and how bad some of them are , it's easy to understand how a couple gems just kind of fall through the cracks every once in a while . This is definitely a gem , and it's well worth seeking out . A man with a room to rent finds a man , Chris , at his door , when he was expecting a woman . Chris claims to be there to check the room out for a friend , but eventually admits that it's for him . Rich , the renter , is very reluctant to rent to a man , preferring a woman , he says , because " they more manageable " , meaning , he intends to have his way with any prospective female renter , because that's how Rich is . Chris is finally able to persuade Rich to rent him the room , though , and as they're drinking , playing darts , and talking , it's revealed that they're both from the Chicago area . Chris talks a lot about his wife and it's finally revealed that she's dead , and that perhaps she and Rich had some kind of encounter that eventually led to her death , and that Chris is NOT there just because he needs a place to live . This is a sharp and taut thriller , with more than a few twists , but none as big as the ending , which I did not see coming . Well filmed , well acted , and well worth seeing . It's a shame ( and a blessing ) that this can be had for very cheap on-line , I think I paid like $3 for it but it's really a great little film . .
An old favorite	Bette Davis as " Baby " Jane Hudson is one of her creepiest roles ever , in my opinion . She and her sister Blanche live in a big mansion in LA , and Blanche is crippled and stays in her room all the time , while Jane is not too well herself , having quite a collection of empty liquor bottles going on and still wearing her hair like the child star she once was , 40-plus years earlier . When Jane gets wind that Blanche wants to sell the house and perhaps " put her where someone can take care of her " then things get a bit ugly , psychological torture-wise . The more Blanche attempts to bring her plight to someone's attention the more Jane cuts off lines of communication . I've seen this quite a few times and just finally got it on DVD , and it's definitely a classic that has withstood the years . Also has Victor Buono in apparently his first role , I guess before going on to bigger and better things like " Batman " . . . ? This is one of my favorite films and the performances of Davis & Crawford are great , not that I'm fans or have really SEEN much of their other stuff , just the weird & creepy stuff like this & Dead Ringer , Straight Jacket , etc . If you have for some reason NEVER had the pleasure of seeing this it's a great little creepy thriller and well worth your time . stars .
a stalker in a Taurus	I had my doubts about this because I don't care much for Bill Murray , but I figured , well , it IS Jim Jarmusch , so how bad can it be ? And frankly , it's not bad at all , in fact it was rather good & yes , almost touching . Bill Murray plays Don Johnston , confirmed bachelor and alone again now that his latest lady-friend left him . He receives a mysterious pink letter stating he has a son from one of his previous , uh , couplings , and with the help of his amateur detective neighbor Winston , he is sent on a quest to find which of his old girlfriends sent him the letter . First visit leads him to the house of a woman who has an apparently shameless daughter " Lolita " , who is appropriately named although she doesn't get the joke . When she walks into the living room where she's told Don to wait ( since her mom would be home shortly ) without a stitch on to get her cell phone , Murray is rather appalled , to say the least . Oops . He then meets up with the next lady friend who is now part of a husband and wife Realtor team , and spends an uncomfortable dinner with them . Then on to an " animal communicator " , a woman who talks to and understands pets , where he's scoped out by a cat that says he has ulterior motives . Wow . And finally a visit to Penny , a biker chick living out in the middle of nowhere with some sensitive and well-mannered biker types ( one of which is played by Larry Fessenden ) . This particular visit doesn't go well & Don ends up with a black eye . Now , as all this goes on there is still no indication that any of these women sent him this mysterious letter . Back home again , Don begins to suspect that this young man he's seen around is the mystery son , and makes some serious blunders in talking to him . . . This has a rather sad and inconclusive ending to it but it was also rather fitting . I rather prefer the Jim Jarmusch of old ( Down By Law , Stranger than Paradise ) but everyone changes a bit as time passes and I suppose I would be disappointed if he was up to the same old thing . This is a very good and Murray is very acceptable in a deadpan and dry-humored way . I won't say everyone will enjoy this but I guess it all depends on your sense of humor . , I recommend it .
backward structured nightmare	A movie that begins at the end and ends at the beginning , not to mention enough wonky camera work to cause seizures in some viewers , or at the very least , motion sickness , and it's French with subtitles . Still with me ? OK , this is one hard-to-watch film , but if you can stick with it it's also fascinating , in the ' looking at a train wreck ' style . As I said it begins at the end and there's extended footage of someone wandering around a gay club called Rectum , looking for someone called The Tapeworm . As we work our way forwards ( or backwards ) we find what led up to this incident , and along the way , backward OR forward , what you're watching is generally not a happy theme in any way . If you're easily offended you will probably not make it through the first five minutes without shutting this off so beware , it's unrated . And rightfully so . This is one brutal and disturbing movie and yet it's all pretty well done , if strangely filmed at times . A very cool and strange movie about ugliness and revenge , and not an easy one to squirm through but if you're adventurous , stick with it . Can't say I ' enjoyed ' it because that doesn't seem like the proper term but it's fascinating , anyway . .
finally I've see this !	I've had the soundtrack to this movie for years but the VHS itself was priced higher than I was willing to pay , but the DVD came cheap . This is a very low budget movie & considering where & when it was made that's very understandable . It has subtitles too , and the people in the movie are speaking English , but given their thick Jamaican patois it isn't easy to make out . Jimmy Cliff plays a poor young man from the country , come to the big city to see his mother , and he tries to attain fame and fortune by becoming a reggae singer . But it's a tough old world and no matter how good his songs the record industry monopoly in Jamaica ( this Hilton guy ) pays $20 for a record and no money coming after that . Of course you know that he's not satisfied with that , even without seeing the movie . A bit of trade in ganja and and a lot of fighting back against the monopoly ensue and eventually leads to no good end . This is a very raw film , not meaning that the sound or picture quality is bad but it's probably mostly non-actors and given all that it comes off quite well . Jamaica is still not a prosperous place overall , and this illustrates pretty well the poverty and wanting a better life , even 30-something years ago . This will not be a film that everyone will appreciate but I'm sure it has its audience and I found it to be worthwhile viewing . .
Troma-like production also has Llloyd Kaufman ?	This horror / comedy is like a Troma Production but not released by Troma , but it does have Lloyd Kaufman as an unfortunate bum who gets his arms ripped off after he gets mouthy . Lionel is a Janitor that lives in the janitor closet at Generico with Mr . Growbo . He ( and Mr . Growbo ) get no respect from the folks that work there and they're of course pigs in their daily habits . Lionel doesn't take all this very well though and there's been 15 mysterious killings in the past month or so at Generico , and could he be responsible ? Well , sure , he could . In fact he throws a guy off the roof right when an FBI agent is in questioning the boss a few feet away . Now Mr . Growbo knows what's up , he and Lionel have worked together forever , but he's never said anything . Some of of janitor code of ethics , I guess . When Lionel has a chance at a job cleaning a sorority house , he and Mr . Growbo are splits , but when he shows up for the job Mr . Growbo has beaten him to it and a deadly showdown takes place . Lots of gore and disgusting situations in this , all of it in the name of disgusting fun , that is , and this isn't bad . . . . in fact it could give Troma productions a run for their money . If you enjoy Troma or Troma-type stuff this is for you , if you're more into " serious " films you can safely take a pass . .
Everything but the kitchen sink	To begin , I'll say I like this movie , and I like it a lot , but I doubt for any reason intended . There are actually a couple famous people in this but I think it's mostly spliced together stuff from failed projects , made into one BIG failed project that still provides oodles of unintentional entertainment . We have God Vs . Satan on a train that is due to crash at dawn . Aboard this train we have several fragile young lives , in the guise of some alleged rock band and their groupies , or something , playing this disgustingly bland song " Dance With Me " , over and over . And break dancing included too , for your viewing pleasure . If any part of this succeeds in being scary , it's those segments . You'll be wanting that train to crash long before dawn . Now , the stories themselves are apparently the best parts of failed projects trimmed down to anthology length , which gives you an idea of how bad the finished project might have been . The first involves harvesting organs at a mental institution , and actually " stars " John Phlip Law , who was in " Danger Diabolik " and who apparently had some major setbacks in his life to be in this . The next segment involves some kind of suicide club , wherein the members subject themselves to " Russian Roulette " type scenarios , and they're killed off one by one , but NOT the one that is targeted . The best part of this is a ' claymation ' insect that's sting is deadly , which is let loose from a jar to circle the room and eventually , when it stings no one , is let out the window where it kills somebody in a park ? And then , they of course saved the best for last , an incoherent tale to rival all OTHER incoherent tales , of some kind of Mark of the Beast Cult trying to recruit a man that's written a book called " God Is Dead " , which features wonderful ( ? ) ' claymation ' sequences , which remind me of Davey & Goliath meet Ray Harryhausen , and the best part of these is that they're seamlessly run with live footage so one can't tell the difference , ha ha , hoo hoo , hee hee . Yeah right . Anyway , the train does crash , the bodies are shown , but the rock band is still there playing , hmm , I guess that means that evil triumphed and we've all gone to hell . for INCREDIBLE unintentional entertainment value , fans of " so bad it's good " movies will eat this up .
far ahead of its time	In watching " Seconds " the thing that struck me was how far ahead of its time it was , for the mentality of the film is not that of the 60's at all . A man with a solid , yet unhappy life , is contacted by an old friend , supposedly dead , who offers him something , but what , exactly , he isn't sure . Turns out it's somewhat of a chance to start over again in life , under a new identity , and with a new face , with the past life obliterated by a faked death . The trouble is that you can never go back and the man finds himself thinking his old life wasn't so bad after all but there are penalties for such thinking . This is a rather creepy film and uses lots of strange camera tricks , angles , and lenses . Sometimes when a character is moving it's almost as if they were standing on the dolly with the camera and gliding along rather than walking . An unnerving and strange film that isn't exactly uplifting but well worth seeing because there's nothing else like it that I've seen . .
fun , strange , and one-of-a-kind	I know that " Daisies " had some political implications when it was made , and that there was trouble getting it past the " censors " or the Communist Party when it was made , because of the waste of food and some of the other ideas , but if you can set all that aside and watch , it's still an interesting film for many reasons . Imagine that the two girls in the film are sort of " Thelma and Louise " meet " Laverne and Shirley " with a dash of the two bored little girls in " World of Henry Orient " and you might have these two . These two women are bored , bored , bored , and they come up with all kinds of strange diversions with which to amuse themselves . One picks up on older men and manages to get free meals , which the other one shows up for . They are always doing strange things at their apartment , like creating a sort of tropical paradise , with lots of green leaves and the heat turned up , or setting crepe paper on fire to create a sort of festive atmosphere . They go out into the world to nice restaurants and get drunk and thrown out , etc . The final segment involves them wandering into a lavish banquet room & first gorging themselves and then trashing the place , and there's a rather odd ending too after they decide to clean everything up again . And why are they doing all this ? Well , they've decided that the world has gone bad , so they are going to go bad too . This is a very odd film and has some pretty funny moments , and one of the girls laughs sort of like Woody Woodpecker , too , so that's a big plus . Am I missing the point of this ? Well , maybe , but this is only my take on this , and if you think otherwise just watch this and see what you think . It's well worth it . .
great overlooked horror-thriller	Anthony Hopkins ( with hair ) plays Corky , an earnest but failed magician who spices up his act with a ventriloquist dummy called Fats , after which he rises to almost fame . . . . . and when his manager asks that he have a medical exam before a big network TV thing he refuses on principle . He also takes Fats and disappears into upstate NY to a small run-down cabin on the property of a woman ( Ann Margaret ) who he had a crush on in high school . His manager ( Burgess Meredith ) manages to find him though , and walks in on him while he's providing good reason why he won't take a medical exam ; Corky has blown his cork , and can't function without Fats . Of course , such a revelation can't get out to the world so the manager doesn't have any opportunity to tell anyone . Things are further complicated by the return of Ann Margaret's hubby ( Ed Lauter ) and of course at that point Corky and Fats are very busy . This is both creepy and sad , because Corky is a likable character despite the fact that he's obviously wacko , and he was so shy in high school that he never had a chance with Ann Margaret , and now he doesn't have a chance because of his condition . Fats is obviously a caricature of Corky himself , not to mention an extension of his personality , and not the good side . Fats is also rather creepy . This is a well done film and also somewhat forgotten when it comes to the " classics " . The Dark Sky DVD is quite good and a big thanks to them for getting the rights to put this out . .
More a drama than a horror movie or ghost story	I have to wonder why Tartan puts out this ' Extreme ' series and includes in it everything from Asia , ' extreme ' or not . For this is not really a horror movie & not really a ghost story , but it's more a long and slow but compelling drama about the occupants of a run-down apartment building , and their interactions . A taxi driver moves in , and befriends his next door neighbor , who is a writer . Also in this building is a woman who works at 7-11 ( yes , they can have 7-11 in Korea but not here in Kentucky ) . This woman has an abusive husband from whom she is apparently separated , and with the help of the taxi driver she becomes even more separated from him . This woman also lost her son at some point , how is not really known until very late in the film and it's only shown briefly . As time has passed this woman has become more and more detached from her fellow humans and seems to be more than happy with the taxi driver , that is , until they quarrel . Seems that maybe he's not such a nice guy after all . It also seems , thanks to the writer , that he may actually be the son of a woman who used to live in the apartment in which he now resides , but you're never sure . This film builds up to be a low-key thriller but the last part moves up a notch to chiller . I found this to be somewhat slow going but overall worthwhile , it's both compelling and sad , and if you have the patience to work your way through such films then you may well find it worthwhile too . If you're the type that fast forwards when you get bored because there's no car chases or explosions though , you'll do well to stay away . .
lives up to its almost " legendary " reputation	I caught most of the " made-for-TV " horror films back in the 70's but I guess I must have been busier in the 80's because I missed this one and just now had the opportunity to see it . This is a film that is highly sought after by those who remember it , I guess , and it does live up to its reputation too , because for a made-for-TV movie it's pretty well done and rather creepy . A family moves to a new home , and apparently it's a " fresh start " so they can forget about what happened in the past and move on . Moving into their new house with them is Grandma ( Ruth Gordon , playing one of her usual eccentric characters ) and someone else that only daughter Mary can see , her dead sister , Jennifer . Now , it seems like dad ( Dennis Weaver ) has a bit of a drinking problem , and that perhaps that's part of why Jennifer isn't around anymore , and there are some vague flashbacks to what happened , which was apparently a car accident . Jennifer says that she misses her family and wants to be with them , but she means to bring them over to HER side and she enlists Mary's help . First Grandma dies after finding an iguana in her bed , then brother Kevin falls from the roof trying to get his Frisbee , and so on . Seems that Mary doesn't so much miss her family as want revenge on them for her death . For a made-for-TV movie this is well done but it's not without a few faults , like Mary apparently stalking her mother with a pizza cutter , which seems rather ridiculous . But overall it is a fairly creepy and strange flick and well worth seeking out if you can find it . .
Well-done and HILARIOUS	I'm no fan of martial arts movies , and when a friend handed me this DVD to watch I set it aside to get to sometime , but threw it on yesterday and was extremely surprised at how funny and well done it was . There is a gang of extortionists ( The Axe Gang ) that is muscling in on the quiet backwater of Pig Sty Alley , and they find that they people that live there are formidable foes . The box describes this as Kill Bill meets Loony Tunes and I haven't see ( or don't WANT to see ) Kill Bill but the Loony Tunes part stands out loud and clear . My favorite is the Fat Woman , dressed in her housecoat with her hair in curlers and a cigarette hanging out of her mouth at all times , yet she pulls of some pretty amazing moves , both of the martial arts variety and of the cartoonish sort . I almost want to say this was sort of a " Blazing Saddles " or " Airplane " treatment of a Kung Fu movie but the humor doesn't dip quite that low . This was well choreographed and the comedic timing is excellent as well . All in all , I found this to be a wonderful surprise and recommend it to anyone who enjoys action and some good belly-laughs to go with it . stars , check it out !
Interesting French Twist on the zombie thing	Two young women are on their way to their respective vacation spots on a train when they blunder into an area where people have been driven mad by something , and the people are also not looking too well , being that their skin is rupturing and pus is flowing , all bad signs . One young lady is killed when a man who is infected boards the train , and then the other young lady flees into the countryside only to find more infected people on the edge of madness . Seems as though there was some pesticide sprayed on grapes that have been made into wine , which , of course , being French people , most of them have drunk . Oops . So most of the rest of this is this one young lady fighting for her life against these plague-infected zombie things , and two men who are not affected helping her . This is rather well done and has plenty of squirmy moments , which are of course , courtesy of Jean Rollin . This isn't a slam bang action flick , it's slow at times , but well worth seeing if you like his films . .
Wes Craven , take note . . . .	OK , I saw this a couple years ago but just got it on DVD and watched it last night and what a great movie ! Here this is a little Canadian movie and it's a far better werewolf movie than Wes Craven's stinky big budget " Cursed " . Two sisters , who have an obsession with death , find themselves hiding a little secret after one ( Ginger ) is attacked by SOMETHING , " a big dog maybe ? " says B , the other sister . Ginger begins to change and B is trying to help her by enlisting the local drug dealer who knows something here and there about lycanthropy . Pretty soon Ginger is like the babe of the school and formerly she and her sister were outcasts , especially after the showing of their " Death Project " slide show at school . This has a fairly grim atmosphere but there is some humor to it . But this is a nasty werewolf movie and not a comedy . Far and above most movies of its type , there are the usual " pretty boy & girl " actors but this ain't no Scream . This is not a perfect movie but it's pretty damn good and if you haven't seen it , shed your inhibitions and throw it on , WOO HOO ! stars .
eye candy and nothing more ?	A director takes a cure and tries to pull together resources to make a film at the same time . Apparently what is going into the film is from his personal experiences in life , and I guess a lot of this is from Fellini's personal life too , and since I don't know much about that it was lost on me . But there's plenty to look at and plenty of fun , even if it's a bit odd at times . This is one strange movie , and the only Fellini I've watched prior to this was Satyricon , and that is a horse of a different color , so I wasn't sure what to expect . I did kind of like this , although it's somewhat unfathomable in places and not the kind of movie one watches if everything needs to make sense to them . However , I've seen enough Italian movies in my time to know that they seem to flourish on their own logic , whatever that may be , so not any big deal there . This is a very interesting film , and I found it to be entertaining , but I really couldn't tell you what it all means . This would be one of them there " arty ' films , and therefore not for all tastes . The music is pretty cool , Marcello Mastrianni looks cool in Ray Bans , and Barbara Steele looks striking as usual . Interesting to note that most of the dorky looking glasses that the women wear are what's " in style " now , bet they wouldn't wear them if they watched THIS . . . . Anyway , I gave this , an acquired taste I guess but still interesting and worthwhile , IF you have a sense of adventure .
Pretty strange for the early 50's	Dementia , in its original form , does not have the narration by Ed McMahon , it has no dialog at all and the only human voices you can hear are laughter . But it's not exactly wholesome happy laughter . A woman , known only as the Gamin , wakes up in a hotel room , puts on her blazer and grabs her switchblade as she prepares for a night on the town , and it's quite an interesting night , actually . This is one strange flick for 1953 , which is what the date that is actually shown in the opening credits of the film , not 1955 as stated by IMDb . One follows this woman through various situations including going up to a penthouse with some fat man to watch him eat , after which she helps to make sure he won't overeat again . She's being followed by a smiling guy , a cop , I guess , or is she ? Pretty difficult to tell what's real and what's not . This is sort of a hellish version of Groundhog Day , where apparently things go full circle to begin again ? Or at least that's how it seemed to me . This is pretty bizarre stuff for its time , and is probably a good companion piece to Un Chien Adalou , if you've ever seen that ; who knows , it may have been the inspiration ? If you're a fan of the bizarre and strange , step right up and give this a watch , you may or may not like it but there's no denying that this is a powerfully weird flick . .
Good creepy horror / suspense flick	Hey now , I bought this one based on word-of-mouth on the internet , it sounded good , so I was prepared to be let down , but pleasantly surprised at how good this was . A family is going to the wife's mother's home for Christmas eve , a family tradition , and then dad decides to take a short cut . What happens from there on out is a nightmare . The road they're on never ends , they see the same places more than once , there's a big black car out there and various family members are dragged away kicking and screaming in the back of that car , only to turn up a short time later , in less-than-serviceable condition , on the roadway . There are hints as to what is going on , and I had it MOSTLY figured out before the end , but any horror fan will probably be able to do that . There are several last minute twists though that were totally unexpected and left me wondering , one of which was particularly creepy . Overall this is a good little sleeper of a movie , released with no particular fanfare or theatrical run , that I know of . Well worth your time .
another wicked stepmother story , Japanese style	Imagine the surprise of a man and his wife when his " mistress " shows up with her 3 kids and asks for support money . Imagine their greater surprise when the " mistress " disappears and leaves the kids with them . Now the wife of the man who had the kept woman is not happy at all with this situation and doesn't treat the children well at all . So with her husband's reluctant help they begin to rid themselves of them . This isn't a light or happy story by any means , in fact it's quite grim . This is a movie to show your children if they've been bad and what the potential outcome of their badness could be , but by no means are the children in this movie bad , they're sweet and innocent and by no means deserving of the treatment they receive . I myself have no kids , but I do have a heart , which had a hard time allowing me to watch this movie . It's not graphic but cruelty toward children is a bit hard to watch , especially when they're undeserving . However , this is a fairly well-done movie with some twists and turns , and it is worth seeing , just not particularly the ' feel good ' movie of the year . Not sure if this is a commentary on bringing new life into the world when one is unable or unwilling to care for and nurture it , which seems to be a popular theme in this world to this day , and this movie is over 25 years old . A good movie , just not a comfortable movie to watch . .
Pretty good for a " made for TV " flick	This is a pretty good made for TV flick of the ' what if ' variety . As in , what if terrorists exploded a ' dirty bomb ' in a big city , in this case , London . Lots of poking at folks that say ' we're all set in the event of an emergency ' that then reveal that they're not exactly telling the full story . And is anyone prepared for something like this ? You can bet not . This shows the material for the bombs being smuggled into the country , the making of the bombs , the secrecy and double lives that the people behind it lead , etc . It also shows public servants ( i . e . , firemen ) giving their all to save people when they aren't getting any help , when the government doesn't want to send anyone else into the affected area . Also shows how woefully inadequate ' preparations ' are for any such occurrence , as the government talks everything up but then stands there with their mouths hanging open as the tragedy unfolds . And could this happen right here in the good old USA ? Well , unless you've been living in caves for the past 20 years something already has , to an extent , and don't bet that anyone would be prepared for something of this nature . This is fairly realistic and yes , even scary . Well worth seeing but just hope nothing like this ever really happens . .
The hairy beasts are back	Veerana has just been released on DVD in the US , and I just watched it last night and have to say that it was enjoyable , but not quite as good as anticipated . The tale is that of a witch , hanged for her crimes many years ago but given new life by a black magician . A man taking his daughter back to school in the city is passing through a remote area and his car breaks down , and when he goes to get water he finds his daughter has been taken & used in a ceremony to transfer the evil spirit of this witch into the young girl , Jasmin . Dad disappears , but Jasmin shows up at the door of her uncle's house with " Baba " in tow , who claims he found her lost & he also becomes part of the household . Jasmin is obviously not right though , and strange things begin to happen , and after the demise of her mother , her sister , Sahila , is sent to live with her grandmother in Mumbai . Many years later , sister & new boyfriend ( and a bumbling horror writer ) come back to visit , and while Jasmin is older , things aren't much better . Jasmin seems to enjoy luring men to a remote mansion and doing very bad things to them . And her uncle's household is in an uproar . Of course , with the help of Sahila's new boyfriend and the goofy " horror director " Hitchcock , all is resolved , eventually . The effects are typical Ramsay Brothers stuff . . . . forked lightning , garish makeup , and yet , there are some interesting touches , like these zombie things sitting around a table in a cave that are part cone-head & part tree-trunk . . . very weird . I like what I've seen of the Ramsay Brother's films a lot , so far , and this is definitely entertaining and fun . But I would have to say that I like earlier films like " Purana Mandir " and " Hotel " better . Still though , if you're a fan of Indian horror , and I'd say there weren't many of us , you'll probably enjoy this film . There's the usual mix of horror , comedy , and music and dancing , which seems odd to westerners , but that's the way it is , take it or leave it . I'll take it . .
Pretty dark stuff for Linklater but an awesome film . . .	Given some of the films I've seen by Linklater this seems rather dark and ominous , but it still is a very good film and well worth seeing . It's also done with the " roto-scoping " technique ( used in Waking Life , which I thought was rather boring ) but to me , while it's fascinating at times it's also a bit hard on the eyes , especially when viewing people dressed in " shadow suits " , I believe they are called , which keep anyone from being able to determine the identity of the wearer . These suits are ever shifting human collages / mirages , for want of a better term . The setting is in the future when a good portion of the country is addicted to something called Substance D , and there's an all out war on drugs . Unfortunately this drug has caught up with one of the people that's supposedly to be fighting it ( Reeves ) . I guess I would have had to read some Philip K . Dick to understand this a bit more but despite the eyestrain this is an awesome film to behold . It's full of darkness and conspiracies and if there's any good guys it's the ones on drugs . A very strange and uncharacteristic film from Linklater , this will definitely not be for everyone but if you like odd stuff it's well worth seeing . and I will definitely be waiting for this on DVD .
an intelligent movie while still having a high squirm factor	The nerdy son of a doctor has come up with a serum that's supposed to increase endorphins to block pain and generate happiness . He calls it myson ( MY SON ) in honor of the father he never met . When his mother is conducting test experiments on three young ladies with a new contraceptive , he manages to slip some of his new serum into the mix , resulting in the three women having extreme reactions to the drug . Pain becomes pleasure and the more pain , the more pleasure . One narcissistic woman becomes obsessed with body piercing ( pens , awls , jewelry , whatever will poke through skin ) , another ( who loves food ) finds she herself tastes pretty good , removing various body parts for her dining pleasure , and even cooking her hand in tempura for a real taste treat . Most of this is not easy to watch . But the really disgusting and gory scenes are not what this is all about , but when they're there , they're quite effective . Now Eiji ( the doctor's son ) has found himself falling in love with the third girl , who is an insomniac , and who may or may not be responsible for some gruesome killings , it's hard to say ; is what you're seeing real or is it a cactus-generated visual ? Because this young lady goes into periods of rest hooked up to a large cactus in her apartment via what appears to be virtual reality headsets or some such thing . Yep , it's weird , and it's disgustingly gross at times , but it's also a pretty damn good film and well worth seeing , if you don't mind subtitles or nasty gore . , very interesting and different .
Style over substance	Hey now , I don't mind style over subject so much when it comes to certain movies , and not minding that is almost a necessity when it comes to Italian thrillers & horror movies , anyway . This is not an exception in that area . The colors are vivid , it has groovy jazzy Italian pop muzak , it has beautiful ( by 1970 standards , anyway ) women , groovy clothing styles , and well , not a bunch of plot . It takes place on an isolated island in a big fancy house ( with the usual weird Italian furnishings including spinning round beds ) and it somehow involves some scientist that is refusing to sell his secrets to the rest of the men on the island that want to give him millions for them . All of a sudden , folks start turning up deceased , and end up in the freezer . I actually had a hard time following who was who , who was WITH who , and who was dead and who wasn't . But it didn't prevent me from still enjoying the ride . It even has somewhat of a twist ending , although it may have been a tad far-fetched . So after reading this , if you're not a fan of Italian movies , you'll probably NOT want to watch it , but that's your loss , I reckon . It's a relatively creepy movie with good atmosphere and that makes up for minimal plot and and the usual nonsensical Italian stuff . At least in MY mind .
Great , but why is it called . . . . . . . . ?	This is a mostly fun Czech zombie comedy , but why is it called Choking Hazard ? Not sure about that part . But , no matter , what we have here is a bunch of students of philosophy at an isolated inn to do philosophical type things and discover the meaning of life , and suddenly they're overrun by Zombie Woodsman . Woodsman ? Well , they have hats with feathers in them , therefore they must be woodsmen , if you follow the logic of the movie . I guess that's could be the Czech version of " redneck " in this country . This is goofy , weird , and bloody , and even has shades of " Orgazmo " as the students are joined by a latecomer , a Jehova's Witness porno star . This is not a top notch film , by any means , but it's fun and at least these folks have a decent idea how to make a horror comedy , unlike their counterparts in the US . If you hate subtitles then don't bother , because this is in Czech , no dubbing , but if you would like to see something different from a different country , then it's worth your time . .
Live at the Witch Trials !	This is a 1969 Czech film that shares similar themes with " Conqueror Worm " and " Mark of the Devil " ( less the gratuitous gore of the latter ) . An old woman is caught taking a consecrated host from a church in order to cure a sick cow , and the witch hunt is on . It matters not if one is innocent or not , for each captive is tortured and made to inform on their colleagues , whether they have any or not , and all signs of " innocence " are shrugged off as the work of the Devil anyway . Of course , this " professional jurist " that is doing the trying stands to benefit greatly from the deaths of some of these people , as he gets their land , their homes , etc . As time goes by more and more respectable people are drawn into this mire , with little regard for who they are or their standing in the community , and soon no one trusts this man who has come to cleanse their community . This is a well done film , and is in stark black and white , which works well in this case . It's not terribly graphic but it's graphic enough , with torture scenes with boot and thumbscrew that aren't for the particularly squeamish . And by no means is it a cheery film either , but I doubt anyone would venture into it with its title expecting that . Highly recommended for those who like foreign films and films about witch hunts .
very odd	Filmed in gorgeous and , at times , creepy black and white , this is one of Franco's better films , being that it was made in the mid-60's so whatever sort of problems he has that led to films like " Tender Flesh " are not yet evident . Tha basic story is of your garden variety mad doctor , complete with shades & wheelchair ( Dr . Strangelove ? ) who is experimenting with mind control , but when he dies his daughter takes the helm . First we start with an escaped criminal , from death row , and a couple of knitting needles inserted into the temples and he's good as new , and very obedient . Then the doctor dies , the daughter takes over and one of the first people that is zeroed in on for this experimental honor is Miss Death , an exotic dancer , who is then equipped with lethal fingernails and sent to take vengeance on the good doctor's critics ( one of whom is Howard Vernon ) . This is a bit easier to follow than a lot of other Franco films , although they're never exactly easy watching . I guess part of the reason for that is the mostly coherent story , which many of his other films seem to lack , although that never stops me from watching them with fascination , and probably morbid fascination , at that . The black and white photography lends a definite air of gloom and creepiness to this too . Worth seeing if you're a Franco fan , and perhaps even if you're not . .
A hellish fable	I knew nothing about this film going into it but was very surprised to see that the town of Dogville consisted of mostly chalk outlines of houses and bushes and yes , even a dog , with bits and pieces of furniture here and there . So it has very much the feel of a play , and it is in 9 acts . Nicole Kidman plays Grace , a fugitive of some sort , who appears in Dogville one Spring day and and after volunteering to do things that the townsfolk " don't need done " for a trial period of 2 weeks , she's allowed to stay and become a resident . Things change and degenerate over time though , and the townsfolk begin to treat Grace badly after one husband rapes her and then she's seen providing favors to the same man down in the apple orchard while she's working with him . One of the children she cares for and teaches is a bit bratty and obsessed with her and provokes a spanking after which he tells his mother , even though he begged for it , and things rapidly decline from there . Seems that Grace is the daughter of a gangster and when the gangsters show up the good citizens of Dogville are dealt with in a way that's quite shocking compared to the tone of most of the rest of the film . There are some big names in this , Ben Gazarra , James Caan , Lauren Bacall , Udo Kier , and of course Kidman . This is quite an odd little film and somewhat disturbing too , as the good kind citizens of Dogville have their true faces revealed , and it's not too pretty . I've read that Lars Von Trier is rather anti-American and it pretty well shows in this , but this could have been anywhere in the world and the same thing could have transpired . While early on in the film it seems almost like a family-type feature it moves into other territory rather quickly and without warning , so not something to watch with the kiddies . This is quite an interesting watch and well worth seeing , but don't expect anything normal . stars .
pretty creepy thriller with great atmosphere	Michael Gough plays a rather sadistic and nasty , overbearing father to Jane & an even less pleasant husband to Edith , and after Jane is beaten for supposedly stealing money , mother and daughter decide once and for all to dispose of dear old dad . The opportunity comes when brother Rupert is away on business and Walter ( Gough ) decides to go to his hunting lodge , where mother and daughter confront him and poison him . But later , the body has seemingly disappeared ( at least for a while ) and all looks as it should . . . bed is made , things are tidy . However , mother & daughter do find dear old dad in a crate , and as soon as possible they hurry to take it away and push it into a quarry . So they've rid themselves of their oppressor , or HAVE they ? This is a pretty creepy film and has an excellent atmosphere of dread to it . Gough play his part to the hilt , as usual . The trouble of this thing is , is dad dead or not ? Or have mother and daughter just been daydreaming ? Hard to say , but still this is a worthwhile film to seek out for those who appreciate early 70's horror , because it has plenty of the elements that make those films great and it's a nasty little gem . . On DVD from Trinity , a bit murky but otherwise not bad , for an inexpensive release .
excellent science fiction flick from the creators of Thunderbirds , etc .	Journey to the Far Side of the Sun is about the discovery of a planet on the other side of the sun which shares the same orbit as earth and therefore has been undiscovered until a space probe on the far side of the sun photographs it . Of course two astronauts ( Roy Thinnes & Ian Hendry ) are sent to explore it but due to a malfunction they crash & find themselves back on earth only 3 weeks into their six week journey . Of course they're berated ( at least Thinnes is , Hendry is gravely injured ) and grilled and asked why they turned back on their mission but it's claimed that they didn't . Until Thinnes seems to notice a few very odd things about being back " home " . This is excellent if somewhat talky at times , and the sets and feel aren't a far cry from " Thunderbirds " territory but will live actors for once . It's no big " Star Wars " type production but more quiet science fiction that one has to think about a bit . Well worth seeing and it's criminal that the DVD is out of print . .
takes the original and kicks it up a few notches	I reviewed this a few months ago after having seen the film in the theater , but now having viewed it on DVD ( the unrated version ) I decided to give it another shot . This takes Wes Craven's original , which is now almost 30 years old , and makes it look like a walk in the park . The gore and unpleasantness are kicked up several notches and the mutant cannibalistic hill folk are even explained somewhat . They were miners that refused to abandon their land and paid the consequences by being exposed to radiation . These folks make the crew from the original ( and yes , even Michael Berryman ) look about as scary as The Munsters . The basic storyline is the same , a family on a cross country trip to San Diego takes the scenic route , and when they stop for gas at one of those " last stop " gas places they're told of a " short cut " by the station attendant who is in cahoots with the hill folk , they give him treasure and he sends them dinner . There's a couple diversions from the original story , one as the son-in-law finds a crater full of abandoned vehicles and another as he finds a test village , full of mannequins put there by the government as part of their nuclear testing . Of course the mutants moved right in , and don't seem to mind sharing with the mannequins . I will say that this improved upon a second watch , and that this being the " unrated " version it had a couple minutes more footage that I don't recall from the theatrical version , mostly things that were too disturbing for an R rating , I guess . This is a very disturbing movie , and perhaps it's because it was in the hands of the gentleman that gave us " High Tension " . Who knows . But , I will admit , this is probably one of the few remakes that have come out in the last few years that actually surpasses the original . Don't get me wrong , I still LIKE the original , but it certainly pales in comparison to this . .
Decent earlier Sellers	The Mouse That Roared is the tale of The Duchy of Grand Fenwick , which , after one of their famous wines was copied by an unscrupulous US wine-maker and outsold theirs , found themselves in bankruptcy . They did send a few complaints to the US but they were ignored , so they saw no other option but to declare war on the US and reap the benefits of " reconstruction " after . So a small army sets forth to the US only to arrive in New York during a air raid drill , when everyone is mostly underground except for an eccentric inventor of a new bomb and his daughter , who they promptly kidnap ( along with a few members of the brass ) and bring back to Grand Fenwick in order to bring about negotiations that will put them back " in the black " . This is amusing and well done , but Sellers is rather restrained for the most part , and seems to have not really hit his stride yet . He plays multiple parts , such as a lowly soldier-type , the prime minister , and also the Queen , oh my . And of course he does well in them all . Also notable is a much younger Leo McKern ( Help ! , Rumpole of the Bailey , etc . ) . A good addition to your Peter Sellers collection if you haven't grabbed it yet but only a taste of things that were to come from him . .
good , but ; did it need to be over 3 hours long ?	I went into this dreading having to sit for three hours , but I was hoping that the movie would be so fascinating that the time would pass without me knowing it . Well , it is , to a point , and the time did pass , to a point , but I guess now that Peter Jackson has a blank check to make movies that he has decided to play and do things that he thought were fun . To excess , that is . Some scenes , as they open up , like on Skull Island when they discover a valley full of dinosaurs , were awe-inspiring , but to me , when we haven't really moved on from that about 15-20 minutes later , it got to be a bit much . I didn't know that much about the movie going in , and I though it was actually going to be a modernized version and I was kind of delighted that they chose to recreate the 1930's , depression era , that is . Naomi Watts looks very much the part in her 30's garb , and I think she's a great actress . I don't much care for Jack Black but in the role as the huckster film maker , he does well . Anyway , the story is more or less the same , I guess , as the original " King Kong " , it's just not to the point very often . I had read where there was more time allotted for developing the relationship between Kong & Ann , and while that's true there was more time allotted for pretty much EVERYTHING in this . When Kong is brought back to NY and displayed as the 8th Wonder of the World , it starts to get a little sad but then of course he escapes and wreaks havoc , and he wreaks some good havoc in this . And of course up he goes to the top of a tall building and one pretty much knows the rest from there , even though I've not seen the entire original . Sad to say while this has some really good moments and the effects are great , I was ready for him to die and the movie to be over by the end , because it's just too long and really didn't need to be . Kong himself is quite the wonder too , great facial expressions and even some humor thrown in , especially when he goes on the run and takes Ann with him , merely tossing her up on his shoulder ( while still on Skull Island ) . I did enjoy most of this though , and it's a pretty darn good film , I just kind of long for the Peter Jackson of old . . . when he was nobody and made shorter films . .
Interesting and well-done take on Frankenstein	Sujbect Two is about an unwitting med student who suffers from headaches that responds to an email from someone he'd been corresponding with that invites him to an isolated cabin in the Rockies to participate in an experiment . What he didn't realize was that he'd be killed in his first few minutes there and then resurrected and killed again time after time as part of this " experiment " . Mad doctor Vick ( Dean Stapelton ) should have been warning enough since he looks like a cross between Michael Ironsides and Jack Nicholson and swills whiskey all day long . I was surprised how good this was though , really , a friend that doesn't generally like these sort of movies had seen it when his wife rented it and told me about it . The isolated setting works very well and Christian Oliver is great as the dead-again-alive-again Subject Two . And by the way , Subject One is lying in a snow drift near the cabin and is visible until it snows again . This has a good deal of dark humor to it but it's also rather creepy at times , especially when one realizes how much of Adam is still in this creation , even though he's been killed and resurrected numerous times . Definitely a good watch , really more a " thriller " than a horror flick but a fairly satisfying watch . .
Above-average early 80's slasher	While there's nothing that particularly makes this film stand out , it's one of the better early 80's slasher flicks around , and it also has Clu Gulager and Vera Miles to add some class to it ( ? ) . The plot isn't really anything new , a bunch of sorority pledges get locked into a shopping complex to steal the security guards uniform to complete their initiation . Someone , of course , who happens to be an escaped mental patient , is in there with them though , and he happens to be someone very near & dear to one of the girls , although she doesn't know it . Seems that she ( Daphne Zuniga ) has no memories past a certain point in her life due to an accident , but her past is about the catch up to her . The acting is decent and the movie is fairly suspenseful and well done , and there's enough gore to satisfy a slasher fan . , a decent little horror flick with some good twists .
Creepy as all get out	This is a great little Itaian horror flick and it brings to mind Argento , only in that it's rather stylish and creepy , not necessarily that it adopts ( or steals ) his style . A man has been asked to restore a painting that is rather uh , controversial ? Yeah , it is , it's of a man being killed gruesomely and it's on the wall of a church . Supposedly the man is St . Sebastian , but is it ? And what of the models for this particular painting ? The painter was an odd duck ( to say the least ) in that he was obsessed with death and painted only the dying or dead . An interesting combination of mystery and horror that's a winner in my book , and plenty of twists to keep the viewer interested too . Pretty nasty for its time too , gives any current film a run for its money in the gore and nastiness department . An excellent film by a lesser known Italian director whose only other work I've seen is Zeder . If you like Italian horror and you haven't seen this then you'll most likely love it . .
a love story , a splatter-western , a color overdose , and well worth seeing	" Tears of the Black Tiger " may be like any other film you've seen . It's a love story , it's a western , at least a Thai western , and it's got incredibly violent bloodshed at times that's almost cartoon-like in its excessiveness . " Dum " is a young peasant boy who has fallen in love with a rich girl from the city named Rumpoey . When they're out in a boat they run afoul of some bullies & Rumpoey almost drowns when the boat is overturned but " Dum " saves her & brings her back to where her father is staying , and he's whipped severely for his transgression , by his father . And now , in the future , which appears to be the 50's , maybe , it's hard to pinpoint a time-frame in this film , Rumpoey has been promised to Kumjoorn , a police captain , and yet she does not love him . " Dum " has found his father killed by bandits , and he is out for revenge and is almost killed , but he's taken in by rival bandits ( who I guess , are cowboys , Thai-style , that is ) , and he becomes known as the Black Tiger . And so on . Of course , you know that " Dum " still loves Rumpoey , and she still loves him , but they're worlds apart . This is a very interesting take on the old-style western . It's either given a Thai spin or it's done out of ignorance of what a " real " western is supposed to be like . Some of the cowboy outfits look like something a child would wear in the 50's or 60's . There's even a segment where the film takes us " back in time " ( only 10 years ) to where the film plays out like an old silent movie , complete with jerky movements & jumps in the picture , like there were sprockets missing from the film . And , when was the last time you saw cowboys become " blood brothers " by cutting themselves , dripping their blood into whiskey , and getting rip-roaring drunk in front of a statue of Buddha ? Probably not recently . And then , the colors . I felt like at times , I was about to be overwhelmed by the intensity of the colors of this film . At times , it's beautiful , and at other times , it's almost hallucinatory . The music in the soundtrack is sort of a Thai spin on old western themes , sounding very western but very eastern at the same time . There are times where this movie does go a bit slowly , but that's a minor complaint . This is a rather fascinating experiment in transplanting a genre that's rather American into a country that has none of that sort of history in its culture ( as far as I know ) , and it does work rather well , but does come off a bit odd , to say the least . A fun film , a weird film , and possible influences seem to be Guy Maddin & John Waters , so if you're up for a strange western with surreal sets and Thai actors , well , give it a shot , it's pretty strange but also rather astounding . .
Comic book horror heroine ? ( maybe minor spoiler )	I have to wonder if Bloody Mallory is based on some kind of comic or , excuse me , graphic novel , because that's how it plays out , and it's actually much better than I expected . Seems Mallory made a poor choice in a husband at one time in her life and after dispatching that demon back to hell she vowed to fight evil . As the film opens we find our heroine in her pink hearse with her evil-fighting team , a woman ( ? ) with turquoise hair and platform boots that looks not unlike the finished product in " Frankenhooker " ( Vena Cava ) , a young girl with blue hair and telekinetic powers called " Talking Tina " , and police inspector . Upon arriving at a church they find ghouls have taken over and are busily having their way with nuns , so of course some butt must be kicked , but the inspector is killed and Talking Tina is comatose , and throughout the rest of the picture her mind must take refuge in other creatures , like a bat , a rat , a big dumb bald guy , etc . At any rate The Pope has come to Paris and is kidnapped by the powers of evil so of course it's off to the rescue . This is rather a fun movie , silly , weird , and foul , and yes , even campy . Thankfully Vena Cava is eventually revealed to NOT be a woman , which was a relief , actually , I was somewhat concerned about that , no woman could look like that . I will point out that this IS a French film & it's also available dubbed or in French with subtitles in the options . In some ways this put me in mind of " Tank Girl " , just from the look and the attitude of the film , but the storyline is entirely different . Check it out , definitely worth a look . .
Not Sponsored by the West Virginia Tourism Board	Yep , you can bet that West Virginia didn't get an unexpected increase in tourism because of this movie . And a lovely movie it is , as young folks are stranded on an isolated road in an isolated area and fall victim to folks who apparently have a rather interesting family tree . Inbred , you might say . This is kind of an amped-up version of " Don't Go In The Woods " or " Just Before Dawn " , amped-up meaning that it leaves those in the dust thanks to modern special effects and gore galore . It also tips its hat to Texas Chainsaw Massacre , as in the cabin belonging to these " hill folk " is full of souvenirs , like jars of dentures , etc , and even a fridge full of innards and stuff , making good use of Tupperware too . Bleah . Anyway , this is better than average horror and if you haven't watched it yet , where have you been ? True , it has clichés , like all the pretty boy & girl cast , but since they mostly all get sliced and diced it's OK . As John Stanley might say , this won't be everyone's " cup of grue " but it's a good one . .
Michievous frolicking and vampires too . . .	OK , this is not a great film , but it is quite interesting , really , being the first ever horror film made and released in Pakistan . The DVD of this has special features that have interviews with the cast and crew that give some background on this . At any rate , what we have is a mad scientist discovering the secret of eternal life and becoming a vampire by drinking a potion he's made . From there on out it's relatively the same story that we're all familiar with but with a few twists here and there . We have some interesting musical interludes too , one of which features a female vampire performing a rather seductive ( ? ! ) dance to an instrumental surf tune , which is somewhat akin to someone suffering some sort of fit . The musical interludes fare much better when dancing to traditional Eastern type music though , although you can see the Western influence in the clothing in this at certain times . The film was considered lost but found and restored so there's a few parts that are a bit jumpy or the sound isn't quite right , but those are pretty minor and this is well worth seeing out of curiosity if nothing else . There's also a dance number with some young ladies frolicking on a beach but this is Pakistan ? Are they frolicking near an irrigation canal ? Who knows . Overall this is kind of fun and more a novelty here in the US really , than a horror film . It's not very scary and yet it's still quite interesting considering the time and place it was made . Worth seeing if you like foreign horror films . .
Incredibly strange and compelling	HalluCinoGeNnN is the name given to a series of movies ( I guess ) by this particular director . And this one , Nails , is the first I've seen and I want MORE . Imagine if David Lynch , Shinya Tsukamoto ( Tetsuo ) and Jan Svankmajer all got together on a bad acid trip and made a movie and that will only give you a tiny taste of what this is all about . And what IS it about ? Well , I guess it's about a guy who is some kind of hit man ( and I know this only from the end credits since it's never explained ) that is tired of being haunted by the images of past victims so he reads a newspaper article about some guy that was found with lots of rusty metal in his head and decides that he'll give it a shot , so to speak . So then he's busy pounding nails into his head which of course , affect the brain , and he goes off into wild and weird hallucinations including one where his girlfriend has changed into some kind of monster so he kills her too . And if the nails weren't enough , he does have power tools too . This is equal parts fascinating and disgusting and I watched most of it with my mouth hanging open . It manages to achieve a surreal atmosphere with plenty of underlying creepiness and menace so in my book it's quite a winner . Highly recommended and I want to see more from this guy . .
journey into the dark regions with David Lynch	I was absolutely thrilled to finally find an original copy of this weird flick at some new store that just opened here for $5 . I've had a cheesy copy ( from a Japanese laser disc ) for years and it's OK but the Japanese subtitles had to go . So eagerly I popped this into the old VCR last night and took the dark journey into madness with David Lynch , one more time . I'm sure volumes have been written about this movie over the years , and one truly has to have an appreciation for Lynch and what he does to actually like this . What does it all mean ? I have no clue and frankly I am not into dissecting films for their " true " meaning . Filmed in glorious black and white , this is like a Charlie Chaplin film , maybe , but only if they dropped acid back in the 20's . I don't think they did . Jack Nance plays Henry , a sort of geeky guy in a black suit , who is " on vacation " from a print shop . He wanders through an ugly industrial city with seemingly no purpose . He lives in an ugly creepy apartment building but has a sexy neighbor across the hall . He as a girlfriend , of sorts , and and somehow they manage to have a baby , but it's not clear if there was any " sexual intercourse " to achieve that result . The baby is a hideous mutant and continually cries until Mary runs back home to her folks , leaving Henry to do , well , what Henry does , which is either dream or hallucinate . One of the things he dreams is that there's a little dancing lady in the radiator , a sort of Marilyn Monroe knockoff with lumpy prosthetic chipmunk cheeks , and she squishes giant sperm while she dances . So to use some adjectives to describe this movie , probably disturbing would come first , then grubby , grimy , hideous , depressing , gloomy , ugly , nasty , and yes , even humorous , but not belly-laugh humorous , just twisted and dark humorous . One can see that Lynch likes certain things in this movie , because they appear in his other films to some extent too : black and white checkered tile floors , dark voluminous curtains , and of course his dark unfathomable weirdness . If you're mad at your kids , make them watch this before bedtime . Not for the faint of heart or the unadventurous , definitely . And this one , well , it may only truly be appreciated by people that like the films of David Lynch . Like me . stars . If a weirder film exists , email me at TheatreX @ aol . com and tell me what it is !
An apt follow-up to Clerks	12 years after the original " Clerks " came out , we have Dante showing up for work at the Quik Stop only to find it's on fire . And the fire department shows up and does their thing and Randall shows up shortly afterward and wanders inside without noticing . Fast forward to some time later and we have both Dante and Randall working at Mooby's , a fast food place . So while things have changed , little has changed . However , Dante is getting married and moving to Florida , and his fiancée's dad is setting him up managing a car wash and buying them a house . However , Dante's growing increasingly unsure about all this as the time approaches because he's not sure it's what he wants . Especially since he's in love with his manager at Mooby's ( Emma ) and after a quickie on the prep station a while back she is apparently carrying his child . Jay and Silent Bob are back , they got busted and sent to rehab , but that doesn't stop them from hanging around outside and dealing . And Jay is in fine form with his dance numbers too . Randall is not happy with Dante moving , and is worried that he'll have to hang out with Elias , the other counter guy at Mooby's , who is into Jesus , Go-Bots , Transformers , Lord of the Rings , and thinks a troll lives in his girlfriend's vagina . But , like any good friend Randall of course stages a " going away " bash for Dante , which consists of a " donkey show " put on by one " Kinky Kelly " , forgetting of course that Kelly can be either a woman or a man's name . So of course chaos ensues , and everything all comes together at once and falls immediately apart . This is a pretty apt follow-up to Clerks , since despite the lack of motivation in doing something different with their lives the characters HAVE moved along in life somewhat from where they were . Plenty of goofy and disgusting humor abounds and the ending was almost touching . If you liked Clerks then you'll want to see this , that is , only if YOU'VE moved on in your life somewhat . .
" I hope you enjoy snuffing it "	" From Beyond the Grave " is finally out on DVD in the US and I have to say that I actually enjoyed this more than " Tales from The Crpyt " and " Vault of Horror " . The stories are taken from the writings of R . Chetwynd-Hayes ( who was also responsible for the writing behind " The Monster Club " ) and not from E . C . Comics , so maybe that has something to do with it . A bit more literary background , you could say . There are four tales that revolve around an antique shop with a rather low-key yet creepy proprietor ( Peter Cushing ) . David Warner wanders in and buys an antique mirror , only to later conjure up a malevolent spirit that lives within at a séance which causes him to have to bring young ladies to his abode and kill them to feed the inhabitant of the mirror . A lonely man with an unhappy marriage befriends a street vendor with a daughter that's apparently a witch , who helps him to get rid of his nagging bitch of a wife , but there's a slight twist there . In the most lively segment , a man on a train is pronounced by some loony woman to have an elemental on his shoulder , one that is transferred to his wife when he comes home , and the loony woman , as played by Margaret Leighton , comes to their home to exorcise the thing , but apparently she didn't do it quite well enough . At the beginning of that segment this man switches tags on some snuff boxes at the antique store to get one cheap , and as he leaves Peter Cushing tells him " I hope you enjoy snuffing it " which is British slang for " being killed " , something I'd never noticed in watching this film before . In the least effective of the 4 tales , a man buys a strange ornate door at the antique shop & installs it on his stationary closet at home , only to find that it occasionally creates another room on the other side inhabited by a very unsavory character . All in all , this is quite a fun anthology , not terribly scary but just right for late-night viewing . One of the better Amicus films , and one of my favorites along with " Tales from the Crypt " . .
Lovecraft drops acid	First off , I love the opening credits of this film , with the stylized animation and the music . As for the rest of this , well , it is beautifully filmed , for the most part , with wonderful sets and yes , somewhat of a creepy story , tempered by Dean Stockwell's somewhat hammy performance as Wilbur Whately . Some " dream sequences " ( as dreamed by the still-lovely Sandra Dee ) are kind of silly , with people in makeup , who actually look fairly sinister but on the other hand they look like a bunch of hippies who ate acid for breakfast . But in the Whately house , there is a room that houses a secret , and I have to say when that door is opened that it may actually provide one of the better depictions of one of Lovecraft's " unspeakable , unnameable , un-whateverable " creatures than any other film that I've seen . Lots of color reversals and busy movement , as in , maybe , tentacles ? I've read a lot of Lovecraft in my time and haven't seen a film yet that " accurately " portrays any of his " monsters " very well , except for perhaps this film . A lot of what one sees after that as this " thing " moves about the countryside are nothing more than color reversals and nothing great , though . I've seen this film only twice now but I like it a lot , despite Stockwell's somewhat goofy performance as a low-key but " sinister " Wilbur . If you're a Lovecraft fan & you've not seen this yet it's worth checking out . A classic 70's film . .
not like Oldboy , not like Fight Club	For some lame reason the box art on this proclaims it to be like Oldboy & Fight Club , and I have to wonder if whoever wrote that watched either of those movies or this , because that's a breath-takingly bad comparison . I saw no similarities to either film in this , and it stands quite well on its own merit . A young boy is harassed and disfigured by his classmates ( with acid ) when in grade school , and now as an adult he's either some crazed disfigured killer OR he's a mild-mannered construction worker , you decide , I guess , because it's rather hard to tell who he is . Split personality , I reckon . He takes a job at a construction firm only to find out that he reports to one of his former tormentors who is still well versed in the art of being a prick , and injures the guy on his first day on the job . Little does he know that this guy is ALSO his new downstairs neighbor , his wife and young son have met him but not dad , so dad isn't very suspicious when mom wants to go to the movies and leave young son with nice new neighbor , which is , of course , a big mistake . Of course when the son doesn't come back things get a bit ugly and weird . And overall this is all pretty weird anyway because you're never sure who the real Neighbor No . 13 is , the normal looking guy or the disfigured psycho . It seems certain people can see which one is real but others can't . Of course the ones that could see the disfigured guy aren't around to talk about it anymore . This is quite suspenseful and yes , even downright weird , and I liked it a lot . The ending is rather strange and it's almost as though none of what you're seeing had never happened but I'm not sure that's the case . Best see it and judge for yourself though , if you're a fan of strange Asian movies of the horror / suspense type , you'll probably enjoy this . .
this one will give you the creeps . . .	Thieves who steal the payroll from an army base also hijack a " getaway " plane , and end up bailing out over a rural area and find themselves in what seems to be a farm , surrounded by corn and lots of extremely gruesome-looking scarecrows . There's a small house in the midst of all this where they gather , and it seems that there's something very strange going on here , besides all the double crossing over the money & mistrust that's cropping up . For these don't seem to be any normal scarecrows , they seem to have a life of their own , when they're of a mind to . And they're not very nice , and they have lots of sharp objects at their disposal . When various members of the heist team begin showing up with their insides removed , stuffed with money and straw , the surviving members begin to be more than a little alarmed . Seems like the folks that lived in that house weren't exactly your wholesome all-American family , and they had some dark secrets which are now being played out for the viewer's pleasure . Eyow . This does get a tad confusing at times though , because a lot of the dialog seems to be via radio headsets and you don't know who's talking or to whom at times , and sometimes it's apparently not even the thieves talking . While this is confusing , it certainly lends an air to the already creepy atmosphere . An greatly overlooked 80's horror film that's well worth seeking out , it'll give you the creeps . .
Railroad Rage	Emperor of the North ( Pole ) takes place during The Great Depression back in the 1930's , in the northwest somewhere . There's a subculture of people that have been reduced to riding the rails ( for free ) to get somewhere , and Lee Marvin plays A Number 1 , a tough man who has been doing this for years . Along comes a purported veteran at this , Cigaret ( Carradine ) and they begin somewhat of an alliance . The enemy is , of course , Ernest Borgnine , who plays train-man Shack , who will kill a hobo if he finds them on " his " train , number 19 . Nobody played crazed , bug-eyed enraged quite like Ernest Borgnine , and he defends his train with sadistic zeal , using hammers , chains , and a metal device tied to a rope to get to that hard-to-get to bums under the rail cars . At some point the idea that he won't allow a bum on his train becomes a game , a challenge , and of course A Number 1 is up for it . I saw this movie many years ago , in the 70's , on late night TV when I was baby-sitting for the neighbors and it fascinated me , and now it's available on DVD so I snagged it and it still has appeal . There's a few familiar faces scattered here and there like Vic Tayback and somewhere in there is Sid Haig but I wasn't able to spot him . Overall this is a rather interesting and suspenseful movie , has a good look and feel to it and the North West scenery is beautiful , despite the fact that it's supposed to be a depression . If Lee Marvin wasn't sporting sparkling white teeth it may have been more believable too but that's only nit-picking . . . . these folks look far too healthy for bums . .
haunting , beautiful , and quite strange	Ana and Isabel are two little girls that live " somewhere on the Castillian plain " in 1940 , and become obsessed with finding a Frankenstein monster somewhere out there after a traveling movie show comes to their little village and shows the movie . Isabel claims that the spirit lives in an old abandoned building with a well , far out on the plains , and Ana becomes more and more obsessed with this location , and at one point even finds a man there who has jumped from a train , apparently some kind of criminal or something . This is a very difficult film to describe , but it's incredibly beautiful to watch and somewhat eerie as these two little girls set about finding something which they think exists somewhere near them . One has to wonder about the girl's mental health at times , because of some of the things they do , but they're somewhat inventive and clever and working with what they have around them to entertain themselves , so it seems . I'm not sure exactly what the connection is with the beehives that their father keeps , or the glass beehive he has in his den which Ana is fascinated with . Ana even takes off into the night at one point and is gone overnight and has what seems to be a traumatic experience , so any questions there may have been about her mental health resurface at this point . A haunting , eerie , and magical sort of watch , but I guess I'm not qualified to comment on what deeper meanings this all may have , it's just a very strange movie with plenty of interest for the adventurous . .
If the Texas Chain Saw Massacre was filmed by John Waters . . . . . . . .	After seeing " I'll Bury You Tomorrow " I had great hopes for " The Blood Shed " , but I didn't watch it for a few days after I got it , because for some reason I was afraid it would be disappointing . But , I threw it on last night and lo and behold , I loved it . The Bullion family live in the woods near a suburban New Jersey neighborhood . They're rumored to be " inbred " which I'd say was a safe bet . Our first glimpse of them is little ( ha ! ) Beefteena , who is an adult who thinks she's a little girl , skipping along with her pet dead squirrel tied to a wooden cart . When some neighborhood kids spot her , they of course tease her , and when the girls run away the boy stays to taunt poor Beefteena but her brothers show up to save the day by playing tug of war with the unfortunate lad until . . . well , they have to hide him . Beefteena has two brothers , Butternut and Hubcap , and there's her daddy , Papa Elvis , and the lovely Sno Cakes , who sleeps in a tent in the yard and apparently isn't family but close enough . All are enough to make your skin crawl . There's plenty of somewhat disturbing silliness and weirdness but this all culminates in a birthday party for Beefteena , who is 12 , again . It's bright , it's cheerful , it's colorful , and it's disturbing . Imagine if John Waters did The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . There's absolutely no other way to describe it . This is campy and goofy at times but it's also weird enough to be disturbing , despite the manner in which its presented . If you liked " I'll Bury You Tomorrow " then you'll like this too . I was prepared to be disappointed but I thought this was actually far better than a lot of what I've seen recently . .
oddball little film sucks you right in	This is nowhere as lurid as the title would have you believe , but it is an interesting little oddball film and well worth seeing . A man goes into a bar ( sorry , but that sounds like the beginning of a joke ) and sits at the bar and has a few beers , and in the bar there are only a few people , and as the man sits at the bar he suddenly pulls a gun and takes the few people in the bar hostage , except for the bartender , who gets shot right off the bat when he pulls a shotgun from under the counter . Now , this man , who is never named , is Raymond Barry ( a familiar face from many films & TV ) and he's got just the right mix of scary and friendly down quite well . Seems like he's been in prison for some time and he's not really into making a living having to use a fax or a cell phone or a beeper , in his words " it's too late for him " . So now the fun starts as The Man assembles his little group of hostages together to play a game called " Nazi Truth " , where each one must share deep dark secrets . The best deep dark secrets come from Lumpkin ( also knows as Mr . Suit ) because in his briefcase he has latex shorts and an enema bag . So he's not just some straight-laced lawyer from Connecticut , after all . Of course as the evening goes on and more is revealed about each person it gets uglier and uglier , until finally The Man ties everyone up and seemingly leaves them for dead . What I found somewhat fascinating is that Paul Williams is in this movie and plays a man with multiples sclerosis , who is in a wheelchair , and he did an excellent job in his role . . . . I guess it was seeing him look more normal that took the edge off , because otherwise he gives me the creeps . I will say that most of this takes place in one room and that it is rather talky , but don't let that put you off , it's pretty fascinating . .
My friend Flicka . . .	Robert Downey Jr , plays Harry , a thief who is masquerading as a private eye / actor , who stumbles across a girl who looks very much like one he was smitten with years ago in Indiana , mainly because it IS her . Val Kilmer plays a gay private eye named Perry , who has been on a video surveillance of a particular place and finds a murder , after he & Harry follow these folks to a lake . And this is just the beginning of a rather bizarre , pseudo " film-noir " with a huge helping of dark comedy . There's also something going on with a rich man's ( Corbin Bernsen ) daughter being kidnapped , and there's bodies showing up everywhere , thugs hanging around , and mistaken or false identities and enough other doings to delight any mystery fan , that is , a mystery fan that also has a taste for dark humor . Because there's also plenty of that . The zingers fly fast and furious , the wordplay and humor is great , and Downey is suitably deadpan as the anti-hero Harry & also the narrator . Gay Perry , Harmony , and Harry all sort of team up to figure this whole thing out and it's a rather mind-boggling revelation when they get to the bottom of what's happening . Most notable is a sort of " goth " Christmas party with rather bizarre dancers in rather hellish approximations of holiday figures . And then there's Harmony's friend , a stewardess named Flicka . . . . good Lord . This film is maybe too clever for its own good , which is perhaps why it didn't do that well at the box office , but it's HILARIOUS and yet also manages pull off the " mystery " thing fairly well too , although it's definitely not for anyone who is easily offended ( at one point Downey , as narrator , says , can I say " f " a few more times here ? ) . Well done , recommended . . . . .
nasty and scary stuff	" Rooms for Tourists " is about 5 young ladies , all bound for Trinidad ( Argentina , apparently , not the island ) and they all share a common bond . They're all stuck in some small village called San Ramon because the train to Trinidad supposedly came early , at least that's what they're told upon arriving at the station . So they're forced to spend the night at a house that " ocassionally " rents rooms to tourists , run by a man and his brother . While in this town the girls have the pleasure of catching one of the " services " at a small church , where exorcism seems to be the theme of the day . The girls are then convinced the town is full of " whackos " and they're not far from wrong . After a meal in the house they retire to their rooms & then one of them is attacked by a man with a hood , and the real nightmare begins . They're unable to get out of the house and all the windows appear to be closed up , and one by one they're attacked and killed , despite trying to stay together . Eventually the common bond of the girls and the reason they all managed to be at this same place at once is revealed , although you might have figured some of it out earlier because there are small hints . This is a disturbing and creepy movie , in black and white , which makes it seem even creepier . This isn't necessarily something that hits you while you're watching the film but it does kind of creep up on you later . My biggest complaint I have is that things move along a bit too quickly to keep up with the subtitles sometimes and I had to back up to see what I missed . The overall atmosphere is one of dread and terror and it all works very well . This may well be a director to watch . . . an interesting and creepy film and well worth seeing if you're a horror fan . .
interesting , funny , well done	Fresh from their first effort ( a 3-hour documentary on how NYC gets its water . . . ? ! ! ) two young documentary film makers pick one Joe Boone , private detective , as their next subject , and follow him around with a camera on his daily duties . Some of Joe's cases are rather interesting , like the man who keeps getting beaten by his neighbor because another neighbor's dog is pooping on his lawn . One of his latest cases involves following a man's wife to see who she's shacking up with , turns out it's Boone's partner , Murphy ? Whoops , can't exactly tell the guy that , can he ? But things get a bit darker as something shady is going on and Murphy is killed . And the film makers get deeper into the case along with Joe who is hot to find his partner's killer . This has some good humor to it and it's kind of refreshing to see Miguel Ferrer play a different kind of role for a change . Mos Def is particularly notable as part of the film crew , he's the one that actually has a personality and who you see more of , the other guy spends most of his time behind the camera . Not bad , pretty entertaining " mockumenary " and crime drama , with a decent sense of humor . .
oddly touching and quite good	A man spends two months salary to buy a Russian movie camera to take pictures of his new baby daughter but finds himself far more interested in filming other things as time goes by . He even begins a club at work and ends up being tasked to film a company celebration , after which he achieves a certain small fame . This spurs him on to film other things and escape his drab existence to the point where he's neglecting his wife and baby daughter to the point where she takes the baby and leaves . Now it seems that on occasion there have been things that he's filming that are causing problems , not that he knows , but he's exposing certain things that he didn't know about that don't set too well with his superiors . And when his zeal for film-making leads to trouble for his boss then he's forced to rethink his actions and finds himself regretting what he's doing . An interesting look at Poland and life there while it was still under communist rule . It's an oddly touching film because you want to see this man rise above his nothing life but then he realizes what's really more important . Recommended . .
weird , creepy , dark , and disturbing	This has been described as " Kafka-esque " but for me to judge that I'd have to be familiar with the works of Kafka , I guess . But I can say this is a pretty dark and creepy flick , with Jeremy Sisto as a computer programmer holed up in his apartment working on code and receiving lots of empty packages and drinking lots of milk , and dealing with plenty of strange neighbors . So what's going on ? Is there a computer virus that's spread to humans ? Because there's some kind of disease afoot too , there's always bodies getting carted away . And what of his neighbors ? Well one ( played by Bruce Payne ) is into S & M and porno and video games , another ( Udo Kier ) is some kind of weird inventor with a talking robot head , another is a young woman who is a nurse in a cancer ward that goes to freaky clubs at night to get her jollies , whew . Sisto keeps getting all these weird packages delivered INSIDE his apartment no matter what security measures he takes , and he keeps buying milk , and some creepy dude at his employer is on his butt about making his deadline , and things really start falling apart . Seems like perhaps there's some kind of corporate thing going on and the boxes that seem empty really AREN'T , just because you don't see anything doesn't mean there's something there , explains a friend . Definitely a creepy movie that oozes menace , and it'll make you think about what your neighbors might be up to . Unfortunately this is one of those movies where the sound mix is so low on the dialog that you have to turn it up but the sound effects ( when they kick in ) are enough to blast you through the wall , in which case your neighbors will wonder what YOU'RE up to . Still though , a good movie , very interesting and rather disturbing , well worth seeing . .
beautiful , creepy , strange , and very hard to digest in one viewing	I rather liked this movie , although I felt like I was watching something that was out of my league or something , at times . It begins with an opera star dropping dead on stage , it seems , and then we have a piano tuner , Felisberto , showing up at a remote location to find out he has no pianos to tune , merely automatons , which are NOT toys , he's told , they're intricate moving displays , some of which are quite odd and creepy . This place is an institution , it seems , for mental patients of sorts , although most of them are called gardeners . One of them though , is the former opera star , Malvina , who seems to be there by means other than what was originally thought , as in , she was kidnapped . Felisberto goes about attempting to service these automatons , and is also assisted and visited by Assumpta , who seems to be an assistant to the strange Dr . Droz , and she brings him " tools of the trade " like an ormolu magnet . Huh ? Yep , really . The doctor himself is a strange cookie and provides Felisberto with a very strange story of ants that go insane from microscopic fungus . This is all very dream-like and surreal , and atmospheric , and just plain weird , but it's got some charm to it too , and I liked it far better than Institute Benjamenta , which I saw before I had ever seen any Quay Brothers animation and thought , " what's the fuss about ? " . I can see why some might be bored by this , but I didn't really feel it was boring , it was just that there is so much to absorb and so much strangeness to pick one's way through that it becomes almost like work instead of watching a film . Still , I would and will watch this again . In parts , in reminds me of the work of Guy Maddin & in other parts , that of David Lynch , so if you enjoy material by those particular directors then you'll probably want to see this . .
Disgusting Spanish Zombie Gore Comedy	This is s truly disgusting zombie comedy from Argentina , chock full of gore and splatter and way over the top . By " disgusting " , I don't mean I was appalled , I rather liked it , actually . It seems that this small town is the subject of some experiment with aliens where they were allowed to test some earth folks with some kind of disease , but of course it spread with disastrous results . And now , three oddballs have been dumped into the middle of this town as test subjects or something , and the race for survival is on . John West is a strongman , with a cowboy hat and leopard skin tights , Bill is a medical student , and Max is a mathematical genius , and it's them against the zombies . The effects aren't bad , and some of the more disgusting ones were truly inspired . Watch for the zombie using his intestine like a garden hose , it's absolutely vile . Most zombie battles in this are of course , way over the top in almost cartoon-like violence and will be sure to make even the most stalwart zombie fan flinch a bit . For as disgusting as this is it's almost refreshing in its approach , and if you like the early films of Peter Jackson then you will like this a lot . .
Venus in Furs = Paroxismus ? Okay . . . . .	I guess I never knew the " real " title of this , I remember seeing , back in 1969 or 1970 , a film called " Venus in Furs " advertised in the Denver , CO , newspaper , rated X , and at the tender age of about 12 I wondered what that was , now I'm not sure it was even this film . Whatever , shut up , write the review . This is one strange and surreal story . James Darren stars as a trumpet player who is obsessed with this woman , who is supposedly dead but keeps showing up . They meet in Istanbul , he goes to Rio , they meet up again there , etc . Seems that there was some ritual committed by Ahmed ( Klaus Kinski ) , Olga , and some other dude that left her either very injured or quite dead , and you're never really sure because she's still hanging around . I guess you'd say she was out for revenge from beyond the grave . At any rate , this is one of Franco's better films , done during what was probably the height of his career , when he still knew what the difference was between kinky and surreal , and just plain disgusting ( Tender Flesh ) . Also , this has some of the best music in any Franco film I've heard since Vampyros Lesbos , and quite often the musical accompaniment in his films is worth the " price of admission " by itself . stars .
Great flick for its time	This is an enjoyable science fiction film from 1955 , and has rather impressive effects for that time as well . Sort of benevolent aliens ( Well-tanned gentlemen with VERY high foreheads and televangelist hairstyles ) have rounded up a group of earth's top scientists to help them , because their planet is dying because of an ongoing war with another planet . When two of the scientists try to escape in a plane they're taken aboard a saucer and whisked back to the home planet ( Metaluna ) where they witness the devastation of war first hand and meet the infamous bug-eyed mutants , which look cool but aren't quite as menacing as would be desired for something that looks like THAT . Very enjoyable 50's science fiction ( and in COLOR ) and has just been re-released on DVD by Universal . ( the previous printing , I guess , was unavailable , except for big $$$$$ , by the time I got a DVD player ) . Great stuff , .
fun stuff	This is a fun movie and I guess you could call it madcap , screwball , zany , whatever , it's fun . I had never heard or seen Louis De Funes prior to this ( and he's been deceased for about 23 years now ) but he seemed quite the master of the inappropriate facial expression . As in , making faces ? The gist of the story is that M . Pivert is on the way to his daughter's wedding ( with his boat strapped to the top of his Citroen ) when he runs afoul of traffic ( first ) and a political conspiracy ( second ) . Seems that M . Pivert is rather a racist as well and fires his driver when he finds out he's Jewish . Meanwhile , beloved Rabbi Jacob leaves NYC to fly to Paris to see his French family , and followers , and it's been 30 years since he visited there . Little did he suspect he'd be caught up in this wild conspiracy and case of mistaken identity , for to hide from his pursuers , M . Pivert and his newfound sidekick Slimane have mugged a pair of rabbis in the washroom and dressed like them to avoid capture . Of course the folks showing up at the airport to meet Rabbi Jacob have mistaken them for the real thing so off the go back to the neighborhood to improvise their way out of uncomfortable situations . Also of note is that M . Pivert first encounters his pursuers in an abandoned chewing gum factory and of course at one time or another they all end up in a vat of green goo . There are moments of this where I just laughed out loud ( by myself ) and overall I enjoyed this a lot . Highly recommended and yes , it's even OK for the whole family . .
a good one but tough to categorize	" The Baby " stars Anjanette Comer ( " The Loved One " ) as a social worker who works her way into an assignment working with a supposedly retarded young man , known only as " Baby " , who is 20 years old and still wearing diapers . This young man is a part of the Wadsworth family , headed up by Ruth Roman & her two odd daughters . Of course the Wadsworths resent her presence because she treats Baby as though he was more intelligent than they make him out to be . She has her reasons though , which are not truly revealed until the end of the film and if you've never seen this before your jaw will most likely drop . The cover has this look as though it were a horror film , but it's really not , but it also pretty much defies pigeon-holing . It's not serious drama , it's not horror , maybe just " cult " would be fine . Anyway , it's not the best film in the world , but it is , at least , original and definitely strange . And , if you're like me , and didn't get a DVD player until just recently , well , you've missed out on the Image Entertainment release of this which is now out of print and going for far too much online . However , the good news is that there's a new release of it on a small label that goes for about five or six dollars , and after watching it the picture quality and sound are perfect . . . . however there's no menu or " special features " but it's an excellent value and an opportunity to see this twisted little flick that you might not have otherwise . .
dark humor and gore galore from Fulci	I'd never heard of this film before I pulled out a used copy at a used movie / music / etc . store yesterday , but saw it was Fulci & the price was right so it came home with me and I watched it last night . I'd never really thought of Fulci as having much of a sense of humor , but if he did it's certainly in this one , and it's not exactly light-hearted giggles , but it is fairly funny in spots . Lester Parsons is a man who is somewhat taken with horse racing and betting in general , and he's always hurting for money because his luck stinks , but does that stop him ? Nope , he browses the " lonely hearts " column of the local newspaper and picks up on some really lovely ( gag ) women and romances them and kills them and then squanders their money stupidly on betting , and then the cycle begins again . He manages to find some real babes too , one has excessive facial hair , and another has some kind of ugly lesion or scar on her lip , yeow . But he does manage ( usually ) to drug them and then dismember them in his basement . Once , even , with a chainsaw , and then he feeds the leftovers to some pigs . So you see , he's a true romantic at heart . But something else is going on too , it seems there's a sort of " copycat " killer on the loose , and his victims are the same as Lester's , but the details and facts are all mixed up . Lester even tries to find the other person , but he's not successful , and one wonders if he's not just losing his mind . If one hadn't wondered that when he started chain-sawing the first victim . Overall this is a pretty decent flick , if a few plot holes here and there , and by no means is this the worst that Fulci ever put out . I found it to be a decent mix of dark humor and horror , and it gets in my book .
Don't beg for an explanation . . .	This is out on Troma but not a typical Troma picture , according to Lloyd Kaufman it's an " art " picture and that's about as close as you can get to describing it . It's a dark horror comedy , I guess , and they don't come much darker . Someone describes it on the box as Argento meets Fellini with a dash of Kubrick , and personally I don't understand the Kubrick part but throw in David Lynch , Peter Greenaway , Guy Maddin , and maybe that's a bit closer if you have to compare it to something . And don't beg for any explanation either because this is a film that has its own logic , I guess , and you don't find much in the way of explanations for anything going on here . Good thing I don't think things have to make sense to be enjoyed . . . . films , that is . It's something like this : There's murders occurring at a weird little hospital , involving live dogs sewn inside the victims . Yes , there's a vivisection lab here but " no animals were harmed " says the disclaimer at the end . There's also a women's wing , headed up by Penny , who is not happy about losing her lover to a murder , nor is she happy about having her budget cut . There's also Det . Inspector Stiltskin , who is supposedly a cop but the more we see of him the less he looks like anyone wouldn't question his credentials , because he gets more grimy and beat up and cut up with every viewing . Plus , the good inspector has a radio transmitter with a speaker in his ear and the transmitter in one of his teeth . At least for most of the movie . He's getting commands from some mysterious and creepy looking bald guy , and no further explanation is given as to who he is . I suppose you could say this film has and follows its own logic , so you just have to sit back & watch and try not to hurt yourself figuring out what's going on , because I doubt you will . At least it's visually awe-inspiring to the point of twisted entertainment , but beyond that I can't say too much about it . I watched most of this with my mouth hanging open in disbelief , but I also enjoyed it a lot . I think this one bears another watch . , for the adventurous only .
Twisted Spanish serial killer flick is nasty & brutal	If one were to believe the blurb on the front of the box , this is " The Spanish Answer To Hostel " . One has to wonder if the person that wrote that has seen Hostel , for this isn't really anything like it . Antonio Frau has been to prison for many years for killing his girlfriend , and now that he's out he finds he's the only living relative of an aunt who has left him a " guest house " which was actually a whore house . Of course Antonio moves right in and takes a bride , Francisca , who was apparently VERY anxious to move out of her unpleasant home life to have taken up with Senor Frau . For while his lovely wife is at work ( having an affair with a doctor that she's carried on with for some time ) , dear Antonio is torturing and dismembering hookers and serving up the remains to his wife for dinner . He's also keeping a diary which was something that he learned from famous French serial killer Henri Landru . Now Antonio actually lets one hooker go , who takes the money he gives her and she squanders on some bad junk that she shoots up and ends up in the police station where she inadvertently gives him away , being that he's also killed her pimp by shoving him down a flight ( or several ) of stairs . So of course the cops are now watching Antonio but he is rather slick & little evidence has been left . This is fairly gruesome and yet doesn't really go too far , the camera at least has the decency to pan away during some of the more nasty dismemberment scenes , and all one basically sees sometimes is the clean up after , which is bad enough . Francisca's mother dies sometime during the course of the movie , & she and Antonio go for the funeral , after which they stay with her father , who commits suicide with Antonio accidentally wandering in on him and smiling as he commits the act , which was incredibly creepy . I would put this more in the category of " Henry , Portrait of a Serial Killer " than I would in the category of " Hostel " . Brutal , nasty , and ugly , but not without redeeming values and even a hint here and there of dark comedy . .
Odd & creepy	This film , made some time before Blair Witch Project , either heavily influenced that film or else they just came up with the idea independently . . . . ha . Two hosts of a cable access TV show go to the New Jersey Pine Barrens to search for the " Jersey Devil " and end up dead , along with their sound man . The only survivor also became the only suspect , although the body of one host was never found . The suspect died mysteriously in jail & a box of film arrived at the door of the documentary maker , and a woman sets about reconstructing the film to see if she can find who the killer is . This is well done and strangely creepy , and if you know anything about this and Blair Witch they're very similar in style . Who cares which one came first , etc . , they're both great & worth seeing . Unike Blair Witch though , this has a better explanation of whom the perpetrator is and a surprise ending , and they go hand in hand here . I think both films do a lot for capturing ' implied ' horror , as in , there's SOMETHING out there & it may be on film or it may not be but nobody's around to talk about it anymore so the viewer has to puzzle it over . Most excellent , .
Horror comedy succeeds where so many other don't	I don't necessarily like horror / comedies , because they're generally pretty lame and a waste , but this one somehow manages to succeed where most don't , and why ? I'm not really sure , but to me , it does . We begin with a young lady in a Catholic school uniform setting nuns and a priest on fire and shooting them , all to the strains of Leslie Gore in the background . Now THAT'S the way to start a film . Fast forward to the present in which a bunch of college frat / sorority types are going to this abandoned convent to smoke dope and raise hell . Boy do they ever ( both ) . Seems that the convent is now haunted by evil spirits and they're after a virgin to bring the Antichrist into the world , and they have quite a selection to choose from . Unfortunately for the evil spirits , there are some fruity devil worshippers afoot ( one of whom works at Dairy Queen , the first victim points out before her demise ) , and they unwittingly set things in motion . The stop-motion glow-in-the-dark zombie things are cool , and one snotty cheerleader-type even gets her face ripped off . Somehow even when one is watching the " scary " parts there's a sense of humor to this , and a tip of the hat to the film makers for managing somehow , to pull this off so well . Oh , and to put a stop to all this one girl escapes and runs to the house of the " crazy lady " who started this all 40 years ago , and they go to battle with the forces of evil . Yay . OK , so this is kind of stupid and goofy but in a way that actually oozes with fun , and while it's not scary particularly , it does make for a very entertaining watch . , well worth seeing .
Excellent Creepy Bollywood Horror	Vaastu Shastra is probably one of the best Indian horror films I've seen , of the modern variety , anyway . A couple move into an isolated house with their young son Rohan and the wife's college-age sister . Not long after they move in the son begins to act oddly and seems to be listening or seeing something that no one else can see . He claims to have two little friends and his parents think they're imaginary until strange things begin to happen . Seems that a banyan tree in their yard has something to do with all this too . People soon begin to die , including a maid who was mean to Rohan , and eventually even the wife's sister & her boyfriend , before all HELL breaks loose . This is a rather thrilling horror film ( for Bollywood ) and even boasts some pretty creepy zombie-things . There are bits and pieces of this story that remind me of other films but I can't quite put my finger on what they are , although the creepy big dead tree brings to mind " Poltergeist " . Not bad at all & well worth seeing , .
great satire on the advertising business and other things	Putney Swope is the story of a token black man on the board of directors of a large advertising firm who is accidentally voted Chairman of the Board when the owner of the firm keels over while trying to stutter out an idea that he was apparently quite excited about . Putney , of course , takes his new role to heart and fires most everyone in the agency , hires a new crew ( all black except for a token white guy ) and proceeds to crank out the most offensive and non-PC commercials one could ever ask for . Now it's a rather motley crew he has and despite that they somehow manage to be successful while raking in the cash . I rather like the scene where potential advertisers are being relieved of bags of cash and then told to " get out " . And their commercials will follow later , like them or not . The story is good but of course the highlight here is the nasty commercials themselves , especially the one for " Face Off " acne cream . This is rather dated , but still a fun movie , and full of hilarious moments . Robert Downey Sr . was working for an ad agency doing experimental ads at the time and I guess this was his middle finger to Madison Avenue agencies . Very good and pretty damned funny . .
If Archie Bunker was armed . . . . . .	If Archie Bunker was armed , he may well have been " Joe " . However , " All in the Family " would have had a rather short run because the censors would never have allowed it to run along the lines of THIS movie . Joe is a working class guy who is a racist and a bigot , and has a big mouth , especially when he's drunk . One night he meets a man in a bar , Bill , who is having a drink to soothe his frazzled nerves after accidentally killing his daughter's junkie boyfriend and he lets that slip to Joe . What happens is that Bill's daughter was living with the junkie , and she's hauled off to the hospital after an overdose , and he goes by the apartment to collect her things but doesn't expect that he'll actually run into the boyfriend , who comes in fresh from a big drug deal . In the struggle that ensues , the boyfriend is killed accidentally and Bill doesn't want anyone really to know , of course . But he lets it slip to Joe , and then when the newspapers and TV reports come out , Joe sees them , puts 2 and 2 together , and suddenly this man is a hero in his eyes . He hooks up with him later and Bill is of course concerned that Joe is going to blackmail him , but not for money , he wants to hang out with him . Which is , in a way , almost worse . Now , Bill's daughter escapes from the clinic she's in , and slips back home , and accidentally overhears what happened and then is on the run , and most of the rest of the movie consists of Joe & Bill infiltrating " the underground " to try to find her . This builds up to a rather shocking ending , which to me was totally unexpected and ends on just the right note , or wrong note , depending on your point of view . A sort of decent but dim view of life in the early 70's , mostly from a working class bigot's point of view , which makes it not for everyone , but it's not a bad film at all and it's a decent watch . .
I was pleasantly surprised	I went to see this movie with a friend yesterday who suggested it , and after the last movie I saw in the theater ( Hide & Seek ) I was fully prepared to be disappointed , but this turned out to be an pretty awesome wild ride of a movie . For once I've now seen a movie where CGI was used to its credit and not its detriment . It's your basic battle between good & evil , but it's kind of hard to tell who's really good and who's really evil sometimes . This is based on a graphic novel ( or a comic , as I say ) and since I hadn't read any of those I was perhaps not in on some of the weirdness , but I thought it was still a pretty damn good movie . Keanu Reeves is pretty much Keanu Reeves , he has somewhat limited abilities but they work fine here , but Peter Stormare steals the show in his brief but ultra-creepy role as Lucifer . This is pretty well a feast for the eyes and is awesome to watch , if you can get around the fact that some of it doesn't make a lot of sense if you have not read the comic , I guess , but I certainly enjoyed this a lot . stars .
A moldy oldie brought to new life	Yay to Media Blasters for releasing this classic Japanese horror movie from the early 60's , but boo for the $19 . 99 price tag . At any rate I have had an old bootleg VHS copy of this for years & it's nice to see it as it was probably meant to be seen with all the colors not washed out and in Japanese with subtitles , instead of dubbed . I've seen this movie many times on TV and as a child it scared the hell out of me , and it still has the power to give me the creeps . A group of mostly privileged people are on a yacht sailing to somewhere when a huge storm comes up and they eventually find a deserted island ( or so they think ) when their disabled boat drifts close enough . Obviously others have met their fate as the island is a virtual ship's graveyard , but they can find no bodies . They have a limited amount of food but there seem to be mushrooms growing everywhere , that they are cautioned not to eat by one of the more educated of group , after reading in one of the ship's journals that they find . Of course hunger wins out with nasty results . After all the times I've seen this I still find it to be very enjoyable in a cheesy kind of way , and if you like Japanese horror , even the old kind , it's well worth seeing . One of the few from Inoshiro Honda that doesn't include rubber-suited monsters . stars .
Eastern Western is plenty of odd fun	" Sukiyaki Western Django " is pretty much what you would expect from a Western by Takashi Miike . . . it's violent , it's funny , and it's just plain weird at times . It looks kind of like the old west , except the buildings are distinctly Japanese . It feels kind of like the old west , except some characters are in cowboy garb while others are in what appears to be feudal Japanese American Indian gang war duds . And the dialog ? " Don't you know your Shakespeare ? " There are two feuding families , the White & the Red , and caught in between is our hero , whoever he is , and an old woman , her daughter , and a little boy . The daughter , having married outside of her clan , and the boy , of mixed background . The story itself is a bit hard to follow , but the action makes up for it . There's a lot of gun play , a lot of crossbow play , and a lot of fancy shooting from both weapons , along with things like hitting one's target through a hole just blown in one victim . And grandma , well , she's apparently a highly trained martial arts & gunslinger kind of gal , and she learned from the best , Ringo ( Quentin Tarrentino ) who also taught her how to make sukiyaki that wasn't so sweet . If you've seen all the old Spaghetti Westerns , this is a new twist on them that's well worth seeing . There's an astounding amount of wild and weird action , and there's also some ridiculous comedic bits , like a bunch of men using the sheriff of the town as a shield , and looking exactly like a conga line . Great action , interesting humor , and a decidedly different take on the western theme . Plus , the Japanese have a sense of poetry too , and there's even a bit of room in here for that , before the action kicks in again . If you like Miike & you like westerns that are QUITE a bit out of the ordinary , check this out . .
Very touching comedy / drama from China	How far would you go to make someone happy ? Old Zhao , who is a bachelor , seems to have found the woman of his dreams . She's big and bountiful & will keep him warm . She has two kids , though , one is her son who is fat & lazy and rude , and the other is her blind stepdaughter , Wu , who was left with her when her former husband just up and left . Zhao & friends have been looking for ways to make money & open up a Happy Times Hut , which is a converted bus parked in a remote area , where young couples might pay for a private place for a " roll in the hay " . However , Zhao brags to his new girlfriend that he & his friends own a hotel , and so she foists her stepdaughter off on him to find her a job there . At first things go very badly but then Zhao & friends go to the trouble to fashion a workplace for this girl in an old abandoned factory and give her a job as a masseuse , and they all take turns getting massages & giving the girl tips so she'll feel useful & happy . The problem is , that they can't keep up the ruse for very long . This is quite a good film & the kindness that Zhao shows this young girl Wu is something she has not experienced from her stepmother or stepbrother at all . This has a somewhat downbeat ending but it's kind of left to one's imagination what has happened . You just know that Zhao has given of himself to make someone else happy & that seems to be enough . .
fun , trashy , and definitely an 80's film through and through	This is the only version of " Not of This Earth " that I've seen but I would probably be hard pressed to like either of the other two versions more . I mean , after all , they don't feature Traci Lords . And I do realize that this was made about 18 years ago . No matter . The basic storyline is that a sort of alien vampire comes to Earth and must have blood to survive , and somehow a nurse ( as played by Lords ) is hired to be his " transfusionist " . The vampire stuff is not fangs , it's creepy blank eyes that suck the souls out of people and leaves them prone , ready to be drained of blood , with proper utensils of course , no sloppy table manners here . Of course , Traci's boyfriend is a cop and they're both suspicious of this guy , who lives in what the guy's chauffeur calls " a roach motel " , because people check in but never check out . This is full of gratuitous nudity and is good trashy fun , complete with an ultra-new wave 80's soundtrack and fashions . Cool stuff , .
Still creepy after all these years .	Fritz Lang made some amazing films for his time , and this is only one of them . Peter Lorre plays a child-murderer in Berlin , and he's playing a cat-and-mouse game with the police . Seems he's a former mental patient too , go figure . The opening scene as small children play in the courtyard of this apartment building and chant of the " man in the black coat " is great , and then you see a small child leaving school and her mother , back in the apartment , laying out the tableware for the child who will never arrive home safely . As this continues on the police seem unable to catch the murderer so the thieves and beggars of the city band together to catch him themselves . I was a bit puzzled by the Criterion version of this which contains bits that feature no sound , but at the end it says that these were bits that were cut from the original and restored so apparently any dialog and soundtrack was lost . It would have helped to know that up front because my attention was lost as I wondered what might be wrong with my DVD player or other equipment . Still though for a film that 70-plus years old , it's quite good and worth seeing for any fans of thrillers that don't mind German dialog and subtitles . .
a fun kids-eye view of suburban life in the 70's	Hard to believe that a couple years after this , Don Coscarelli would move on to Phantasm , which is one of my all-time favorites . But out of curiosity , I got this ( Kenny & Co . ) on DVD , because it was cheap , & I was curious to see what other stuff Coscarelli had done . Wow . This is a highly-entertaining view of what it was like to be a kid in Southern California in the mid-70's , before there was all the electronic garbage that kids immerse themselves in these days . Kenny is a sixth grader , I guess , with a best friend named Doug ( Michael Baldwin , also of Phantasm fame ) . Kenny experiences all kinds of adventures , like getting ready for Halloween , playing flag football , avoiding the local bully , first love , and having to have his beloved dog put to sleep . All of this film is done in a rather laid-back style , just like it was from the point of view of an adolescent whose whole life stretched out in front of them . I was a few years older than this when the film came out , but it does depict being an adolescent in suburbia in the 70's in a reasonably realistic manner , and if you grew up then you'll definitely find something in this to identify with . This is more or less a family film but there's a bit of language that might put some off . At least though , there's no cell phones , no drugs , no alcohol , and nothing that should really make parents nervous . A fun film , overall , and well done , considering it was an early effort . Also in this are Reggie Bannister , who is in most of Coscarelli's films , and Ken Jones , who played The Caretaker in Phantasm . Well worth seeing and recommended , if you grew up in the 70's . .
From a novella by Stephen King , a decent adaptation !	I'm glad I didn't buy the paperback of " The Mist " that I've seen around lately , because I didn't realize until it was a little way into the film that I knew this story because I'd read it , years ago . This is probably one of the best adaptations of any of Stephen King's stories to ever hit the screen . The story is that of a small town in Maine that is hit by a big storm , and the next day the power's off & most everyone in town has hit the local grocery to stock up , when this strange mist rolls in . Upon investigation a local artist , David Drayton ( Thomas Jane ) thinks that " there's something out there " but some of the others scoff at him and one young man goes out to unclog a vent so that the generator can run properly , and then everyone finds out that there really IS something out there & now they're one less . Of course , there are those who don't believe , and there's a woman ( Marcia Gay Harden ) who is a religious nut that says this is end of days , and then the folks trapped in the grocery are divided into little opposing factions . And then things really get rolling when more things show up from the mist and get into the store . The special effects are top notch & the critters from the mist seem pretty real . It seems like there's something to do with experiments from a local army base that may have something to do with what's going on too , but even though there are a few soldiers trapped inside one doesn't know anything about it and the others , well , they're not talking . . . anymore . This is an exciting roller coaster ride and is somewhat of a throwback to the " monsters created by messing with things that shouldn't be messed with " genre of the 50's . The ending is ironic and downbeat and is the one part of the film that seemed to drag , though . Still , a pretty darn good film , when I saw it at the first show of the day yesterday the theater was packed . .
Mail Me	My my my , the Japanese don't mess around when it comes to the portrayal of nasty things , and this movie is no exception . From the opening scene of 54 school girls taking a dive onto railroad tracks and the resulting blood bath , this film almost never lets up with the nasty imagery and icky things . A wave of suicides has hit the country and police are baffled as to the cause . About mid-point it seems the mystery is solved when a group takes credit for the mass suicides but by no means is this over . All the while we're treated to the innocuous pop music of Dessart ( which is spelled several different ways in the movie ) , a band of young girls with a big hit song ' Mail Me ' that may or may not figure into what's going on . Overall this is one wild ride of a film and takes everyday things and turns them into nightmares . Highly recommended and worth seeing , but bring a strong stomach with you .
pretty disturbing stuff	Three . . . . Extremes has some pretty disturbing stuff in it for your viewing . . . pleasure . " Dumplings " is the nastiest , with a woman that seeks to regain her beauty by eating dumplings made with a special ingredient . Box , by Takashi Miike , is probably the weirdest ( big surprise , eh ? ) and the offering from Korea is probably the least effective of the three but is still OK . Box is about a woman haunted by dreams of her younger sister who died when she was a child , in an accident that she seems to have caused , but is it just a dream ? Of course if you watch " Dumplings " and you haven't got a strong resolve then you may not make it to the other two films . Overall this is a pretty sick & disturbing trio of films and it will stick with you long afterward . Recommended for fans of Asian Cinema but bring a strong stomach & sense of adventure . .
cheesy but rather fun favorite of mine , now on DV	Despite what doesn't show on IMDb , " Don't Go In The Woods " ( Alone ) has just been released on DVD . This has been a favorite of mine for years and oddly enough the DVD box notes say that it was intended as a comedy ? Hmm , well , I guess you'd have to be in the right frame of mind ( as in , wasted ? ) to think that , but I dunno , maybe on some levels it does work as sort of a twisted comedy . Lovely Utah settings , nasty thing in the woods killing folks , I mean , nothing spectacularly different about this , really , but to me it's always had a sort of appeal that is hard to explain . The nasty thing in the woods is some crazy man who shops at the local " Hills Have Eyes " boutique for his ensembles , and also chases folks through the woods and hacks them to bits and takes them back to his place to hang out ( literally ) . Of course , sooner or later , someone has to escape this dude and give this a sort of happy ending , except for the hint at the end that all could NOT be well . . . . . it's kind of late for a sequel to this , though , isn't it ? Ha , in the movie industry ? Yeah right . One note though : The box on my Vestron VHS tape says it's 88 minutes , the box on Code Red says : approx . 83 minutes . . . . ? ? ! ! I don't know if there's anything missing or not , or if someone just can't count , but the DVD sure looks good . , hey , it's not for everyone .
Weird , whacked-out and wonderful	Ken Russell's " Crimes of Passion " . . . I may have known that this film existed but until I found a used copy sitting in front of me I'd never considered watching it . . . the lure of Kathleen Turner AND Anthony Perkins in the same film was too much for me to pass up . Turner plays a sports clothing designer by day , and a hooker called " China Blue " at night . She's stalked by weirdo preacher Perkins , who claims to be her savior ( and apparently wants to do something to her with a razor-sharp stainless steel dildo ? ? ) . Back in the real world , a man with a troubled marriage ( John Laughlin ) has been hired to do some private detective work and his first assignment is to keep an eye on Joanna Crane , aka China Blue , because her boss thinks she's stealing his designs . Well , she's not doing that , but Bobby ( Laughlin ) didn't expect to find her doing what she IS doing . . . . however , he does get involved with her and eventually finds that she makes him feel like a REAL MAN again ( I guess ) so he leaves his wife . . . only to also become tangled up in the stalker mess on top of the double identity stuff . This is all pretty well done and yet a bit over the top , but hey , it's Ken Russell , that's kind of normal for him . Decent soundtrack music too by Rick Wakeman . Very interesting 80's film & great performances by both Turner & Perkins . .
" Now , which is the dream ?	A very disturbing and twisted film from Sion Sono , the director of " Suicide Club " . Either you're seeing the visualization of a novel that's being written , or you're seeing flashbacks to something that really did happen . . . you're never really sure . Perhaps it's about a young girl named Mitsuko , whose father is a school principal and who abuses his young daughter until her mother becomes insanely jealous and snaps . And Mitsuko takes her mother's place . Or does she ? Of course Mitsuko doesn't seem to take too well to her new role & tries to kill herself only to become a cripple in a wheel chair . Or does she ? And perhaps , Mitsuko has grown up and has become a novelist , or perhaps she hasn't . And perhaps a young man who is a big fan of hers has sort of become her assistant ( Yuji , aka " Robo-Chan " ) . But he may not be what he seems at all . This is a very strange film and quite disturbing at times . As in , not for the faint-of-heart , not at all . Yet , at times it has some magic to it , and plenty of mystery , and the idea that you're never really sure what's a dream and what's not keeps you guessing . The " Strange Circus " itself ( and there really seems to be some kind of thing like that here ) is plenty odd too , with lots of strange performers & a ring-master of questionable gender , and some kind of creepy teddy-bear like thing with apparently no facial features . . . yet it's all presented in bright cheerful colors . A twisted nightmare with plenty of twists and turns and enough weirdness and gore to appeal to . . . well , folks that like it , I guess . This is probably one of the better Japanese films I've seen lately , and well worth seeing . .
The Six Million Dollar Man with attitude	This is not one of the best Takashi Miike films that I've seen , but it is one of his earlier ones so I'll take that into consideration . He was just getting revved up back then , I guess . The tale is that of a young wanna-be Yakuza who is weak and incapable of being threatening enough to even collect money ( as he's run off by one potential prey's wife ) . He's unfortunate enough to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and gets gunned down by rival Yakuza , after which he " awakes " to find out some mad " self-proclaimed genius " has made him into sort of the Six Million Dollar Man , only not so benign or wimpy as that . He has the innards of his Yakuza hero , so he's sort of a composite too . The doctor that " re-created " him has sights on him being a hero , but he has sights only on revenge for his death . This is nowhere near as weird or psychotic as a lot of Miike's later films ( for which I truly love his stuff ) but it's still a good film and shows that he has plenty of potential , which I've seen in many of his later films . Worth seeing , stars .
Good little film with some great twists ( maybe a minor spoiler or 2 )	Candy is 16 and on her way home from school when 3 people in a van sweep her off her feet and put her in a hole in the ground . With oxygen , of course . Seems like Candy has been targeted as " most likely to yield diamonds " to the 3 kidnappers , who have been staking her out and her father , who works at a jewelry store specializing in diamonds . There's only one problem though : Her father is only her stepfather , and if Candy was to die before her 21st birthday he gets of her trust fund , which is why he's married her mother in the first place . . . and he's been VERY patient , waiting for SOMETHING to happen . So now , the kidnappers have Candy and nothing else , and they certainly aren't of a mind to help dear old dad out in achieving his goal . There is also a small autistic boy ( who can't speak ) who has witnessed the burial of Candy , and he attempts to bring this matter to light with his parents , but they're too caught up in their own screwed-up lives to pay much heed to what he's trying to bring to their attention . The scenes with this child are amazing , for as young as he is , he does quite well in his role . As the situation with Candy and what to do with her worsens , the kidnappers begin to turn on each other because one wants to make sure Candy is OK and the others just want to kill her since she's no longer of any use . Considering that this is a low budget drive-in movie , it's actually well done and the acting is decent , especially Ben Piazza as the cold-as-ice stepfather . The ending is quite grim though , and leaves one thing unresolved but there's pretty much only one thing that could have happened . I found this to be pretty interesting and and well done for a low-budget movie and I thought it was well worth seeing . , check it out if you like 70's exploitation flicks .
at times beautiful and at times very disturbing	This is a film about a French Canadian boy named Leo who dreams . He dreams he's Italian because his mother was impregnated by a tomato imported from Italy , and you'll have to watch the film to see how this logic works because I don't think I can say it here . Leo lives with his family in a run-down tenement house & it's an interesting family . There's a great deal of emphasis on defecation , not that it's shown , but it's a " health " thing , something that grandpa thinks is necessary , and the whole family is shown taking their laxatives on Friday evening . ? ? Mostly Leo dreams to escape his dreary life , and he dreams of a beautiful neighbor girl ( who grandpa helps make ends meet ) and he also dreams of Italy . Because life at home is just too drab and boring to tolerate , I guess . There's some interesting themes in this and it's done in a rather whimsical way , at times , and at other times it's rather dark and disturbing . In some ways it's all over the map but it still works pretty well , although it's not exactly a feel-good ending , in fact I wasn't truly sure at the end if all that had gone before was real or not . If you like movies like " Toto the Hero " and stuff like that then you'll most likely enjoy this , it's sort of in the same vein . .
If the gang from " Airplane " tackled a sci-fi alien invasion movie . . . .	This movie ( AKA , " Invasion ! " ) is to me , what a sci-fi alien invasion movie would be like if it were handled by the folks that did " Airplane " . The small town of Exceptional Vista , virtually a ghost town since the Nut Factory closed down , is target for an invasion of some kind of slimy aliens that want to farm earthlings for food . Along comes atomic scientist Campbell Scott , about the same time that the town is beset by traveling sales persons ( one of whom sells banjos ) and the fun begins . Some of the humor in this travels pretty fast so you have to be paying attention , and some of the humor is derived from Scott intentionally mangling his lines and using words that are merely close to what they should be . Most hilarious is the identification by the mayor of one citizen who is unrecognizable except for his boxer shorts with the " easy open " trap door . . . . of course the mayor elaborates on how he knew and leaves the others gaping at him . Overall this is silly and stupid but it's good fun silly and stupid , and probably too clever in some spots to catch . . . . for instance the brother of the woman that runs the Fawkes Den is named Guy . . . . har de har . But you don't really pick up on that till the end credits , or at least I didn't . A good stupid comedy , and the best part is that it's played straight . , a much overlooked film .
good but not as shocking as it probably was in 1970	This is a strange little flick about two young girls , both from well-to-do families , who make a pact with Satan and vow to do evil . They both attend a school away from home and both are in their early teens . Now , their pact is just something they made up , and it's mostly just a game , so it seems , until they end up killing someone . A very strange and shock ending too . This was , I'm sure , a bit more a shock in the time it was released than it is now , or else I've seen too many horror movies and I'm just plain jaded . One young girl ends up being chased by a farmer's son through a cow pasture and is almost raped , until she gets away , and there's far more of her shown as she struggles to get away than would be acceptable in the US even today . There's some bird killing , fire-setting , and when both girls attempt to seduce a stranded motorist , well , things get a bit over the line , but then again , they're only in their undies , but still . This film has a rather dark feel to it most of the time and it's sort of like a twisted , perverted ABC Afterschool Special , but that feeling is probably due to the age of the protagonists . The Bad Seeds , The Good Daughters ? Hmm , well , it's certainly strange and worth checking out , .
not bad 80's horror flick	A young girl is part of a cult in some time period where they play the Chambers Brothers and Electric Prunes , and that would mean the 60's , right ? I think so . The cult is run by a Jim Jones wannabe named Harris and his loyal brainwashed followers allow him to douse them with gas and they all go off to their next lives . Except for this young girl who miraculously was saved from the flames and rescued . Fast forward 13 years later and here's where you run into credibility problems a bit because it's 1988 . . and she's still pretty young and attractive for being in a coma for 13 years . Seems that the past is still around to haunt her though because she sees Harris about everywhere she turns and he's stalking the others in her group in the mental hospital in which she's staying . Her doctor is apparently not helping matters much either , but his assistant takes her under his wing and tries to make things a little better . OK , there's a few credibility gaps and plot holes here but this is still a decent sort of slasher flick , although not necessarily in the traditional sense . It also doesn't overstay its welcome by going on too long . There's a lot of good dream sequences and flashbacks and hallucinations to keep you wondering too . I saw this in the theater years ago & have always liked it , now it's on DVD & I can say that it still holds up well . .
Maybe best enjoyed by those who didn't follow the TV show ?	Back in the olden days when I had cable , I watched this show a few times and while it was kind of interesting , I never followed it faithfully so I guess I didn't really get what was going on . However , for some reason I was drawn to this movie and I wasn't disappointed . Jerri Blank ( Amy Sedaris ) is your basic loser who didn't finish high school , got into drugs and alcohol and ended up in prison . There are some truly charming prison flashbacks too , wow . . . and yuck . Anyway , upon her release she goes to her old house to find her mom has passed away , and her dad has remarried and is now in a coma , and there's a step-brother she's never met . Of course Jerri's new " mom " is less than delighted to have this misfit in their house . Jerri , of course , wants to see her dad ( Dan Hedaya ) and she seems to kindle a spark in him of life , although his doctor ( Ian Holm ) has never been able to get any response from him . This little incident wins Jerri her old room back . The next day she's ready to start back to high school to become someone " special " that her dad will appreciate and therefore lead to his recovery . Of course a fifty-something high school student is not accepted well and Jerri still acts like she's in the pen at times . This school is not exactly the premier education facility either , and the teachers and the staff have plenty of personal issues and attitude problems . Most notably Mr . Noblet , the science teacher , born-again but having a homosexual affair with the art teacher , etc . Eyow . Anyway , to obtain funding this school must do something outstanding soon , so Principal Blackman ( Onyx Blackman , that is ) can pay off his gambling debts , so a science fair comes up and Jerri and her new pals Megawatti and Tammy band together to come up with a super project although Jerri is seduced by some big jock into giving her their plans and therefore putting the science fair team into jeopardy . There's plenty of little asides and comments and things to listen for , so pay attention in this , there'll be a test later . This could have been worse , in my opinion , but I found it to be pretty funny , if not laugh out loud funny , and I guess if you didn't follow the show episode by episode then you'll probably enjoy this more because it'll be fresh to you . .
weird , creepy , unintelligible , incoherent , & I loved it	I suppose I'm in the minority with this film , but I don't really care what others think of this film , it doesn't change my opinion of it . This is pretty weird stuff , to say the least . The gist of the story is that a film crew has taken up residence in an old hotel in Venice , Italy , to film a version of " The Duchess of Malfi " . The problems with making this production are rather small compared to the fact that the staff of the hotel appear to be cannibals , and like a roach motel , guests check in but they don't check out . Case in point , John Malkovich , our first " big star " to appear , is shown having dinner with a group of the hotel staff ( including Julian Sands ) , and why is John in a cage ? And why does John appear in no more scenes after that ? ( in a recognizable manner , that is ) . And of course , there are squabbles among the cast , and various members are leaving as they've found work elsewhere , & then the director seems to be mysteriously stricken , and lies on the floor of one room for hours while the actors leave him to sort things out , thinking he's " just taking a break " . He goes into something of a coma , in fact , he's been shot , somehow , but the bullet seems to have ricocheted off his spine and exited though the same hole . WTF ? Of course , the show must go on , so the producer ( David Schwimmer ) , takes over , and things just continue to get stranger as this goes along . Seems that the director , while lying in his " alert coma " , is having " out of body " experiences , too , and he can see what is going on around him , and in other parts of the hotel , including the guest rooms . There are a lot of scenes filmed as " insets " , I guess , where the lighting gives the actor's eyes a demonic cast , which is a cheap effect but very creepy and appropriate for this film . There are several street scenes too , and it appears that the hotel staff are getting bolder in their excursions for fresh meat & are working the streets , as well . Overall , I liked this a lot , and while it's mostly improvised , it's still quite good , in my humble opinion . If you like very strange films , this is for you . It is done in the Dogma 95 style , and don't go into this expecting a coherent & linear story with a plot and all . . . just sit back and take a weird ride . .
The little animals come to see me sometimes . . . . .	I found a VHS copy of this movie in the late 80's and did not know who either Pete Walker or Sheila Keith were at the time , but the film was creepy and disturbing , and I loved it . Now many years later & have this on DVD and this is still one of my favorite Pete Walker movies . It begins with something bad happening in 1957 , and then Edmond & Dorothy Yates going to an asylum for 15 years . Seems that they ( or at least Dorothy ) was a cannibal . But now years later , they're cured , and living on a remote farm . Hmm , if they were cured would there be any reason for this film ? Of course not . Oldest daughter Jackie continues to bring " parcels " for Dorothy , which seems to satisfy her urge to munch on her fellow human beings , but apparently these little tidbits have not worked well & Dorothy is back to her old ways . She mainly lures in lonely and friendless people for tarot card readings and then they end up in the barn under the straw . Doesn't anyone notice it smells bad out there ? Anyway , Jackie's younger sister Debbie is rather a free spirit and running with a gang of hoods but she takes after her parents more than Jackie happens to know . Jackie has helped keep her sheltered from mom & dad due to the nature of their former crimes , but it doesn't really matter , you'll find at some point . And then there's poor psychiatrist Graham , I'm afraid , who tries to help but to no avail . Sheila Keith has to be by far , the creepiest actress ever to grace a horror film , and she was supposedly actually a really nice lady , but you'd never know it has she gleefully drills into victims heads and gets her face splattered with blood and gore . This is probably the best of Pete Walker's films & is definitely my favorite . And oh yes , Dorothy does mention that the little animals come to see her sometimes . . . . she never indicates whether or not she eats them though . .
goofy , disgusting , and fun science fiction	This is my 2nd Alex de la Iglesias film , the other being Day of the Beast , and this is a highly underrated director . This is about a group of crippled and disfigured individuals who are part of a activist group that lashes out at the " beautiful people " of the world . Now they've decided to kidnap the daughter of a rich man , and infiltrate the wedding with hilarious results , like they won't stand out ? There are Siamese twins , a hunchback dwarf , a man with the lowest IQ known , etc . The wedding scene is perhaps the most frenetic with old 60's pop tunes updated , Spanish style , like " Judy in Disguise With Glasses " . Once the bride to be has been kidnapped the group takes off for outer space and the idea is to meet at some bar on some planet to exchange the hostage for a questionable sum of money , as in , the leader told his gang one amount but the TV said another , HIGHER amount , so after that treachery and greed set in and one by one , the group is being killed off . What does one do when their Siamese twin is killed because ( as the killer says ) he was plotting against you ? Why , drag him around with you , of course . Good taste and political correctness is never an issue in this film , as they're never present , but that's most of the fun of the movie . The sort of bad news is , that this DVD is presented in ' wide screen ' , which in this case is merely a stripe on the TV screen , though , and things move so fast it's not easy to keep up with the subtitles and watch the action too . And this does bear watching , it's just too bad it wasn't given a better treatment for DVD . But the film itself is a twisted little gem , and if you enjoy black comedy mixed with science fiction you'll probably like it a lot . So why isn't " Day of the Beast " on DVD ? .
Good Old Fashioned Thriller , 70's style	This has long been a high-ticket item on various internet sites , and now you can own it on DVD for a normal price , isn't that wonderful ? You bet it is , because this is well worth having . Jodie Foster plays Rynn , a mysterious young girl who ostensibly lives with her father in a rented house somewhere near the ocean in New England , but in reality she's really on her own and it takes a while for the circumstances to come to light . Seems that a few folks in this town are pretty damn nosy though , like Mrs . Hallet , the real estate lady , and her son ( Martin Sheen ) , who has a penchant for little girls , something that is well known in the community . When Mrs . Hallet mysteriously disappears ( not so mysterious for those watching though ) her son and the police start hanging around trying to find her whereabouts , but Rynn finds a willing accomplice in Mario , a young man who is crippled as the result of missing his polio shot ( he has so many brothers and sisters his mom forgot who had their shots and who didn't , he explains ) . Like lots of 70's stuff it's pretty tame by today's standards but I place it on a pedestal along with other 70's " whodunnit " type films like " Whatever Happened to Aunt Alice " . Well worth seeing and young Foster does a creditable job as the resourceful Rynn . .
be careful who you take refuge with	A man who has made off with some gold is pursued by his would-be partners and takes refuge in a huge house , where he finds two women that are supposedly the " advance party " for the servants & owners who are to come later . Being that he's a thief & has a gun , and they're attractive , he takes advantage of them , but then finds out as time passes that they're not who they claim to be . Eventually this man's pursuers also make their move & capture one of the women , who turns out to be a rather formidable adversary in that she kills the man raping her and sets out with a scythe to take care of the rest . As you see her in the distance in a black cloak with the scythe she seems to the " The Grim Reaperess " as she goes in pursuit of the woman that dressed in her clothing to flounce around like she was someone special . Anyway , with the pursuers all taken care of there's nothing left to do but wait for the rest of the people that will be showing up for a midnight reunion at this house , and what they'll do at that reunion is rather vague but you , the viewer , will have a pretty good idea that it's not exactly wholesome . This is Jean Rollin at his stylish best , and while this isn't a particularly fast-moving film it's wonderful to watch as it unfolds and I wasn't a bit disappointed . If you're a Jean Rollin fan or a Euro-horror fan you'll most likely want to check this out , but unfortunately it's out of print in the US right now . .
Similar in style to Hitchcock , only nastier	" Le Boucher " ( The Butcher ) is a story of a young headmistress , Helene , at a school in a small village , who strikes up a relationship with the local butcher , Popaul , who seems to be quite a nice man . Helene has had a bad relationship in the past & is somewhat standoffish , and that makes for somewhat of an awkward relationship with her new friend . There have been a lot of murders in and around this small village lately , and that's causing a big stir among the residents . A murder victim is found by Helene when she has her class on a field trip to some caves . Helene finds an object that seems to be the same one she'd given Popaul days before and immediately becomes quite suspicious of him . This is rather a good thriller and perhaps similar in style to Hitchcock , only a bit nastier . The two leads are great & the tension and suspense are too . An excellent film and well worth seeing . .
early 70's Euro-zombie horror shock	Let Sleeping Corpses Lie , AKA The Living Dead At The Manchester Morgue , is an underrated zombie movie that's actually quite good . The introduction on the DVD by director Jorge Grau is actually pretty amusing too . A young man on holiday , who is taking some items to a buyer in a town in the country , runs into problems when a young lady at a gas station backs over his motorcycle , so he commandeers her car and off they go into zombie country . Seems like strange things have been happening ever since a farmer started using some experimental equipment that kills parasites and insects but does something else on the side that's wholly unexpected . Like , say , bringing the dead back to life , for instance ? Obviously if anyone knew that they'd not have used the equipment in the first place , most likely . Anyway from there on out it's one adventure after another fleeing the walking dead , and battling the police who naturally don't believe anything is happening except people from London with long hair and " faggot clothes " are causing trouble . And of course they're wrong but they don't get to pay for it until it's far too late . Not at all a bad little flick , Italian / Spanish in origin but filmed in England , which is a little odd but still doesn't make any difference . , cool stuff .
A bit schizo but still an interesting film	This film was made of pieces of another film done by Roger Corman & Francis Ford Coppola and filmed in Yugoslavia , and additional footage was filmed later , so you get this odd combo of Gothic architecture and beautiful beaches and palm trees . But still , this is an atmospheric film with lots of strange and creepy imagery and even some rather risqué stuff for 1966 . William Campbell ( Dementia 13 ) plays a tortured artist who believes himself to be the reincarnation of a vampire that was burned at the stake many years ago and since he seems to morph into that creature from time to time , who are we to argue ? He lures young ladies into his studio to pose for his paintings , and if they'd seen any of his other finished results they'd certainly refuse . He seems to excel in " dead red " paintings , rather gory and brutal nasty stuff that collectors seem to go for . When her sister disappears a young woman is trying to find her and all signs point to her having posed for this creepy guy . This is probably one of the few vampire movies where the vampire pursues his prey into water , not once , but twice . And probably the only vampire movie in which the vampire carries his prey out of the surf like he's the freaking Creature from the Black Lagoon or something . This jumps around a bit due to the melding of various films together to make one , but if you stick with it , it's rather rewarding for horror fans . I have this on a cheap double-feature DVD and I'd love to see this in a better form , as in , remastered , but still this version isn't all that bad . Very creepy stuff and well worth seeing . .
" they're only children "	Imagine the kids from Alan Clarke's " Scum " , only not in prison where they belong . Throw in a dash of " Deliverance " , " Straw Dogs " , and perhaps a dash of Larry Clark's " Bully " , and that might give you an idea of the perpetrators in " Eden Lake " . Steve & Jenny have gone on holiday to Eden Lake , and Steve plans on " popping the question " to Jenny . But the tranquil setting is pretty well ruined by a group of young punks who blast rap music and behave like thugs , which is , what they are , really . Attempts by Steve to get them to turn down their music & keep their dog away serve no purpose , and the kids do finally leave , but they've set up Steve to get a flat as soon as he moves his car . After fixing that , Steve & Jenny go to town for breakfast , only to find that no one seems to think ill of the young punks that are running amok , perhaps because their waitress is one of their parents ? Eventually though , while Steve & Jenny are back at the beach , the car keys are taken , the punks take the car for a joyride , and a confrontation over the keys leads to the accidental killing of the kid's dog , after which things begin to spiral even more out of control . Steve and Jenny do manage to get away in the car but end up wrecking it because their headlamps are broken , and Steve is injured so Jenny goes for help , only to become lost & when she manages to find the car again Steve is gone because the kids have taken him and are torturing him . There's then a long cat & mouse game with the kids and Jenny , while she's trying to save Steve , who is badly wounded . Eventually Jenny thinks she's found salvation when she stumbles across a house but she wasn't expecting to encounter one of the kid's parents , who seem to be a good explanation for the kid's behavior . This is one of the better Dimension Extreme films that they've put out . It's fairly believable , it's nasty , and it's disturbing , mainly because of the ages of the kids that are doing all the nastiness . I would recommend this one to horror fans , really . Well worth seeing . .
a good film , but to be approached with plenty of caution	In A Glass Cage is a good film , and well done , but the subject matter is a bit extreme . It will not be for everyone . First caution : There's a little blurb on the front cover from John Waters ( yes , Baltimore's very own " Prince of Puke " ) . " In A Glass Cage is a great film , but I'm scared to show it to my friends " . What an endorsement , eh ? Second caution : If you were able to squirm and writhe through " Salo " and made it out without serious trauma , then you can probably watch this too . Having said all that , this is one very fed up film . It seems that a former Nazi doctor ( Klaus ) has fled with his family to hide out in Spain . Seems that he experimented on children during his war days & afterward , he found that he was still quite attracted to young boys , and as the film opens we see him doing his thing . As he finishes up with what he's doing he goes up to the roof of where he lives and looks down . . . and then I suppose he jumps in a suicide attempt . But he lives , and he's in an iron lung , and his wife feels that things are too much for her to take care of him & she's thinking of getting a nurse , but then someone claiming to be a nurse shows up on their doorstep , or more accurately , stages a home invasion & locks himself in with Klaus , and when he emerges he announces that he's come to take care of Klaus & that Klaus wants him to stay . Seems like this young man ( Angelo ) is less of a nurse and more of a tormentor , though , being that he happens to be a former subject of Klaus's " affections " , and what happens after that is a downhill slide into madness and death for all concerned . This is NOT an easy film to get through , and it's quite horrific . This is a film about monsters , but all these monsters are human , and it's frankly quite scarier and creepier than most horror flicks that I've seen . If you have a sense of adventure and a strong stomach , then give this one a look , but be forewarned that it's not a " feel good " movie , by any means , and you may feel a bit bludgeoned after watching it . .
Cool and weird subway flick from Hungary	Ever seen Luc Besson's " Subway " ? Well , forget about it , it was terrible , because this is the ultimate film about subways , from Hungary , no less . Bulscu and his rag-tag gang of ticket checkers are always in trouble and always competing with rival ticket checkers , most notably the group headed up by Gonzo . Bulscu is a rather odd character , and he seems to live and sleep in the subways , but it's never really explained why . There's something sinister afoot down there too , there's a hooded figure that is responsible for the deaths of several potential riders that keeps pushing them out onto the tracks in front of oncoming trains . And there's romance , of a sort , as Bulscu sort of romances a girl in a teddy bear suit . Who , just happens to be the daughter of a driver , Bela , who seems to consume quite a bit of alcohol while driving the trains . There is humor , there is romance , there is a bit of excitement as Bulscu and Gonzo race each other down the tracks to the next station with the last train of the day at their heels , and there are , of course , some sinister and creepy goings-on that seem very much at home in the subway . Don't expect this all to make perfect sense , but it's quite entertaining and enjoyable and well worth seeing . Recommended , .
get it while you can ( on DVD )	I accidentally stumbled across this on DVD ( with 4 other Universal Sci-Fi classics ) the other day & raced out and got a copy , it's available at Best Buy Only ( for some reason , bleah , but it's worth getting ) . This is a movie I saw as a kid and it's still got some power to it , there's some suspense & tension going on . Seems like some mad scientist type ( Leo G . Carrol ) has been messing with growth rates of little animals and has made them into big animals , one of which is a tarantula . It also seems like he's been doing other experiments with human beings that lead to a growth problem of sorts , called acromegaly . When one of his human subjects turns on him and tries to kill him there's a fire and some of the animals die , but one escapes . . . can you guess which one ? Yes , it's the tarantula . Which wanders out into the desert and continues to grow and feast on cows and people and whatever is handy . Of course the town doctor ( John Agar ) and the mad scientist's assistant Steve ( her real name is Stephanie ) suspect somethings going on and by golly , they're right , and the little town of Desert Rock is in big trouble . This is one of the better " giant mutated critter " movies from the 50's and as I said , it scared the crap out of me when I was a kid and still is an effective movie . , mostly to be enjoyed by those that grew up with it or folks with a fondness for 50's B-monster flicks .
Inspired Weirdness	Hey now , this is one weird film . A rock star wins a house in a poker game from Christopher Lee & when he moves in with wife & kid , he finds that there's another occupant of the house . " Part Jester , Part Demon " says the box , and that's about right . We have the rock star's brother who is bringing him his furniture & stuff that's been in storage , and when he stops to pick up a hitch hiker ( Pauline Black , the vocalist for British ska band " The Selecter " ) he unwittingly ends up with a whole van full of hitchers , whom he then brings to the house with him . What happens from there is the Jester takes over and messes with everyone . This is one surreal weird hoot of a movie and I loved it . Considering that this had to have been fairly low budget with mostly unknowns in the cast this is one refreshing twist on " possessed house " movies . It seems as though Mr . Rock Star has a bit of a nose-candy problem & that's played up quite well in the wild ride of happenings . The thing that really makes the Demon / Jester is that he's so laid back & casual and not going over the top with trying to act evil , he seems like just a typical working-class English chap . This is one hoot of a movie and well worth seeing . .
Japanese giallo ? ( perhaps minor spoilers )	After many fiercely original weird films , one wonders why Takashi Miike seems to wander into Ringu / Ju-On territory , but this is still a good film . This almost plays out like a giallo , to me , anyway . This has more punch to it than Ringu or Ju-on but it doesn't seem to have Miike's trademark weirdness , or at least not as much . People are dying as the result of strange voice mail messages on their cell phones , from the future , and from themselves . Seems that someone who died , supposedly full of hate , is behind this , at least that's what some young school girls say . But that , of course , is just a rumor . Or is it ? One young woman is railroaded into a live TV appearance at the supposed time of her impending demise and while all seems well for a bit she dies horribly on TV , that is if they didn't cut to a commercial first , that's never really clear since the film crew fled the studio . Investigation into the problem is done by a man who's sister died under similar circumstances and a friend of the girl who died on TV , who is the next potential victim . One would probably want to erase any stored numbers in their cell phone after watching this . This IS a decent film but is more what you'd expect from Hideo Nakata , not Takashi Miike , but I guess with Miike you should expect the unexpected . .
Fun , gory , weird , but could it really be the next " Rocky Horror " ?	I got this film a couple days ago & watched it right away , and I have to say it was fun , weird , gory , and at times kind of sick , but I enjoyed it very much . But could it possibly ever become the new " Rocky Horror Picture Show " ? I'm not sure , but I think comparisons between the two seem to be mostly surface stuff and not necessarily content . Repo ! Takes place in the future , where a good portion of mankind has been wiped out by a mysterious plague . GeneCo is a company that supplies organs to afflicted humans , and helps people live , but of course there's a catch . . . . if you don't keep up with the payments on your new organs , someone that you don't want to mess with comes & removes them . There is a young girl , Shilo , who is confined to her house by her loving and ( seemingly ) kindly father , a doctor . However , little does Shilo know that dear old dad happens to have a second job as a Repo Man . Rotti Largo , the head honcho of GeneCo , has found that he doesn't have a lot of time to live , and he must decide who will take over the company when he dies . His choices are rather limited , because his offspring ( Luigi , as played by Bill Moseley , Pavi , as played by Ogre , and Amber Sweet , as played by Paris Hilton ) are a rather sorry lot , in more ways than one . There are also some deep dark secrets revealed about things from long ago , like how Shilo came to be as she is , and some of the other nasty things that folks have been up to over time . Terrance Zdunich rather steals the show as " The Gravedigger " , a Gothic-type who is busy collecting some essence from corpses to make a particularly nasty & addictive drug ( which is also , by the way , illegal ) . The music is great , and overall the film is well done and quite different fare for these days , considering that someone actually put some thought and originality into it . But could it really be the next " Rocky Horror Picture Show " , as it seems to be being hyped ? I guess only time will tell . , a must see .
I wouldn't call it vital but it's well worth seeing .	From Shinya Tsukamoto comes a rather toned-down story ( for him , I guess ) of a young man who's been in a car accident in which his girlfriend was killed and his memory was damaged . The young man was in medical school and he enrolls again and becomes a model student , and in dissection class he's busy dissecting his old girlfriend . Yes , she left her body to science . His memories of her are coming back , in his own little world in his mind , and they hang out on the beach or in lush forests and talk about life and how she doesn't have it any more . Very strange , of course . Seems that they liked to play a game called " strangle each other " too , to cut off the air for a " high " . But it also seems like this girl had some death wish anyway . Until she got what she wanted . This is beautifully filmed and the dissection scenes and all that are about as tastefully filmed as something like that can be , I suppose , although I wouldn't recommend it to the squeamish . Lots of strange imagery and lush photography round this out to be a rather decent picture but I wouldn't really call it a horror flick , in fact I'm not sure how to pigeon-hole it . If you're a fan of Tsukamoto or just Asian cinema in general , you'll probably enjoy it though . .
always expect the unexpected with Maddin	This is autobiographical ? Not in a million years , or at least I hope not . I don't know much about Guy Maddin's personal life but I'm at least relatively sure he wasn't a murderous hairdressing hockey player with blue hands . Maddin's films are always full of surprises , and this is by far his most , uh , daring , as far as the subject matter presented . As per his usual formula , if he could be said to have one , it's filmed like it's a 1920's film with modern themes , and this takes his modern themes a bit further than any of his previous films . After a rousing hockey game with the Maroons , after which Maddin suffers from a couple head shots , he and his best friend Shaky ( who is also the police chief ? ) take his girlfriend Veronica to a beauty salon which , at night , is turned into a brothel / abortion clinic . There , the hockey teams beloved Dr . Fusi performs a procedure on Veronica after which she dies while Maddin runs off with the brothel madam's daughter , Meta . Meta wants her father's hands ( which are blue from hair dye ) transplanted on Guy , but the doctor disposes of those hands and merely paints Guy's hands blue , after which he goes on a murderous rampage because he can't control his ' new hands ' . There's a hockey player's wax museum , a sub-plot involving revenge killing , and other delightful stuff going on too . There's also a lot of male full-frontal nudity , yeow , where did THAT come from ? At any rate this is pretty damn strange but it is worthwhile to see and Maddin's genius , if that's what it is , has triumphed again . For fans of jaw-dropping weirdness . . . but perhaps not a good place to start for the uninitiated . And IS there a good place to start for those not familiar with Maddin's weird world ? Try " The Saddest Music in the World " , his most , uh , accessible film , if you like that try some of his other stuff . , wow . . . .
Excellent Hammer film , now on DVD !	Taste ( or Scream ) of Fear is an excellent thriller starring Susan Strasberg as Penny , a woman confined to a wheelchair after a horse-riding accident years earlier . She's gone to visit her father and her new step-mother , and she hasn't seen her father in years . Prior to her arrival though , her father is supposedly called away on business , so Penny is stuck hanging out with step-mother Jane , who seems quite nice . Penny begins to see a lot of Bob , the chauffeur , and of course Jane doesn't approve of that , since he's not in her class Also present a lot of the time is intrusive Dr . Gerard ( Christopher Lee ) , who is concerned because Penny seems to be seeing things , like her father's dead body in the summer-house . Despite the fact that Penny has spoken to her father on the phone , she begins to think that there's something very wrong here . Bob sides with Penny and tries to help her get to the bottom of things , but unfortunately for Penny , nothing is what it seems to be , and no one is who they appear to be either . And that includes Penny . There's a twist ending to this that I didn't see coming and it's actually foreshadowed , but that all depends on how much you paid attention to the beginning of the film , I suppose . An excellent film , now available on DVD in a two-disk set with " The Gorgon " and two more . If you're a Hammer fan you'll definitely want to get your mitts on THIS one . .
Rabies Are Not Healthy For Hippies And Other Living Things	I just received the DVD of this in the mail yesterday and watched it last night , and I could say this is an absolutely gorgeous remastering / restoration that is super clear & all that typical sort of stuff people rave about with DVD's , but then again , this is " I Drink Your Blood " , degenerate drive-in 70's trash , so it hardly seems appropriate . But , since I love degenerate drive-in trash , I loved it and thought that whoever cleaned this up for DVD did an awesome job , my Something Weird Video VHS tape is pretty murky in comparison . Anyway , this is the heart warming story of a band of Satanist hippies , come to a small town in NY , to raise hell and stuff , they do bad things to a local girl and her grandpa comes to set things right and gets a bad trip for his efforts , after which his grandson takes matters into his own hands by taking rabid dog blood and injecting it into meat pies which the hippies later eat , leading to much fun and frolic from there on out . This is nasty , gory , cheesy , sleazy , and not exactly The Feel-Good Movie of the Year , for ANY year , but I think for what it is , it's very well done and is one of my favorite top 10 70's horror flicks . This version is uncut and uncensored , and I'm not sure exactly what all was cut from the OTHER version I saw , but I did see parts I don't remember , and just to see it restored for DVD is worthwhile . This is a horror movie fan's horror movie , and stands out head and shoulders above most of the dreck that's being churned out these days . This isn't particularly for the squeamish but if you love a good cheesy horror flick this may just be for you . stars .
Goofy , gory , kind of fun in a weird way	This is the story of a " Joe Average " type , a kind of nerdy guy , Chris , who finds an invitation on Halloween to a " Murder Party " and is stupid enough to make a costume ( and some pumpkin bread to take along ) and go . And , it really IS a party of that sort , and this poor schmuck is the guest of honor . A roomful of nut-case psycho artists have decided to kill someone in the name of art , only things take a turn for the worse when the biggest loony of them all , Alexander , shows up . Of course , most of these artist types are no strangers to substance abuse so despite being tied up at least a couple times , Chris still manages to get loose . Eventually , tension builds so much among these artist types that turning against each other and while Chris does manage to get away he seems to have a couple of the angriest survivors pursuing him through that particular area of town and even through a few not-quite-as-life-threatening Halloween parties . One of the pursuers is a young man who drunkenly tried to light a cigarette while wearing a rubber mask & now has part of the mask burned to his face , which I suppose would make MOST people irritable . Unfortunately for the OTHER party goers none of Chris's pursuers seem terribly picky about who they hack to bits . This has some pretty good deadpan humor to it , and some just plain goofiness , but when the horror stuff kicks in it's also pretty well done , considering that this is a pretty low budget film , it seems . I had heard lots about this & was expecting to be disappointed but I wasn't , this is a real oddball little horror / comedy . .
tales of Eastern mysticism gone too far	This is a trio of tales , " Shakti " , " Devi " , and " Kali " , about an experimental commune ( or some such thing ) called the Taylor-Eriksson group , which took people on journeys inside themselves and into the realm of the unknown , and left a bit of damage here and there , I'd say . Many years later some of that damage is still lurking and waiting for the right moment to show itself . Shakti tells the tale of a woman whose husband died mysteriously , in fact , he was torn apart , and the suspect was a man that may not have existed . Seems this woman is able to project some inner demon , or so finds out the sister of the man who was killed when she attempts to talk to this woman while posing as a reporter . Devi tells the tale of a young man who wants to " jump out of his skin " . He's a skinhead , a speed freak , and is sent to see a psychiatrist who just happens to be a former member of this commune , which results in the good doctor helping the young man to realize his desire . This is probably the best of the three segments . Kali tells the tale of a healer , who attempts to " heal " this woman who was a part of this commune and lets loose some kind of demon that has lived in this woman , but one wonders if he did it or if SHE loosed it because it could not survive in her any longer . All three of these tales are pretty creepy and suspenseful because you're never really sure what to expect , and the premise and the settings are so unlike those of conventional horror films that it adds to the strangeness . This has a sort of low-budget look and feel to it but it also manages to conjure up a pretty creepy atmosphere throughout , much to its credit . I watched this with my mouth hanging open a good portion of the time and when the real scares ( and gore ) came it hit pretty hard . I found this to be a very interesting and disturbing film and liked it a lot . A good little find , this one , I'd give it .
Rollin appears to have not lost his touch over the years	I love Rollin's strange films from the 60's & 70's ( minus the porno stuff ) and this is sort of a return to that style of film . A professor and his young assistant have been spying on a graveyard at night because there's something very strange going on there . To be honest , there's something very strange going on throughout the whole movie . We have nuns that smoke & drink ( and show their bottoms ) , we have an assortment of very strange characters , one of whom is an ogress that eats babies , one of whom is a court jester , etc . There seems to be some sort of theme in this that , if one is taking care of insane people , it's a bit catching , and there's not one person in this ( except the professor & his assistant ) that doesn't seem to be off their rocker . This is every bit as surreal and weird as most of Rollin's older films , so therefore I liked it . It seems that one of the young ladies roaming the night is to be the bride of Dracula , who is lurking about here & there , usually inside of a big clock . This is beautifully filmed , incredibly strange and surreal , and therefore very much to my liking . If you're a Rollin fan you'll probably like this , if you're not , or haven't seen any of his films , you probably won't want to start with this one . .
A sad and pathetic little Dracula , but a great movie , sort of	Udo Kier plays a very pitiful Count Dracula in this Paul Morrissey interpretation of the vampire legend . Dracula is in need of virgin blood so he and his little assistant Antone pack up the car ( coffin included ) and head for Italy , where people are religious and there's plenty of virgins , still . Of course this is a Paul Morrissey movie and therefore there's Joe Dallesandro making sure the virginity level is at an all time low in one particular family . This is beautifully filmed for the most part , and overall the acting is very good , if one can overlook the fact that Dallesandro makes no attempt to cover his Brooklyn accent . This is not without humor , as the sickly and naive Count takes the word of young ladies of the particular family that he's chosen to prey upon that they are virgins ( or , if you prefer , " where-gins " as he pronounces it ) . There are a couple scenes of him spewing up the blood he's just sucked ( the blood of these whores is killing me , he says ) . Towards the end there is a scene with Dracula being chased down by Mr . Dallesandro , with an ax , and the resulting scene is one that is either right out of Monty Python or else they stole the idea . Despite the fact that he's a bloodsucker , you almost feel sorry for the poor little guy . Overall , I found this to be pretty much a delight , if one delights in bloodsucker movies with a sly sense of humor .
excellent up to a point , but about half an hour too long	I can't fault the look and feel of Changeling a bit , it's a wonderful re-creation of 1920's LA , and it's all well done & quite convincing . The story is that of a woman ( Jolie ) whose son has disappeared , mysteriously , who ends up in a battle with the corrupt LAPD after they claim to have found her son & returned him to her , but , it's not her son . Eventually the police become so fed up with her they commit her to a mental institution , which is apparently what they do to anyone that they want out of the way . There's also a young Canadian boy who has been detained after being found at a remote ranch , who tells of a man who has been luring young boys to this location and then killing them . And Jolie's son may be one of the victims . The story is great up until the last half hour , when you begin to think things are being wrapped up and then just drag on . The scenes with Gordon Northcutt , the child-killer , are just annoying , and the execution scene takes far too long . But , the resolution to the whole LAPD corruption scandal seems to be tidily wrapped up before the picture ends , which was gratifying , if a bit far fetched . John Malkovich has a decent role as a Reverend who is out to expose the corruption and he sides with Jolie in her plight , helping to sway public opinion . A decent enough film but drags on a bit too long . Some will obviously enjoy more than others , and I did enjoy it , up to a point . .
Another journey through the mind of Tod Solondz	I've now seen the 4 films that Tod Solondz has put out and nothing will top " Happiness " for controversial , uncomfortable material , but this might come in second . Aviva is a 13 year old girl ( who is played by about 7 different actresses of varying ages and races ) . She wants to have a baby because they're cute but she doesn't understand the implications . Even mom tries to explain it to her ( like , not having extra money for N-Sync tickets ) but she is determined . She gets pregnant after a visit to some family friends where she and the young man get up to mischief in the bedroom while the folks are having drinks or something , and when her folks find out they of course drag her to a clinic . After that Aviva runs away from home , and eventually hooks up with the Sunshine Family , a pro-life , teeth-baring happy bunch ( a man & woman and a bunch of foster children , many whom are handicapped ) who live in a big house and all is well until she overhears Bo ( Papa Sunshine ) plotting with someone to take out an abortionist . And that someone happens to be their neighbor Earl , who also happens to be one of Aviva's one night stands on the road . Oops . I'll stop there as to what happens in the rest of the movie because if you're already interested in seeing it you will anyway . Needless to say that Mr . Solondz drags you matter-of-fact through things that you'd probably rather not be dragged through , his usual style . The subject matter is definitely controversial enough already , but it's pretty odd that he'd choose to cast several actresses in the role of Aviva , one of whom is a rather large black woman with a tiny voice , and I actually think she's the best one . Anyway , if you've seen other films by Solondz you know they're of the " love it or hate it " variety and this is just another . I can't say I loved it but it's pretty darn strange and pretty good to boot . and not a family film by any means .
Whoa . . . . . . !	I had a coupon for Borders yesterday so I went exploring and found THIS , and I had heard a friend rave about it so picked it up . I only wonder if Borders knew the content of this if they would have carried it in their store , but they probably would have , they have all kinds of weird and controversial stuff . I wasn't sure about the content myself until I watched it and all I can say is . . . . . Whoa . Move over Gacy , Dahmer , Henry , & the entire Texas Chainsaw Massacre Clan because here's Leonard . Leonard is 27 and for the last 12 years he's been in the business of being a serial killer . I don't know how long he's been in the little house he lives in but it seems like it's been about 12 years since he carted out the corpses , tidied up the kitchen , etc . This begins with two women in the back of a van and one is spouting gibberish , and when you see her right before she gets dragged out you understand why she's been less than coherent . The other woman is just at the beginning of her ordeal , apparently having been freshly abducted . This is a almost-too-real horror of a movie , as this young woman is tortured and raped and even maimed . Now Leonard has a scrapbook and this young woman is to be the last entry , before he becomes famous . She is frequently given a pen to write in the book and Leonard's also busy taking pictures to go with her text . To say this is quite the disturbing movie doesn't really say enough . I have to wonder about the minds behind it and hope that they're just carrying out their darkest fantasies and this is not based on reality , although I believe it does say something at the beginning about this being based on a true story . Again , whoa . I read briefly about someone slamming this for the acting , and while it's not the greatest how exactly are serial killers and their victims SUPPOSED to act ? One also wonders how Leonard managed to find himself in the situation he did at the end of the film but that's all I can say about that without creating a spoiler . Overall this is an ugly and brutal film and I can't say I enjoyed it because that isn't the right word for this , but it's along the lines of a car accident where you don't want to look but then again can't look away . . Not for everyone , definitely , and it's unrated but would definitely be NC-17 for violence and sexual situations .
Strange and stylish Giallo	It's rather odd to go back after all these years of seeing Fulci's later films and see his earlier ones , which were light years apart from what he did later in his life . This particular film was done around the time of his only other earlier film that I've seen ( Don't Torture a Duckling ) and is in the " thriller-mystery " style of that film , which I guess makes it a " giallo " . A woman may or may not have killed her neighbor , a hippie-type chick who was always having wild parties and orgies at her place . Perhaps it was jealousy at not being invited ? Or is something else entirely going on here ? Is it drugs , is she being set up by someone for some reason ? To be honest , I'd have to watch it again to see if I could figure out more , because I was rather lost at times , but it sure is cool to watch . I would love to see more of Fulci's earlier films , because it proves that his later stuff ( late 70's / early 80's ) was NOT what he was all about . This is well done but I'm afraid it was rather confusing to me , but I liked it anyway . .
" Bad " is good	I grew up watching ABC TV " Movie of the Week " and I especially loved the ones that were scary , like Gargoyles & things like that , so how I missed this one at the time , I'll never know . Ronald is a boy who lives with his divorced mother , who is a bit eccentric ( played by Kim Hunter ) , and Ronald is a good son & a very talented artist . Unfortunately he's also shunned by his classmates because he's not " cool " . Ronald accidentally kills a young girl and panics and buries her in a shallow grave , where she is found shortly after . He's already confessed to mom who decides that they will wall up a bathroom under the stairs to make a hiding place for Ronald , till things blow over . The police , of course , are looking for Ronald but he's got a safe little hideaway . Mom , however , has been ill and must have gall bladder surgery , so she prepares Ronald with lots of canned goods & powdered milk & then checks into the hospital but never checks out again . So Ronald is left there while the house is cleaned out , sold , and a new family , The Woods , move in . Ronald has by then made spy-holes and takes every opportunity to raid the fridge , but he's also become a bit obsessed with one of the young daughters , which proves to be his undoing . This is very well done for a TV movie and is quite suspenseful . Probably one of the better " made for TV " films I've seen and like I said , I don't know how I missed this one " back in the day " . .
Great to watch but what does it all mean ?	This is a vastly entertaining " giallo " but I would definitely be at a loss to explain it . An American reporter stationed in Prague , Czechoslavakia , is found one morning by a street sweeper , lying in the bushes . He appears dead but his mind is still working and folks at the morgue are rather puzzled that his body temperature remains warm but not puzzled enough to think he's still alive , except for one acquaintance of his . Most of the story how he came to be there is told via flashbacks and it seems that he stumbled across some nasty cult of some kind . I guess this cult is satanic but when I say " nasty " I am referring to an orgy scene in which old people are writhing and groping . Now THAT'S nasty . Now as for the glass dolls , all I can say is " huh ? " . There are several scenes where the wind is stirring the dangling crystals on chandeliers , are these the glass dolls to which the title refers ? Who the heck knows . Except maybe Aldo Lado . This is a really interesting film to watch , and is suspenseful and just plain weird , but a lot of it just seems to be beyond my comprehension . If you like weird and stylish films that don't make a bunch of sense then you'll have no problem with it . I do , .
eerie , moody , dark and creepy	I'm not much for older horror films , necessarily , but I was rather pleased to finally see this classic , which was far better than I anticipated . A woman ( Frances Dee ) goes to a West Indies island , to live with the owner of a sugar plantation , Wesley Rand , and care for his invalid wife . Also on the island is the man's half-brother , Paul , and his mother , along with several servants that live at and take care of the house . As Betsy ( Dee ) settles in , she also encounters Mr . Rand's wife , who is rather spooky and glides about unseeing in a long white gown . Betsy begins to hear tales of voodoo from the house-servants and eventually takes Mrs . Rand to the " home fort " for a voodoo ritual and to see a Houngan , which is a voodoo priest . The trip through the cane fields to the home fort is one of the spookiest scenes I've ever seen in an old movie and is near-perfect . Now , a doctor on the island has told Betsy that Mrs . Rand is in her condition due to a fever which burned out portions of her spinal cord , but after the trip to the home fort Betsy is not too sure that this is the case . It seems that Mrs . Rand was a rather vain person & said and did things that may have led to what happened to her . There's also lots of familial conflicts among the Rands and a even a little time for a bit of romance . Overall , this is far better than I expected to be , and the team of Val Lewton / Jacques Tourner generated a very worthwhile film , for horror fans . .
The ultimate holiday horror film	If you have had the misfortune , like I have , to have seem the horrible remake of this that came out a couple years ago , well , I'm sorry . I'm sorry I saw it too . But , being that I hadn't seen this in a few years I pulled it out and watched it last night , being that it's almost Christmas , and it's definitely one of the most suspenseful horror movies made around the Christmas holiday . A sorority house is being plagued by strange phone calls , and as one can see from the early part of the movie , apparently someone has figured out how to get into the house without being seen . And who is it ? Well , it doesn't seem to ever really be revealed . And that's the beauty of this compared to the remake , where we know right away but all that's left after that is for the body count to pile up . The girls report the strange calls to the police department , but until one of the girls that was supposed to meet her father & go away for the holiday doesn't turn up , then nobody really takes it all very seriously . And of course , we , the viewer , know where she is , but nobody ELSE can find her . There's also a subplot with Olivia Hussey & her boyfriend , Keir Dullea , because she's found out she's pregnant & wants to abort , but he , a high-strung artist-type , wants her to marry him & keep the baby , and after a very strange phone call from HIM , the police suspect that HE might be the phone caller . Margot Kidder has a great role as a drunken sorority sister with a big mouth , and there's also a supporting role from Andrea Martin ( pre-SCTV ) . This is a dark , gloomy , and suspenseful film , made even more so by the setting , which is a cheerfully decorated sorority house where the sisters don't check out . The remake can't hold a candle to the original . .
great British comedy from Handmade films	This is about two unemployed and substance-addled " actors ' who are tired of their squalid living conditions and inability to find work . Or , perhaps , their inability to have money without working for it . One has a rich uncle who has a house in the country so he ends up with the key and they both take off for the country house for the weekend . Too bad they've brought no food or other necessities . But never fear , uncle shows up , but uncle is also rather gay & thinks they are too so comes on to one of them rather strongly , after which they flee back to the city . After all , it is time to sign up for unemployment again . This is one bizarre and humorous episode after another as these two bumbling guys try to get by and scam their way through everything they can to make sure they've got enough to drink , and as an afterthought , enough to eat . A lot of this is very British humor so maybe in some cases it'll be lost on some , but overall I found this to be a rather enjoyable watch . Executive producer was George Harrison , and this is a product of Handmade films , which also brought you " A Private Function " and features one actor from that film as the loving uncle in this film . Recommended to fans of British comedy . .
cold cuts ?	According to the subtitles " Buffet Froid " means " Cold Cuts " . Huh ? But OK , if you can ignore that and enjoy the movie you'll be just fine . Because if you like surreal black comedies then this will be right up your alley . Gerard Depardieu is an unemployed man living in a high rise with his wife and they're happy when a new tenant , a police inspector , moves in . But Alphonse ( Depardieu ) is disturbed by nightmares about killing people , and it seems he gets up to a bit of that himself . When his wife is killed the inspector gets involved but then the killer himself shows up at the apartment to talk to Alphonse regarding what he did , and it seems like the inspector is rather jaded and not terribly worried about the fact that the murderer is right there . This becomes one episode after another in which the people involved are increasingly involved in breaking laws of all kinds and not only are they numb to it , there aren't any consequences . The chief inspector himself is a major accomplice . This film put me somewhat in mind of " Man Bites Dog " but it's not THAT dark . None of the humor in this is " laugh out loud " humor but it's consistently amusing . This is not a film that's easily described but it's very dark humor that the French seem to do very well . If you like the films of Bunuel and " Man Bites Dog " and those sort of films , this is for you . , tres bien .
A missing link	I believe Midnight to be one of the lesser-known horror films which Rob Zombie included in his tribute to the horror films of the 70's , House of 1000 Corpses . Granted this was made in 1980 but if you watch HO1000C you'll see bits of it there . A band of devil worshiping loonies live in the boonies in PA , and are always on the lookout for sacrifice material , especially around Easter . Along come 2 young men and young girl , the guys on their way to Ft . Lauderdale for Spring break and the girl on the run from her abusive stepfather , and there you have it . If you can ignore the fact that these folks have been on the road for quite some time and are still in PA , this is a good film . The landscapes are most certainly " Night of the Living Dead " territory , gloomy and desolate . This is certainly the best film that John Russo ever was involved in , and the connections with George Romero are Tom Savini doing special effects and John Amplas ( " Martin " ) as one of the crazy folk . And now you can enjoy this on DVD courtesy of Lion's Gate . I take back everything I ever said that was bad about them , at least for the time being . Anyway , Midnight is a decent little early 80's gem and well worth seeing if you like the films of that period . .
haunting , ethereal , and as usual , just plain weird	I eagerly looked forward to getting the latest Guy Maddin film and watched it last night . It's quite different in its style , from past efforts , at least I thought so . This is the tale of " grown-up " Guy returning to his childhood home , after receiving a note from his mother who would like a couple of coats of paint slapped on the old lighthouse before she dies . Once Guy has arrived , we're treated to memories of his childhood on this island . His parents run an orphanage in this lighthouse , and the orphans are used in some kind of experimentation in which " nectars " are drawn that seem to have some kind of " Fountain of Youth " effect . His mother spies on he and his sister from the lighthouse and uses a strange device ( invented by his father ) called " the aerophone " ( which still has its " whims " and can broadcast old messages at strange times ) . Boredom is broken up by the arrival of a cross-dressing teenage detective who is out to prove that Guy's parents are up to no good . At times this is quite beautiful , and at times this is just plain weird , but as usual , Maddin manages to pull the two together for another of his strange and arty mind-fs . If you're a Maddin fan , you'll probably eat this up . If you're not , it probably won't make you one . There are several choices for " narrators " , as this film apparently toured with various folks doing the narration . I chose Isabella Rosselini , probably because I like her . You can also listen with Guy Maddin himself , Eli Wallach ( ? ! ) , or various others . Overall , , and I eagerly look forward to more from Maddin .
A good 70's feel to it . . . . . . .	I saw this yesterday and thought that it was a tad on the slow side in parts but overall a good sequel to House of 1000 Corpses . This is more a 70's-type " road picture " with lots of violence and depravity though , than a horror picture like its predecessor . It opens with a raid on the Firefly clan by the brother of the sheriff that died in the first one , and he's out for vengeance , but only Mother Firefly is captured and the rest escape . And it's on from there as Baby & Otis flee to meet up with Captain Spaulding at some sleazy / cheesy brothel in the middle of nowhere . There are some odd bits like a movie critic being called in to talk about the Captain Spaulding thing ( a character played by Groucho Marx in a Marx Brother's movie ) and connections between Groucho Marx and the slaying ? I was rather glad to see Captain Spaulding wash off his clown make-up though , considering how obvious it made him , even though one could recognize that ugly mug with or without . . There are some bits of humor despite the overall grimness of the entire movie , and the soundtrack music is less all over the map than in House of 1000 Corpses , although for 1978 ( when this is to be taking place ) most of the music is several years older than that . The music gives this a decent feel though and the use of " Free Bird " during the climax is pretty good , even though I could have gone through the rest of my life without ever hearing it again . This is an unrelentingly grim and violent picture overall , but it is a decent follow up to House of 1000 Corpses . Like that movie though it won't be for everyone , but I still give it , and at least I know in my mind that the question as to whether or not there'll be yet another sequel has been answered .
these folks ain't right	When I started watching this I cringed , because it's shot on video and I don't like the look of films like that , they just look so cheesy . However , once the story got rolling I was so sucked into it that it no longer mattered . There aren't very many people in the small town of Port Oram , NY , that seem to be right in the head . And one more just moved in , in the form of a young lady who has just taken a job at the local funeral home . Of course , she just happens to be a dead ringer for the long-missing daughter of the funeral home director and his wife , so the wife of course wants her hired , and the hell with checking references . Not a good move but it's par for the course in this movie . We have the other two people that work at the funeral home , the fat snotty make up artist and the handyman , who are busy on the side with black market organ sales . We have the town folk dropping like flies and the new employee ? Well , she brought along a trunk full of memories with her , souvenirs , I guess you could say . She does seem rather adept at her craft though , and when the younger brother of the local barmaid is killed in a car accident she really gets to shine and fixes him up . Of course she has ulterior motives and did such a good job because she wanted him to keep longer so she could take him up to her room and dance with him , not to mention share her bed with him . And the handyman , well , he's pretty well a disgusting pig fueled by Jack Daniels and coke , and not the carbonated kind . There's plenty of twists and turns and crosses and double crosses and lust and murder and gore and all kinds of other unpleasantness that goes on , and as the film rolls on toward the end it only escalates . Sometimes when watching a film I think it's about ending and then it goes on endlessly with no reason to , but this one keeps dragging out the nasties right up to the bitter end and doesn't lose momentum . It's not the most awesome and polished film I've ever seen but it's a pretty well done B-movie and its merits far outweigh its faults . Not a happy little film though , not a " slice of small town life " film though , so beware . , recommended .
more palatable than " Cannibal Holocaust "	As cannibal films go , I guess I've seen a goodly portion of them , and while this does have some scenes of cruelty to animals , it's far less disturbing and sick than Deodato's " Cannibal Holocaust " . But that's hardly a ringing endorsement , eh ? Three hapless tourist types , a brother & sister and a friend that's a college student , embark on a journey in the Amazon river basin to find a village to disprove that cannibals exist . I guess one would have to care a lot about that subject to actually go check it out . Anyway , they of course get stranded and hook up with two other Americans , one of whom is Mike ( played in typical over-the-top fashion by Giovanni Lombardo Raddice , AKA John Morghen ) . Mike is not a nice guy and has a bit of a nose candy problem , and a bit of a temper problem , and to say he's a sociopath probably doesn't quite go far enough . Of course most of the local natives aren't too happy that these invaders are raping and killing their women and others too . And while they sit quietly and stare a lot , they're apparently just biding their time for the right moment . At some point all these folks are taken prisoners , and some are tortured and killed . Mike is even tied up and has his penis deftly removed by a machete ( after which the native eats it ) and then the wound is cauterized by an ember from the fire , I guess , but he's up and around and racing through the jungle like nothing ever happened , ah , the wonders of modern surgery . And later , he's treated to a little off the top , but no running around after that . No wonder he was known as " Italy's pin cushion " . OK , so is this a good flick , you're wondering ? Well sure , I guess , if you like cannibal exploitation flicks it's just fine . Is it the most disgusting movie ever made ? No , but it's got its moments . I missed out on the Image release but this has just been re-released on Grindhouse & it looks good . If you like this sort of thing it's pretty well done for what it is and of course if you don't like this kind of thing , stay away . .
Minus 2 points for cat in cling wrap	This is an excellent movie but I have a cat that I love very much and seeing one wrapped in cling wrap to see if it stops breathing ( it does ) was a bit much for me . I know ( or hope I know ) that it wasn't real , but still . Anyway , Bubby has had a bit of an unorthodox upbringing being that he's been kept indoors for 30-something years by his wacko Mum , who has more than a few screws loose herself . Hard to say if Bubby is retarded or just severely screwed up from his controlled environment . At any rate Bubby's dad tracks them down and moves in , he is sort of a drunk ( sort of ) and eventually Bubby has had enough mistreatment by him and cling wraps both Mum & Pop while they're passed out and wanders into the outside world , where he finds he doesn't die from being poisoned like he's been led to believe . He is not well equipped to deal with the outside world though , and this leads to lots of humorous situations and some which are a little grim or sad . At any rate Bubby is an accomplished mimic , kind of a human parrot , but he's also got a thing for wanting to grab the boobs of any woman that he sees . Especially if they're like Mum's . He is taken in by a band , and gets on stage with them and does a stream-of-consciousness sort of thing , kind of like playing back a tape of things he's heard , and the crowd goes nuts . He also encounters severely handicapped people and hangs out with them for some time , because he can understand them and identify with them , and there he meets Angel , a nurse with boobs like Mum's . I'm probably not doing this justice since it is quite hard to describe . It is an excellent film but it's not for the faint-of-heart , there are a few too many scenes of nastiness that are just handled in a matter-of-fact way that some viewers will not do well with . .
from the writers that brought us American Graffiti ?	Hey now , I read in one of my movie books that the writers on this were the same ones that did American Graffiti ? That seems a bit odd , this is quite the far cry from THAT film , which I liked as a kid but now can't stand . We have a young woman going to a small town by the sea to find her dad , who's an eccentric artist ( played very briefly , by Royal Dano ) and she finds that things in this town are very weird . Seems like everyone has very bad social skills , guess that happens when the moon turns blood red and everyone becomes zombies . These aren't your usual " Night of the Living Dead " ( etc ) zombies , though , they dress quite nicely and their worst habit seems to be chowing down at the meat counter at the local Ralph's Supermarket . Oh , and chowing down on whatever living people happen to wander their way , too , but no grisly intestine stretching in this one , it's all covered up as they dog-pile onto the victim . This film has a good feel to it , very 70's , and it's creepy and eerie and unfortunately , it moves a bit slowly , but I was intrigued and liked this a lot . The house where the woman's dad lives / lived is weird with people painted on the inside walls , it always seems like there's someone watching . Anyway , this is one that will depend on your taste , it's not too gory but it is pretty creepy so I guess if you find it for cheap ( like I did ) check it out .
Love means never having to say you're sorry for stealing the last fix	I had never seen this film before , at least not much of it , and I was surprised when I got it to see it was only rated PG . Well , don't be fooled by that rating because all the glories of being a heroin addict make up for the lack of swearing and nudity , believe me . Al Pacino and Kitty Winn play a young couple thrown together by chance , and while her origins are rather vague , he's from right there in NYC , Needle Park , to be exact , and he's a junkie . Now Helen ( Winn ) eventually tries her hand at this too and finds out ( unsurprisingly ) that she can be a junkie too , and pretty soon they're experiencing all the joys of addiction : stealing , turning tricks , going to jail , etc . All the while they claim to be in love but an addict truly has only one love and it costs $80 a day . The settings are great , and well suited to this sort of movie , and Pacino as Bobby does well in his first starring role . This is not a feel-good movie and has no happy ending , but it's well worth seeing . .
eerie thriller from India	This is a highly atmospheric film & while rather tame by modern standards , it still manages to be quite creepy at times . A man ( Kumar ) returns to his ancestral home to find it seems to be haunted . There's a creepy butler called Laxman who is very reminiscent of old dark house films , almost like Boris Karloff . There's also a beautiful young lady ( Radha ) who herds goats and lives nearby with her uncle . It seems that every night at 9 : 30 something odd happens , and it has to do with murders in the past , and are there really ghosts or are there people merely creeping around doing nefarious things ? There's also a plump detective to add comic relief , and a guy named Mohan who gets around on crutches who may not be who he seems at all . Lots of the scenes take place in tall grass and that adds to the creepiness . This is beautifully photographed in crisp black and white , although due to the age of the film ( and possibly poor storage ) the film has obviously been damaged somewhat and there are blips here & there on the DVD , but that doesn't detract from the viewing experience too much . Quite reminiscent of creepy US films of the 30's & 40's at times , this still stands rather well on its own . .
dark and creepy stuff	This is the first of the Blind Dead series , I just sprung for the box set from Blue Underground and while I'd seen this on VHS a long time ago I rather enjoyed seeing it again . If " enjoyed " is the right word , because it's dark , creepy , and dare I say it ? Sure , why not , disturbing . An old medieval town exists in the middle of nowhere near the Spanish and Portuguese border , and when one woman of a trio that is headed for a weekend in the country decides to disembark from a moving train she hikes through the countryside and finds this place . Deciding it's a nice spot to bed down for the night ( ! ! ) she proceeds to cuddle up in her sleeping bag only to get munched by skeletal knights in rotting shrouds . These knights were of an order that practiced the dark arts , and I guess technically they're the Templars of legend but that's never mentioned in the movie . However , as wandering dead things , you can't get much creepier . The scenes with them on horseback are something to see as well . This is a very atmospheric film and it does well at conveying a sense of dread . This is early 70's Euro-horror at about its finest , in my book . .
Entertaining and wild " children's film " that is probably not for children	" Yokai Daisenso " is a children's film by Takashi Miike , but as you might expect , it's probably a bit too dark & scary for younger ones . However , older children may well eat this up , that is , if you play it dubbed in English . The story is that of a young boy , who has moved with his mother to the country , to live with his grandfather , after a divorce . During a village festival the boy is chosen as a " Kirin rider " , a great honor , but with that honor comes much danger and adventure , of course . Meanwhile , evil doings are at hand as a woman in a white mini skirt , go-go boots & a beehive hair-do , teams up with an evil Yokai to turn people's resentments and discarded items against them . And this evil has manifested itself as a flying city in the form of a monster that heads for the City of Rage itself , Tokyo . One quite funny scene has two derelicts watching the monster fly over the city . . . says one , " Oh , it's only Gamera " . The young boy has befriended Yokai , which are monsters of a kind , mostly benign , that have isolated themselves away from humans , and all the Yokai in Japan band together to fight the evil . In many ways Miike & crew have taken the late 60's / early 70's Yokai films and turned them into a modern action adventure film for ( older ) kids that also combines some strange mechanical monsters that made me think of " Transformers " . The look and feel of the film is great , the effects are entertaining , and some of the humor will just sail right over kid's heads , but still , older ones might enjoy it . As for adults , there's not much here not to like , if you're a fan of Japanese monster movies you'll enjoy the heck out of this . Cool & fun stuff , kind of dark at times but perhaps that's just Miike . . and what a wild ride . .
claustrophobic and disturbing	This is a strange film done in the style of Dogma 95 , which means hand held cameras and other restrictions . It's not so much a story as it is a portrait of a family with a schizophrenic member , specifically Julien ( as played by Ewen Bremner ) . We're shown his older sister who is pregnant ( by whom , we're not sure , until maybe later ) , his dad ( played by Werner Herzog ) who swills Robutissin and is inflicts mental cruelty on his family members , and his brother Chris , who wants to be a wrestler , etc . We're also shown other disabled folks at various functions including bowling , parties , etc . All in all the effect is a rather surreal collection of snippets of the life in this strange little family and at times it's a bit mundane but at other times it's fairly disturbing , and at times VERY disturbing . This is not a film for the unadventurous and it's not far from the style of " Gummo " so if you've seen that you sort of know what to expect but then again , not really . , it will stick with you .
zombie sex , volcanic childbirth , and other delights	A taxi driver is married to a blackjack dealer . But the blackjack dealer is having an affair with a rich man . She quarrels with him because he won't leave his wife for her , and then she's raped and killed by two young thugs . Her husband , the cab driver , seeks revenge on both the man his wife was having an affair with , and on the two young thugs , but he's beaten and crippled , and at that point he seeks the help of a man he saved from the police after he was caught digging up graves . Of course , this man was seeking bones from dead people to use in his black magic . The magician agrees to help the taxi driver but black magic is powerful and affects the poor man even while he's participating in the rituals to get his vengeance . His deceased wife is dug up and her corpse brought to the magician's hut , and after some incantations and other magical stuff , the rapists begin to vomit up worms , and that's just the beginning . The corpse is seeded by one of the young rapists ( with his spine hanging out all the while ) and when the " baby " is born ( of the rich man's wife ) , the son will take vengeance . And what a wild , disgusting vengeance it is . And the son doesn't look ANYTHING like his dad . Ha . This is pretty outrageous starting with about the second half , because the first half is pretty much all about setting up the story . This has some pretty gruesome special effects and for horror fans , there's oodles to like here . A fun and disgusting crazy Hong Kong flick , well worth seeing . .
Weird , twisted , worthy of your time . . . . if you enjoy dark humor	I'm not sure why so many people seem to dislike this film , at least ones that have reviewed it on IMDb . I have now seen this twice and found it to be just as weird and hilarious the second time as the first . Beth is a lonely young lady at a Kansas high school that makes two new friends , one of whom is Student Body president , and the other is his girlfriend , and on the school newspaper . Now Beth has a somewhat troubled home life , as her parents are whacko , so she's often tardy for school , for which she gets called to the principal's office . His intention is to make a pass at her but it's unsuccessful when she brains him with a trophy , and she then enlists the help of her new friends to help her dispose of the evidence . . . . oh yes , the principal is still alive , for now , anyway . He's taken to the basement of this one girl's house and held captive . Unfortunately for our heroic trio , this was all witnessed by Terra , an " absurd " girl with outrageous clothing and hairstyle ( think one of the B-52's wearing 70's polyester , for want of a better description ) and Cherry , the angry rich girl with psychotic tendencies , to say the least . Of course the principal is accidentally loosed from his bonds and then shot , also accidentally , sort of . So now there's a body to dispose of but Cherry seems to know a lot about that , so her help is enlisted . As a subplot there were several girls chosen as prom queen nominees , and Cherry , who isn't nominated , of course wants to be prom queen , so she's busily mowing down the candidates in her Jeep Cherokee and even picks off a few in a drive-by . This is a busy movie . Now , this is very well done considering it's a low budget film with no-name actors and actresses , and the film makers had a pretty good sense of humor and it comes off quite well . Mind you , the humor is mostly jet-black and this ain't no run-of-the-mill mindless teen comedy . Makes Kansas seem like quite a scary place , too . I give this , if you like black comedies that take good taste for a drag through the mud , you'll most likely enjoy this . If you're looking for a dumb teen comedy , look elsewhere .
Very creepy Italian horror but not of the zombie / gore variety	I see others have made comments about the American release of this film misleading potential viewers with the cover , which is true , " Revenge of the Dead " had a very lurid cover with a zombie popping out of a sewer drain , and that's not at all what this film is about . A man finds some strange evidence in an old typewriter that something odd is afoot , and brings that to a priest to look at , although the priest that he spoke to has supposedly been dead for some time . There's something about " K-zones " which are areas where the dead will come back to life , or something like that . The man & his wife go out into the country to find more evidence and come across a strange old building that seems to house some sort of monitoring system for some people that are studying this phenomenon , and still they don't really know what's going on . A lot of the creepiness of this film is actually thing that are suggested , not shown , and it gave me the willies . I found this to be a very compelling film to watch & the ending is fairly typical of Italian films , it leaves it up to you to decide what happened . This seems to have a similar plot ( at times ) to " Pet Semetary " by Stephen King but this came first . If you like this , then check out " House with Laughing Windows " , also by Pupi Avati , which is ( to my knowledge ) his only other film available on DVD in the US which is in the horror genre . .
Atmospheric and dream-like vampire movie	I much prefer the Nosferatu-type vampire instead of the Bela Lugosi style vampire , because it's more believable ( if such a thing is to be believed ) . This is an excellent reworking of Murnau's " Nosferatu " and feature Klaus Kinski as the creepy count , and he does justice to the role originally played by the rat-like Max Schreck . The story is virtually the same but of course it's all done with more modern looking settings and it's all beautifully filmed and in some parts , rather dream-like . Jonathan Harker goes to Transylvania to bring papers to Count Dracula who is interested in buying a house closer to a food supply . While there he's bitten , and while ill he still manages to return to his town , although he doesn't beat Count Dracula and his black coffins full of rats and soil . A plague runs full-on throughout the town and the townspeople are dropping like flies while Dracula roams the streets at night . Isabel Adjani plays the the wife of Jonathan and is the woman pure at heart that eventually lures Dracula to his demise . All in all , an excellent film and is available in the original German with subtitles or on the other side of the DVD dubbed in English . stars .
an odd delight	I was curious about this film and happened across a used copy while I was DVD scrounging so I picked it up and finally watched it last night , and it's pretty darn good . I think the word " droll " comes to mind . One man ( Alec Guiness ) takes a room at the home of a sweet old lady who takes in boarders , and tells her he will have his friends over because they have a string quartet . What these 5 men are planning is an armored car heist and this sweet old lady's house is to be their base of operations . Little did they know what they were up against . I mean , the robbery and getting the money back to the house went fine , it's just that they didn't know what a formidable adversary they'd have once Mrs . Wilberforce figured out that their cello case was filled with money . She of course means to turn them into the police until they point out she was an accomplice , in which case she also wants to turn herself in . She confiscates the money and locks it away but the crooks are determined to kill her and take the money anyway . Eventually they're turning on each other , especially because one big lug doesn't want the old lady harmed . Alec Guiness is great in his role as the mastermind of the crime , and his gang , Herbert Lom , Peter Sellers , etc . , are pretty good too . Sellers is pretty low key and this was probably one of his first roles , but towards the end he does display some of the type of humor we'd come to expect from him . I can't say much more about the film without giving away the ending , which I enjoyed a lot , so I'll just leave that alone and say that if you enjoy low-key comedies this is for you . , very enjoyable .
Interesting debut film from Bertolucci	It seems like a lot of people compare this to " Rashoman " but since I have not seen that , I can't , although I know the basic story-line . What we have here is the mysterious murder of a prostitute , and several suspects who are all shown in flashback as they traverse the very park where the prostitute was murdered . There is some interaction among these people , even if it's only that they notice each other as they pass by . There are two young boys , some purse snatchers , a homosexual , a soldier , and a strange man who wears clogs . Each of them is grilled , in turn , by the police , and we hear their stories and then we see what REALLY happened , which is pretty entertaining in itself . For no story matches the actual events . All seem to be likely suspects , and none of them seem to be particularly wholesome or reputable . The film presents each story as it really occurred , and eventually the viewer does know who did it , and then it's a matter of waiting to see how the police apprehend the culprit . The photography is excellent and the story is interesting , a fine debut for someone so young ( Bertolucci was supposedly in his early 20's at the time ) . Well worth seeing . . .
" Please step away from the meat "	A photographer , who is looking for edgy & dangerous subjects , can sure pick ' em . He stumbles across a woman about to be raped by some thugs , saves her , and then photographed her as she was boarding a subway train , after which pictures of her appear in the paper , along with a story of her disappearance . In seeking more photo subjects he finds a rather odd man who emerges from the subway , who may just be responsible for a lot of mysterious disappearances in that general area . The photographer tries to photograph the man and almost gets roughed up for his trouble . Then , of course , the photographer becomes obsessed with his quest , and his girlfriend thinks he's losing his mind , but he presses forward and even finds out where the man works & lives . And after the photographer gets a bit too close to his subject he comes home with a sort of brand on his chest , after which his girlfriend decides she believes him after all & by then , it's a bit too little too late . There's some incredible and disgusting gore in this , and one flying eyeball scene definitely made me flinch , and I don't flinch much when it comes to horror . Oh for this to have been in 3D . The element of surprise is ever-present and unsuspecting victims never see what's coming . A rather strange ending to this too , as there's sort of a twist to where all the bodies are going , although why all the preparations that " the butcher " takes seem rather pointless when you see what's going on . Anyway , the late night rolling abattoir will probably keep you either taking cabs , driving your car , taking the bus , or just plain walking , thanks . That is , if you live where there are subways . Definitely worth seeing if you're a horror fan , but it's not what you'd call a " fun " film . Nasty & brutal , is more like it , but definitely has a few good scares & some rather startling moments .
Pretty scary & suspenseful thriller , well worth seeing	I missed the chance to see " The Strangers " at the cinema , although I wanted to . . . . I think the choice at the time was between this & " Wanted " and while " Wanted " was OK , I think I'd have rather seen THIS on the big screen . A couple ( Scott Speedman & Liv Tyler ) have just returned from a wedding and reception to James ' ( Speedman ) remote family vacation home . Things are a bit strained between the couple because James had proposed to Kristen ( Tyler ) and she didn't accept . While they're moping around , at odds with each other , there's a knock at the door , and it's a young girl , who asks for someone that obviously doesn't live there , and she's shrouded in darkness , after apparently having unscrewed the porch light bulb . After she's told she's mistaken about her location , she wanders off and other strange things begin to happen . Soon , James & Kristen are under assault by masked assailants , who apparently have no motive whatsoever . After several attempts to escape , Scott and Kristen are basically held hostage by these mysterious strangers , who seem to be able to flit in and out of the house and move things around , and the general atmosphere is VERY unnerving . And of course , there's no happy ending . I haven't seen this mentioned anywhere , but this appears to be a remake or a re-imagining of " Ils " ( " Them " ) , a French / Romanian film from 2005 . It has a very similar storyline yet the outcome is not quite the same , but still just as creepy and scary . However , " The Strangers " stands very well on its own as a highly suspenseful thriller that doesn't rely on oodles of blood & gore to get the scares across . Well worth seeing , .
Strange little Brit-flick	This is a Troma Team release , a pick-up , not an original , so therefore it's not typical Troma . Which sometimes is good , and in this case , yes , this is good . Weird , definitely . This begins something like a melding of Man Who Fell To Earth with Land of the Lost and perhaps a dash of Laserblast thrown in for good measure . A blond woman and her daughter are wandering through the English countryside and they're obviously " not from around there " because there's people hunting them . The hunters look like an army of Invisible Men , because their heads are wrapped in white bandages ( ? ) and they're sporting shades . Anyway , this woman happens across this house in the country that's the sight of a fancy dress party , for New Years , I guess , and either some of the people in this house are vampires or it's just part of their costumes , that's never really explained and when these folks are under fire and defending themselves they don't take out their fake vampire teeth , unless they're actually MEANT to be vampires . Who the heck knows . Anyway this blond woman and her daughter take refuge at this house and the bad guys are systematically dealt with via gunfire and even scanner-type activity from the little girl . I'm not doing so well at describing this because it really is a fairly decent movie , with beautiful cinematography and a very different atmosphere to it . There are a lot of inexplicable things in this though , like what are those sounds one hears while the camera is roaming around the house ? They almost sound like a needle being dragged across a record or perhaps maybe farting noises ? Anyway , that's mostly inconsequential , this is one oddball and fascinating flick to watch and pretty damn good for some little independent film . and check it out , you may be surprised how good it is . Or not .
interesting and strange documentary of a little-known area	Being from northern California , I had heard of the Salton Sea before but did not know its origins , nor did I know the current state of things in and around the area in which it exists . The Salton Sea is sort of a man-made mistake , which was , for a while , a resort that threatened to overtake Palm Springs in popularity , until some tropical storms & related disasters hit in the mid-70's and things have gone downhill ever since . There's a great deal of debate about the supposed toxicity of the water , and the fish that live in it , because there have been bacterial problems related to heat & lots of fish & birds have died as a result . There are the residents of Bombay beach , which seems to be the more " bohemian " community along the sea , and which consists of older residents and newer arrivals from the big city who subsist on welfare . There's also the residents of the other shore , who bought land and built homes ( or put up trailers ) as retirement property , who can't afford to sell & move elsewhere . There's some that seem optimistic that people will come there & settle , and others that seem to think that what is there now is all there will ever be . There's some coverage of Sonny Bono's attempts at bringing attention to the area , and forming the Salton Sea Authority , but most of that faded after his death . Most of the wetlands in southern California are now gone too , and there's not much left other than this area , and it seems to be in great danger of fading away . A rather sad commentary on what seems to be a beautiful area that could be saved if the right things were done and the money was spent . .
strange but interesting Russian science-fiction romance	This is a pretty strange movie for 1962 , especially considering it's a Russian film . We have what appears to be some kind of Mexican island paradise or something , that's " haunted " by a sea devil , which is some guy in a glittery silver suit and helmet that makes him look like an underwater Ultra-Man or something . The " natives " are interesting , people in loin cloths that speak Russian and dive for pearls . From what I could gather from some of the bonus material I browsed through on this it was not filmed outside of Russia and all takes place on the Crimean peninsula so that would explain why there's no palm trees , I guess . I also think it's a safe bet that all the signs we're shown in Spanish are stock footage . The sea devil turns out to be the son of Dr . Salvatore , a young man in danger of dying who is given a gill transplant and who can live in both the water and air . Of course a greedy pearl merchant wants him for his very own because of his capabilities , but the young man is set on the fiancée of the greedy pearl merchant , especially after he got a close look after rescuing her from a possible shark attack . This is interesting to watch because it seems to be quite a bit ahead of its time in some ways but not in others . The Russian approximation of Mexican music is rather interesting too , rather a culture clash if you ask me . Also there's some very eerie and strange organ music that brings to mind " Carnival of Souls " . This is certainly an odd movie but I guess you could also say it's fascinating , because it seems so odd for its time , and definitely for the place . There's plenty of cool underwater scenes too so this is a good movie to watch on a hot summer's day for a cool-down . If you don't want to watch this in Russian with subtitles I think the option is available to watch it in English but I opted for the original . If you like odd stuff it's well worth a look . .
Pork chops again ?	This is a pretty nasty flick , full of perversions and cannibalism and other wholesome things . It's rather hard to tell when the setting is though , although at the end it does say something about the 1920's but it looks more like the 40's or 50's in some cases . So let me set that part aside and continue on : Fritz is a homosexual who lures young boys back to his apartment and shows up at the local restaurant the next day with offerings of meat . And what happened to the young boys ? Oh , they left , of course . Not under their own power but technically they did leave . Now Fritz , on the surface , is known by the police to be a black marketeer , and when he's arrested once he's deputized to help round up other wrong-doers , which is pretty much leaving the fox to guard the hen house . Eventually when neighbors become suspicious his downfall is eminent . This is not particularly graphic in the sex or gore department but it's just enough to revile some folks , I imagine , so proceed with caution . But overall , it's a pretty decent and well done horror flick , based on a true human monster . .
Classic British Science Fiction	Day of the Triffids is definitely one of the better British Science Fiction movies ever made . Earth is having spectacular meteor showers , and the next day all who witnessed them have gone blind . To make matters worse , there are strange plants that have taken root everywhere and can then uproot themselves and move about , and of course any human that comes in contact with these is toast . Now , one man has just had an eye operation and wakes up in the hospital to silence , removes his bandages , and can see , but he finds all around him are blind , so he sets off into London to find help and maybe salvation . Eventually he's amassed a small group of those who can see , and they battle the triffids . Now , there's also a couple stuck in a lighthouse on an island that are having their own triffid trials and tribulations , and they're the ones that discover the weapon that will end this invasion . I wasn't aware that they were able to communicate with anyone though so I'm not sure how they got that across . Oh well . A plot hole . This is one of my childhood favorites and I've now got it on DVD , so I'm happy . . . the Cheezy Flicks DVD is not bad in its transfer but doesn't necessarily do this the justice it deserves . Still though , it's well worth having until something nicer turns up . Great movie , .
Cool & Fun stuff , with G-rated nudity intact	I just got the DVD of this ( double feature with Moon Zero Two ) and I hadn't seen " When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth " in many years . It is beautifully filmed , if , I guess , historically inaccurate in many ways , but if you can forget that it's great entertainment . A blonde woman who is due for sacrifice ( mainly because that's what blonds are apparently for ) , escapes & falls in with another tribe , although the men ( especially one ) fall for her in a big way & trouble ensues & she's not wanted again . But she makes her way in the world , gets adopted by a dinosaur after camping out in one of its egg shells , and finds a protector in it . And of course , her " beau " from the tribe pursues her because he's quite interested in her . The final scenes are rather spectacular , and look great . You have to overlook that everyone's teeth are perfect and white , the men's hair looks styled , and dinosaurs and men are running around in the same era together , but other than that , it's a great fun film . Plus , thanks to an error in the packaging , the version on the DVD is the British one , with nudity intact , not the " G " rated US version . However , the nudity isn't enough to corrupt anyone , yet it was apparently enough for Best Buy to not sell this in their stores anymore . However , it's still available on-line for the regular price , and not at the elevated prices now on ebay & Amazon . . . so if you want it , don't fall for the gouger's baloney and pay some ridiculous price . , cool & fun stuff .
A notch up from " Friday the 13th " , and FINALLY on DV	The Burning , now on DVD , finally , is part of the early 80's " slasher craze " but it actually lesser known than many films of this type . To me , it manages to be at least a notch up from " Friday the 13th " although I still do enjoy the first couple of THAT series . The story is that a bunch of kids at summer camp played a joke on the caretaker of the camp , only to have it go wrong and the man ( Cropsy ) was horribly burned and spent 5 years in a hospital . After 5 years , he's released even though nothing much could be done about his appearance because he was so badly burned , and he returns to the area where the dirty deed originally took place , and he has ( of course ) vengeance in mind . For one of the original kids that was responsible for his condition is now a counselor at a new summer camp across the lake from the old one . This has a great look to it and the characters are a bit less obnoxious than others of this type film , and the killer manages to fairly well hidden throughout , even while doing his dirty deeds . A big pair of hedge trimmers is his weapon of choice and he manages to do quite a bit of damage while a bunch of the older campers are on a canoe trip . Their canoes have all disappeared and some brave and stalwart campers have fashioned a raft from wood in order to return to the main camp for help but the first round doesn't make it , etc . Overall I found this highly enjoyable and much better than the Friday the 13th franchise overall , maybe because there weren't 29 sequels . .
Hilarious animated sci-fi revenge flick	I've been a fan of Plympton's ever since I saw his early stuff in the 80's , probably at a " Spike & Mikes " festival . I enjoyed " I Married a Strange Person " , and now this , Mutant Aliens . Mutant Aliens isn't quite as funny or outrageous as " I Married . . . " but it still manages to be vile , disgusting , gory and hilarious , sometimes all at the same time . It even has a rather decent story which is ( to me anyway ) , far more coherent that " I Married . . . " . Astronaut Earl Jensen is launched into space & the evil Dr . Frubar rigs it so his spacecraft loses all its fuel , and then blames it all on Earl's young daughter Josie . Dr . Frubar has staged all this to get people to contribute to the space program , of course , so accidents like this don't happen again . Fast forward to the future , when Josie is all grown up and working at an observatory , when she spots an object entering Earth's atmosphere & it turns out to be dear old dad , returned to earth with some benign aliens . . . . for revenge . And , surprise , the aliens aren't so benign after all , but they are pretty darn cute for the ravenous creatures they're supposed to be , especially the tiny chipmunk-like creature with the big eyes , which strikes fear into the hearts of all who gaze upon it . I rather enjoyed this whole film , and Plympton's animation just kind of sucks me right in . . . yeah , it's a bit primitive but I still like it a lot . If you're a Plympton fan , you should like it , if not , well , perhaps this isn't the best place to start , perhaps his earlier work first . . ? , fun stuff . . .
somewhat contrived in parts but still fun and interesting	I guess you could say this wasn't really a true documentary , as there are parts of it that are staged , and if you're making a film you can get pretty much the outcome you want with editing , etc . But that doesn't detract from the enjoyment of the film , if you don't think about some of what you're seeing too hard while you're watching this . Jamie Uys chose to film the denizens of the Namib desert ( both the " red " and the " white " ) , and there are some truly fascinating creatures that live in both , and have adapted themselves to their environment . Granted , this was made over 30 years ago so things may have changed a bit since then too . There's lots of " choreographed " animal activity with classical music playing and that all works quite well . It is a bit disturbing though to see baby pelicans stranded when the water in which they thrive dries up rapidly and they begin a " death march " in which only a few survive . There's even some plant life examined and while some of what's shown is obviously animated , it's still somewhat interesting . Uys also touches briefly on Bushmen , apparently one of his favorite subjects and a tiny bit of a preview of what was to come , since some of the same oddities are shown here that were shown in " The Gods Must Be Crazy " , several years later . Overall , this makes a pretty good " family film " but it's also rather interesting for people that just enjoy animals . .
" coming of age " story mixed with a ghost story , works pretty well !	This is a pretty mild film for Tartan Asia " Extreme " , because there's really not much in it that would prevent it from maybe a PG or PG-13 rating . A young boy is sent to boarding school , which he hates , and he is befriended by a young man there who may or may not be real . He also has his head filled with ghost stories of things that may or may not have happened around the boarding school by some new friends . As time passes by Chatree realizes that his new friend is a ghost , and that strange things seem to be happening , like passing from one world to another and then back . Chatree does some poking around and finds some things that were stashed away years ago . Seems like this new friend of his , Vichien , drowned in a swimming pool years ago & one teacher held herself responsible , as she tried to keep some bad news from him which he saw anyway . But the drowning was not a suicide and now Chatree must try to convey this to Mrs . Pranee and also set Vichien free from his earthly bondage , or some such thing . To do so Chatree must separate his soul from his body which he does with ether , in probably the most heart-stopping moment of the film . This is a rather entertaining and well done film , and also contains some footage from an old Hong Kong Vampire movie as well , which is being shown in a patio area for the boys at the school . Very enjoyable but not without a few spooky moments . .
easily as weird as the first but a bit of a different style	Tetsuo II : Body Hammer , is without a doubt as weird as Tetsuo : The Iron Man , but it has a bit of a different style , and it's in color . While the first was in black & white and had lots of stop-motion , this one has very little of that style but perhaps makes up for it in utter weirdness . A wimpy guy and his wife have their son kidnapped by brutal skinheads ( or whatever they are ) and vengeance turns the wimpy guy into a brutal killing machine with guns sprouting out of his chest , etc . Beats pretty much everything hands down for bizarre cyber-punk imagery , but maybe what's really lacking is the sly sense of humor from the first movie . This is nasty and ugly , and yet has scenes that are almost pastoral interwoven with all the insanity . Never mind really trying to find a tangible plot or story beyond the basic kidnapping and vengeance because you're too busy trying to figure out what exactly is going on as people get amped up with oxide shots and rust out . I've read reviews in movie books on this that slam it in comparison to the original but this is still great entertainment , that is , if you're of an adventurous nature . Kind of David Lynch meets Robocop on acid , maybe . .
one big circle	A pretty decent and strange Korean thriller that seems to go full circle from beginning to end . This is one where you aren't sure if you're seeing a dream , reality , hallucination , etc . A man finds two people dead at an isolated cabin in a forest and chases yet another man who he finds there but never really sees his face , and this man knocks him out . . . . and as he's wandering through a tunnel trying to get help he's hit by a car and ends up in the hospital . It's at this point where I was no longer sure what exactly I was seeing anymore . Lots of poking back in the past , lots of trying to find out about this cabin , this forest , are they haunted , etc . ? A strange movie that's kind of confusing but would bear watching again to see if I could pick up more of what was going on . But it was cool to watch , whether or not I necessarily understood what was taking place . .
another goody from the guy that brought us " Brainiac "	This is a good little Mexican film from the early 60's by Abel Esparza , the guy who brought us " Brainiac " ( Baron Del Terror ) . It involves a man who wants to kill his wife so he can marry his lover instead , and he does so but with consequences , since his house keeper was also his former wife's godmother , and a witch to boot . Of course , she doesn't let on that this is the case , that would be telling . The man remarries almost immediately after his wife's death ( by poisoning ) and then brings his new wife home and she's obsessed with the former wife's room , despite the fact that the room takes every opportunity to tell her she isn't welcome there . The new wife is horribly burned in an accident and then this movie veers off into Eyes Without a Face and mad scientist territory as her husband is busily collecting bodies with which to restore his new wife's face and hands . This is fairly gruesome for the time and features severed hands and other such goodies . Overall this is a nice little gem from a bygone era . I bought this on a new label I've never heard of called Casa Negra and the DVD transfer is pristine and spotless , so it was a pleasure to watch . I will be looking for more like this in the future . .
Eshu vs . Pazuzu	It's really a shame that Warner Brothers yanked this movie from distribution and pretty much took it out of circulation , seemingly forever , because of conflicts with " The Exorcist " . Abby is a low-budget film by Louisville director / writer William Girdler who is sort of a local legend here , to some anyway . It follows the story of a minister and his wife , Abby , who move into a new house and begin a new life while the minister's dad is over in Africa researching the Yoruba god Eshu , the God of Fertility . How exactly Eshu got from Africa into Abby ( a rather long distance , by my calculations ) isn't exactly clear , but he did , and she's starting to act a bit strangely and use extremely foul language . Not to mention puking at very inappropriate times . Of course , this alarms family and friends . Abby is hospitalized and given the usual treatment for possessed people , but she gets out and goes cruising bars on Louisville's west end , looking for some fun . Of course , this even FURTHER alarms family and friends and they go looking for her . Girdler regular Charles Kissinger has a brief role as a doctor in this one . Carol Speed is the unfortunate Abby , and attacks her role with relish , or is that mustard coming out of her mouth ? ha ha . Overall this is a decent little low-budget film , and you can actually get it from a place called Cinefear in a reasonably decent print . I've heard lots of pissing and moaning about their release so I was pretty hesitant to order it but finally broke down and did it and despite a bit of a rough start ( perhaps less than 5 minutes of washed out color and lines ) it evens out and becomes quite watchable . I'm not sure exactly what people expect from an ultra low budget film that's over 30 years old but I'm quite satisfied with what I got . At any rate this is a movie worth seeing and even though he's been dead for a long time ( a helicopter crash ) William Girdler certainly had potential . .
A unique horror flick	Anguish is a unique horror movie when you can get past the premise that first , you're watching a movie , which becomes a bunch of people watching a movie , wherein yet another group of people are watching a movie . . . . . . eeek ! Zelda Rubenstein plays a rather domineering mother and her son ( Michael Lerner ) is a crazed optometrist who's on the hunt for eyes . Because he's losing his sight and apparently so is mom . OK , so that is THAT movie . The real movie you're watching consists of two girls viewing THAT movie ( billed as " The Mommy " ) and while one is enthralled , the other needs to be dragged out of the theater and beaten for being so silly , because all she does is whine that the movie is too much for her , to the point where you'd like to kill her yourself . All this goes on for about half an hour or so when the REAL action begins to take place , and that would be that another patron of the arts has seen this movie too many times and taken it to heart , so he therefore does the copycat thing and traps and begins to take out people in the theater . Sometimes you're absolutely not sure what part of this you're seeing , which makes it the more intriguing to me , although it does get a tad on the confusing side sometimes . While this does have some standard " stalk & slash " elements the " movies within movies " theme keeps it interesting and dare I say , yes , it's disturbing . And , like an actual good horror movie , the end is left kind of WIDE open and it didn't outstay its welcome by having a sequel . Woo HOO ! , a pretty different take on a horror flick and worth your time to watch .
Weird little British horror flick	First off , I bought this by accident , thinking of " Hellborn " which I'd read about & sounded interesting . This turned out to be a GOOD mistake though , and I really enjoyed it . First thing on the box that caught my attention was the name Dominique Pinon ( that's a guy , y'all ) . He's the strange little rubber-faced guy that's in all of Jeunet & Caro's movies ( Delicatessen , City of Lost Children , & Amelie ) . He plays a cop in this , a strange departure but interesting . Now on to the film : This is one weird little movie . It was only made last year but is low-budget and has the look to it of British films of the 80's ( for instance , XTRO came to mind ) . It's very well done and quite creepy and nightmarish . And there's an evil clown . . . . . I love evil clowns . There's a good clown too , but I think it's really the evil clown underneath , otherwise no little kids would go near it so they could be ripped to shreds . A woman who lost her child a few years prior lives a nightmare of that incident every day , and apparently is searching for the killer , still . I say apparently because despite the non-stop nightmarish flow of the film , it's also a tad bit hard to follow . But , for me , I found this to be one of those films where you just need to stop trying to figure it out and go along for the wild & creepy ride . I really liked this and I think most horror fans would , at least most horror fans that enjoy the " out of the ordinary " , a category which this fits into quite well . Recommended .
great drama about a tragic event ( minor spoilers )	When the Chamberlain family is camping near Ayers Rock , Australia , Lindy Chamberlain ( Meryl Streep ) sees her baby being dragged out of their tent by a dingo and then begins an ordeal that no one should have to experience . For it seems like the dingo story is not believed by the public or the press , and the whole thing turns into a circus . Lindy doesn't help matters either because she won't play to the jury or courtroom , she's only herself , and she's a tough nut to crack , so of course everyone thinks she's guilty because there's a piece of evidence that hasn't come to light . Sam Neill is excellent as Michael Chamberlain , a Seventh-Day adventist pastor , who has doubts about his faith and perhaps about his wife . It's good ( or bad ) to see that people are just as prejudiced and stupid elsewhere as they are in the States too , because the Australian public doesn't believe the story and the media only fans the flames . Eventually , Lindy is found guilty and sent to prison for a life of hard labor , but years later , a missing piece of evidence shows up and she's freed , but not until after the family's life is basically ruined . A heart-breaking story , very well done , a bit long but well worth seeing . .
Another goody from De La Iglesia	This is a pretty fun film , especially if you like old spaghetti westerns , since this is about a place called Almeria in Spain where a lot of them were filmed and people who never managed to move on from that era still live there and run a sort of " wild west " town for tourists . One of those people happens to be the grandfather of a young boy who wonders about his father and his grandfather , because his mother and her mother-in-law never really talk about them , but the young boy's curiosity is piqued when he finds a photo of his dad & granddad , and he goes in search of granddad when he's supposed to be off on a skiing trip . Now Mom ( Carmen Maura ) is a little freaked when she finds out where her son is , since her father-in-law is rather a drunk and he and his cronies like to stay that way most of the time , along with the whoring and other fun stuff that comes with being drunk 24-7 . Of course the kid is getting first hand experience with things that would send mom off the deep end . Mom is also part of an unscrupulous development firm and vows to ruin grandpa's life when she comes to take her son away , and does just that by selling off the old town to someone and the actors are all being paid off and thrown out . This is where the 800 bullets come in , as the gang bands together to protect the only life they know . This doesn't have as much humor as some De la Iglesia films but it's still pretty fun and manages to be fairly fresh despite the supposed spaghetti western theme . The music is pretty much Ennio Morricone straight through but it's credited to someone else ? Also features a really cool opening montage . Pretty good stuff , well worth seeing . .
From Beyond , finally on DVD ! !	I saw this at the cinema when it was first out , and have had it on VHS for a long time , but now , finally , the DVD has been released ( Unrated director's cut ) and it looks great . As for what's different in comparison to the version I've been used to , uh , I did notice a couple scenes but when one hasn't seen something in a while it's really hard to say . Crawford Tillinghast ( Jeffrey Combs ) is assistant to Dr . Pretorius ( Ted Sorel ) and has fired up the good doctor's invention , which is a resonator that stimulates the pineal gland and allows humans to see into another dimension . At first Crawford is in awe of the thing & then gets attacked by one of the creatures he sees floating in the ether , one of several things resembling moray eels . Of course he runs to get Dr . Pretorius to come see & the good doctor is so excited he loses his head , literally , so when Crawford runs screaming from the house he's snagged by the cops & taken to a nut-house , for it's believed he's responsible for the death . Along comes Dr . Katherine McMichaels ( there are lots of doctors in this ) , played by Barbara Crampton , who doesn't believe Crawford is nuts and eventually with the help of a big cop Bubba ( Ken Foree ) she returns him to the house to find out what happened . And find out she does , and much , much more . It seems that with every use of the resonator the pineal glands of our friends are being stimulated , and their behavior is becoming a bit strange . Also , it seems that not only was Dr . Pretorius somewhat of a genius , he was also into S & M and a swell guy overall , but any firing up of the resonator now causes him to come back and he's changed a bit , in fact he's finding that access to this other dimension has greatly increased his capacity for being a power-hungry sex pervert , and that's generally never a good thing . One of the best scenes is when Bubba tells Katherine to " get dressed " to take Crawford back to the nut-house so she puts on some bondage gear she just happened to find . A little lipstick , too . Egad ! This is not quite as good as " Re-Animator " but still plenty enjoyable , and fans of the Stuart Gordon of old will enjoy this if they haven't seen it in a while , or haven't EVER seen it . Lots of nasty icky gore & slimy other-dimensional creatures too . .
video nasty in all its glory	The original version of " Escape 2000 " was banned in the UK ( under the title " Turkey Shoot " ) as part of the video nasty craze back in the 80's . Well , now you can see ( in the US , anyway ) Turkey Shoot in all its sleazy , cheesy glory . In Australia , in the near future , " deviants " are rounded up and taken to Camp Thatcher for " re-education " . Of course not many of these so called deviants agree with their fates , and some of the newest group of detainees , Steve Railsback , Olivia Hussey , etc . , aren't real keen to stay . The sadistic warden of the camp ( Michael Craig ) organizes a " Most Dangerous Game " type hunt , in which 5 of the prisoners are turned loose to fight for their freedom , and all they have to do is keep from getting killed . So the prisoners are turned loose and the warden and his cronies come in hot pursuit with vehicles , guns , crossbows , and a circus freak ? Yeah , really . Plenty of violence and bloodshed ensues , and it is all rather nasty . This is a pretty trashy movie , but it's sort of fun in a goofy way , because it's all taken quite seriously but you , the viewer , won't necessarily feel that way . .
wonderfully creepy and strange	After a man kills himself in a subway corridor by driving a knife into his eye , a camera man becomes obsessed with finding what drove this man to that act . Masuoka ( as played by Shinya Tsukamoto ) ends up wandering through the subways and finding a labyrinth of underground tunnels and passages and even the mountains of madness ? And , chained up in a little alcove , a woman . Or is it ? She looks human , she's actually kind of cute , that is , until you get a good look at her teeth . He brings her back to his apartment where he keeps her , but she won't eat , won't drink , won't speak . What he accidentally finds out is that she does drink something , and that's blood . And he couldn't have guessed that from her teeth ? He hasn't watched enough movies . Masuoka is also being followed by a man in black that knows that he has this thing in his apartment and tells him she isn't of this world . And speaking of not of this world , Masuoko is also apparently being followed by his ex-wife too , who accuses him of having their daughter hidden away from her . That part isn't exactly explained , I just sort of guessed at it . Of course now that he's found out what his little house guest likes for dinner his ex-wife isn't bothering him anymore and there's a couple of school girls gone missing . It's really hard to do this movie justice in a review , because I can't begin to describe the creepy wanderings in the subways and the glimpses of furtive creatures ( deros ? ) that seem to be down there . This has an overall feeling of dread and wrongness to it but Masuoka is only mildly concerned , maybe because he went off his medication . This should be a must-see for fans of J-horror , it's creepy and weird enough to be very appealing . .
finally on DVD in the U . S . !	I'm no Bette Davis fan , except when it comes to her later movies where she played rather creepy characters . In this film , she plays a nanny in a house where something bad happened a couple years previously , and now , young Joey , who has been " away " , is coming home . It seems that the young daughter in this family was involved in an accident that caused her death & young Joey may have something to do with it . At the place where Joey has been staying , he's proved to be rather a handful , as is shown near the beginning of the film when a matron is sent to fetch him & finds him hanging from the ceiling of his room . So definitely , in the first part of the film , one is wondering if Joey is the problem & Davis is the perfect Nanny . However , one of them has a screw loose , and Joey claims that it's Nanny . Strange things begin to happen in the household when father is away on business , and Joey's aunt comes to stay , with tragic results . Of course , toward the end of the film it becomes more clear what has transpired , although plenty of insight is given as to why . A great creepy film with Davis pulling out all the stops as the Nanny . If you liked " Whatever Happened to Baby Jane " and other late Davis films then you'll most likely enjoy this . A great thriller , .
good old-fashioned fairy tale with scary scenes for kids	Seems there's a lot of films that scared people as kids , and this seems to be one that people that grew up in the UK remember well . I personally had never seen it until yesterday , and while it's pretty mild for an adult , I can certainly see where it would scare the bejeezus out of the kids . Personally , Wizard of Oz used to scare the crap out of me & I couldn't get past the scene with the witch on top of the house and when the flying monkeys showed up , that was all I could watch for years . At any rate , this is a good old-fashioned sort of fairy tale , complete with an evil prince and a giant who kidnaps a princess in order to negotiate with her father , the king , as to when this evil prince might take the throne . Of course , our hero , Kerwin Mathews , saves the princess from the giant but of course the evil Pendgragon is persistent . The stop motion animation is pretty good , and some of the effects , especially the witches that attack the ship and make off with the princess , yet again . These are some of the scenes a friend in the UK described to me as scary when he was a kid and I can certainly see why . It's also pretty obvious , I think , that Rob Reiner used this as part of his " inspiration " for the Princess Bride , although that's played more for comedy than adventure and swashbuckling . Familiar character actor Walter Burke makes a good evil henchman to Pendragon , as well . Overall this is an enjoyable diversion for a Saturday afternoon for kids of all ages , but perhaps the younger ones will be too jaded for it ! .
Silly and messed up	This is one weird cookie of a movie , as it takes place in NYC yet everybody except a Slavic tourist ( Croat , Serb , ? ) speaks German . Most of the action takes place at Hotel Quickie , a sleazy " no tell hotel " where all manner of prostitutes of both sexes bring their Johns , and there's even a lounge where ex-cop Babette ( or Bob ) lip-syncs to Roberta Flack and The Supremes . This hotel also thoughtfully provides condoms to prevent disease but in doing so also provokes mayhem in that there's something not right about these little rubbers , they have TEETH . If you're put off by detached penises flopping around on the floor , hookers , transvestites , gay sex ( mostly implied , thankfully ) then you'd probably do well to take a pass on this . Because there's lots of all of the above . Luigi Macaroni , hard-boiled Marlowe-type detective , yet gay , is hard on the trail of the source of these nasty little rubbers , especially after one deprives him of one jewel . The condoms themselves are cute and rather squeaky , that is , until you see their teeth . The condoms were supposed to have been designed by H . R . Giger , he who did the critter in Alien , so you probably know what to expect there . Especially notable is the giant condom that you see towards the end when Macaroni stumbles across the source of these nasty little critters . OK , so if you're still with me , keep in mind that this is a Troma release , and therefore not for everyone . If you're a Troma and Troma pick-up fan though , you'll most likely enjoy this , that is if you can get past the some of the themes . , good disgusting fun .
strange & chilling	Lily is a young lady about 14 who isn't well . And speaking of not well , there's her parents . Now dad has left to go somewhere , leaving mom in charge of the bed & breakfast that they run . Along comes a young man , a photographer , who thought that it would be nicer to stay at a bed & breakfast than a roadside motel . That turns out to be only in theory . Things seem OK at first until mom starts displaying tendencies towards odd behavior , and that's when the mystery of Lily begins . The young man finds her diary , and it seems like mom & dad aren't very nice to her or her uncle / friend , whomever this guy may be , named Tom . . . . now Tom , on the other hand , is VERY nice to Lily and isn't around anymore to talk about it . This is creepy and somewhat atmospheric , and chilling , because most of it is in a snowbound landscape in the middle of nowhere , something that you'd expect of Canada although at one point a license plate is shown and it's New Hampshire ( Live Free or Die ) . That in itself seems to be a bit of a statement of some kind . I will admit this is a bit slow moving at times , and in no way is there any explosions or car chases and things like that , but try to stick with it , it's chillingly creepy and weird and you may find you just like it . .
Very different & rather long but well worth seeing !	Jean-Baptiste Grenouille was born to a rather unexceptional mother , who gave birth to him under a table at a fish market in Paris , and since the rest of her children were still-born she left him there to be cleaned up with the rest of the mess later . However , Jean-Baptiste chose to live , and because of that , his mother was hanged for leaving her child to die . How's that for the first 5 minutes of a film ? And it gets better . Jean-Baptiste was sent to an orphanage & he had a unique talent that others did not know about . . . he had an extremely heightened sense of smell . As he grows up he learns of perfume & becomes obsessed with " capturing scents " and eventually comes to work for a perfume maker ( Dustin Hoffman ) . But Jean-Baptiste doesn't quite understand things like , one doesn't make perfume out of cats , nor do we try it with . . human beings , either . And eventually Jean-Baptiste sets out for Grasse to work , where it's more isolated and he can work on his obsessions in relative privacy , and strangely enough , young women seem to be disappearing in this particular area . For he ( let's just call him J-B , I'm tired of typing the other ) has discovered a way to capture women's scents & is collecting the " essential oils " in a little vial . Of course , the crowning touch is to be Laura , daughter of Richis ( Alan Rickman ) , and when Richis senses impending doom he whisks his daughter away for safety , not quite realizing what they're dealing with , as J-B just follows his nose . The ending of this is quite astounding , as of course , like with most wrong-doers , J-B is apprehended and set for execution , but things don't turn out anything like one expects they would . A very odd movie , for sure , and not something I probably would have watched without a good friend recommending it to me . Plus , Tom Tykwer did direct " Run Lola Run " , but that's pretty much at the opposite end of the spectrum from this . This does not lack humor , either , there are some moments of rather dark humor in this , but mostly it's just a very enthralling tale that just sucks the viewer right in . .
Way ahead of its time	Giants and Toys is a movie that is way ahead of its time . Made in 1958 , it uses words and phrases , and themes and ideas , that would have probably made American audiences of the time blanch . The story is that there are 3 caramel companies , Giant , World , and Apollo , and they're all in fierce competition with each other . They are always looking for ways to promote themselves and the folks from World happen across a slum girl with bad teeth ( she looks like a monkey , claims Nishi's assistant ) that becomes their symbol , as she romps around in a space suit with a ray gun , selling candy . All these companies have their little problems and some of the upper management are literally destroying their health with their work . One man has a bleeding ulcer , another is coughing up blood , etc . Eyow . Now Kyoko , the symbol for World Caramels , is busily becoming a star in her own right , and reaches a point where she has so much money she detaches herself from World and works her way to being a jazz singer . We're treated to a delightful little number in which she sings of blood and cannibalism , woo hoo ! This is a strange little movie and very interesting , because it's not exactly " typical " of the time it was made , yet it's also full of cool little " pop culture " things . The only movie I could compare it to that I've seen is " The Pornographers " from 1966 . And that's only in tone and humor . Check it out , worth seeing . .
Love that Southern Hospitality	Clint Eastwood plays a wounded Union soldier found by a girl from a Confederate boarding school and he's taken in and nursed back to health instead of turned over to Confederate soldiers . Seems that the women-folk at this place have ulterior motives . Geraldine Paige , the headmistress , justifies not turning him into the Confederacy and even passes him off as her cousin . Of course when the man gets to feeling better he becomes quite the lady's man and is pretty much making the rounds , but when he gets busted he REALLY gets busted , in fact so badly he gets his leg cut off , but it's for his own good , of course , not out of retribution . Things get carried a bit further though when certain women don't get what they want . I haven't seen this for years and it still has a certain creepiness to it that by today's standards is still pretty strange . Not typical Eastwood at all . If you haven't seen this one it's worth seeing . .
Ultra-violent cartoon-like gore / revenge flick is a real hoot !	I bought this a couple weeks ago & for some reason put off watching it till yesterday . Had I known what this was like , I'd have certainly watched it the same day I got it . Ami is an ordinary schoolgirl , sort of , with a brother named Yu . Ami and Yu's parents committed suicide because they were framed for a murder they did not commit , and the locals have made up their minds that Ami and Yu are bad news . When Yu and his friend Takashi are killed by the local bullies , led by an over-privileged Yakuza's son , Ami vows revenge . She becomes friends with Takashi's parents , who are auto mechanics , and after Ami loses an arm after a tangle with the Yakuzas , she's fitted for a machine gun arm . And the real fun begins . Now . . . don't go into this expecting your basic revenge flick . . oh , that sort of style is there , but add GALLONS of blood , most of it seemingly applied by a fire hose . There is no wound in this movie that doesn't seem to hit an artery . Add plenty of wild weapons , like throwing stars and swords and even a sort of claw that removes heads , not to mention the machine gun , and you've got an outrageous , cartoon-style ultra-violent flick . And , it's chock full of humor , in the deadpan delivery of lines & some of the action , which is just so ridiculous that you have to laugh . An awesome flick that brings to mind " Dead Alive " and " Evil Dead " , among other films , but it stands quite well on its own . Be sure to bring a strong stomach & your sense of humor , though . .
quietly creepy with a nasty finish	Sasha is a young woman who lives in an isolated cottage on an island , with her young daughter Sioffra , and her husband , when he's not traveling on business . Sasha is obviously missing her husband and finds it frustrating to not be able to reach him . She's obviously a bit bored with only the company of the child . But along comes Tatiana , a strange young woman looking for a place to pitch her tent , and Sasha welcomes the company with open arms . Tatiana claims to be a former nanny but her behavior is rather odd and her table manners are rather questionable . Sasha seems so starved for company though , that she barely seems to notice . Of course , we , the viewers , get to see things that Tatiana does that Sasha doesn't , although Sasha does kind of pick up on the fact that Tatiana is rather crude . She doesn't know the half of it . Tatiana also asks some pretty personal and disturbing questions , which should have been a good indicator that something isn't right . Finally , Sasha gets a call that her husband will be back the next morning on the 10 o'clock ferry , and Tatiana says she'll be gone by then , but Sasha insists that her husband is nice & she doesn't have to go . Well , Titiana does have specific plans for the homecoming with no one will care for , but Sasha doesn't know that . And when her husband arrives home , he gets the shock of his life . A film with a rather mundane & slow build-up , which gains in intensity as it goes along , at just the right pace . Anything longer than the 52 minute run time would have been too much . A very strange and cool little film with a very nasty finish . .
Eerie Australian flick	Long Weekend is sort of like " Day of the Animals " as done by Peter Weir ( think " Last Wave " and " Picnic At Hanging Rock " . But this is NOT a Peter Weir film , just so you understand that . A young couple heads to a seaside campsite to sort things out as their marriage isn't doing so well , and they're a couple of non-nature types , trees are there to be chopped down for no reason , critters to be run over or shot or sprayed with insecticide , etc . And there's other strange things going on like things in the water ( but not a shark ) and eerie sounds at night , and there appeared to be other folks camped down the beach but while their stuff is still there where did they go ? It seems like animals are turning against people and while these two are not the only ones , they are the focus of this film . Like the films of Peter Weir , this has an atmosphere of anxiety and anticipation instead of cheap scares , and creates discomfort from practically nothing . This is well done and well worth seeing , highly recommended . .
early 70's horror with good atmosphere	I would probably say this was on a par with films like " Devil's Rain " and that sort of film , although this is probably a bit better made . I love 70's horror and this has most of the elements that make up other movies I like so it was pretty easy to enjoy . A family on their vacation stumble across a small town where the people seem to be gripped by some sort of hysteria . Seems like the children have been disappearing . After an initial attempt to flee this place , the family is somehow stopped on the edge of town and find their way back , but not without first finding a house where the kids are gone and mommy and daddy are dead . Seems like we have a different kind of twist on a senior citizen community center in this town , they're all Satan worshipers and they need the kids to renew their lives so they can continue on in their service , I guess . Not that anyone seems too keen on giving up their kids for this enterprise . This is fairly classy considering that it's scary and creepy without buckets of gore or the loud startling events that try to make people jump in films today , which seem to have replaced actual scares . We have Hank Kimball ( Alvy Moore ) from " Green Acres " as Tobey , a sheriff's deputy that reads UFO magazines , and LQ Jones as the sheriff , and a very familiar character actor as the dad of the stranded family . And Strother Martin plays the doctor who seems to be doing double duty unbeknown to his fellow townsfolk . This is pretty good stuff but a tad on the confusing side sometimes , but overall works pretty well & is recommended for fans of 70's horror . .
An inescapable feeling of dread throughout . . . . .	This was one of my favorite films when I was younger & it was on the late-night " Creature Features " circuit . I've just gotten this on DVD and I have found that it is still a fairly powerful film , to me . A young man , Ralph , uncovers the remains of something while plowing a field , and he's frightened by what he's found , so he goes to a judge who is staying nearby to tell of his findings , only to come back & have whatever it was , gone . So of course , no one believes him , but he comes back with friends , one of whom is Angel , who DOES find something but won't show anyone . And the son of the woman where the judge is staying , returns home with a new bride to be , but after she's forced to stay the night in the attic room , she goes mad because something was up there with her . And she's taken away to Bedlam . Now , the children of this village are acting more & more strangely , and beginning to disappear . Seems that Angel has something to do with this , and so does what she found in the fields . There apparently are some sort of deep-woods rituals going on to mutilate the village's children for some kind of chilling resurrection . And there is something that is causing pains in the children , and at the location of those pains , they've grown a hairy patch of " The Devil's Skin " , as the doctor says when he's trying to remove it from one young woman . This is beautifully filmed , and the children are somewhat innocent enough , but you know that they're not quite themselves and are up to no good , and there is an inescapable feeling of dread throughout this whole film . When things begin to get really out of hand , one man rides to find the judge ( Patrick Wymark ) who returns and puts things right again . Strange he didn't do that in the first place instead of returning to London , but then , he didn't at first believe what was happening , either . An excellent early 70's British horror flick , very atmospheric and creepy and well worth seeing , and gee , it's not even a Hammer production . .
creepy , disturbing , and unfortunately , obscure	At the beginning of this film you see a hammer carried through a house , quietly , carefully , and into a bedroom , where a man and woman lie in bed , and as the carrier of the hammer gets closer to the bed , the hammer is turned to make best use of the claw , and then , of course , you know what happens next . . . it gets used . And that's just the cheery opening of this creepy low-budget film . Seems that after all that is done that there's a teenage girl , Ellie , who is now an orphan and ends up at the Deere place , which is a home for orphans . But this is a troubled place , to say the least , because Mrs . Deere is so worried about headcount & funding that some of the kids that have run away & have been killed are kept in the freezer to keep them fresh for when they need to be used . Apparently Mrs . Deere's deceased hubby is also kept on ice for that time when he might be restored to life . There's also creepy handyman Tom ( Len Lesser ) who is instrumental in the deaths of some of these freezer residents and who the kids pretty much stay away from . Of course Ellie doesn't want to be there & has conflicts with both the other kids & with Mrs . Deere & company . Also it seems like Ellie's mom was the local prostitute so there's also some unsavory connections from that . Vic Tayback plays a police detective who also has a couple secrets of his own , and a very young Dennis Christopher ( about 16 ? ) plays one of the kids . Eventually all these strange goings-on at the orphanage come to a head and once again the freezer is put to good use , and then there's the creepy twist of an ending . This is a pretty decent horror film for the low budget and if you're a fan of 70's horror then this is one you'll want to chase down someplace . It's got an overall sense of dread to it and it goes pretty far for a PG-rated film . , check it out . . !
just keep repeating to yourself . . . . it's only a movie , it's only a movie . . . .	I received an email ( one of those internet things that goes around from person to person ) telling me this movie should be boycotted because of the values & morals it would instill in young people . So , of course , I went to see it with a friend & his son ( 4 years old ) and I thoroughly enjoyed it . I also saw nothing in it that I would take to be bad for children ( or adults ) and kept in mind that it was only a movie & couldn't hurt me . Then again , I'm not a paranoid alarmist . Golden Compass has marvelous special effects and stunning visuals , and is beautiful to watch . As for the story , well , I haven't read any of the books ( and didn't know they existed until " controversy " reared its ugly head ) so I can't really comment on how well this did or didn't adhere to the original stories , but I found it thoroughly enjoyable , if a bit confusing at times . The " daemons " that everyone seems to have by their sides are wondrous little creatures , protectors & perhaps " soul mates " and the one that Lyra has , Pan , morphs from bird to ferret to cat to mouse , and is my favorite of them all . The story seems to be that young children are being kidnapped and taken to the North , where they're experimented on and apparently separated from their " daemons " . Lyra has gone to free them & enlists the help of an armored polar bear & a cowboy sort of guy ( Sam Elliot ) and his sidekick , a jackrabbit " daemon " . There are some scenes that may be a bit scary for small children , like the ice bear fight scene and the scene with the " cossack-like " warriors and their wolf " daemons " . Overall though , this is a fantastic magical adventure and if you just enjoy it and try not to read things into that aren't there , you'll probably like it just fine . .
Watch what you watch	My first thought when I started watching this was that it was a pretty blatant rip-off of Man Bites Dog , but it is and it isn't . Man Bites Dog is more aimed at dark humor , whereas this is just more dark . Plus , in Man Bites Dog , the victims were just victims , never dinner . A wedding photographer gets his kicks by having a guy that he hired follow him around and film him killing people . The catch is that supposedly this is taped over a tape from the local video store , which doesn't work very well if you're watching a DVD , unfortunately , but still this is an interesting film , despite the obvious low budget . I liked this a lot and am glad someone else didn't so I didn't have to pay full price for it . Overall this is well done for what it is , and fairly creepy considering that the guy that's doing all the killing seems , on the surface , like such a normal guy . I'd recommend this but I'd also insist on watching " Man Bites Dog " which is very similar but actually a much better film . stars .
They don't make them like this anymore . . . . . .	And for that you can be glad ? Oh no , this has a certain scuzzy charm to it that may be only appealing to bad movie fans like myself , but I think this is a rather fun , if messy , movie . Messy being that it's by Al Adamson so therefore you know it's quality . And what exactly is this about ? Well , a mad doctor , he being of the Frankenstein clan , despite his last name ( he was adopted ? ) is experimenting on young folks at the Freak House , which is on the pier at the amusement park . His crazed assistant ( as played by Lon Chaney ) goes out to collect body parts when he's not standing nearby cuddling his puppy . One of the body parts he's collected is the head of a girl whose sister is a Las Vegas Lounge Performer ( with an awesome hair-do ) and of course when sister is missing she has to come look for her . She inquires at the local coffee house and gets something dropped into her coffee ( LSD ? ) because they think she's a cop , and after a bad trip she wakes up in Anthony Eisley's bed . They then of course , delve into the mystery when not hanging out on the beach doing romantic things . Dracula and Frankenstein in this are pretty interesting , Dracula has some pretty strange ability to speak in echoes , while not using any visible devices , and he's missing make-up on his eyelids . Frankenstein looks rather worse for wear , as his face looks like it's been in the water too long . And why are they fighting each other ? Kind of hard to tell , but there is a final struggle between them toward the end of the film and if you're not familiar with Al Adamson films , they supply their own logic , which is generally incomprehensible to viewers , so don't really worry about it , is all I can say . Just sit back and watch and gape , because you will , and not in horror either . A masterpiece of cheesiness . .
Silly and nasty and from Frank Henenlotter , so what do you expect ?	If you're not familiar with Basket Case or Frankenhooker , there's a good chance you shouldn't start out with " Brain Damage " if you are curious about the films of Frank Henenlotter . I'd suggest that if you haven't already seen any of his films start out with Basket Case and THEN if you're still willing check out Brain Damage . Seems there's this young man Brian , who wakes up to discover that he's got a little friend , who's name is Aylmer ( Elmer ) . Now Aylmer isn't too pretty to look at , he looks like a cross between a deformed penis , a turd , and perhaps one of those critters from Cronenberg's " Shivers " . And he talks , and he injects fluid into Brian's brain that makes him see colors and such , AND he also eats brains . Sucks ' em right out , he does . Problem is that Aylmer is like a drug , and a highly addictive one at that . Also problematic is that Aylmer used to reside with an old couple in the same building who fed him animal brains to keep him weak , and they , also being addicted , want him back . Of course with all these injections of juice , Brian hasn't been feeling himself these days , and his behavior becomes strange and erratic . It's funny to see Kevin Van Hentrick ( Basket Case ) on a subway car with Brian & his girlfriend , complete with his basket ( and Belial inside ? ) and to see him move away from them because THEY'RE too weird . I guess you could call this a horror comedy , because it is a bit silly at times , but it's also kind of nasty with plenty of blood and gore . Probably not for the uninitiated but I give it an .
Pretty good vam . . . . Carpathian-American Movie	Don't call us vampires , that's such an ugly word , says Harry Martin , Carpathian-American and news reporter . Of course Harry Martin isn't his real name but he uses that for by-lines and such . A young man is awakened from what he thinks is a dream only to find that his parents have been killed by members of SCAV , some vampire-hunting troupe down there in Texas . Head honcho of this operation is Bo Hopkins , in a non-sheriff role , perhaps the only one I've seen him in . He has a nice beard that makes him look like an 19th century witch hunter or something , which is about the mentality of him and his cronies . Anyway , this young man escapes from the burning house in which his parents lie dead and somehow finds his way from Texas to Long Beach , CA , hotbed of Carpathian-American activity . He is immediately taken into the " family " which is large and extended . But he doesn't understand what he is for a while . Of course , they really are vampires but again , that's such an ugly word . And after lots of struggle and strife , it all comes down to a battle of good and evil , but who's really evil here ? You'll end up rooting for the vampires , really . I guess this was a made-for-cable movie , something I wasn't sure about till I read it here on IMDb , but the ending credits certainly look like it was a TV show , even though the rest of the movie really didn't give that impression . Still that's a very minor thing . This is a pretty damn good movie and worth seeing . .
A " must see " for fans of bad films	Don't ask me why I love the films of Ray Dennis Steckler , but I do . It all started many years ago when I saw " Incredibly Strange Creatures . . . " on TV and I've been a fan ever since . At any rate , this one is a doozy , a fine example of the twisted output of Mr . Steckler's mind . Now in the DVD's recently released by Guilty Pleasures ( a division of Media Blasters ) , there are interviews with " the man himself " , and he doesn't SEEM insane , he's just some older guy that talks about his movies and the people he made them with , so who knows what was going on in his mind back in the 60's . This is the story of a rock star and his girlfriend that turns into a caped crusader sort of spectacle , as the girlfriend ( played by Steckler's wife , Carolyn Brandt ) gets kidnapped by over-acting thugs and the rock star and his gardener spring into action as Rat Pfink and Boo Boo . The sound was actually laid over the film after it was made , so in some ways that's actually better because we have sound effects like the flushing of a toilet when a motorcycle is started , and some bits of dialog that probably would not have worked as well had they been " real time " . This version has a strange color tint to it : it's a black & white films but it's been treated somehow but that doesn't ' really detract from anything . There's definitely a lot of silliness and goofiness here , and if you think that Batman & Robin looked silly fighting crime in their little outfits , you haven't seen anything yet . There are some good tunes in this movie , like the title song and " You Is A Rat Pfink " , and there are actually some inspired moments like Haydock & Brandt silhouetted against the sky on a hill while they're dancing that looks pretty cool . Overall , this movie really stinks , but I think they knew that when they made it , and it's played for fun . And it is fun , if you have the right mindset . If you aren't familiar with Steckler's work then I'm not sure you'd like this , but if you think his movies are fun than by all means seek this out . I myself love it , stars .
Finally on DVD but . . . .	Equinox is a movie that apparently a lot of people saw a long time ago , when they were kids , and remember it well and fondly . I myself had merely read about it since it's been pretty much unavailable for a long time and I was happy to find that it was finally on DVD , but . . . forty bucks for a Criterion version ? Hmm . Well , I did end up getting it and I wasn't disappointed but maybe I was expecting more ? Four people go on a picnic in the mountains , and find some crazy old man in a cave with a book which he gives to them , and of course they have to mess around with it and end up conjuring demons and stuff . Of course there's a forest ranger who just happens to be the devil hanging out at all turns , his name being Asmodeus , and he of course wants the book and sends his creepy critters to get it . There's some fairly decent stop-motion stuff in this , like all the monsters . The scenery and the look and feel are good . And there's even a young Frank Bonner , they guy with the tacky plaid sports coats on " WKRP in Cincinatti " . Overall this is pretty entertaining and not bad but was it worthy of the Criterion treatment ? From just viewing this once I'd say no , but I haven't watched the OTHER version of this film that's available on the disc , the original 1967 version , yet . I didn't know there WAS one , so that should be interesting . This isn't a bad movie , it's a good little demonic romp through the woods , but maybe I had my sights set too high . .
ridiculously enjoyable junk	Don Dohler , from the same territory as John Waters , made cheesy and ridiculous science fiction except . . . . it's not really all that bad . Oh , he's still around , he still puts out some stuff but it was ever so much better back in the old days before he discovered bad CGI . Alien Factor is a tale of a spaceship that crashes in the woods near a small community that's carrying specimens from other planets for study . These are apparently not very nice specimens either and take to killing off the local population . A missing link to something I saw in Fangoria but could never find was solved in this film too , one of the pictures I remember seeing years ago was actually a still from this movie , it's the " big legged " critter , which is actually either the most clever of them all or the most silly , depending on your point of view , it looks like someone on stilts with over-developed legs . At any rate , despite the cheesiness I liked this a lot and the soundtrack is weird but interesting . The alien costumes were not very " typical " either , in fact they're rather interesting in a silly kind of way . What I watched was part of a " 2 pack " , Alien Factor on one side and " Fiend " on the other side , I can only hope the other film has the same attraction for me . The only movie I can think of that comes close to this for atmosphere & overall feel is ( Alien ) Prey , which is a British stinker , so if you liked that one you may like this too , but Alien Factor stands well on its own merits too , if you can stop laughing long enough . .
messy & nasty	Another " forgotten gem " from Moctezuma , one in which two young ladies that live at a convent are possessed and cause a bit of havoc , to say the least . Justine comes to live at the convent & is befriended by Alucarda , and as they're romping through the countryside around the convent they encounter a strange gypsy man that speaks terrible German and may be other than he appears ( and his appearance isn't any too normal ) . The two girls begin exhibiting strange behavior and then spouting blasphemy so they're under the care of a doctor and a priest , and an exorcism is called for but apparently Justine doesn't survive that . . . or does she ? Who knows , because she mysteriously disappears . Lots of blood , lots of screaming and torture , and lots of nuns doing uncharacteristic things , like menstruating in their habits and bursting into flames ? Charming . At any rate , this isn't a bad little flick , takes a bit to get going but when it does it gets pretty darn nasty and messy . A bit more over the top than Mansion of Madness , just a bit . .
nasty and offensive black comedy	This is ( I guess ) known as " Andy Warhol's Bad " but there's not much evidence of his involvement in the credits , nor does Paul Morrisey's name seem to be there either . However , despite all that this manages to be quite the nasty little romp anyway . A woman who does electrolysis out of her Queens home is also running a murder-for-hire business with young women to do the dirty work , when along comes L . T . ( Perry King ) who takes up residence in this nut-house . Besides the woman there's her laid-off husband , her not-very-tightly-wound daughter-in-law , her mother who hacks her head off all the time but won't quit smoking , and another renter . A lovely household , overall . Mostly this consists of incidents of the killers for hire going out to do their dirty work and the would-be victims include a dog , a baby , and an autistic child , not to mention a Puerto Rican mechanic . Chock full of unpleasant and wacko people , this is rather a treat for fans of black comedy , and manages to offend on many levels . I believe that this is one of the last films from " The Warhol Factory " but it's also one of the better ones in my book , really . The Cheezy Flicks DVD was slammed big time a while back but I'd read where apparently the manufacturer took note and I guess they did because I had no complaints with the transfer or the quality . And I had this on VHS too , the way the film looks is the way the film LOOKS , there's no cleaning up that'll change any of that , if that's what people were complaining about . Anyway , the movie itself is a nasty little jewel , and it's one of my favorites of the Warhol stuff , except for perhaps the Dracula one . .
excellent mind-bending Spanish thriller	This an excellent mind-bending Spanish thriller , and never tips its hand as to what's going on till almost the very end . A handsome young man who is a partner in a catering service is very well to do and can have any woman he wants . That is , until one that he's decided he doesn't want ( Nuria ) takes him for the ( car ) ride of his life and she's dead and he's disfigured . Or is he ? And is she really dead ? And is the other young lady Sofia , a figment of his imagination or is she Nuria , because they keep getting mixed up within the film , and within his mind . Imagine beginning to make love to one woman and during the course of that her face & hair changes and she's someone else . . . . . wow . One has to wonder what's going on and that's the fun of most of the film . Is Cesar insane , or is someone going to great lengths just to mess with his mind ? This is all rather low-key and the music in the film is rather intriguing but it's also rather low-key , as in , not distracting . I read briefly that this was the " model " for Vanilla Sky with Tom Cruise but while he might fit the part from the " pretty boy " angle I'd never watch that film because I can't stand him . But Abres Los Ojos is quite good and when you find out the reason for what's going on it's not exactly much less mind-bending than the rest of what you've watched . A really cool little film that is well worth seeing . .
Another weird excursion from Guy Madden	This is probably the only version of Dracula as performed by a ballet troupe which also contains a woman's head being removed by a shovel . OK , don't get too excited , it's not THAT graphic , but it is pretty strange , to say the very least . Dracula as performed by the Royal Winnipeg Ballet , with Dracula being a gentleman of Chinese origin . This is filmed in the usual Madden style , it looks as though it were made in the times of the silent film , and has orchestral accompaniment , of course . This is an interesting watch and well done , with the usual creepy and surreal imagery that Madden does best . It's basically the same old Dracula story , it's just turned on its ear . Mostly in black and white , it has color at times , mostly red to indicate blood , of course . There are splashes at times of the Madden humor , but not as much here as usual . It took me a while to watch this after I bought it , and it took me a while to buy it , because the " ballet " part put me off , but if you can just get past the IDEA and watch the movie you'll be just fine , I was , even though I expected something entirely other than what I saw . , probably this one is more to the taste of established Madden fans than anyone trying one of his films for the first time though .
Not at all what I expected . . . . . . but not at all bad	I truly was not sure what to expect of a film in which 4 actors try out for the part of Jesus , get rejected , and then go on a cross country odyssey on motorcycles . Anything this film may have borrowed from other movies along the way is lost on me , in other words it may be original in its own twisted way . Now , these four reject-Jesuses consist of a black revolutionary ( Hakim ) , a bi-sexual hippie ( Sky ) , an uptight Jewish man and a woman . As they're making their way across the country they stop for gas at a very respectable town , at least on the surface , and Sky is nailed in the restroom for soliciting a sheriff's deputy ( who in " real life " wears a straw hat better suited to a small child playing cowboy ) . The whole gang is arrested and imprisoned in the basement of the church , which is also the Sunday School room so they have nothing to do but await their sentence and color . Eventually the ' criminals ' are released to the custody of various members of the congregation , all of whom are not the fine upstanding folks they seem to be except for one , Mojack , an old black man that is the epitome of kindness . These strange adventures go on for a bit , and the gist of the whole thing is that a scheming real estate guy ( although a good Christian scheming real estate guy ) wants to frame Mojack for the trouble that has befallen their town so he can claim his valuable land . Yes , this all gets a bit complicated . But it's pretty funny most of the time , and there are little things that you barely notice while watching too , like the minister's son drinking from a jug of moonshine while sitting on Mojack's porch . Also notable is the scene where the bikers stop at a motel prior to arriving at this small town , and are menaced by Elvis impersonators . This is a wildly imaginative and weird little foray into surreal goofiness , and yes , it even has flesh eating zombies on towards the end . I wasn't sure about this when I picked it up but it's pretty bizarre and if you like that kind of stuff , it's worth seeing . Some of the satire on right wing stuff is like shooting fish in a barrel though , and those fish have already been shot plenty , but a few more plugs won't hurt ' em . .
Great fun from the " Shaun of the Dead " team	Sargeant Nicholas Angel ( Simon Pegg ) has an astounding police record in London , and he's making his co-workers look bad . For that , he's assigned to the village of Sandford , where all is quiet and idyllic . Or is it ? It seems that there's some " accidents " taking place with several of the town's people , and that perhaps they're NOT accidents . Sgt . Angel , who is always " on " , doesn't take this all lightly and uncovers a group of people that are eliminating anyone who doesn't fit in with their ideas of what's right . This is a spoof , more or less , of buddy cop movies , of which I've seen VERY few , by choice . However , with Simon Pegg in the lead , it all works quite well & he plays his part to the hilt . Danny Butterman ( Nick Frost ) is the son of the local police chief , and ends up as Angel's partner , and they become somewhat unlikely friends . The pairing of Pegg & Frost works well in this as well as it did in " Shaun of the Dead " . There's actually quite a bit of gore and nastiness to this , but it's well tempered by comedic moments , and my favorite is when the frumpy middle-aged villagers reveal themselves to be armed to the teeth & ready to rumble . Great deadpan one-liners courtesy of Pegg , too . , fun stuff , really .
a bit nastier than expected	I had seen some good reviews of this and found a used copy yesterday so I grabbed it , and then kind of cringed when I saw it was released by Showtime , I figured it would be some bland " wanna be " horror film , but I was ( un ) pleasantly surprised . It's more horror than anything else , and I'd say probably NOT much in the way of a romantic comedy , thankfully . A man & woman get married and run off to a beach house , where they're luxuriating on the shore and a zombie comes out of the surf and attacks the man . After which it appears , he died , but he miraculously comes back to life . But , as any good zombie movie fan knows , this can only mean no good . And it does , as hubby munches his way through a travel agent , their visiting friends , and apparently the entire police force of this small seaside community . This is not George Romero intense , but it is pretty darn good & also rather well done . There's of course a bit more to it than I described , like a plot of the man & woman moving to Portugal to live their dream , so it's not just some shallow zombie flick , either . I don't normally listen to or watch any " extras " but for some reason I wanted to on this one , hoping to find out more about the music ( which is surf / garage / etc ) and apparently this was a film made by the director to help his sister deal with her grief after she lost her boyfriend in a surfing accident a few years previously . Wow . I guess I'm not sure how this film could help anyone deal with the loss of a loved one but then again , I don't know this guy's sister . .
What black pit ?	I guess I'm a bit confused by the American title of this film since it seems to have nothing to do with a pit , but this is still a good and interesting film . I'm rather a sucker for late 50's / early 60's Mexican horror movies , and am always glad to find a good one I haven't seen before . This is pretty heavy on the Gothic atmosphere & I liked it a lot . The basic story is that apparently two doctors were doing research on the afterlife and the question they seemed to have is can someone come back from " the other side " after death ? That answer has come to the good Dr . Mazali but he has to wait to find out , about 3 months . And while that answer is technically true , it doesn't exactly encompass some of the downside of what he is trying to accomplish . The look and the feel of this film is great , and it's quite creepy and the stark black and white photography is excellent . Casanegra has done an excellent job on the DVD so if you like old Mexican horror films , this is well worth your time . .
One of those " must be seen to be believed " films . . . . .	OK , it's easy not to confuse this with the lame Stuart Gordon movie called " Death Bed " that came out a few years back , because this one is " The Bed That Eats " . And how do I even begin to describe this ? Well , for starters , obviously there is a bed that eats . This is as a result of demon teardrops , which of course affect most things , I guess , in a negative way . The bed is in some old servant's quarters or something , and has been responsible for the disappearances of quite a few people in its time . We have a narrator , who is a ghost that sits in the wall behind a painting , and collects all the non-edible goodies ( jewelry , etc ) that the bed passes on . He died of consumption , one of the few people to lay in the bed that didn't get eaten , probably because he was sick , he theorizes , as we see him hacking blood into hankies . . . . . bleah . The thing about this movie is that is has a very odd sense of humor to it but it's all played pretty deadpan . The movie is divided into several " acts " , I guess , " Breakfast , Lunch , Dinner , & Just Desserts " . For fans of the unfathomably weird and bizarre , well , this may just be right up your alley . All I can say is you have to see this one to believe it , it pretty well defies description . stars .
interesting to see that Blair Witch wasn't just a fluke	Eduardo Sanchez , the director of the Blair Witch Project , hasn't done anything after that until this , and while I was sort of expecting to be disappointed , I was pleasantly surprised how good this was . This film begins with some men hunting something in a rural area , and you realize what they're hunting are aliens , and they actually capture one and bring it to a garage owned by a young man named Wyatt . As the film goes along you realize that many years ago this same group of men were captured and examined and even given tracking devices by these same aliens and are out for vengeance . But are they dealing with something more than they can handle ? You bet they are . Wyatt also seems to be somewhat of a " wild card " in this , as the aliens are afraid of him for some reason & he is more attuned than the others to what exactly is taking place . This is creepy as hell and the unnamed rural setting really adds to this . There are plenty of pretty gruesome effects and the strange little bone-like " clicker " , which is apparently some kind of tracking device inserted into the intestinal tract , is probably one of the weirdest ideas I've ever seen in a horror or science fiction film . This film has an atmosphere of dread throughout , and is definitely worth seeing for fans of creepy horror and sci-fi . .
good Spanish horror-sleaze fest	A man and his wife , out for an drive , meet up with another couple where the man claims to know the husband ( Andres ) from school , although Andres can't recall the other man . At any rate the young couple is invited to the other couple's house to " celebrate " although to celebrate what isn't clear . Of course this other couple live in the middle of nowhere in this huge creepy house and are NOT what they seem to be at all . Strange things begin to happen , like Satanic rituals and orgies in the living room , etc . And their dog gets killed . Of course , the young couple is ready to run but their car is gone and they're in the middle of nowhere and of course , the phones don't work . All attempts at getting away and going back home seem to be foiled at every turn until the older couple is finally killed ( at least a few times ) and they make their escape back to the city and the safety of home . . . . so they hope . To say any more would be a spoiler . Overall this is pretty good , but has long stretches of gratuitous nudity which slow things down a bit , but the last half or so of the film picks up speed pretty good and is fairly exciting and disgusting . Fans of 70's Euro-Horror will like more than others , most likely . .
Interesting Dutch movie about a dress ?	This is an odd little Dutch movie about a dress , which seems to be the bearer of bad luck for all who come into contact with it . First a man loses his job because he doesn't agree with the choice of design ( it's a pretty blue with an odd leaf design ) . Then a woman who buys it becomes ill , and when the dress is hanging out to dry after washing ( apparently she barfed on it ) it blows away and ends up in the hands of a young woman who lives with an eccentric painter , who is then set upon by a deranged ticket taker from a train , a bus driver , and then gives up the dress to send to Africa , but it's of course snagged by someone else who cleans it up , trims it a bit , and it ends up on this young lady who also ends up on this train with the deranged ticket taker , who then stalks her to her remote home while her parents are away , etc . etc . There are some quite amusing moments to this , and at other times it's about as strange as can be . This is a dark comedy , and at times it also offers up some social commentary on the homeless and on foreigners . In some ways it reminds me of " Phantom of Liberty " or maybe " The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeosie " ( Luis Bunuel ) in its episodic style . This odd little film definitely won't be for everyone though , but it's funny and bizarre and even a bit touching at times . .
Esperanto ?	OK , let's first scare away all the non-adventurous types by saying this film is in Esperanto with Subtitles , and it's from 1965 and in black & white . It does have Captain Kirk in it but he's too busy trying to master Esperanto to emote very much , I guess . OK , having said that , this was quite a nice surprise , because after all I've heard & read about this I wasn't expecting it to live up to the ' hype ' but I guess it does . The atmosphere of this is always eerie and creepy , the basic story line is a struggle between good and evil , as two evil sisters , one of which gets her kicks from luring men into the sea and drowning them , set their sites on Marc ( Shatner ) . He's squeaky clean with a heart of gold and " defiles " one sister with his goodness , therefore the evil Incubus is summoned forth . Sounds weird , eh ? Well , it is . But it's also pretty much a pleasant surprise to fans of horror , even though it's pretty tame . In watching it I didn't realize that Leslie Stevens had a big part in the making of this , and I heard recycled music from the old Outer Limits TV series that had me wondering until I saw the credits . And this does have the feeling of some of the Outer Limits episodes , just kicked up a few notches on the Strange-O-Meter . And Esperanto ? It's an " artificial " language , at one time it was thought to be destined to be a " universal " language , thankfully THAT didn't happen , but it lends an extra dash of weirdness to an already weird movie . See it , it's great , you'll be glad you did , if you have a sense of adventure .
Enjoyable William Castle effort is more fun than scary	Two teenage girls and one's younger sister are left alone for an evening and get up to mischief with the phone , making prank calls to people for fun . Unfortunately , " I saw what you did and I know who you are " didn't set too well with one Steve Marak ( John Ireland ) who had just killed his girlfriend . Steve's neighbor , Joan Crawford , has been apparently wanting Steve very badly & now that his tramp girlfriend has packed up and left ( ha ) , she can have him for her very own . Now , these young ladies choose to pile into the car & drive by Steve's house just to look , and one can't resist going up to look in the windows , and Crawford catches here & thinks that she's been out to steal her man , and before they can drive away Crawford grabs the vehicle registration off the steering column of the car . But when Crawford goes back into the house she stumbles across Steve's little indiscretion & wants to bribe him into marrying her . Steve's not fond of that idea and takes care of Joan as well and then finds the registration and goes after the girls . This is a fun little movie with a good atmosphere , and while it's a bit tense at times it's not terribly scary ( not in this day and age , anyway ) . Crawford is a bit overdone with hair like Marie Antoinette and what appears to be a chandelier dangling around her neck . Ireland is suitably grim and somewhat creepy as the quiet but crazed killer . A good William Castle effort and quite enjoyable . .
One of the old-time urban legends in all its glory	This takes the old urban legend of alligators living in the city sewer and turns it into a fun and sometimes gory movie . Ramon , the baby alligator , is purchased in Florida and comes back to Chicago where dad one day decides to give it a burial at sea . Ramon lives quite well down there and thanks to modern technology ( as in , growth hormones that find their way down there courtesy of some schlock testing lab ) he grows to enormous size and dines on sewer workers , etc . Seems that he may have drawn some unwanted attention to himself but in general he's able to take care of himself quite well , if only he wouldn't leave tell-tale body parts around . Police detective Robert Forester is on his tail though , but because of a supposedly checkered past nobody believes him until Ramon really lets it all hang out and comes above ground . At least the sleazy characters in this get what they deserve and the good guys come out rather well . Lots of familiar B-movie faces in this too . I wouldn't call it a comedy but it's not a straight horror film either , more of a dry-humored spoof , really . I think that's called " tounge in cheek " but I hate that term . Anyway , well worth seeing and you can get it on DVD ( all region , NTSC ) in a version from Korea that's quite nice and playable with no subtitles . .
Funny stuff with a moral and a message	Bobby wants to be a movie star , and stop working at the Winky Dinky Hot Dog stand . He auditions for a " blacksploitation " movie about gangs and pimps and hos and actually ends up getting the part . But on the way to that point he has some strange dreams and fantasies about what it's like to be a black person wanting to be in the movies , since the only roles seem to be " slaves , butlers , and gang members " . This is a pretty good stab at the movie industry and the stereotypes they portray in the films they put out . Bobby's grandma says it best , that there are no positive black roles in films . In this , we have a " Siskel and Ebert " parody called " Sneaking into the Movies " with " Attack of the Street Pimps " winning out over some " Amadeus " - type flick , why see something if you can't pronounce it ? There's parodies galore , including a detective film that stars Keenan Ivory Wayans as " Jerry Curl " . . . . . a villain that's constantly spraying his hair with relaxer ? This film is not as outrageous as some of the parodies put out by the Wayans brothers but it is funny and it's definitely a slap at the film industry . Worth seeing , .
They don't mingle , they schmooze . . . . . . .	Hey now , this is a low budget horror comedy , and while that generally puts me off ( the horror comedy part ) I stumbled across this because it was cheap and found it to be pretty damn funny , not to mention well done considering the budget limitations . With the right budget this could have been awesome . As it stands though , it's merely pretty damn good . A soap opera star & his wife find themselves in dire straits after he loses his job and they're being evicted from their apartment , so as his brother is busy killing himself after chopping up his wife , he leaves him his house and they move on in . It seems they have strange neighbors but that's the least of their worries , since they also have kobolds . You know , poltergeists , haunts , etc . Seems that this house is a portal to another world and it's all coming from a door that was added on to the house after it was built . Seems that one room is sometimes the TV room and sometimes the doorway to hell . Or something . A neighbor who's a hypnotherapist ( and performance artist ) diagnoses their problem but isn't able to withstand being sucked into it himself . Now , these folks happen to be throwing a big party , something to do with getting his job back , and it has to be good , although the preparations are a bit of a trial since they keep getting possessed by the spirits of the house . When the party starts the kobolds come out of the woodwork , literally . . . . . and MINGLE , no , they don't mingle , they SCHMOOZE . . . with disastrous results . This has a great sense of humor to it , mostly sarcastic & dry , and as I mentioned , had this had a more substantial budget it could have been awesome . stars , scare this one up .
far better than I expected	I had heard about this on a local radio show back around Halloween but the price tag on the new DVD kept me from picking it up , but I did find a used copy and snagged it yesterday and watched it last night and was surprised at how good it was . A young boy & his mom are on the way to pick up his sister at the ferry from the mainland and she brings a friend home ( a guy ) from school . Now the boy had been looking forward to trick or treating with his sister but the guy says he'll get a costume & go too . The little boy is obsessed with a video game called " Satan's Little Helper " ( something lots of parents would blanch at ) and convinces the boyfriend to dress up like Satan . However , the young boy has been cruising the neighborhood and finds a character already dressed like that who he takes to be the real Satan . And his behavior is rather becoming to that role as he sets up Halloween motifs in people's front yards using their dead bodies . But , this young boy is apparently so naive he can't really distinguish between his video game & reality , so it seems pretty cool to him . Of course once he brings " Satan " home with him things start to get more interesting . This is pretty well done for a low budget flick , and the Satan character is played rather well although one never knows who it is . It's been a long time since Jeff Lieberman ventured into any kind of horror picture and he still does well . At times this brings to mind older films , like " Halloween " but it doesn't linger too long on anything like that and is almost refreshingly original . , recommended .
stick with the TV master version	OK , so this was one of my favorite 70's TV movies that I saw way back when and guess what ? I still like it , and when I first saw it I had no inkling who William Girdler was . . . . what , you don't know either ? Well , OK . . anyway , this just came out on DVD from the folks at Shriek Show , whose DVD's are pretty hit or miss in the quality department This has both the TV version & the theatrical version , forget the theatrical version , it's warts and all and missing chunks , I'm not even sure why it was included . And if you're not familiar with the story here , there's a bunch of folks hiking in the mountains & the ozone layer's gone because of too much fluorocarbons and all the wild animals go , well , wild , I guess you could say , like attacking humans and stuff ? This is actually pretty high quality for " made for TV " , and while it's still a cheesy 70's movie it's actually pretty darn good . .
classy , eerie ghost story from Japan	A wealthy land owner ( landlord ) has repossessed the farm of an old man and his family . When the old man runs along beside the carriage in which the landlord is riding , begging for his land not to be taken back , he is thrown to the side and injured , and dies from his injuries . After that , his wife ( Sue ) and daughter ( Asa ) are taken by the landlord to work for him for 10 years to pay off the old man's debts . Sue is killed after trying to prevent the killing of a snake , and her ghost ( along with that of the old man ) haunts the landlord . In fact , Sue's influence seems to make it look like other people are turning into snakes , too , including the bride of the landlord's son , and others . Asa is raped by the landlord's son after he concocts a story to have her deliver a letter to someone in the nearby town so he can get her away from the homestead , and after spending the night in the forest in a rainstorm , she's never the same . There are all kinds of snakes popping up here and there , in a rice bowl , as part of another human being , etc . , so eventually the landlord and his family are pretty disturbed by the goings on . Eventually the landlord is driven to see things that aren't there to the point where justice triumphs and he gets his due . This all takes place in the late 1800's , it seems , and is fairly classy but not without creepiness . If you're a fan of creepy ghost stories , Asian style , you'll probably love this . .
excellent but not exactly uplifting	This is an excellent film that was evidently made on a low budget but still comes off very well . A man , just released from prison , finds out his old partner has gone straight and has a real job . Considering that these guys have to be about 60 or so that's probably not a bad thing . When these two guys get back to town they go to the Golden Eagle , an extremely run-down old hotel in the heart of L . A . , and populated by hookers , pensioners , and various crazy folks . Here the one man reveals to his recently released buddy that he has two tickets to Vegas and they're heading out in the morning to start new lives . Too bad his buddy isn't too smart and ends up killing a hooker in the hotel room while he's out getting beer & pork rinds . Of course at this point things are no longer looking up and they have to figure out what to do with the body so no one will trace it back to them . Several side stories include a young hooker-in-training , a crazy old man who claims to have tag-teamed Fay Wray with Bela Lugosi , and various others . This is a very strong movie but it's also quite depressing , so not a nominee for " feel good movie of the year ' . An excellent movie of the seedy side of life . .
Interesting science fiction from New Zealand	Zac awakens to find himself all alone , the clock stopped at 6 : 12 and seemingly no one else around . He begins a search for others but finds no one . Seems that Zac is a scientist involved in something called " Project Flashlight " and that may be responsible for why there's no other people . He begins broadcasting from a radio station and tells anyone that may be alive where to find him , then decides to move up in the world to fancier digs and after a couple weeks he goes a bit nuts and thinks a couple times about killing himself , even having a gun in his mouth . Then , a woman appears out of nowhere , and things are better . Together they search and find a Maori man , and the three of them set out to find others . Of course being that there's just one woman causes a problem or two . As the film goes on the reason for their survival is revealed and Zac comes up with an idea to destroy the " Project Flashlight " equipment which is the reason for all this , but things don't exactly work out as planned . An interesting film , a little slow at times but well worth seeing , and definitely a film that deserved more attention when it was released . , now out on DVD so go rent or otherwise obtain it for your viewing pleasure .
rec vs . Quantine . . . . .	I have now seen both rec and its remake , Quarantine , which I saw on the big screen , and I have to wonder why Quantine is considered to be inferior ? I liked both , and in watching rec last evening , it seems like the feel is a bit different , maybe more raw & spontaneous , but apart from that , I think they're both good horror films . The story , if you're not aware , is of a hostess of a late night TV program and her cameraman , filming the crew at a fire station and hoping for the opportunity to go on a call with them . They do get that opportunity , but it's one they will come to wish they never had . While responding to a rather strange call regarding an elderly woman who appears to have gone nuts , the fire captain is bitten and savaged by the woman , and then when the attempt is made to get this man out of the building to safety and aid , everyone finds they've been sealed into the building by the health department , for reasons unknown . More strange incidents occur which result in the death of another fireman , and panic begins to build among those trapped in the building . The hostess and her cameraman bravely ( or obnoxiously , depending on your point of view ) continue to film the events as they unfold , interviewing residents and also tagging along to film the killing of yet another insane resident as they are gunned down in a hallway . Eventually a health inspector enters the building to take blood tests of those trapped , but things never quite get that far because whatever is happening begins to spiral WAY out of control and the hostess and her cameraman take refuge in what they think is an abandoned apartment at the top of the building , only to find they've probably stumbled upon the source of all that's wrong . This is a rather disturbing and creepy film , made somewhat more disturbing by the shaky camera and the inability to see clearly what's happening , although one usually sees enough . Kind of like Blair Witch meets Rabid and Night of the Living Dead , only without having the ability to go elsewhere if you choose . So , I have to admit I enjoyed both films , the original and the remake . I'm rather surprised rec has not been released here in the US but I did get an all region DVD from Singapore that is just fine and fairly inexpensive . Well worth seeing and recommended to horror fans , but I can't say that one film is superior to the other .
Classic Waters , but without Divine	" Desperate Living " is the sad tale of one Peggy Gravel ( Mink Stole ) , an outpatient from a mental hospital that by all indications should be an inpatient . She thinks that everyone is out to get her , and even a baseball through the bedroom window is an attempt on her life . The children are caught playing doctor , and her life is unraveling . Her husband , as played by George Stover ( later of Don Dohler " fame " ) , catches the maid , Grizelda , about to steal his bank book and 2 rolls of toilet paper , and she's been into the liquor , so she's about to get fired and while he goes to give Peggy her shot , Peggy of course hysterically reacts & Grizelda comes to the rescue & kills hubby by planting her dainty 300-pound butt on him . After which , of course , Peggy & Grizelda are on the run . They don't really know where they're going but after the unwanted attentions of a motorcycle cop , who has a panties fetish , they discover Mortville , which is kind of a shanty-town where people go to hide out , like murderers and such . There are nudists , crazies , lesbians , and they're all ruled over by the cruel Queen Carlotta ( Edith Massey ) , who makes them do strange things like put their clothes backward and walk backward for " Backwards Day " . Queen Carlotta also has a daughter named Princess Cuckoo ( Mary Vivian Pierce ) , and the princess hates her mother & her life and lives only for the love of a nudist garbageman . Queen Carlotta has a small army of goons ( all of whom look like gay leather-boys ) that enforce her rules & service her regularly . And that , right there , is enough to make anyone lose their lunch . Peggy & Grizelda rent a room from the voluptuous Muffy St . Jacques ( Liz Renay ) and Mole McHenry , a hard core " man trapped in a woman's body " . Of course it's a dump and they have to remove a dead body from the place before it's habitable . And up to this point , if you've been undressing Grizelda with your eyes , well , you do get to see what she looks like naked , which is definitely not for the faint of heart . Eventually , Mole finds out that she has won the Maryland Lottery ( by way of a ticket pilfered from our duo on the run ) and goes to Baltimore to collect , and brings home lots of presents for Muffy , including a snap-on tool like you've never seen before , courtesy of a drop-in visit to a sex reassignment clinic . Peggy , however , has fallen into complicity with Queen Carlotta and is doing quite well as her evil henchwoman , now that Princess Cuckoo has fallen into disfavor . Peggy is enlisted to help infect the citizens of Mortville with rabies , but of course this is all thwarted by the actions of the nudist / lesbian faction who overthrow the kingdom & they all live happily ever after . Kind of . This is a higher-budget looking affair than some of Water's earlier works and looks great on DVD . It's just that this is a John Water's film and being that , it's by no means for everyone . But if you have a twisted sense of humor and a fairly strong constitution , give it a watch if you've never seen it . .
Not bad as recent " Masters of Horror " go	I don't have cable so I don't get the station that features " Masters of Horror " , obviously , but I have to say that the DVD's I've seen of the second season pale in comparison to those of the first . " Family " , starring George Wendt , though , is not bad , in fact it's a decent enough dark comedy . Wendt plays Harold , a seemingly normal bachelor type who lives in a little Wisconsin community . But after a few moments you realize that Harold has a few screws loose , at a MINIMUM , because his house is populated with skeletons dressed in clothing and he often sees them as being live humans . When new neighbors across the way move in , Harold keeps his distance , but when the new neighbors are on their way home from a night out ( and too many cocktails ) , the hubby hits Harold's mailbox ( made from bricks ) and knocks it down . The next morning they go to apologize and the mailbox is already repaired , and yet they do get to meet Harold , who thinks that lovely Celia is coming on to him while her husband is sitting there , but again , that's all in Harold's little spook-house mind . Now , Celia and husband David seem to squabble a lot , and some of what they seem to be squabbling about is having another child , after their last one died . Then after agreeing with Celia to go through with their decision , David disappears . Of course Harold is delighted and ready to welcome Celia into his little family , as his current nagging skeleton / wife has been getting on his nerves . But then it turns out that what Celia and David had been discussing was of an entirely different nature than having another child and therein lies " the twist that I didn't see coming " to this episode . This is pretty well done & the twist made the episode , because I never suspected for a moment what was going on . Not bad for Landis too , considering that most of his contributions to horror have been made many years ago . .
despite its limitations it's an excellent sci-fi movie	I read where this is available on DVD now outside the US , thanks to Quentin Tarrantino's reference in " Kill Bill " , and Quentin's from right here in the USA , so why isn't it available HERE ? Whatever happened to his " Rolling Thunder " label ? ? But thanks to the wonders of technology I have it anyway , and I have to say I really liked this a lot , even though it has its limitations . Like , the budget . A plane of passengers is told to turn back to Haneda airport because there may be a bomb on board the plane , and they're already freaked out by a strange red sky and bird committing suicide against the windows , when one passenger decides that it's time to make his move & hijacks the plane . At this point strange lights appear in the sky and the plane ends up crashing in a seemingly desolate area and the passengers are left with no food , water , or a way to contact anyone as to their plight . One passenger strays towards the strange lights & is taken into an alien spaceship and possessed by a blob of goo ( the alien ) who splits open his head and enters , and here's where the special effects get a bit cheesy , but hey , this is 1968 . He then becomes a blood sucker and all he has to work with are his former fellow passengers who are rather reluctant to be victims . Of course due to lack of food and water the other passengers are turning on each other and plus , there was a lot of mistrust to begin with as one of these people may be the one who smuggled a bomb on board the plane . Another passenger is a young American woman on her way to collect her husband's remains , as he was killed in Viet Nam , and there's also plenty of anti-war commentary in this movie as well . This is a movie where the ambitions truly exceeded the budget but that can be overlooked in this case , as this amounts to quite an eerie , creepy , and strange science fiction film . There's a feeling of dread maintained throughout and toward the end where you think that all may be well , at least for some , all hope is shattered , so it is a rather downbeat ending . I didn't mind the cheesy special effects , after all this is a product of the 60's and it's Japanese so that was nothing new to me , but the story and the atmosphere of the film really make it work , and it's well worth seeking out .
great " coming of age " film	Dangerous Lives of Altar Boys is a pretty good coming of age film , with 4 Catholic schoolboys that are devoted to comics & mischief composing their very own " comic book " , The Atomic Trinity . Of course , there are 4 of them now , but the title's already been done & they can't go back & change it . Or won't . The do their daily battles with school and Sister Assumpta ( Jody Foster ) who has a special place in their book as " Nunzilla " . When the class is taken to an animal park , the boys become taken with a cougar that they want to kidnap and sic on Sister Assumpta , having noticed how it tracked her movements while she was there . Despite numerous sidelines , that's what most of the rest of this film leads up to . One of the sidelines is that one of the 4 boys has fallen in love with one of their classmates , who reveals to him a secret about her and her brother , which he of course shares with one of his buddies who can't keep HIS mouth shut and lets it fly at the brother when he gets upset with him for hurting him during soccer practice . Revenge is sweet as the brother kidnaps the Atomic Trinity book & presents it to the sister , after which of course the cougar plan becomes more of a necessity . I can't reveal much more without spoilers so I will have to stop at this point , but to say that things don't go exactly to plan and the rest , you'll have to see for yourself . I didn't think I'd like this much since I'm not into comics nor did I go to Catholic school , but this is a pretty good film and sucked me right in . If you liked films like " Stand By Me " you will probably like this . Check it out , .
Larry Cohen's first is an excellent surprise	I've seen most of Larry Cohen's later movies but hadn't seen this one until last night , and I have to say for a first film it's quite impressive . A Beverly Hills couple lounging by their pool and arguing are visited by a black man ( Yaphet Kotto ) who appears out of nowhere , and fishes the rat that the couple was arguing about out of their swimming pool drain , and then begins your basic home invasion . After discovering that they have no cash , he does find out that hubby has taken a third mortgage on the house , borrowed on his insurance policy , AND has a secret bank account , so he sends him to the bank to bring back cash in one hour , or the man ( Bone ) will rape the wife . Now , hubby gets a bit sidetracked on the way to the bank , and at the bank he's talked out of making a withdrawal by the teller , and then the husband wanders aimlessly to a bar , then hooks up with some loony tune he met at the bank and goes back to her place , etc . Meanwhile the hour of three has long passed and while at first it appears that Bone will rape the wife , he relents , after which she seduces him . Then , she decides that they'll go after hubby and get some insurance money . Which leads to an absolutely bizarre ending I didn't see coming . There's lots of strange and bizarre imagery and fantasy sequences to this , and it seems as though the wife may be a bit crazy herself . All performances are very good , and the story seems a bit disjointed at times but comes together nicely and makes for an interesting watch . An excellent little thriller / drama with a twist and well worth seeing . .
oddball little gem is worth seeking out	Keith Gordon plays Ernie Blick , a young man who apparently works quality control & packaging in a plastic crucifix factory , who keeps the rejects for his collection , and who is caught by a security guard for stealing and fired . No matter though , because he now has more time to work on his invention that he's been working on for a couple years now , a machine that shows ( on a TV monitor ) the image of heaven . Now , this is an invention that has this little town talking and wondering , because Ernie's been very secretive about it , and on Christmas Eve , he invites his loony survivalist cousin and his family , a couple other friends , and a lawyer over to the unveiling of his invention . After much fanfare the object is revealed and no one , absolutely no one , sees anything on the screen except static . Obviously , they think he's nuts , but he seems so earnest about what he's done and one has to wonder what's going on . To think things over , I guess , Ernie hops a bus and is talking to an elderly woman who eventually , with the help of her friends , talks Ernie into hijacking the bus for a shot at being on TV so he can talk about his invention . Of course , things don't quite go as planned and while Ernie means no harm to anyone the sheriff and the SWAT team that was called in aren't so sure and tragedy ensues . Amanda Plummer also is in this , as a burned out " new wave " keyboardist who comes back to this little town for a break , and becomes a bit involved with Ernie and his invention . She's not the central character and in fact has a bit of a small role but it is she that is shown coming and going at the beginning and end of the film . A strange little film , very low key and not without humor , but also rather dark at times . Well worth seeing for fans of independent cinema though , and a well done little gem . .
Awesome drive-in junk , now on DVD !	Frankenstein Meets the Space Monster is now out on DVD ! I have yearned to see this movie for so long and now it's on DVD and I watched it last night and I was quite happy to now have it in my collection . But , be forewarned , this movie is best enjoyed by fans of schlock horror and science fiction , the kind like drive-ins used to show in the sixties , and it's by no stretch of the imagination a " good " movie . But for hard-core " so bad it's good " fans like myself , it's a gem . The story , such as it is , is this : There's some aliens hanging around out in outer space in a saucer , and they keep blowing up earth's manned space flights from NASA , thinking they're missiles sent to destroy them . NASA decides to send a robot named Frank , who looks quite human but a quick trip to the back room and he's just a robot with fake skin and a wig thrown over the top of a few vacuum tubes and capacitors ? Yeah right . Anyway Frank goes up , the spaceship gets shot down , the folks in the saucer see it was a manned flight and the evil Princess ( who is dressed kind of like Cleopatra or something ) berates her folks for shooting down manned flights . And then the aliens land on earth to start collecting babes in bikinis . For their planet has just had a nuclear war & they're wanting to start fresh again . Now astronaut / robot Frank has encountered these bad dudes and gotten half his fake face blown off for his trouble , and is wandering around Puerto Rico aimlessly . But his creator ( James Karen , " Return of the Living Dead " ) is out looking for him with his assistant and they eventually find him and are trying to help him . Meanwhile , the aliens are running amok and taking their collection of babes collected from discos and beaches back to their spaceship , covering them with sheer curtains and sending them down a conveyor belt while the evil aliens watch and nod their approval . Also on the spaceship is some kind of creature , I would venture to call it a space monster , based on the title of the flick , but that's just me . Eventually Frank the astronaut / robot finds his way to the ship , rescues the babes , fights the monster , and saves earth , or at least Puerto Rico , I don't know if the rest of earth was in danger . There weren't very many aliens . There's a lot of groovy music in this too , sometimes pop and sometimes twangy ' twisting on the beach ' stuff . Overall this is quite a mess , technically , but I loved every minute of it and it's bad sixties horror-schlock at its best . .
Low key , low budget , and disturbing	A small group of young women in London ( I guess , it never really says , but it's SOME large British city ) band together to protect each other as they unwillingly change into flesh eaters . Now , there's always someone stalking them , and as soon as they feel they've been discovered they move on to some other abandoned and dumpy flat . Some of them look mostly normal as long as they keep their sores covered up , because at one time or another they've all been bitten by someone with this mysterious disease . One hears things in the background ( on TV , radio ) about Mad Cow Disease , and wonders if that has something to do with it , but otherwise it's not really explained . But the lack of explanation doesn't detract from the movie , really , it's just fine without it . One woman turns tricks to get money , cars , body parts , etc . One is pretty far gone and of course they have to provide her with meat . One is fairly " new " to their little group , having been bitten by an attractive young man that uses his good looks to pick up babes for lunch . Then there's the ' stalker ' , a man who is searching for his daughter , as he zeros in on likely candidates and takes them back to his torture chamber for a little talk before he puts them out of their misery . This is a low key and low budget movie , fairly disturbing for the very fact that the perpetrators in this mostly look like your average normal person , it's just their taste in food is a bit screwy . But a quick review of morality and a little reworking here and there and murder isn't a bad thing anymore . This is a Fangoria Presents , so take that for what you will , this one is above average and worth seeing , although at times a bit slow moving and talky . Creepy and nasty though . .
" Honey , we don't like nothing soft . . . "	Faster , Pussycat is wonderful go-go 60's trash and if you haven't seen this you can now own it on DVD . It's not cheap though but the quality is just fine . We have 3 exotic dancers that go to the desert to race and raise hell & when they meet up with some " squares " they end up killing the guy and kidnapping the girl . The happen across an old ranch and figure the old guy that owns it has money so they stick around for some fun . Tura Satana is without a doubt one of the scariest actresses ever , and one of my favorites . It was rather sad to see her in Ted V . Mikel's " Mark of the Astrozombies " and see the rest of her body finally caught up with the size of her . . . breasts . Haji is some exotic type foreigner , don't know what nationality , and the other girl is kind of the " girl next door " gone bad . At any rate this is trashy cheesy fun of the highest caliber , with some great lines by the gals and some campy violence . Of course the cool title song by the Boss Tweeds too . If you enjoy 60's exploitation trash this will be right up your alley . .
How to not pick up girls	This is a Takashi Miike film , so you know it's chock full of weirdness and ugliness , and yet still beautiful in some ways . Now it's gone out of print in the US and another import version ( Chinese or Japanese ) is available in NTSC format , and it's fine if you don't mind somewhat literal subtitles , obviously written by someone that does not speak English as a first language , but that was relatively minor . On to the film : A widower is told by his young son that he's looking old , and a friend of his talks him into staging a fake audition for the purpose of meeting a suitable young bride . Aoyama can sure pick ' em , he is smitten with Asami before he ever sees her in person and seems to fall in love when he actually talks to her , and they go out a few times to dinner and such . There's something not quite right about Asami though , nobody seems to know anything about her and her stories don't check out . Does that stop Aoyama though ? No , it doesn't . In further poking around into her background he finds some quite disturbing information that may or may not be connected with her . And poor little Asami just sits around in her room waiting for the phone to ring with a duffel bag with dubious contents sitting nearby . Oh my . This is sort of a journey into David Lynch territory , but generally his films aren't quite this grisly . I think the thing I like the most about Japanese films is the portrayal of young ladies that seem meek and mild and are monsters at heart , and this one is a fine example . Well worth your time to seek out and watch , stars .
strange but worthwhile short film	This short film is without dialog , as are the other two short films on this DVD featuring the works of Nacho Cerda . It's about a man , who is a sculptor , who lost his wife in a car accident and is set on creating a statue of her . At some point though , the statue begins to bleed , and is seemingly coming to life , while the sculptor himself is noticing lots of strange things happening to himself , like black dust coming out of him and strange marks beginning to appear on his body . A rather touching , if weird , ending too . This is very well done and an interesting idea , and definitely a step up from the subject matter of " Aftermath " ( the other color short film on this DVD ) . I would like to see a full-length film from this gentleman , hopefully something will be out sometime soon . .
dark , disturbing , surreal , creepy , shall I go on ?	This is only the second Derek Jarman film I've seen , the other being " Jubilee " which is one of my all time favorites . This one is quite different though , as it seems to portray the dark side of life in England under then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher . There's plenty of life on the fringes , with drug use and just plain crazy people living in what amounts to rubble and ruins . There's some gay imagery but I didn't find anything as offensive as others seem to have found . Mostly though it's just a depressing and disturbing portrayal of life on a downhill slide . There's apparently IRA types , junkies , and a very strange wedding ceremony to top things off . This is a non-narrative film , so don't expect any particular story or character development . There's also bits of people's home movies interspersed with all the gloom , which is perhaps a reminder of happier times and places . I was fascinated by this from start to finish , and one thing that I thought of was that this was somewhat of a nihilist version of " Koyaanisqatsi " but other may not see it that way . Dark , disturbing , creepy , surreal , and rather fascinating the way a car wreck can be to the right person . , recommended to those with a sense of adventure though .
Thoroughly depraved & disgusting & I love it	If you're easily offended , stop here & go read something else , because even if you're NOT easily offended you'll probably find Terror Firmer a little tough to squirm through at times . Just keep in mind that all the vomit , blood , and distribution of basic bodily function material are all meant in a good natured way . All in good fun , that is . . . . ugh . Lloyd Kaufman plays a blind movie director , and a big group of degenerate types , some of which are actors and some of which are crew , make up the rest of the cast of this " making a movie within a movie " mess . Not much is spared here in terms of bad taste , there are decapitations , nudity , gays , lesbians , hermaphroditic types , abuse , snot , pickles , a fetus ripped from its mother's womb , it's all here . Even Ron Jeremy , former porn star , has a bit part . This pulls out all the stops and never lets up and my favorite part is the reaction of the woman who former beau's equipment finally ( what's THAT ? ) . A hideously disgusting bad-taste romp and I loved every sick minute . .
Stalkers have been around for a long time , I guess . . . . . .	Even in proper Great Britain in the 60's , there were stalkers , and this one , mild-mannered young Freddie , collects himself a lovely specimen ( much in the same way he does butterflies ) in Samantha Eggar , whom he places in a lovingly constructed dungeon in his lonely country house he bought after winning a huge football pool . Terrence Stamp is great as the shy & repressed but vaguely threatening Freddie , always the gentleman , despite the fact he's got this poor woman locked away and she doesn't want to be there . The idea is that he will keep her until she doesn't want to leave , but she's not exactly going for that . This is a decent little thriller , all in all tame by today's standards , but still very worthwhile if you like older films & for the most part , quite well done . Interesting to see Eggar in this role , as all I've ever seen her in is 70's & 80's horror films , and you might say she was past her prime by then . All in all , stars , a decent watch .
a very strange treat	I'm no fan of the Flaming Lips , although I have heard their music for years . I was drawn to this , however , because I like odd Christmas films & this is about as odd as you can get . We have a settlement on Mars where it's Christmas eve , and the personnel there are getting a bit loony , and starting to see things , and become unbalanced . Along comes a strange being ( Wayne Coyne , singer & songwriter of Flaming Lips ) who appears out of nowhere just as a suicidal Santa runs out of Hatch Number 1 of the building , to of course meets with a horrible death . What's left of Santa is dragged back in , along with the Martian , who speaks not a word and is stoic throughout his questioning by the redneck commanding officer . Apparently one crew member is in charge of putting together a Christmas event for the rest of the crew , and the Martian is eventually volunteered to wear the Santa suit . There's a lot of strange things going on within this little colony , and there are equipment failures and crew members with degenerating mental states to deal with , but the benevolent Martian ends up wandering and manages to put some of the equipment failures to right . This is mostly filmed in black & white but some of the color sequences are pretty interesting , whatever we're meant to be looking at . There seem to be quite a few influences for this , and I was put in mind of " Dark Star " , " Solaris " ( the Russian one ) , " Eraserhead " , " 2001 " , and " Tetsuo The Iron Man " . The acting isn't the greatest but that doesn't really detract from the overall viewing experience . There's quite a bit of dark humor to this too . I was quite impressed , overall , and this even manages to have a rather magical and mysterious feel to it , and even a relatively upbeat ending . If you like cheesy science fiction & non-traditional type Christmas films then check this out , I found it to be a rather fun and interesting experience & well worth seeing . Not for the kiddies though , by any means . .
creepy German silent film	The Golem is a creature fashioned from clay to protect the Jewish Ghetto in old-time Germany , after the emperor has threatened the community's expulsion due to various trumped-up charges , although one of those charges seems to be conjurations ? No matter , they conjure him up anyway , or at least Rabbi Loew does , and he calls upon Astoroth to animate this creature with a ' magic word ' put into a Shem on the creature's chest . For a while all is well as the Rabbi uses the Golem as his servant , and then things get a bit crazy as he brings him with him to a Festival of Roses at the emperor's palace , where he , the Rabbi , has been asked to perform magic tricks . When he shows some of the history of the Jews to the attending guests they laugh and he turns the Golem loose on them , after which it seems , the Jewish community is pardoned . But wait , that's not all . Seems that Uranus is now in the House of Planets and therefore the Golem is now no longer a benign creation and he goes berserk . Of course he must be stopped , but how ? This is not quite as good as other German silent films like Nosferatu or Cabinet of Dr . Caligari , but it does rank right up there . As with most silent films the actors and actresses use exaggerated facial expressions and movements , which always tends to amuse me . Also notable is Knight Florian , the " love interest " of the Rabbi's daughter Miriam , Knight Florian seems considerably more feminine than Miriam and looks almost more pretty . But , they do apparently hop in the sack so I guess it's just the make-up . Overall this has very interesting sets and a good storyline , and will keep your interest if you have an interest in older films . The part of the Golem himself is played by one of the directors of the film and The Golem's facial expressions are downright creepy even by today's standards . I believe I read somewhere where this creature was the " inspiration " for the Frankenstein monster of later years , and I can see that in watching this . A good and interesting flick , check it out . .
Vintage 70's cannibal horror with Lou Rawls singing . . . ?	I got this on DVD from Movies Unlimited , it was a bit pricey but i like this movie enough to have done this and I was not disappointed by the quality , which isn't top notch but light-years better than a bootleg I had bought online a couple years ago . It's a region 0 version and I checked the company on the back which is in Brazil but according to the website they sell computer parts ? I guess if one were to find them they'd undermine the efforts of M . U . so to that I say whatever . NOW , about the movie , Laurence Harvey & his sister live in a big beach house and he invites young ladies in that never leave . Along comes a young hitch hiker ( Meg Foster , before she looked too weird , it's those eyes , for sure ) . Of course she's invited in and fed ( but what ? ) and then asked to spend the night . She hears noises and wanders down to the basement only to find Harvey down there with a meat cleaver , busy at work . . . oops . She does manage to get away but it's made out that she's on drugs and didn't really see anything . But she's not done poking around yet , no , uh uh . In the meantime Harvey picks up some hooker on the beach and brings her back to " model " for him , and THAT'S when this turns really gruesome , and gory , and actually kind of surprisingly disgusting for a movie directed by Laurence Harvey , I guess . This also features Stuart Whitman , John Ireland , and a few other familiar faces . I saw this on TV many years ago and I've searched high and low for it for years , and am glad to have at least a mostly decent print of it on DVD no less . There's a couple minor sound blips and evidence that there's old film used , like little scratches and stuff , but overall I was quite impressed by the quality , considering how hard it is to get one's mitts on this film . Anyway the film is an , not for everyone but if you like creepy 70's horror flicks this is pretty darn good .
Great little oddball Aussie flick	Hey now , this is one odd little Australian movie , that reminded me a bit of " The Usual Suspects " but without that movie's excess & the ensemble cast . We have a unemployed gentleman that is rudely awakened by a goon squad that breaks down his door and hauls him and a bunch of his possessions off to the police department to " assist with their inquiries " . Ed Fleming ( Hugo Weaving ) is frightened and bewildered and doesn't understand what's going on as the police Sergeant & his trained gorilla attempt to pin a car theft on him and possible connection with the disappearance of its owner , but then at one point he inexplicably changes gears and spins a tale of murder in desolate areas . Now the police Sergeant is a weenie , and so is his goon partner , and they're already in trouble for their past interrogation techniques , and they're under surveillance too . Then Fleming changes gears again and claims he only said what he did to get fed because he was starving . This has lots of excellent twists and turns and you're never quite sure what to believe on any side . If you liked The Usual Suspects this may also be to your liking , but it's a little more low-budget and non-Hollywood , of course . stars .
The 1950's re-written , with zombies	What if , many years ago , there was a radiation problem that caused the dead to come back to life ? And what if , to alleviate that problem , all cities and town in the US were surrounded by chain-link fences to keep the zombies out so they could live more-or-less normal lives ? And what if , with the help of Zomcom , some of these zombies were kept in check by special collars and used as domestic help & for things like milk men , crossing guards , etc ? Well , let's go visit the little town of Willard , which is just such a place . We have the Robinson family , mom , dad , & Timmy , who live across the street from where new neighbors are moving in . The new neighbors ( the Bottoms ) have LOTS of zombies working for them , but that's because Mr . Bottoms is the new head of Zomcom . So , since Mrs . Robinson has to keep up with the neighbors , she gets a zombie . Now , Mr . Robinson has a fear of these things , maybe because when he was a kid his dad died of a heart attack & came back & the then-11-year-old Mr . Robinson had to kill him . The zombie is not well received in the Robinson household until he keeps two school bullies from hurting Timmy , and then Timmy names him Fido . Now , it seems like these zombie control collars have some bugs in them , still , and when Fido's goes on the blink he eats Mrs . Henderson , a nosy neighbor . Fido also manages to tangle with the two school bullies again which results in their death but Mom is a tough gal & deals with the cover-up . If you've ever seen Lassie you will appreciate some of the humor in this too . . " What's the matter boy , is Timmy in trouble ? " . If you liked " Shaun of the Dead " then you'll most likely enjoy this too . " Fido " actually differs greatly from that film but it takes the zombie " mythos " and mixes it up into a weird black comedy . Goofy weird stuff and lots of fun . .
One of my favorite horror anthologies	" Dr . Terror's House Of Horrors " involves 6 men who occupy a train car . The last arrival is one Dr . Schreck ( Cushing ) who brings with him a deck of tarot cards & after he's accidentally ( maybe ) spilled them onto the floor , he's asked to do a reading for one of the men , after which the rest are drawn into the game . The men are shown their possible futures , and the end result is always the same . . . . There's a man who returns from holiday with his wife & daughter , only to find some kind of strange plant growing in the garden , that begins with killing the family dog & eventually traps the family in the house . There's a jazz musician who goes to the Caribbean only to hear the music of a voodoo ritual which he thinks he can adapt for a more modern arrangement , with dire results . There's a man who goes back to his ancestral home which was sold , to supposedly consult on architectural changes but the new owner of the house really has other plans . There's a stuffy art critic ( Lee ) who is " made a monkey of " ( literally ) by artist Michael Gough , who then runs down the artist , who loses a hand and eventually kills himself , except the hand itself is still out for revenge . And finally a new doctor in a small town finds himself a pawn of his partner when he realizes his wife might be a vampire and sets out to take care of that . I like this a lot , and I have a fondness for horror anthologies anyway , but this is one of my favorites . It's not particularly scary , but it's more along the lines of " EC Comics " type stuff that " Tales from the Crypt " was based on . A fun Amicus film , unfortunately not released in the US but of course , you can find it if you look . .
Absolutely bizarre " lost " film is well worth seeking out	" Hausu " ( AKA House ) from 1977 , is one of the strangest Japanese ( or otherwise ) films I've ever laid eyes on . Seems like a young girl and her friends go to visit the young girl's aunt in a big old house in the middle of nowhere , and auntie is not quite what she seems . You see , auntie was to have gotten married but her fiancée died in the war and she never got over it . So now she lives in this big house all by herself ( with a strange long-haired cat the girls call Snowball ) and when the girls arrive , things at first seem idyllic , but then change as the girls start to meet with odd fates , one by one . Now , this was described as " if Dario Argento directed Beetlejuice " but while that's appropriate in some ways it doesn't quite say enough . It seems like auntie is no longer among the living and has to have unmarried women ( or girls ) in order to maintain her life-force , meaning , that she takes theirs . Oops , not exactly a good way to spend a holiday . This is chock full of bizarre happenings and imagery and at times it appears to be a children's show , and at other times it appears to be a children's show by way of David Lynch or Dario Argento . Young Oshare , the niece of the woman who owns the house , may or may not be changing in ways that she & her friends would prefer not to happen , while the other girls are merely falling victim to the evils of the house . The mayhem in this is mostly done with over-the-top effects and results in lots of severed limbs & bodily fluids but for all that it's not exactly graphic , for it's macabre without being too gruesome . I had never heard of Nobuhiko Obayashi before ( the director ) and in looking at his list of films I've never heard of any of them either . . . I confess that after seeing " Hausu " I'm interested in finding more by him & hope it's as entertaining as this . An absolutely bizarre " lost " film , part horror , part comedy , part parody , part kid's show ( sort of ) , almost indescribable but well worth seeing for anyone that likes truly weird stuff . .
Brainiac Rules !	I first saw this film when I was just a little kid and it scared the hell out of me . It's too laughable and hokey to do that now but it does still have an unexplainable charm to it . This is a Mexican film made in the early 60's and involves a man being executed for doing bad things back in 1661 , while a comet passes overhead ( or at least a picture of a comet ) . Here it is 300 years later and the comet ( or the picture thereof ) is passing overhead again , and voila , a mysterious rock ( meteorite , I suppose ) shows up , containing the titular creature . The thing that comes to mind with this monster is a paper mache anteater , maybe with a rubber tongue . Woo hoo ! At the same time , a mysterious baron has shown up in town and suddenly mysterious deaths are taking place , involving small holes drilled in the backs of the victim's necks and their brains inexplicably sucked out . Like one could normally explain something like that . At any rate the monster is a wonder to behold , for the " precision " holes in the back of the neck to have been done the forked tongue would have to be very limber , and when it opens its mouth to let the thing out it uncoils like a lead necktie , and the attacks on the victims consist of merely letting the tongue flop on them in the general direction of the back of the neck . Now this is rather original for its time , despite the hokeyness , and like I mentioned it does have an overall charm , which may only be appealing if you're a b-movie fan as I am . But it won't be for everyone . It is a classic B-monster movie though , and if you like those then you owe it to yourself to at least take a look . I've just gotten the " Casa Negra " release on DVD too , in the original Spanish , and for an even more bizarre twist , the subtitles are rather literal translations , so brains now become " encephalic masses " , and so on . The picture quality is the best it's ever been though . .
Enjoyably strange	Marcello Mastroianni & Ursula Andress play cat and mouse in this weird little Italian movie , a kind of " Most Dangerous Game " Italian-style , with odd little trendy ( for the time ) things thrown in everywhere . To prevent wars there is now a Bureau of The Hunt , or something like that , where people are assigned as hunter or victim , and they take out their aggressions that way instead . Seems like there's always someone stalking or fleeing though so hard to see how that works , I guess . Anyway , Andress plays an American come to Rome to stalk her prey , Mastroianni , and she gets a little to close to him to want to kill him . To complicate matters he's pursued by his ex-wife and his current girlfriend Olga , while trying to figure out if Andress is meant to be his killer or not . This is all very well done with lots of cheesy background music and visual feasts for the eyes , and is far enough off the beaten track to be worthwhile for those who don't care for mainstream . It's actually kind of a fun film , and watch for Andress ' double-barrel assassination of her stalker in the first few minutes of the film at Club Masoch . , check it out .
astoundingly fun bad film with great scenery and green monsters	I bought this DVD TWO years ago & forgot I had it till I was rummaging and found it , and watched it last evening . Was I disappointed ? HELL no , this was great . It's got John Ashley & Angelique Pettyjohn as people come to a small island in search of her father & it's also got these . . . things , lurking around on this island , that are , well , green , but they're also well hidden usually & when they're about the camera lens goes in and out , in and out , apparently so you won't notice how bad the makeup effects are while you're busy getting sick into your popcorn bag . Now , of course , you can't have a movie called " Mad Doctor Of Blood Island " without a mad doctor , and the one here wears sunglasses all the time & bends over so he can use his little short cane . . . . hey buddy , ever think of getting a LONGER cane ? When one native is found partially transformed into one of these " greenies " , the doctor examines him and pronounces that he has " chlorophyll poisoning " . . . you know , too much chlorophyll ? Now wait : are humans supposed to have chlorophyll at all ? At any rate it's also revealed later that this loony doctor had what he thought was a cure for cancer until it turned out that the cure was worse than the disease , and those that have been " cured " are rampaging around this little island ripping out innards from unsuspecting natives and such . I think this is a fairly fun but disgusting film & for the time in which it was made , it does have some nudity too , yee haw . Anyway , this fine film was brought to you in part by Eddie Romero , who also did ( I think ) the Blood Drinkers & Beast of the Yellow Night , so you KNOW it's quality . , yeah I ain't right but I'm not bothered by that .
Strange , sometimes beautiful , and will haunt you afterward	I wanted to see this in the theater when it was released , but unfortunately it didn't play around here , and really , I didn't know it was out on DVD either till I stumbled across a used copy at my favorite local store . This is a very strange film for Harmony Korinne , almost more strange than " Gummo " or " Julien Donkey Boy " , but , perhaps in a different way . The film features a very eclectic cast , including two veterans of " Performance " ( James Fox & Anita Pallenberg ) , Werner Herzog , and a cast of lesser known French and English actors , and also , Diego Luna . The story is that of a young man ( Luna ) who is a Michael Jackson impersonator , but he doesn't exactly get " out of character " . He's seen performing on the streets of Paris for pocket change . . . although no one seems very interested . He appears to just be squeaking by in life . At a performance at an retirement home , he meets a Marilyn Monroe impersonator , who he encounters later , only to find that she's married to a Charlie Chaplin impersonator , has a daughter that's a Shirley Temple impersonator , and they're all part of a commune in Scotland . They have no " Michael " though , so he's invited to come live with them . So Michael goes with Marilyn ( Samantha Morton ) and becomes part of this little community , which includes a foul-mouthed Abe Lincoln , The Three Stooges , Queen Elizabeth ( Pallenberg ) , The Pope ( Fox ) , Little Red Riding Hood ( Korinne's wife ) , Madonna , and even Buckwheat . Despite the fact that these people seem to inhabit fantasy worlds , life goes on and things have to be done that are unpleasant , like having to kill their sheep because of disease , etc . The little commune puts together a stage show which they spend a lot of time on , and invite all the locals to come to " The Greatest Show on Earth " , and while it's all very heartfelt there are few people who attend . Tragedy strikes when one of their members decide that life is too hard and they can't go on anymore , after which Michael returns to Paris and his old life , only to find that his friends have " come with him " . As a subplot , Herzog is a priest who is also a pilot , and he has witnessed a miracle as one nun fell from the plane as they were dropping food to the needy , only to survive her fall . The nuns of this order then begin to jump from the plane and survive , and have been invited to the Vatican for an audience with the ( real ) Pope . Unfortunately they're unable to escape the irony of real life . This is a haunting , beautiful , and very weird film , probably best appreciated by those familiar with Korinne's work , but others may find it fascinating as well . I found myself actually caring about the characters , and there's a few very touching moments , which is kind of different for Korinne . I'd highly recommend this . .
Iria and Bob to the rescue	Zeiram is a fun Japanese sci-fi film about bounty hunter Iria and her computer , Bob . They have come to earth to capture one Zeiram , who is rather hard to describe . It's rather like the Incredible Hulk carved out of stone , with a tiny mask-like face inset in a hat-like thing on top of the body . But while the tiny face looks rather cute & benign , it's actually pretty nasty when it reveals itself to be something along the lines of a moray eel when it protrudes from its little perch . We have two bumbling electricians , sent out on a repair job on a Sunday , and they stumble across someone stealing electricity , which happens to be Iria and Bob . While investigating , one is accidentally launched into an alternate dimension , or " zone " , which Bob has created for Iria to do battle with Zeiram . I believe this was intended to be a private battle with no guests , so Iria is a bit alarmed by the unwanted " guests " and doesn't want to endanger them . Of course , Zeiram is no ordinary foe , he's nearly invincible , so this makes for some nasty battles & our electrician friends get to know more about using extraterrestrial weapons than perhaps they ever wanted to know . Plus , one gets to sample a giant cockroach , mm-mm . This is actually a very fun movie , and it does have some wry humor to it . Zeiram itself is a pretty interesting creation as it changes several times during the course of the film , and yet that creepy little miniature face is always there . . . amazing that something so tiny could draw such interest , but it is exceptionally weird . , fun stuff & I liked it a lot .
very weird but not bad	This is a rather strange film about a ship that has illegal cargo and passengers too . The illegal cargo is something that blows up when it gets wet , and the passengers are all shady types with things to hide , so that's probably not a good combo right there . Of course there's a big storm and the ship gets lost and is taking on water , and somehow these people find themselves in this lifeboat adrift in a sea of stranded ships and killer seaweed . They do find a ship though where the rest of the crew apparently fled and take refuge there , but right next to the ship is this area of land that is populated by loonies that wear big balloons and have big shoes , and I guess it's up to the viewer to figure out they have those contraptions in order to better walk on the swampy land on which they live . There's also giant crabs , scorpions ( in swampy land ? ) and who knows what other kind of critters . Ruler of this land is a boy king , and he has servants that wear pointed white hoods , what kind of movie is this anyway ? Well , it's an adventure movie , I guess , and sort of science fiction , but it's all done up like some Jules Verne thing on recreational drugs and is pretty darn strange , let me tell you . Not great , but worth seeing just for the strangeness . .
excellent little horror-mystery flick	This movie always seems to get rather poor ratings , and I guess I don't understand why , because it is a great little flick . A withdrawn young girl is jealous of her younger sister and her upcoming communion , and therefore she is always doing things to upset her . But did she kill her right before communion ? Someone did . And that someone is wearing a strange mask like the one that Alice favors , too , and a yellow rain coat . Of course , since Alice has a reputation , she's of course the prime suspect but there's actually something much stranger going on . The young girl that plays Alice is also Adrian in " Liquid Sky " I recognized her facial expressions from somewhere & looked at her filmography , and these are the only two films she's ever done . Anyway , back to the movie . This all takes place in a small community in Patterson , NJ , in the 1960's , and it's all quite well done and worthy of seeing , if you like intelligent horror . .
classic low-budget early 70's low budget horror	I saw this back in the early 80's on some late night horror show like Creature Features ( KTVU , Oakland ! ) and I loved it , and just watched it on DVD last night and it stands the test of time . Not that it isn't dated , oh my , the fashions of the day , striped trousers , etc . Talk about scary . The story is that an acting troupe led by the pompous and hammy Alan ( played by Alan Ormsby ) go to an island of the coast of south Florida to mess around in a graveyard and cast some spells . Unfortunately for them they turn out to be far better at what they did than they thought they'd be and reanimate the dead who trap them in a small cottage on the island . Before the reanimation takes place though , Alan seems to take a decidedly unhealthy liking to a dug-up corpse named Orville , who he decides they need to bring back to the cottage with them for a little ' mumbo-jumbo ' and disrespect for the dead . Little does he understand what a poor choice he's made . This is at times funny but I wouldn't call it a horror comedy . Some of the dialog is pretty snappy as the actors and actresses snipe at each other , and there's two gay ghouls ( Roy and Emerson ) to add a bit of comic relief too . They of course were " planted " by Alan before the others arrived to scare the hell out of at least one of the newcomers . When the living dead rise the gang is trapped in the cottage and this becomes fairly standard " Night of the Living Dead " stuff but that's fine , it's not like that's a bad movie and doesn't make this one . Overall it's the look and the atmosphere that makes this one , creepy and eerie with a sense of impending doom . A classic in its own right . .
Oh good , more comparisons to Shaun of the Dead	Despite the fact that there was a comparison to " Shaun of the Dead " on the cover of this , I watched it anyway . In fact , the blurb said it was " Better than Shaun of the Dead " . Well , since everything these days is " all that and a bag of chips " no matter how bad it is , I was pleasantly surprised that this was as good as it was . But it isn't better than " Shaun of the Dead " . Anyway , a small town in Alabama is plagued by Zombies , all of a sudden . Is it the result of a never-shown space craft that kidnapped a man , a woman , and a 1964 and a half Ford Mustang ? Well , maybe . Anyway , a video store owner is the first to be visited by a zombie , and since the sheriff is out of town and the deputy went back to the place of some woman he went out with last night ( who just happened to live in Panama City , Florida ) , the town is without an authority figure , so the video store guy plops the corpse in the lobby of the sheriff's office with a post-it note stuck to its forehead ( for the sheriff to call him on Monday , of course ) . A guy from Homeland Security parachutes in to look into this problem , commandeers the car belonging to the sheriff's secretary and begins to investigate . The secretary calls in a former deputy and ex-boyfriend to the investigation and pretty soon the zombies are running amok and they're all trying to hide out away from them . This is all done in a kind of sarcastic and dry humor , so must be seen to be appreciated , really . Best is the woodsman / survivalist guy leaving his young daughters at home and telling the oldest one what to do if anyone comes by the house while he's gone , and walking her through the steps to deal with strangers if they try to get into the house . Later in the movie the front yard is shown and there are dozens of corpses lying there from her blowing them away . This has a rather ambiguous ending though , but other than that it's pretty damn funny and while my review may not necessarily reflect that , that's because it's more one of those movies you have to really see to appreciate . And please do , there aren't that many good low-budget horror / comedies out there these days that are worth seeing .
Weird Dreams and Weird Realities	This is only my second film by Luis Bunuel , if you don't count " Un Chien Andalou " with Salvador Dali . I didn't like it quite as much as " Phantom of Liberty " but it's probably on a par with that film . Seems that there are a group of closely knit wealthy folks that are always trying to get together for dinner but never get to dine . The reasons for this are many , because something strange always seems to occur . It also seems that one gentleman ( a diplomat from the fictional country of Miranda ) is smuggling in heroin , and that he's also bedding the wife of one of his associates , and that the sister that woman is a drunk , etc . We have soldiers on maneuvers interrupting dinner , we have the group going to an inn for dinner only to find the owner recently deceased in a side room , and we have another instance where the guests show up when the host and hostess were about to make love , and they're so intent on doing so that they climb down the trellis and run off into the garden , where they emerge from 20 minutes later , with grass in their hair , etc , only to find their guests had fled because they thought there was an impending police raid . This is very surreal and strange yet comic at times . And if it's all supposed to mean something , it's probably lost on me , but it is entertaining . I don't make a very good art-house movie critic but I know what I like , and I liked this . .
not as awesome as " Night Watch " but still pretty awesome	I have to say I thought very highly of " Night Watch " and I wasn't disappointed in this sequel , but I'd say despite the HIGHLY imaginative effects it's a bit more confusing and not quite as good as the first . Still , it wipes the floor with most American releases of late . I can't say I fully understand everything going on , except that there's a battle between dark & light , vampires & " guardians " . There are some stunning special effects , especially with the woman in the red sports car who drives across the surface of a building , vertically , to enter a suite & pull up to someone's desk ( " Don't you ever knock ? " ) Also the scene with a man making an impression of another's face in the snow and scooping up that impression , and putting it over his own face to change his appearance is absolutely stunning . And here , we get remakes of old films ! Egad . It appears that the hero of our film here , Anton , is being suckered into joining up with the " dark ones " and there's lots of " end of the world " type imagery which , while rather unnerving , is still pretty cool stuff . Maybe the seeming lack of a solid plot or story is something to do with the language barrier or references us Westerners don't understand , but it's all pretty awesome eye-candy nonetheless . I will need to watch this again ( and again ) . Probably should watch it back-to-back with Night Watch too . A winner in my book ! .
good little thriller but why so obscure ?	I'd never heard of this movie till recently and it's not even in any of my movie books , which I thought was strange because it has rather big-name stars in the cast and a first rate director , AND it's a great little thriller . A little girl disappears on her first day of school and nobody seems to have seen her . As the film rolls on the viewer will find out that things are not what they seem , for the woman that's the girl's mother is single and the man that one assumes to be her father is the woman's brother , and the child is illegitimate . All evidence of the little girl seems to have disappeared too , her household things , her clothes , etc . So the police wonder if the woman is nuts , of course . As the film rolls on more is revealed though , and things are FAR less than they seemed to be , and more . This will keep you wondering almost up to the end , and it's quite good at not giving away much until it's necessary . Filmed in crisp black and white , and featuring the Zombies ( on a TV in a bar ) doing their hit " Just out of Reach " . Check it out , .
Packs a mean punch ( maybe minor spoilers )	High Tension seems to literally be flying off the shelves as I had a hard time finding a copy once I set my mind to it . But find it I did , and I watched it last night and it is one mean nasty horror movie . Two young girls go to one's parent's home in the country , for the weekend , to rest up and study . While there , the door bell rings in the middle of the night and when the father gets up to answer to door , he is attacked by a maniac , whose face remains mostly unseen to the viewer throughout the movie . The killer gains entrance to the house and systematically takes out the family while the guest hides . Decapitation by furniture plays a part here , probably the first time I've seen THAT . As the film progresses the two girls ( one bound and gagged ) end up in the back of the maniac's van and one escapes at a gas station to go for help . While at the gas station she calls for help and then manages to find the keys to the slain gas station attendant's car and then follows after the van . Now : there's a twist to this and the twist is actually foreshadowed at the beginning of the movie , where this young woman lies dreaming in the back of the car on the way to the country house . The first hint that things aren't what they seem , is when police arrive at the scene and play back the security tape , to see the attendant being killed . I had to back that up and watch it again to see if I though I saw what I did . At this point I can't say anything more about the movie except that it is brutal and scary and to me , the twist ending is handled far better than others of its type , which I guess you could say includes " Indentity " . I didn't see it coming , that's for sure . At any rate , this is pretty well top notch stuff . The French sure can make good horror movies from time to time , and I'd say this quickly has rocketed to the top of my list along with " In The Deep Woods " . There is more than one version of this on the DVD and I watched the original French Director's Cut , and it's downright nasty . stars , TRES BIEN !
effective and creepy art / horror from Tsukamoto	With the exception of his little knock-off horror / comedy " Hiruko The Goblin " , I have loved all films I've seen by Shinya Tsukamoto and this is probably one of his best . It takes a while to understand what's going on , but the build-up is quite good and is creepy , bordering on disturbing . A doctor and his wife are staying with his parents , and the parents are not sure about the new bride , who claims to have amnesia but may be other than what she seems . When the father passes away , there is much mourning , and then when the mother arises to use the bathroom in the middle of the night she encounters a VERY strange character that literally scares the life out of her . And then there's the kindly doctor who is puttering about the garden who suddenly is attacked and ends up at the bottom of the well , only to realize that it seems to be himself that put him there ? For he has an identical twin , it seems , and the twin has assumed his identity . Sure , there's a lot more to it than that , but you'll have to watch it to find out . Good use of eerie and unsettling music too . This is a bit more " arty " than earlier Tsukamoto films , but well worth seeing and very unsettling . Ryo as the wife Rin is quite good in her role and she seems almost " other-wordly " and to an extent , she IS from another world , of sorts . Well worth seeing for fans of creepy Asian cinema and if you've seen and liked other offerings from Tsukamoto ( like Tetsuo , Snake of June ) , you'll like this . .
Excellent early 70's science fiction with a creepy atmosphere	I remember this movie well from when I was young , and while I haven't seen it in at least 20 years or more in watching it again it was like I had just seen it yesterday . Two scientists go to the Arizona desert to look into unusual ant activity that has apparently been caused by solar / atmospheric disruptions and find that ants are doing things that ants have never done before , like thinking , organizing , and generally being very , very , naughty . The scientists are trying to get people out of this area because the ant activity is resulting in casualties and basically it appears that ants are preparing to rise up and take over the earth , and there seems to be very little that stops them . However , some folks scoff at the warnings and of course , get munched , so the scientists pick up a young lady to share their Geodesic dome with them . I can't tell you the whole story , really , but this has a rather creepy and desolate feel to it , it mostly takes place in the desert , and it's presented in a very plausible way , well , except for perhaps the ending , which is kind of ambiguous . This is a film that BEGS to be on DVD , and it's also rather a " thinking person's " science fiction movie too , as in , no space ships or big explosions or ray guns . Kind of invasion from right under man's noses , and a well planned one at that , that will probably chill you as you watch . , awesome .
one of my favorites	Hey now , this is one of my favorite movies . A woman living in an isolated house near the desert ( in Arizona ) is having trouble with housekeepers . None of them seem to stay very long . But every time a housekeeper leaves , a new tree gets planted along the driveway ? Hmm . Well , along comes Ruth Gordon , who seems to have lost one of her friends somewhere along the way and this house is the last place of residence . So Ruth goes " undercover " as a feisty and weird housekeeper to Geraldine Paige ( who fancies herself to be quite the goddess , I reckon , expecting the housekeeper to light her smokes and fix her drinks ) . Ruth though , is in cahoots with her nephew , the dude that played a doctor on Emergency eons ago . So while she's sticking her neck out , he's got her covered . Or does he ? Hmm . Anyway , this is a VERY well done and awesome whodunnit , with more than a few creepy overtones . Anyone that enjoys the late Ruth Gordon will delight in this . Highly recommended !
Not really my kind of film , but very worthwhile & powerful	I'm not much for " war " films , but this one sounded interesting , and I found a used copy so bought it . This is the tale of a young boy who " enlists " for military service during WWII in Byelorussia . The group he falls in with leaves him behind , and he ends up deafened by blasts and wanders the countryside . This is a rather harrowing tale & it's full of Nazi atrocities as they busily set about their ethnic cleansing . A scene where the young boy a a cohort steal a cow from a peasant & flee into the countryside only to be caught in the middle of tracer fire is absolutely astounding , since after the first round is done the cow is still happily grazing in the grass . Overall , this is an excellent film but not for the faint-hearted . One's heart goes out to one so young who has found himself alone in the midst of such horrors . A very powerful film and well worth seeing , but not for everyone . .
refreshingly different for this day and age	I will say that when a buddy of mine and I had just purchased our tickets for this we noticed " Hostel 2 " was playing and there was a slight hesitation , and I know we both sort of cringed as we realized we'd probably purchased tickets for some lame movie that we were going to hate and be kicking ourselves afterward . Surprisingly , that was NOT the case at all . For this film , Mr . Brooks , was a surprisingly original and well put-together film , and it's also neither a sequel or a remake of something that wasn't all that great to begin with . Kevin Costner plays Mr . Earl Brooks , and he's the owner of a box company . The beginning of the movie has a statement that says " the hunger has returned to Mr . Brooks brain , and it hadn't ever really left " . And then there's William Hurt's voice in the background saying " you've been good for a very long time and you know you want it " . Ominous ? Yep , a bit . We see Earl at an AA meeting introducing himself as an " addict " and then going for coffee , mm , does he ever talk about his addiction at these meetings ? Apparently not , for Earl is addicted to killing but he HAS been very good for a long time , two years , and yet after an awards meeting where he's named " man of the year " he stops on the way home with his wife for ice cream , goes home , changes clothes while his wife goes to bed , and goes out and wastes a young couple while they're making love . Unfortunately they always did that with the curtains open and when closing the curtains Earl inadvertently becomes a photographic subject for a voyeuristic neighbor ( Dane Cook ) who later contacts him and doesn't want to " shake him down " , he wants to go with him while he does his business . William Hurt plays Marshall , who is either Earl's alter-ego or imaginary friend , and he's a wonderfully cynical side-kick . It's kind of interesting that when Earl & Marshall talk when others are around it's like the others aren't even there . Anyway , it seems like there's a cop that may have been on the case a couple years ago when Earl was rather busy , and then he just seemed to disappear . However , now , interest has been rekindled in this case because of the trademark Earl leaves behind , and he's been dubbed " the thumbprint killer " . The particular cop ( Demi Moore ) is going through a messy divorce and is in danger of being taken off the case due to the nature of the divorce proceedings , but finds an unlikely ally , of sorts , in the man that she's trying to find and bring to justice . And that's all I'll say about the film , except to say that it's a well crafted puzzle where all the pieces seem to fit together at the end . I'm no fan of Kevin Costner but he does surprisingly well in this and near perfect as the seemingly mild-mannered Mr . Brooks . Hurt , of course , is great as the imaginary sidekick , and the supporting cast also is quite good . This is fairly off-beat for a mainstream-type movie , and fans of Costner will probably be put off by his " not the good guy " role , but this is well worth seeing and highly recommended . .
Justice done to Dr . Seuss's Creations !	I got my first Dr . Seuss book ( Dr . Suess's Sleep Book ) when I was about 3 or 4 , and even then I can remember that I was drawn to the strange critters and odd buildings and contraptions , and went on to have more of his books as I grew a little older . I still have a soft spot in my heart for Dr . Seuss so I was delighted to find that " Horton Hears a Who " is a spot-on example of the RIGHT way to do Dr . Seuss . The creatures are perfect , the buildings and contraptions , well , they're exactly the way I remember and near perfect . The story is a familiar one , that is , if you grew up with Dr . Seuss . . . Horton ( voiced by Jim Carrey ) , an elephant in the jungle , finds a tiny speck which holds the entire world of The Whos . Their world is in danger but Horton manages to save them & must put them somewhere safe . However , the other creatures in the jungle , led by the Kangaroo ( voiced by Carol Burnett ! ) , don't believe Horton & want to get the clover flower , which holds the tiny speck that is the world of the Whos , away from him so life can return to " normal " . Horton can talk to one person in Whoville , the mayor ( voiced by Steve Carell ) and the mayor is kind of in the same dilemma as Horton , because nobody will believe that there's an elephant that is trying to save their world . The animation is a delight , and the story is true to the book ( if a bit drawn out at times ) . The best scene is the field of clover where Horton must search for HIS particular clover flower to find it again after it was thrown over a cliff by unbelievers . There's also a little round yellow creature that's unclassifiable as any life form known but which was apparently a big favorite with the audience . The only thing that sort of didn't set well with me was a song near the end but thankfully it was brief and done with quickly . A wonderful film that is fun for kids as well as adults , especially if the adults grew up with Dr . Seuss . I haven't seen the other " adaptations " like " Cat in the Hat " or " The Grinch " and don't want to . " Horton Hears a Who " would probably make the late Theodore Geisel ( AKA Dr . Seuss ) very proud . .
excellent silent " spook house " film	I had seen the 1979 version of The Cat and the Canary a few years ago , & didn't find it particularly good or memorable . Now that I watched the original , I found that to be far more entertaining & an excellent " spook house " film . The story is that of an old mansion , built on a hill above the Hudson River ( which makes it in New York somewhere by my calculations ) . 20 years after the owner , who was considered insane , died , some distant relatives of his are to be gathered for the reading of his will . Guests are greeted by the dour Mammy Pleasant , who has taken care of the house ( but not the cobwebs , apparently ) for the 20 years since her master's death . The relatives gather , one is named the sole heir BUT she must be pronounced sane by a doctor who doesn't look like the bedrock of mental health himself . To add to the fun , there's apparently also an escaped lunatic loose , either on the grounds or IN THE HOUSE . . . . eek ! This is a fun and totally enjoyable horror / comedy type flick . The old house is perfect , full of secret passages and spooky settings . The cast is great & plays their roles to the hilt . Of course , everything is a bit exaggerated in silent films to get the point across , but that's just part of the fun . An excellent film for a dark & stormy night , or just about any time , really . .
haunting ( perhaps minor spoiler )	I guess this is the third of Chan Wook Park's " revenge " trilogy ( Oldboy & Sympathy for Mr . Vengeance being the other two ) and it's excellent and haunting . Lee Geum-Ja is a 19 year old woman who goes to prison in 1991 for the murder of a child ( as a result of a kidnapping ) but she was not responsible . The person that is , however , has been free all this time to do other despicable things like that . And then Lee is released from prison and sets out for vengeance . This is at times , beautiful , humorous , and nasty , and yes , haunting . I think the music has a lot to do with the haunting part . Lee is a beautiful young woman in prison and she's called " The Angel " even though she gets up to some rather nasty stuff , including dealing with a bully called " The Witch " . And she gets up to even nastier stuff when she gets out . Now , it seems that she's taken some pains to organize a group of parents that have lost their children to this particular child murderer and then she brings the man himself to an abandoned school house in the middle of nowhere , along with the parents , and gives them the opportunity to decide what they want to do . And it appears she does this with police approval ? Wow . There are a few other subplots including a reunion with Lee's daughter , who she gave up for adoption when she went to prison and who now lives in Australia , but that bit doesn't really seem to serve much purpose . Overall this is quite an interesting film and compelling to watch , so if you've seen the other two then you'll most likely enjoy this one . .
The age of gold ? ha . . .	I'm not sure if I'm qualified to comment on this film , being that I'm not a film student and never have been , and I'm not one that reads all kinds of things that may or not be into what I'm seeing . However , I'll give this my best shot . This is an incredibly weird film from 1930 and I loved it . It's full of black humor , and it's got some rather kinky bits that one would not expect to see in a film from that particular era , like a woman sucking on the toes of a statue ? The film begins with something like an educational film on scorpions , and then moves on from there . If you're looking for someone to tell you what this film is about , find someone else , because I couldn't honestly tell you , but personally I didn't care because I just sat back and marveled at this bizarre piece of work . It's only about an hour long but it is a wonderful way to spend an hour , but I think the last bit is something that may be offensive to some , blasphemy , I think the word is , but didn't bother me . . . , incredible for the era in which it was made .
" What have you brought home instead of my bride ? "	Woh Kaun Thi is a wonderful black and white Indian film about a man who is seemingly haunted by ghosts . Anand is a doctor ( who smokes a lot ) and encounters a strange woman on a dark road in a storm , who he gives a ride to and she gets off at the cemetery , where she ( of course ) disappears . Anand is engaged to Seema , but Seema dies mysteriously and Anand is married off to Sandhya , and it seems that Sandhya is not what she seems at all . There's also a twist ending . Lots of fun and interesting scenes and songs , plus also a great ice skating rink sequence . There's also a " rock and roll dance " sequence where we're treated to something like " the twist " crossed with , uh , square dancing ? Anyway , this is atmospheric and appropriately gloomy at times , and for the age of the film the print I got ( Ultra ) is surprisingly well preserved , for an Indian film , although it looks as though it could have been made 10 years earlier . Entertaining and rather creepy at times . .
excellent , off-beat Aussie film about life & death	Nick has just found out that he has testicular cancer , and he's devastated . Meryl has a brief chance meeting with Nick on her way home from visiting her parents , and just before she witnesses a man run down by a train who was apparently trying to save his dog . Meryl is an artist who sees death everywhere in her imagination , and witnessing the man hit by the train doesn't help . Eventually she and Nick develop a tentative relationship but she is confused by his reluctance until he tells her he has cancer . We are shown all aspects of the tragedy of the man run down by the train , from his girlfriend's grief to the train driver's remorse , and yet eventually everything works its way around to a more-or-less upbeat ending . This is an excellent off-beat film , and our brief trips into Meryl's imagination ( all animated ) was something that I could identify with , somewhat . The film's message seems to be why dwell on death when life is there to be enjoyed , and while my take on this is a bit simplistic , it's a worthwhile message and a great film . See it now . .
dream-like , offbeat Swedish vampire flick delivers the goods	" Let The Right One In " is a vampire flick , but it's also kind of a " coming of age " flick & a story about friendship , even though it's a very odd friendship . Oskar is a young boy , going on 13 , who lives in a apartment building in suburban Stockholm , where there's not a lot to do . He meets a young girl , who is rather under-dressed for the weather , when he's outside fooling around in the evening , and she tells him that they can't be friends , but despite that , they become friends . Oskar is a bullied child , and is picked on at school , so Eli , the girl , really becomes his only friend . Eli has moved in with a quiet older man , who is seems is her father , at first , but he has rather odd night-time excursions with a jug , a funnel , some knockout gas , and a big knife . Unfortunately his work is interrupted at times , but he seems to be trying to collect blood . Eli eventually reveals her true self though , as she attacks a drunken man on his way home from the local pub , and while her father has taken care of hiding the body , one of the man's friends has seen the attack & returns to the pub to bring people to the spot where he saw the attack , only to find no body & the blood covered up . Very suspicious , eh ? After a botched attempt to get blood for Eli though , her guardian douses himself with acid & ends up in the hospital , although Eli does come to visit him , up on the seventh floor , outside the window . He lets her in and offers himself to her , which is a scene that is gruesome & touching at the same time . With her guardian gone , Eli finds herself on her own and becomes closer to Oskar but still preys on others rather than her friend . Eventually Eli tells Oskar she must go away but at a time when he most needs her she appears to save him from death . This is truly an amazing flick , fairly low-key but definitely of high interest . You actually care about the main characters , and some may be able to identify with Oskar's situation , being that some of us were treated that way as kids . For what she is , Eli is a sympathetic and caring character too , and the young actress that plays her does an excellent job . All shy , awkward smiles , which belie what she really is . Check it out , well worth seeing . .
Creeeepy	First , it's a shame this is on York Video , being that this is way too good for them & if you've been burned by some of the other " looks interesting but isn't " stuff they crank out , then you're more than likely to pass right over this in your local used bin . This owes a lot to Dario Argento but it also stands pretty well on its own merits too . A woman travels to an isolated convent somewhere in Eastern Europe in search of her sister , and while her sister has " checked out " already , it seems , she is treated to the hospitality of an order of nuns that are not exactly typical of their kind . They are trying to bring back something that existed long ago , it seems , and from the build up one definitely would want to be elsewhere if and when it showed up . This is very dark and creepy , and has lots of great imagery and atmosphere . This is an Italian / Russian / British production , I guess , but I think the Italian part is winning out because it has the familiar " doesn't make a lick of sense " theme to it , like the films of Argento and so many others , but wow is this awesome to watch . Also sinister organ music accompanies a lot of the movie and it lends an eerie quality that works pretty well . I see from glancing briefly at the other comments that some folks didn't like this , well , all I can say is that if you're a big Dario Argento fan , you owe it to yourself to watch this because you won't be disappointed . .
Welcome to the dark	Welcome to the darkly disturbing world of Guy Maddin , whose films always seem to take place in the 20's or 30's and yet have a disturbingly modern sense to them . In an outbreak of " plague " in a small Canadian town , two hospital-ridden victims vie for the attention of the nurses and make fish out of tree bark . One goes blind and a nurse paints his glasses black . The hospital itself is above a animal barn , so there's feathers and hay everywhere . Einar the Lonely is a guy that lives in a shack by a lake , and smokes fish , and he even slicks down his hair with fish-oil . Lots of it , ick . We also have ( in the hospital ) a minstrel , complete with black-face . Hmm . There are surgeries with farm implements and in place of anesthesia the nurses put on a puppet show to divert the attention of the patient . If all this sounds pretty out-there to you , well , it is , and if you're already a fan of Guy Maddin it's all pretty normal . . . . . for him . If you're a fan of David Lynch then you would probably like Guy Maddin's films , although I can't really say they have the same tone to them . Maddin also employs a nifty sense of deadpan humor in his work , which I like a lot . This is a delightfully weird film and not just a little creepy , but overall it has a bizarre quality to it that makes it quite unique and well worth seeing for the adventurous . , check it out !
One of Bava's top films	I've finally seen Kill Baby Kill in a decent format , having gotten the Anchor Bay box set of Bava's films , and the transfer is beautiful and the colors are not as washed out as the DVD I had prior , plus I can watch it in Italian with English subtitles , oh , I'm in heaven . This is a great Gothic horror flick with a doctor going to a small village to find out what's going on there . Villagers are dying mysteriously and getting buried with a silver coin inserted into their hearts . Seems that a villager was responsible for the death of a little girl many years prior and that no one would help her as she lay dying , therefore the villagers are all cursed . No one has , apparently , thought of moving to another village . Anyway the ghostly apparition of Melissa Graps appears to those who are about to die , and woe unto anyone that sees her . Erica Blanc plays Monica , a woman who used to live in that village until her parents died and she was sent away , but she has ties that she's not aware of that place her in jeopardy . And that Villa Graps , well , anyone that goes there apparently never comes back , and the countess that lives there is rather unbalanced , to say the least . Overall a cool film & very worth seeing if you never have , quite well done and definitely one of Bava's best films . .
Forget comparisons to Eraserhead	Comparisons to Eraserhead and this movie are frequent and inevitable , i reckon , but while I like Eraserhead a lot , Tetsuo leaves it panting in the dust . OK , it's in black and white , it's surreal , and has industrial themes up the wazoo , but there the similarities end . A Japanese businessman hits a metal fetishist with his car and soon after he begins to find that his body is changing . Rather quickly too , he soon has metal and wires and all manner of nasty stuff sticking out of his body , and for some reason he finds all this a bit alarming . Wouldn't you ? This is pretty vile in parts but not unwatchable , unless you have no tolerance for ickiness . Lots of stop action movement and lots of just plain out-there imagery , much of it ugly and brutal , if not all of it . If you like more recent movies like " Rubber's Lover " and are a big fan of " out-there " Japanese movies and you haven't seen THIS yet , please do , you're in for a treat . This is pretty disturbing but does not lack humor , although it's rather DARK humor . stars , SEE IT !
excellent old-fashioned ghost story , with an odd twist	Aidan Quinn plays David , who , as a young boy had pushed his sister while playing , and she fell & hit her head and fell into a pond . Despite David's attempt to rescue her , she drowned . Not long after David's mother took him to America & now , as an adult , he's returned to England as a university professor whose specialty is debunking " psychic phenomenon " . David receives an invitation from a woman who is plagued by ghosts , so she claims , and he decides to go visit her to investigate her claim & put her mind at ease . He is greeted at the station by one Christina Mariell , ( Kate Beckinsdale ) who drives him to Edbrook , the estate , where he also meets the woman that summoned him , Nanny Tess , who seems to be in fear all the time . David also meets Christina's odd brothers , Robert & Simon , both who seem to have more than a few toys in the attic . Says Robert , " we're all mad , you know " , and that may well be a very accurate statement . David is set on finding the source of poor Nanny Tess's fear , and it could well be Simon , who continually plays stupid jokes to scare people because he's bored . But there are things happening to David that are more than can be explained by Simon's antics . David is also plagued by images of his sister , and strange happenings within the house that may well only be in his mind . And then , the unexpected twist comes , and I did not see it coming , and it's so well done that no one may see it coming . It has something to do with a missing bit of a newspaper that David finds , but he calls his assistant back at the office to find that edition and give him details of what the article says . Just be forewarned . . . nothing is as it seems . An excellent old-fashioned ghost story , up to a point , and when the " twist " kicks in , it gets even BETTER . John Gielgud even makes a couple brief appearances as a doctor . They don't make films like this much anymore . .
How I stopped worrying and learned to love this bomb	It's interesting to hear the interview with Ray Dennis Steckler on the DVD , because apparently the original title of this conflicted with Dr . Strangelove and Stanley Kubrick had a fit , so one word in the title ( why ) had to be changed to who . This is a delightfully incoherent movie , it's got dancing girls , zombie monsters , mean gypsy fortune tellers ( one with a wart that moves from one side of her face to the other ) and the ever-goofy looking Cash Flagg ( Steckler himself ) as Jerry , a " free spirit " who loves fun . There are some sinister ( ha ! ) things going on at a carnival , seems that a gypsy fortune teller is turning people into zombies by throwing acid on them , and putting them in the back room . Not exactly the best known method for that but apparently it works just fine . The sequences with the choreographed dancers are a feast for the eyes , with " mod " outfits and cool music . The colors are beautiful and if you just stop thinking about how little sense this all makes then you'll do just fine . One dance number is " Shook Out of Shape " which was covered by The Surf Trio out of Portland , OR , a few years ago , it makes perfect sense to me that they'd like this movie . This is by no means a good movie , but for some twisted reason it's always been one of my favorites and if you have a spirit of fun and trashiness , then you should check it out . I am not sure about the label it's out on , the Media Blasters " Guilty Pleasures " spin-off , I'm not sure I feel at all guilty for watching this . Ray Dennis Steckler rules .
The kids might not like this but adults will	This is quite the strange little animated feature . . . . I saw a preview for this a while back & finally found a copy and watched it yesterday afternoon , and I found it fascinating and fun . The idea is that a grandmother gets her grandson interested in Tour De France and while running the race he disappears , along with two other cyclists . They are taken to some big place called Belleville ( which has some resemblance to NYC , or at least there's a huge fat Statue of Liberty in the harbor , anyway ) . Now , grandma and dog Bruno pursuit the ship in a paddle boat , and find themselves in Belleville without a penny to their name when they're taken in by three strange women , who were a singing trio " back in the day " , in fact , the Triplets of Belleville . There they are given a nice warm home & plenty of frogs to eat . From there they go about the business of regaining her grandson . The animation and many of the scenarios in this are both hilarious and fascinating . It's quite well done and yet it will probably be lost on most kids that enjoy stupid American cartoons of this day & age , because there's not enough to keep their interest , probably . Anyway , small children will probably like this because they don't know any better and adults will probably like this because of the dry sense of humor and the animation . There is virtually no dialog and also has a very catchy theme song which you'll do well to get out of your head in a week or two . , WONDERFUL .
Fab and groovy 60's horror	This is one of my favorite horror movies of the 60's , it has cool jazzy music & even a band singing Scream and Scream Again , it has Vincent Price , it has Peter Cushing ( as a honcho of some pseudo-Nazi type army ) , it has Christopher Lee , hard to tell if he's a good guy or a bad guy , actually , but overall it's just plain great entertainment . It's even got acid , no , not THAT kind , the kind that dissolves bodies . Yee-ha ! People are mysteriously disappearing or being killed , it seems , and there's evil afoot , since Price is doing a few little experiments to make superhuman beings . Police are hot on the trail , along with a coroner's assistant , to catch the perpetrators , but they have no idea what they're up against . I particularly like when one of the superhuman dudes is captured and leaves behind a body part as he makes good his escape . If you're a fan of 60's horror then don't miss this one . stars .
Excellent adaptation of the book	As I recall the book " Lord of the Flies " was required reading in some English class I took and it's one book I didn't mind reading . Now I've finally gotten my mitts on the Criterion DVD and this is a pretty good and faithful adaptation of the book . If you don't know the story , a group of young English schoolboys have been evacuated from their school and are in a plane going somewhere . . . . the exact details are vague as to what's going on there but it involves missiles and war . Instead of reaching their destination their plane is ditched near a small island and they find themselves alone with no adult supervision . At first they're somewhat sensible about finding food and organizing but as time passes things degenerate into rival tribes and well , savagery . Now , there's a ' beast ' on the island , or so it's claimed , and they actually do find the beast , but I can't tell you what it is because that'd be a spoiler . As time passes by the behavior gets more and more unacceptable , and the number of boys that are trying to be sensible and signal for help dwindles . For 1963 this is pretty shocking , I guess , but it's not graphic and leaves a lot to your imagination , which is always good in my book . I've never seen the 1990 remake of this , and according to what I've read , this is much better , so if you're interested in this I'd say start with this one and work your way forward to the other if you want . This , however , gets .
very cool stuff	A young and almost autistic-acting man arrives in Tokyo and wanders the streets , running afoul of some Yakuza and proving to be more than he appears to be . The young man speaks very little and his favorite phrase seems to be " not needed " and that's generally in reference to Yakuza . He is taken into this gang and proves that he's not well balanced by shooting a couple of drug dealers and then makes a pin cushion out of a rival gang leader , so he's revered by those that he seems to hate , although they're quite wary of him with good reason . The young man also hooks up with one of the Yakuza babes , maybe she's a hooker , maybe she's just a hanger-on , I couldn't really tell , but somehow they get their mitts on some acid that was taken from the drug dealers that they young man shot and are going to flee to Fiji , but not before they get into skate-boarding some and wander the streets . This has lots of seemingly disparate parts that all come together in the end , and for a film that's fairly low key it's also quite bloody and violent . I guess it's maybe some kind of commentary on disaffected youth in Japan but it also kicks butt and is well worth seeing for fans of crazed Japanese movies . .
This ain't no Benji . . . . . . .	For people that like cute talking dog movies , find something else , this isn't what you were looking for . Baxter is a bull terrier that has been cursed with the ability to think , and he does far too much of it . After being given to an elderly woman he grows bored and takes care of her , yearning for the young couple across the street , but the he grows bored with them when the woman becomes pregnant , and then jealous when the baby comes . It's quite chilling to see the dog looking amiable and wagging its tail while plotting to shove the baby into the pond . His last owner is a young boy who apparently has a tenuous grip on reality , and this segment is by far the ugliest to get through . This is one great movie , but it's also a disturbing movie and provides a few genuine chills . . . . . . . check it out , that is , if you can read , because it's in French with Subtitles . Recommended .
awesome Bollywood horror epic with . . . songs ?	At the beginning of this classic Indian horror epic there is a disclaimer from Mondo Macabro stating that the print of the film is the only one they could find and due to poor storage conditions it wasn't in the best of shape . Huh , I guess their standards are pretty high because it looked pretty good to me . As our story begins , we have a demon , Saamri , who is being executed for killing and eating people , among other things , I guess , so his head is stored in a box in a palace ( protected by a trident ) and his body is buried behind an old temple . As we move forward into the future , we have a love story , of Sanjay and Suman , and Suman is of the family responsible for deposing this demon way back when , and it seems all the women of this family are cursed to die in childbirth . So , of course dad doesn't want his little girl to fall in love and suffer the same fate as her mother . But Suman seems to know something of this curse , and Sanjay and a couple friends ( the macho Anand and his girlfriend ) agree to go with them to this old palace and temple to see if they can banish the family curse . We get lots of cool road trip music too , as the gang rolls down the road in their Chevy Impala convertible , red , of course . There are some subplots and some cool musical numbers ( yes , even in a horror movie ) and all of it seems to work quite well , actually . Some of the comedy seemed a bit silly but apparently that segment of the film is lost on western audiences since it was a parody of a famous Indian movie that us westerners wouldn't have gotten . There's almost too much in this movie to describe and it all clocks in at a lengthy 145 minutes , wow . But , to its credit , it's never boring even if it does seem a bit incomprehensible at times . Of course , the evil demon is resurrected by greedy servants thinking they're getting an ancient treasure , and the battle is on with good vs . evil until the bitter end . And , there is actually a happy ending , but not for all . This is only my second Bollywood film , the other being " Gumnaam " , which is much older and not a horror flick , but " Purana Mandir " was included as a bonus film with another Hindi horror flick that I've yet to watch , but I'm looking forward to it now , very much . , if you're into checking out unique and interesting films from other cultures this would be a good place to begin .
Comic Czech science fiction-fantasy from the 60's is great . . !	A man and his wife are scientists . Now , the wife is working on a machine that will find and correct bad dreams and relax the subject . However , it seems that when she experiments on a cow that the flies that tormented the cow in its dreams manifest themselves in the real world . But that's mostly overlooked and she has no problem experimenting on her husband when he's dreaming of a comic-book heroine and the two evil sorts that are pursuing her to get her secret formula for special gloves . And , surprisingly , Jessie , and her two pursuers , are also projected into the real world and turn everything upside down . First off they can only speak in word balloons , and secondly , the Superman-type character seems to have some issues with destroying things in his attempts to figure out what they are . The other pursuer is a cowboy type ( called " Pistolnik " in the credits ) and is obviously the lesser of two evils . Now Jessie of course is no the run for her life and hits the streets of the city ( Prague ? not sure ) to the surprise of all citizens . Her run through the streets in her polka-dot dress , pursued by the villains , is perhaps the highlight of the movie , as she's not dressed particularly strangely ( maybe by Western standards ) but her presence in the drab surroundings turns more than a few heads , and the jazzy music that accompanies this mad dash is wonderful and appropriate . Of course the characters are all eventually apprehended and tried , as they are not considered human and nobody is sure what exactly to do with them . Further experimentation towards the end of the film results in more-or-less happy endings for all . This is pretty fun and has a rather exotic feel to it considering where and when it was made ( 60's Czechoslavakia under Communist government ) and it's highly recommended to those who like foreign films and have a sense of adventure . Quite a fun romp and with great music too . .
Say your damn pronouns !	I haven't watched this film in years but just recently got it on DVD and enjoyed it all over again . A bunch of parodies of famous sleuths ( Sam Spade , Miss Marple , Hercule Poirot , Nick & Nora Charles , and Charlie Chan ) all get together at the home of an eccentric millionaire , Lionel Twain ( Truman Capote ) who , by the way , lives at 22 Twain . A murder is to be staged and whomever can figure out who done it is the lucky winner , but first of all , who the heck is who ? The butler turns up dead , Mr . Twain himself turns up dead , there's a mute housekeeper ( Nancy Walker ) who's saying nothing , does she know something ? As time passes by it also seems that the individual super-detectives themselves has some things to hide and connections with Mr . Twain . Sam Diamond & his sidekick are played by Peter Falk & Irene Brennan and seems Sam's rather suspect in his night-club stake-out activities . Dickie Charleston ( David Niven ) owes a lot of money to Mr . Twain . And so on . The Chinese detective ( as played by Peter Sellers ) always has a saying to go with everything and is continually berated by Mr . Twain for not using his pronouns . One has to pay attention to the dialog in this because it's pretty clever and outrageously funny at times . This is a well done and very humorous picture and still holds up well 30 years after it was made . .
creepy , disturbing , and even original !	This is a low-budget flick that is already disturbing and creepy long before it actually even gets to the meat of what's going on . Three young men , who have a secret in their past that they share , are brought together in the same town again after the father of one dies and he returns for the funeral . Talk about dysfunctional families , too , sis is pretty wasted a lot of the time , apparently , and Uncle Tom , well , he carries a case full of cutting implements , and even gets frisky with his niece , wow . At any rate the secret these young men share is something to do with a foundling they took into their care and raised up in a cabin in the woods ( and named him Joshua ) until they decided that what they were doing had gone too far ( by far ) and they torched the place to be done with it . But one of the three wasn't having any of that and apparently none of the three went unaffected by what they had done later in their lives , which is now , while you're watching , and it's not pretty . For the most part , despite the low budget , this is excellent and the acting is good , and it's creepy and disturbing far beyond anything else that's come out in recent memory . An independent film will worth seeing if you're a horror fan . .
Awesome Bollywood supernatural thriller	This is an awesome Bollywood thriller based on the premise that certain cobras can take human form . Our film begins with one such cobra ( in human form ) being attacked by either vultures or eagles , hard to say , but a man with a gun saves Nag by shooting the bird . This man ( Vijay ) then tells of his quest to find these cobras , and Nag tells him he knows something of this , and shows that by turning into a cobra and slithering away after the promise that he & the female Nagin will dance . And dance and sing , they do , of course . Reena Roy is quite beautiful and makes a very slinky cobra in human form . Of course , Vijay tells his friends of this and they think he's crazy , till he talks them into coming with him and seeing this very rite again , and during this rite Nag , the male , turns into a cobra and thinking that Nagin is threatened , one of Vijay's friends shoots him and kills him . Not a good move , of course , since now Nagin will have her revenge on each and every one of the men involved . Since this is a Bollywood movie , there is of course a long and somewhat meandering road to the finish , but this is never boring . A lot of character development of these doomed men is explored . These men eventually ask the help of a holy man , to protect them from this vengeful cobra woman , and they're given amulets to wear to protect them , but Nagin is very clever and manages to work her way though them by hook or crook . The music in this is very beautiful at times , especially the song with the male & female cobra dancing . There's also a rather interesting disco song of sorts , that has fantastic instrumentation & is unlike anything I've ever heard . This film is also in Eastmancolor , so it has beautiful saturated colors as well . Sadly enough , before I saw this film I saw a rather cheesy ( and abbreviated ) remake called " Pyaasi Nagin " a couple weeks ago , with the same haunting snake song but with the character of Nagin played by a young woman who was , uh , rather plump , OK , she looked like Petunia Pig . Accept no substitutes , Reena Roy is light-years better . Anyway , if you're an adventurous sort and like foreign films , check this out . The special effects are somewhat silly at times ( come on , this was 1976 ) but other than that this is quite good . .
Warning : This is actually an intelligent movie	Exorcism of Emily Rose is not what people think it is . I had someone I work with tell me he wouldn't see it and that's because of the word " Exorcism " which I'm sure in some people evokes thoughts of oodles of pea soup and misuse of religious items . They couldn't be more wrong . This is the story of a young girl that died because she was believed to be possessed , not mentally ill as earlier determined . This is a courtroom battle of alleged facts vs . possibilities . The man on trial is the priest that told Emily to stop taking her medication because faith was the only thing that would get her through this ordeal . The opposing view is that the priest was responsible for her death because she had an alleged mental condition ( which in this case seems rather sketchy ) and that discontinuing her medication led to her death . In other words , this is a difficult case . This is quite an intelligent film , actually , and quite well acted . Not the barf-fest that some folks seem to think it to be , although there are a few harrowing and somewhat disturbing moments as flashbacks show Emily in the grip of , well , whatever she was in the grip of . If you don't care for lawyers you'll definitely not care for Campbell Scott or the head of the law firm that the defense lawyer works for , because they're about as slimy as you can get while dressed in a nice suit . Overall though this is an excellent movie which portrays a battle of beliefs , not a gory vomit-filled scare fest . Well worth seeing if you can open your mind long enough to pay for your ticket , enter the theater , and sit down . stars .
weird , odd , possibly unwholesome but utterly wonderful	Nobody ( except perhaps Guy Maddin ) does weird as well as Jan Svankmajer . In this film he explores something that not many films dare to , and that's fetishes . There is a small group of people in a large Czech city that are not necessarily connected but they do interact . They all exhibit some pretty strange behavior when tucked away from prying eyes . One man makes himself a chicken costume complete with wings made from old umbrellas , sewn together on a sewing machine belonging to his equally-twisted neighbor while she's out shopping . A postmistress secrets herself away in little alcoves and such while she makes bread balls , which she keeps in a little container and when she's home after work , she sucks them up hoses into her nose . One man takes paint brushes and little snippets of women's fur coats to nail and glue onto rolling pins and pot lids , the better to rub himself with later . The interaction between the people in this film is usually not direct , like one man parks his car while another steals it , and one woman gets a box full of bread balls delivered by none other than the postmistress that makes them , etc . This is a finely crafted film and there's not as much " animation " as there has been in previous Svankmajer films but what there is works quite well . Overall this is a fascinating yet twisted view of human behavior and well worth seeing if you have a good sense of adventure . And if I've made it seem like it's a dirty movie , it's not really , but it certainly not NORMAL . , I feel a little guilty for liking it though .
A must-see if you haven't . . . . .	Movies like this are generally not my thing , but being that I have a great love for cats I checked it out and thoroughly enjoyed it . Art Carney is great as an old man living in a NYC apt . with his cat Tonto , who must move when the building is being torn down . Life with relatives is not for him , he finds though , so through a series of misadventures he ends up hitchiking across country with Tonto . I was genuinely moved by the last 10 or 15 minutes , actually shed a tear or two , but the ending itself leaves one wondering exactly what happened with Harry . At any rate , a real joy , this one , for animal lovers and also for anyone that likes an old movie with no car crashes , explosions , gangstas , etc . ! ! Highly recommended .
surreal , bizarre , wonderful & even a bit touching . . . . . .	I'm not truly sure of the " pedigree " on this film as it seems to have been a collaboration between several countries . The basic story though , seems to be two Palestinian lovers that are separated by a army checkpoint who meet on the sly . I guess the city in which this takes place is Jerusalem , and the film also focuses in here and there on little bits of life & society and how it is functioning in such a strange environment . The film begins by a bunch of youths chasing a Santa Claus up a hill in a very non-Christmas kind of setting , cacti , etc . This is chock full of black humor but it's very sad in many ways too . There are some very memorable scenes , such as a woman walking through the checkpoint like she owns the place , despite the fact that all the guards have their machine guns trained on her . She lifts her sun glasses and gives them " the look " ( you'll see that " look " a couple more times in the film ) and they let her just stalk on by , after which their guard tower collapses . Also memorable is a group of men shooting at targets on a practice range , the targets being Muslim women , and the men perform choreographed moves while shooting that must be seen to be believed . A woman emerges from the last standing target and takes revenge on the men in ways that ALSO have to be seen to be believed , and she spins into the air and takes out a helicopter as well . The main man of the story ( who I guess is also the director ) has a bit of a tragedy going on with his father who is in the hospital due to a heart attack . This is a very interesting hospital as the patients in the cardiac ward can disconnect their monitoring equipment to go take a smoke break . This is a rather stunning film and probably my first from this part of the world . It's amazing to me that someone is able to derive humor from this situation and have it come off so well . This almost reminds me in some ways of Jacques Tati films with the little skits within the whole of the movie that are without dialog but are almost like blackout sketches , I guess , I suppose I'm not doing what I'm trying to describe any real justice . But trust me , this is a wonderful film and if you have an open mind you'll probably find it fascinating . , wow . . . .
Creepy grim fairy tale is excellent but not for the kids	Jiri Barta's " Krysar " ( rat catcher ) is a somewhat creepy and disturbing take on the Pied Piper of Hamelin . According the IMDb keywords this falls under " kids and family " . I suggest that the kids don't watch this though , that is , unless you like them climbing into bed with you at 2 AM after screaming nightmares . The tale is basically simple and the same as the one that you probably heard when you were a kid , although the characters appear to be creepy wood-carvings that are astonishingly intricate , and the only real " live action " creatures are the rats themselves , which do get pretty bold at times . So of course this little town is overrun by rats and then , on a hill , far away , you see the piper himself , who looks rather ominous ( at best ) and who comes to the town and agrees to get rid of the rats for a sum . Of course he does but the sum isn't paid and then after that bad things happen to the townspeople . I can't imagine how much work went into all this . It's a 55 minute feature and it's flawless in its execution . There is some dialog in this but it sounds like just nonsense babble , so there's no subtitles , but one doesn't really need them . This is not lacking in humor either , as the townspeople interact with each other before the rats really become a problem . Available on Jiri Barta's " Labyrinth of Darkeness " DVD & well worth your time to seek out . .
Maybe the best of the " 8 Films To Die For "	First off , I was wrong when I reviewed " The Abandoned " because I said that this was the only film of the 8 that had a director I'd heard of . Takashi Shimizu was director of " Ju-On " and the subsequent films and American remakes . I just didn't realize it at the time . Anyway , forget Ju-On and The Grudge ( s ) , because this is far better and much more to my liking . A young aspiring actress is chosen for a role in a film . The film is to be of a tragedy that occurred at a remote hotel many years prior , and she's apparently chosen for the part because she says she's been killed in a prior life , which piqued the director's interest , I suppose . The incident that took place at this hotel was that a man killed his son and daughter and most of the staff and hotel guests . Now , the hotel is being recreated on a set , but for the sake of " getting the feel of the place " the cast is taken by bus to this old and now abandoned hotel to check it out , and it's definitely creepy . There's something very wrong going on though , because young Nigisa is having flashbacks to what happened there & is seeing the former victims and the hotel is moving back and forth between its current state and the operational state it was in 35 years ago . Anyway , back on the hotel set in the studio Nigisa is still experiencing things like she was back in the hotel , and somehow her manager also find the roll of film that was taken by the crazed killer 35 years ago and watches it , to see the children and various others killed before the man turns the knife on himself . This is a VERY creepy film and yet at times it's kind of left at loose ends , as though the viewer is to actually use their imagination or something . Comparisons to " The Shining " are inevitable but while there may be some elements of that it's far more creepy than that film . I did rather like the creepy hotel , though , and it actually reminded me of Howard Johnsons , with the orange roof , although I haven't seen one of those in years . This is actually rather a hard film to describe , but it's well worth your time if you enjoy Japanese horror and it's one of the better films I've seen in a while . .
A Very Strange Film , not really horror but well worth seeing	I first read of this in an Aurum Encyclopedia of Horror Films , and it sounded interesting , and lo and behold I found it had just been released in the U . S . and I found myself with a copy in my hand buying it . This is an incredibly weird film but I'd call it more surreal & macabre than a horror film , although it is by the same person that gave us " Daughters of Darkness " . A young sailor ( Jan ) comes to shore and ends up at a house of questionable repute , where he's knocked unconscious in a fight and wakes up at a place called Malpertuis . Apparently he already knows a lot of people there , for his own uncle Cassavius ( as played by Orson Welles ) owns the place , and is thought to be the Devil himself . A lot of people gather as Cassavius is on his deathbed and his will states that they will all inherit a lot of money BUT they can't leave Malpertuis , ever , for if they do , they lose their inheritance . After Cassavius dies we have a whole house full of greedy people , spending all their time in idle pastimes & counting their money . Except Jan , who wanders and explores , and finds Malpertuis holds many secrets . There's something to do with something that Cassavius found on a island and brought back with him , and nobody is as they appear to be in the film , and therein lies the secret and the twist of this all , which I won't reveal because it's even stranger than I expected . There are some truly horrific elements and scenes in this but as I mentioned it's truly more surreal than anything . The ending seems to indicate that the whole thing is a dream , but more a nightmare that isn't exactly over . The DVD release on Barrel Entertainment contains both the 2-hour European version and the pared-down US version , and my review refers to the European version . Well worth seeing and unlike most anything I've ever seen . .
one of the best early 70's horror flicks	I'm so glad to finally have this little gem on DVD . This has been one of my favorite films for years and it's a rather haunting little tale of a man , his wife , and a friend , that give up city living to go to a country house , which of course , has an unsavory past . Jessica ( Zohra Lampert ) was released from a mental hospital a while back and Duncan ( Barton Heyman ) , her husband , is very protective and watchful of her condition , sometimes too much so . When these folks arrive at their new house ( in a hearse , no less ) , they find that they have a squatter , Emily , who they first are going to ask to leave but then ask her to stay . Maybe that wasn't such a good idea . When collecting antiques from the barn , attic , etc . , to take to sell , Jessica finds a picture of the family that used to live there , that had a daughter who drowned in the cove by their house in the 1800's , and whose body was never found , and who is said to wander the area as a vampire . Maybe this explains all the bandaged people that live in town ? Maybe . . . anyway as time goes by and situations get weird , Jessica is not sure what's real and what's not anymore , and hubby is getting VERY worried . But at some point the viewer isn't sure what's real and what's not either . This is creepy , eerie , and well done , and is a very worthwhile little horror gem . See it , .
Awesome and finally out on DVD !	Finally Cemetery Man is out on DVD , thanks to Anchor Bay , and I watched it last night and it's just as wonderfully twisted as I remember it . " Shaun of the Dead " was touted as the first " rom zom com " but could this be the rightful holder of that title ? Well , sort of , but it's far more weird , twisted , and dark than " Shaun " could hope for . Rupert Everett plays Francesco Dellamorte , the caretaker of a local cemetery , and he lives in a little shack with his pal Gnaghi , who lives in the " basement " for want of a better word . Francesco is rather busy because there's a virus that makes the dead come back to life and he dispatches the zombies as needed in a rather " matter of fact " manner . There is some dark dark comedy in this as a bunch of young folks raising hell on motorcycles collide with a bus full of boy scouts , so there's a major burial and of course having to shoot lots of living dead boy scouts afterward , with one of them trying to start a fire with a stick as he's being shot . One of the kids on the motorcycle that was killed was the mayor's daughter and Gnaghi has a thing for her , in fact he digs her up and takes her head and puts it in his broken TV set where she talks to him . This is also full of some surreal and creepy scenes as well , and overall the mix of black humor and creepiness works rather well . This has a rather bizarre ending and it's actually quite fitting but some may be a bit disappointed . This is an incredibly strange film and well worth seeking out if you haven't seen it . and HIGHLY recommended .
an equal opportunity offender	I read something about this that it was anti-Semetic , but I wonder if the person that wrote that knows that Cohen himself is Jewish ? That aside , this film doesn't portray Jews in a positive manner , but then again neither does it portray Americans , Pentacostals , Kazakhs , women , gays , and many other folks in a positive manner either . It's funny , you'll laugh , get over it and don't take yourselves or life so seriously , OK ? Borat is a Kazakh TV news reporter or something , and is assigned to go to America and while there he discovers Baywatch and someone named CJ ( who is , of course , Pamela Anderson ) . And his assignment becomes a quest to go find her , making many interesting contacts along the way . Some of the dialog is time released , I'd say , because it takes a moment to realize what he's said before you're about to split your sides with laughter . There are some things that don't work as well and a naked chase through a hotel by Borat ( after his traveling partner Azamat ) after an argument is funny but rather disgusting . The " naive travelers " and culture clash thing is played to the hilt at most times & small wonder the people of Kazakhstan are not happy about this film . At some point Borat and Azamat split up and Borat does get to California and does get to see Pamela Anderson , but the result is nothing like he's planned . But this all ends up with a fairly sweet , if twisted , ending . Overall this was pretty damn funny and most parts fare well , making this a side-splitting flick . .
One of my all time favorite movies , finally on DVD !	I grew up reading Ray Bradbury stories and books , and there's really precious little of his work that's been committed to film , as far as I know . Illustrated Man is one of my all time favorite movies , and it's just come out on DVD and I watched it last night . It's a bit darker and intense than I remembered but that's fine by me . Rod Steiger plays the man with the " skin illustrations " who happens across a young man who is hitching / working his way to California , in a remote area , and while the young man feels rather nervous about his company , he is also fascinated by his illustrations and his stories . The segments with Steiger and the young man is basically a wrap-around storyline for three tales based on the " skin illustrations " . One is a future family with a playroom for the kids , an electronic room that can portray any scenario but which seems to be stuck on " African Veldt " . Mom and Dad of course don't think that this is healthy for the kids , but the kids deny any knowledge of it , with its nasty vultures and vicious lions off in the background , eating who-knows-what . Of course the kids know what , and when mom and dad declare the playroom off limits they're rather dismayed to find out how realistic it is . The next story is of a crew of a space ship , crash landed on some planet where it rains continually , and they're in search of shelter at a " sun dome " , while the rain pounds down and drives them to madness and deafness while they squabble among themselves . The last story is of man in the distant future where it's been decided that the world will end that night , and to shelter the children from the pain of the end they will be given a little something at bedtime . And when mom and dad awaken the next morning to find that nothing has happened , well , I guess that says something about trusting the word of your fellow man . All of these tales feature the always-excellent Steiger and Claire Bloom . This is a decent science fiction / fantasy type film and well worth seeing . Supposedly Bradbury was less than enthusiastic about this but I love it . .
A real oddball & bizarre treat	Hey now , this is a real hoot of a movie , and it's not straight horror , but more of a satire , and as much as I hate these sort of comparisons , I'd say it was almost like a " This is Spinal Tap " for serial killers ? Or maybe not . David Carradine plays an FBI agent , and not just any FBI agent , but a " gifted " FBI agent . He sees into serial killers as to what they truly are , and dispatches them . What he sees looks like some vibrating demon thing that has been used in " Nightstalker " and other movies , but it's not really those effects that make the movie , so that's OK . What DOES make the movie is the satirical tone , and some of the interviews with family , friends , etc . , of the serial killer . We also have Bob Balaban doing his usual rambling nonsense thing as a serious author who purports to know what makes serial killers tick . Oh my . Anyway , we have this serial killer who is a seemingly normal guy , he's called ( Possible Spoiler ) " The Mailman " because , well , he just happens to be one , but nobody knows that until later . Interviews with his mom lead one to believe that he became what he is from constant masturbation as a child , and mom is one heck of a piece of work herself as she swats flies and picks them out of the swatter with tweezers , examining each one . We have a tough cop hot on the trail , at some point he gets a face full of hot tuna surprise , and he was ( surprised ) . Carradine does the usual stuff one would expect of an FBI agent , blessing his stakes that he uses during his " hunts " while crouching nude in a room full of candles , and things like that . And there's the other family members of the serial killer that get interviewed too , like his cousins , all of whom are serious backwoods rednecks and gun-toters who have to keep pushing each other's guns away from pointing at their faces while they're being interviewed . All in all this is one weird and funny movie , not laugh out loud funny , really , but definitely some off-the-wall and amusing stuff . I gave it , but for any gore-hound expecting a serious horror movie , stay away .
Wonderfully odd but more for adults than kids	Imagine ( if you will ) , Alice in Wonderland with the music of Ravi Shankar and none of the characters in make-up ? Sound strange ? It is . But it's also more in the spirit of Lewis Carroll's stories than the Walt Disney version ( or other versions ) . I did rather like Peter Cook as the mad hatter & one will find all manner of British actors of the day in this one too , like Michael Redgrave , Peter Sellers , and several that I recognize but couldn't name . The black and white photography is crisp and clear & the Victorian summer setting is perfect . Alice is one strange little character as she never seems to look at anyone else and seems to be in a dream world all her own , but that's what this is all about in the first place , isn't it ? This is probably more true to the original story than many other versions , and while it does get confusing because no one is in makeup , it's still well worth seeing and some of the scenes are quite striking . I wouldn't sit around and listen to the music of Ravi Shankar as a rule but it does actually fit in quite well with the eeriness of this BBC production , and was apparently quite an adventurous choice of music for 1966 . Well worth seeing if you like Lewis Carroll and want to see an very odd adaptation of his work . .
sort of atypical Gilliam , if there is such a thing	One never really knows what to expect from Terry Gilliam , but almost with fail , it never disappoints . . . . except for perhaps Brothers Grimm , but I've only seen that once and as I recall the first time I saw ' The Fisher King " I don't think I liked it that much . A NYC shock jock ( Bridges ) says something to a regular caller on his radio show that causes the listener to go off the deep end & gun down a bunch of folks at a yuppie watering hole . The DJ ( Jack ) is so despondent by what has happened that he quits his radio show and works with his girlfriend at a video store . All the while imbibing large quantities of Jack Daniels . While out on a drunken ramble one night he's about to throw himself in the river when two young men who hate bums come along and try to douse him with gas & set him on fire , but he's rescued by some crazy homeless people led by Perry ( Robin Williams ) who take him in . The next day Jack finds out that Perry lost his wife in a yuppie watering hole a few years back when some deranged psycho came in and gunned people down . Oops . So now that Jack knows who Perry is he feels compelled to help him . Perry is also in love with Lydia , a mousy young woman ( played by Amanda Plummer ) who he stalks and knows her every move during the day . Of course Jack & his girlfriend take some steps towards " hooking them up " . Anyway , this is a rather complicated movie to describe in depth , but things take a turn for the worse as Perry is beaten by the same thugs that he saved Jack from some time earlier and goes into a coma , right when Jack is poised to make his return to radio after feeling better about himself for helping him . No doubt this is one of William's better performances and Bridges is no slouch either . I wouldn't call this " typical " Gilliam but it's kind of hard to pigeon-hole his films . This is more drama than anything else but it's not without humor . This is a rather complicated and deep film , and I'd almost call it a sleeper , because it's certainly not one of Gilliam's better known films . I'd highly recommend it and the cast pretty much speaks for itself . .
No frills classic horror , probably the best ever . . . .	This is probably the best ever low budget horror film ever made , back in the dark days of 1962 . It has an eerie quality that's hard to explain to anyone that hasn't seen it . A young woman is the sole survivor of a car that went off a bridge into a river , but no one seems to understand how she survived . She goes off to Utah to play the organ at a church ( which is just a job to her ) and is haunted by a white-faced specter that no one else can see . Some of this is filmed at an old pavilion out by a lake which is creepy in itself . As the movie progresses Mary Henry ( Candace Hilligoss ) experiences strange periods where she seems to have trouble interacting with others . Being a person that doesn't care for human company anyway , she is still disturbed by these incidents . An excellent twist ending at the pavilion is probably one of the most surreal & finest pieces of film making I've seen . And now a slight commentary : I bought this on a slim-pack DVD from a big discount chain store for $1 . 00 . A seller of " important films " markets this for about $39 . My cheap DVD plays just fine and how much better can this film be ? Anyway , off the soapbox , this movie rates in my book , if you have't seen it , where have you been ?
for 1970 , this kicks butt	I have no idea how this film was received upon release but it's a dark dark comedy , with plenty of bad words and plenty of controversial subjects , in other words , it's pretty offensive , and I loved it . George Segal stars as a lawyer with a senile mother ( Ruth Gordon ) who has apparently managed to scare away all nurses and housekeepers in NYC . The latest attempt at a care-giver is a young lady ( Trish Van Devere ) who Segal fell in love with at first sight but momma keeps getting in the way . This is full of unexpected jaw-dropping lines and situations and is basically a rollicking romp through the depths of bad taste . Ruth Gordon is excellent as always as the senile mother who is always wondering where Poppa is ( he's been dead for years ) . Now THIS is a comedy , perhaps more along the lines of a John Waters comedy but still probably a big chance in Hollywood 36 years ago . Check it out , well worth seeing . .
Great movie , why is it OUT OF PRINT on DVD ?	I saw this in the theater many years ago , when it first came out , and it was the weirdest movie I'd probably ever seen up until that point , and it has quickly become one of my all time favorites . Never mind that it's all over the map and makes little sense . There's an alien grave-robber dude known as the Tall Man ( Angus Scrimm ) who is taking bodies and doing nasty things with them . There's Michael , who accidentally sees this guy in action , and gets overly curious , which for him is not a good thing . There's a flying silver ball with nasty sharp implements that pop out , and all manner of creepy weirdness that flies by faster than you can say " BOOOOOY ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! " Now , here's the dumb thing : This is now out of print on DVD . But , you can get Phantasm IV , Oblivion , no problem . So what happened to 2 & 3 ? I lucked across a copy ( brand new ) at a local store , paid " normal " price , and not what people are gouging for on-line . This is an incredibly entertaining movie , despite its incoherence , I have no idea what MGM is thinking , except maybe a complete set ? More likely whatever they can do to increase their revenue . Anyway , off the soapbox , Phantasm is an awesome horror movie & if you haven't seen it you must already be dead . stars .
unpleasantly surprising	I was interested in this film but held back till I found a used copy thanks to its expensive price tag , because I didn't think it would be that great . But I was unpleasantly surprised , it is great , and while most people would say they were " pleasantly surprised " this isn't that pleasant of a movie so there you have it . Trevor Reznick ( Christian Bale ) looks like the cover boy for Tweaker Magazine , he hasn't slept in a year and he's up in the middle of the night scrubbing the grout between the tiles in his bathroom with bleach and a toothbrush . You can count every rib , you can count every knob on his spine , he looks like pictures of people freed from concentration camps at the end of WW2 . So why can't Trevor sleep , you might ask ? Well , by all appearances , there's something bothering him , bothering him a LOT , and it takes most of the movie to find out what it is but that's OK , it's made quite interesting for the viewer ; like with Trevor's body , there is NO fat in this film . This is one of those films that you wonder what you're seeing , a situation that's reality or something created by Trevor's sleep-starved brain . He even has a buddy , Ivan , who no one will acknowledge exists , so he thinks his co-workers are always messing with him . There are a lot of things here that don't make sense , that is , until the final few minutes of the film , where it all pulls together , and I really didn't see the " twist " coming , although I suspected things here and there . Overall this is an awesome little film , not sure it ever played in theaters , at least not here it didn't . WELL worth your time to see but Christian Bale will certainly give you the willies with his concentration camp physique . . . . . I did read that he lost a LOT of weight for this and it's amazing what an actor will do for a part , I guess . stars and please see this , it's great .
What to do in case of the end of the world	The world will end at midnight , and how will people spend their last hours ? Well , a young man ( played by Don McKellar ) will have Christmas dinner with his family ( even though it's not Christmas ) and then head back to his place to face the last hours alone . Or will he ? Sandra Oh plays a woman with a mission , she's gathering provisions for the last hours at a local store but there's not much left , and when she emerges her car has been trashed . So she's left with no way to reach her home and her husband , and manages to hook up with Patrick ( McKellar ) and enlist his help . There are several people that have decided how they want to live their last moments and their paths manage to cross here and there , and one young man has made a list of all the sexual exploits he'd like to experience before the end and is busily working his way through them , and one even involves a homosexual encounter with his buddy Patrick but Patrick ( thankfully ) passes . A gas company employee , apparently a manager ( as played by David Cronenberg ) has politely called each and every customer on the gas company's list to thank them for their patronage and wish them well in their final hours and has retired to his home , only to be the victim of home invasion by street punks . And poor Sandra , she keeps popping up again and again because she can't get home to her hubby . . . . turns out they've agreed to kill each other at midnight and since she can't get home she is insistent that Patrick kill her at the appointed hour . Now , the reason for the end of the world is never revealed , but the sun may have something to do with it since it's out at all hours . And at the end , well , it is a little vague so you're not really sure it's the end of the world but you ARE sure it's the end of the movie . I thought this was a very good and quirky little film that is a good companion piece to " Miracle Mile " , and I was not at all disappointed . The performances are quite good and the whole execution is well done , and it's an excellent way to spend 95 minutes of your time , whether it's a cold & rainy afternoon or if the end of the world is coming . .
desperation & hope	In post-WW2 Italy , a man gets a job ( which are scarce ) and to do his job , he needs a bicycle , which he has pawned , so his wife sells their sheets to get the money to get the bicycle out of hock . With the new job , the man is thinking of how much money he will make and how much better his family will live , until when he's working , his bicycle is stolen . He desperately tries to get it back , but it's gone , and a group of friends and he try to look for it , but to no avail . He and his son comb all of the city looking for it , and out of sheer desperation he actually tries to steal someone else's bicycle but is caught . Because of the presence of his son , he is forgiven and doesn't go to jail , but he's back to square one with no resolution . This is a rather depressing film , or perhaps merely sad , because the state of things in Italy after the war are not good and people are trying whatever they can to survive . The hero , Ricci , is a good man , trying to do what's best for his family and yet he's tempted to do what he knows is wrong when there seems to be no other solution . This is a great film , with great acting , and well worth seeing for anyone that wants to see what desperation leads people to do . Recommended . .
dense , claustrophobic , disturbing , difficult to follow , and great !	I'm kind of disappointed that Inland Empire may have only had a very short theatrical run in the US , because I would have loved to have seen it at the cinema . However , since I live out in the " boondocks " , I had to make do with the DVD which I've been waiting for anxiously . I can't say I was at all disappointed by the film but I would need to watch it again to see if I can get some kind of idea what the hell it's about . Laura Dern plays an actress that gets a part in a movie , and she's attracted to her co-star ( Justin Theroux ) , but beyond that , this is mostly a surreal nightmare . Is Dern lost in an alternate universe of sorts , or is she losing her mind ? We have a family of rabbits ( to be precise , humans with rabbit heads ) in a small apartment , talking nonsense and waiting for SOMETHING to happen , and apparently this is a sitcom too , since there's a laugh-track to it . We have bits and pieces of people speaking in Polish ( with English subtitles ) and what all this has to do with the rest of the film was beyond me . And , we have Dern wandering back into the dark at the back of a movie studio and coming out somewhere else , to a small house furnished in early post-modern Lynch . We also have her hanging out with what seems to be a group of prostitutes , who " do the locomotion " to Little Eva and then disappear . We have a young woman who is seemingly watching all that is happening on her TV screen too , and she seems to be the key to some of this . Laura Dern plays her part to the hilt , and she goes through a very wide range of changes from wholesome , clean actress to abused housewife to crazed street person or hooker , I wasn't sure which . Throughout all she manages to look quite haunted , and that's pretty much how I felt while watching this . I'm a big Lynch fan , not to the point that I subscribe to his website or anything , but I do love his movies & Twin Peaks . This may be one of his best films but I can't say without watching it at least once more . On an interesting side note , there is something inside the DVD that advertises David Lynch's label of coffee . . . thanks , but I'll pass , who knows what might be in it . .
absolutely great entertainment	In this film , Wallace & Gromit are working to rid vegetable gardens of pesky rabbits , under the name " Anti Pesto " . They're humanely trapping the rabbits and holding them in their house , so they're quickly running out of room , so Wallace comes up with an idea to brainwash them so they don't like vegetables , but unfortunately he has a slight accident with the equipment and seems to do a " bunny mind-meld " . Wallace is quite taken with local philanthropist Lady Tottington , who has a large estate & holds a Giant Vegetable contest for the local residents every year . Lady Tottington is taken with Wallace too but she has a somewhat of a stalker in Victor , who has a bad toupee and who is also a hunter who wants to shoot all the pesky bunnies . Something odd is going on though , because vegetable gardens and greenhouses are being raided big-time & the culprit seems to be some kind of giant bunny . Wallace thinks it's Hutch , one of the rabbits , but it may well be Wallace himself , who grows furry ears and a fluffy tail when the moon is full . This is a delight to watch , and the animation is top-notch . Be sure to pay careful attention to the lines & watch the labels on jars and such , because there's plenty there to see . There's even a scene with Lady Tottington talking about her produce which is rather risqué for a " G " rated film . Great , fun entertainment , suitable for the whole family . .
still enjoyable after all these years	I saw Yellow Submarine for the first time in a movie theater on a double bill with " Fantastic Planet " and I was transfixed through both movies . This was in the early 70's and I've seen Yellow Submarine a few times since but finally snagged a used copy being sold by a video store and watched it yesterday afternoon & it's still wonderful after all these years . If you've been living in a cave for the past 38 years , the story is as follows : There's a place called Pepperland where everything is wonderful until the Blue Meanies attack and take away everyone's happiness . Captain Fred deploys the Yellow Submarine and goes for help and enlists the cartoon Fab Four to come and help , picking up nowhere man Jeremy Hillary Boob on the way . Of course they find all kind of adventure on the way to Pepperland including undersea monsters . Once there of course they battle Blue Meanies and save the day . This is peppered with the usual snide Beatle humor and other times I watched it I felt it even had a few drug references , despite the G rating , but that's just me . The animation is wonderful and weird . Anyway , it's a classic and snag it if you can because it's now out of print . .
I've watched this MANY times and could watch it many more	Even though I pretty well know the story & lines by heart , I could watch " Repulsion " over and over again . It's an odd little story of a young French or Belgian girl , Carole , ( Catherine Deneuve ) who lives in London with her sister . Now , her sister is having an affair with a married man , Michael ( as played by Ian Hendry ) and Carole seems a bit disturbed by that . . . since Michael stays overnight & even puts his toothbrush in Carole's glass in the bathroom . . . . horrors ! Now , Carole's sister , Helene , & Michael go on a trip to Europe , which means leaving Carol alone , which , considering that she appears to be in her early 20's and has a job , should be fine , right ? Wrong , not in THIS movie . . . not only does Carol have some issues in regard to sex , she also seems to have some kind of obsessive-compulsive disorder , among other more disturbing things . After sis has been gone a couple days , Carol is borderline catatonic & gets sent home from work , where she hides in their apartment and fantasizes ( or has nightmares ) that a man is having his way with her . When her would-be self-proclaimed suitor , Colin , shows up at the apartment to talk to her , he never leaves again , and neither does the landlord when he comes round to collect the rent . . . . for Carol has truly blown a gasket and there's really no one around to stop her . This film has some truly creepy imagery within the claustrophobic apartment , and overall has a great look at feel to it . A light , jazzy soundtrack also adds to the atmosphere . This isn't what you'd call lightweight entertainment though , but it is an excellent glimpse into what it looks like to slide off the deep end . , recommended . One of Polanski's best .
A Kinder , Gentler , Takashi Miike ?	A kinder , gentler , Takashi Miike , you say ? Well , sort of , yes , a bit , anyway . There is a little girl in this so it's a bit more restrained , possibly because of that , and it's a LITTLE more of a family-type movie , at least more a " normal " family , not like the family of Visitor Q . The Katakuris open a small inn in the mountains , hoping that a big new roadway will pass by and they'll have lots of guests . What guests do manage to find them are not exactly well-balanced and some of them check in but don't exactly check out , at least not under their own power . There is a lot of black humor to this , and while the setting is not unlike The Sound of Music , and the family breaks into songs at unlikely times , it's usually at some of the more grim moments , which of course is entirely inappropriate and therefore much more funny . It's absolutely hilarious to see these folks in some serious scene and then all of a sudden break into some music video moves . The scene with the sumo wrestler and his " date " is probably the most gruesomely funny . What makes this a bit weirder than his other films is that it morphs into claymation at times , including somewhere near the beginning where some young girl finds a little flying demon in her soup and it flies out and steals her uvula . Yes , really . I guess after watching a good deal of Takashi Miike's films that I can't exactly go into any new one knowing exactly what to expect since he's pretty hard to pigeon-hole . If you like off-the-wall comedies with a decent helping of the macabre , then you should see this . Weird & fun .
Note to self : Never Get Lost In Belgium	I found this creepy little film in the cheap bin at Blockbuster so I picked it up because it looked interesting , plus it was on Palm Pictures label which was promising . I was not quite sure what to expect but what I got was extremely disturbing and quite creepy , to say the very least . An entertainer , Marc Stevens , is traveling in his old van to some engagement for Christmas when he gets lost somewhere in the middle of nowhere in Belgium . I always thought Belgium was rather small but apparently one can get lost there . He finds some odd little guy looking for a lost dog & is taken to an inn where he can spend the night , and the kindly innkeeper feeds him , tows his van in to work on it , and tells him he'll have him on the road in no time . Instead Marc finds his van being demolished and gets hit over the head and wakes up to find his head being shaved he's being fitted with women's clothing . . . ! ! ! And heaven forbid to anyone who ventures into the local village , it certainly seems like there's no women here so what exactly do the men do for fun ? You don't wanna know , really . And thankfully , you don't get to see , at least not graphically . I will say there is plenty of livestock around though . For when strangers wandering into town are not too plentiful . These villagers make the folks in " Deliverance " look like High Society . This is a very odd and disturbing film but it's also far better than much of what passes for horror these days . .
Pretty sharp	This is one of my favorite all-time Polanski movies , next to Repulsion , so I decided since it was on sale I'd spring for the Criterion Collection DVD , and while I haven't yet looked at the other disk ( which is a collection of Polanski's short films , some of which I've actually heard of ) , I found that this is nicely restored and clear but Criterion is way too overpriced . Now to focus on the movie , this is a strange little tale of a man & his wife , fairly well to do in Poland at the time as they have their own car and sailboat . On their way to the Marina to go out for the day sailing , they encounter a young hitch hiker who turns out to be a little strange . Not so strange that this is the blueprint for " Dead Calm " though , so cool your jets . Anyway , the husband & the young man fall into rivalry , the older man being somewhat of a control freak and show-off and the young man being rebellious . Tensions mount and tempers flare , but it never gets too out of control . Plenty of strangeness though , in an ordinary sort of way . I kind of liked seeing what life was like among the privileged in Poland in 1962 , like the woman frolicking in the water with the " crocodile " , an inflatable toy , and playing jackstraws in the cabin when they " docked " for the night in the reeds . There's more to it than this but you have to see it , I can't give away any more or I'd be including a spoiler . This is a tense little movie , and some may actually not find it very exciting , but if you're a Polanski fan and feel like shelling out the bucks for the Criterion DVD , then go for it , it's great . 9 of 10 stars .
What a whacked-out film . . . ! !	First , a word on the current " unofficial " uncut DVD available from Amazon . If you've watched Substance / Televista " gray market " stuff , then you won't mind the quality so much . It's completely watchable , and yet at times it's crisp and other times a bit murky . For the only thing currently available though , it's not bad . As for the film , oh my . Vanessa Redgrave is my favorite demented hunch-backed nun ever , and Oliver Reed gives a very powerful performance as a charismatic religious leader who is corrupted by the pleasures of the flesh , rather often too , it seems , and is brought to his downfall and execution . There is plenty of dark humor here & what seems to be typical Ken Russell dark humor & weirdness . Lots of out-of-control nuns raging about without their habits and some very strange people in general , most notably the opening scene with a bunch of men enacting the birth of Aphrodite . . . whoa . This is a very powerful & disturbing film but its also got oodles of dark humor , you know , when you can't help but laugh a bit although it's very wrong . It's unfortunate though that this has not gotten an " official " DVD release , uncut , because it's one of Russell's better films , in my opinion . .
one of the weirdest vampire films around	A vampire legend with a David Lynch-style twist to it sounds pretty darn good on paper and looks just as good on screen . In fact , this film is a " David Lynch Presents " and he's even got a bit part as a morgue attendant in it . Nadja is a modern day vampire living in NYC , and she " gets lonely " , so when she gets lonely she , of course , " makes friends " , in this case , Lucy ( Galaxy Craze ) . Lucy isn't taking too well to this vampire thing though and seems to be losing her marbles . Her husband , Jim , has an uncle , by the name of Van Helsing ( Peter Fonda , in probably his strangest role ever ) that he's just had to rescue from jail for staking someone through the heart . . . . . seems that he thought someone was a vampire , and since it's Nadja's father , in this case he was right . Nadja also has a brother living in Brooklyn , who wants nothing to do with her , and despite his wishes she certainly seems to want to get back together . Most of this consists of Jim & loony Uncle Van Helsing trying to get Lucy back to normal and finding who did put the whammy on her , and it's all quite strange and entertaining . This is filmed in black and white , at times starkly beautiful and at other times it looks like grainy , out-of-focus Super 8 , but it all works pretty well with the story , although I'm sure some may find it too " arty " . Not that any vampire story is " normal " but this one is far less " normal " than usual and therefore worthy of your time , if you enjoy the strange and bizarre , darkly humorous at times , and definitely if you're a David Lynch fan you'll love this , since it's kind of in his style . , HIGHLY recommended .
After 41 years , it's still a fun movie	I'm no raving Beatles fan , because I haven't got any of their CD's , but I don't mind dragging this out to watch every once in a while and it's still as fun as it used to be . If you don't know the story , well , Ringo has ended up with a sacrificial ring from some Eastern cult on his famous finger , and no sacrifice can be complete without this ring , so it must be retrieved . So a posse of robed & sandled actors made up to look " Eastern " ( including Leo McKern ) give chase , in England , on the snowy slopes of somewhere , and finally in the Bahamas . This is chock full of the usual nonsensical patter and humor , and strangeness . Of course as the film goes on the other Beatles , who are also in danger , are urging Ringo to part with his finger too . And a crazed scientist and his goofy partner are hot on the trail of the ring too , Beatle-film regular Victor Spinetti , of course playing the scientist . I always did like the scenes in the Bahamas the best , especially with the giant statue of Kali in the water . And in typical fashion the film ends with a dedication the inventor of the sewing machine . This is a fun film , and yes , it's even a family film if you choose to make it so , but it's stood the test of time and still manages to bring a smile to my face . .
Jackhammer approach to film making ?	I recently heard a commentary on the radio by the proprietor of a local indie video store saying that this was a film to check out , and I happened to find a used copy yesterday so immediately snagged it . This is about as indescribable a movie as I've ever seen , but I'll give it my best shot . A grossly overweight middle aged man is scraping by in life by selling watches in downtown LA . We have his long-dead sister wandering through the afterlife after OD-ing on PCP back in the 70's . We have all kinds of blips and in-your-face imagery that is weird beyond belief but then again brings back memories of things from the 70's , like the Movie of the Week . We have newspaper headlines that indicate that Dubya is up to stranger things than usual , like Chemtrails ? Is the populace being poisoned ? There is a LOT of stuff thrown at the viewer in this film , and the faint-hearted will have turned it off fairly early on , I think . I suppose this is kind of horrific satire , and a not-very humanistic view of life , but it has enough humor and bizarre imagery and interaction that I found it to be fascinating . There's even an afterlife for people that died on amusement park rides where they splatter over & over again ! If you have a sense of adventure , check this out . If you're a mainstream movie fan don't bother so we don't have to read your reviews . .
Clockwork Orange taken a few steps further , with Time Travel	I have seen this film many times on my tired old VHS tape , and now I have it on DVD and watched it last night , and found that it still holds some bizarre fascination for me . Queen Elizabeth the 1st is taken by the Angel Ariel to behold the future of England , circa 1977 , and hoo-boy , is she in for a disappointment . Seems that things have gone downhill a bit . We have this weird band of punkers , led by the much-older Bod ( Jenny Runacre ) but there's also the historian Amyl Nitrate , the crazed firebug Mad ( Toyah Wilcox ) , the nymphomaniac Crabs ( Little Nell , of Rocky Horror fame ) , and two brothers who have what is termed " an interesting relationship " . Bleah , well not very on that count , but whatever . We're treated to blasts of punkers of the day , like Siouxie and the Banshees doing Love in a Void , and Chelsea doing Right to Work , and Wayne County & The Electric Chairs doing Paranoia Paradise . Best of all though is an actual ( ? ) performance by the original Adam & The Ants ( though they aren't called that , even though you can see " The Ants " on one piece of equipment ) . The version of Plastic Surgery is probably one of the highlights of the film . Music-wise , that is . As the great producer Borgia Ginz says , " As long as the music is loud enough , we won't hear the world falling apart " . And falling apart it is . We have anarchy in the streets and pretty much anyone is fair game . At one point we have a bunch of street girls ( played by The Slits ) trashing a car while in the background a bunch of other girls dance a sort of Maypole with barbed wire around a victim tied to a telephone pole , while a policeman looks on smiling at their antics . This is almost plot less , and the basic idea seems to be survival of the most degenerate while this band of punkers do what they want to do for kicks . I'm sure I'm not doing this all justice in my description , but this is one that has to be seen to be appreciated , and no , I'm not on the take from Criterion and for a DVD this is pretty damned expensive , so I'm sure there's folks that are not willing to take a chance if they've never seen this film , but if you like the punk rock era of old and enjoy strange and bizarre films , then please take the time to see this .
disturbing movie will suck you right in	This is a very disturbing tale of a young man , who is schizophrenic , trying to reunite with his young daughter , who was placed for adoption after her mother died and her dad was sent away . It begins with the man's escape ( Peter ) from the institution he's been in , and while the escape is not shown he apparently does something to a young girl who stops to look at him as he's making his break . He then heads for the small town where his mother , and he hopes , his daughter , lives . The portrayal of a schizophrenic by Peter Green is quite disturbing , he scrubs down in the shower with steel wool , he cuts his hair ( and scalp ? ) and shaves with no mirror , apparently he can't stand to look at himself . He drives a car with all the mirrors covered and ends up staying at some small inn for a short time , after which a body mysteriously turns up . A private detective is on the trail , and it seems as though this man has a few foibles of his own . This is mostly a sort of twisted drama with enough highly uncomfortable bouts of self-mutilation and twisted behavior by the main character , Peter , to make the viewer cringe or squirm , but stick with it , because it's not exactly the feel-good movie of the year but it's highly worthwhile . Even a little sad . , not for everyone but recommended for those who have a sense of adventure , I reckon .
very unsettling film for the time in which it was made	If you enjoy older films of the horror genre then you should definitely give this a look if you haven't already . A young man , Allan Grey , comes to a strange house where shadows live on their own , and things are not at all what they seem . He also stumbles across a man and his two daughters , one daughter which is quite ill & that's because she's the victim of a vampire . This is supposedly filmed on already damaged film stock so it has a very gauzy and odd look to it , and for the type of film this is that works well . This whole film is one eerie experience in the surreal and the strange , and it holds up quite well in this day & age given that it was made in the early 30's . One is never sure if what they're seeing is dream , fantasy , or reality . It took a while for me to figure out some of what I was looking at , particularly one man's shadow that is shoveling dirt , and eventually I realized what I was seeing was taking place in reverse , with the dirt flying onto the shovel . In another scene Allan witnesses a shadowy figure climbing a ladder in a barn or something , only to realize that the shadowy figure IS a shadow & it reattaches itself to its owner . There is a rather creepy doctor who is a suspect in this whole vampire thing , for he only shows up at night , and Allan is " volunteered " to provide blood for the young woman who is stricken , after which he seems to have out of body experiences . All in all this is like a bad dream come true , and despite the " quality " of the print , this whole thing comes off as a minor masterpiece . Very recommended , although the Image DVD has rather clunky subtitles , but that's a minor thing . .
Interestingly weird little time capsule	I found this DVD for five bucks yesterday at a used movie & music store and it jumped into my hand , claiming to be something that I wanted , so I took it home with me , and wow , it's great and I wasn't disappointed at all . This is the semi-autobiographical story of the director himself , an alcoholic & drug addict that goes to somewhere in France for treatment . Beyond that tidbit of " normalcy " well , I'm at a loss to describe most of the rest of it although hallucinations and DT's could explain it , or maybe spiritual experiences ? We're treated to the music of Ravi Shankar & The Fugs and who knows who else , and some of it's quite good in a 60's non-pop way . This is surreal and bizarre and actually has quite a bit of humor to it but one also feels some sympathy for the lead character Russell ( as played by Rooks ) as he's self-destructing . And imagine showing up at a place to be treated for drug abuse and finding that William S . Burroughs one of your attending physicians ? Talk about a bad trip . At any rate , I was all of 8 years old when this was made but I truly enjoyed watching it and anyone with a taste for the weird and different should check this out , although apparently it's now out of print and hard to find . I guess things only work that way if you're actually LOOKING for it though . stars , well worth seeing !
No plot , no dialog , what kind of movie IS this ?	Hey now , this has no plot , no dialog , just a bunch of beautifully photographed sequences set to music . No car chases , no boys in the hood getting shot , nothing like that . So how can this be a good movie , you might ask ? Well , it's not for everyone , I'll say that right off the bat , but it's absolutely fascinating and makes one think . If you're into car chases & boys in the hood movies you probably can't think much anyway so you can safely pass & go about your bidness . Life out of Balance is what Koyaanisqatsi means , and this film is and excellent illustration of how " out of balance " things are in this world . It begins with beautiful canyons and rock formations and things of nature , and gradually slides into how man has messed with things and made them ugly . But in this film , even the ugliness has a certain fascination to it when put to the music of Phillip Glass . Speeded up scenes of people in train stations and such look like an anthill stirred up by a stick . This focuses in here and there on some human grotesques , not deformed grotesques but female casino workers with scary beehive hairdos . The traffic scenes ( speeded up ) look like blood racing through vessels in the heart of the city , it's all perfectly choreographed to the music and obviously took a lot of work to put together . I watched this from start to finish without a pause , and that's the way it must be watched to truly get into the pacing of it , don't stop it to go get something to drink while you're watching . An amazing film and now I want to go find Powasqaatsi , the follow up . stars .
a neglected gem	Anthony Perkins plays Dennis Pitt , a young man just released from a mental hospital to the " real world " , after spending years there for arson when he was 15 . He gets a job at a lumber yard ( ! ! ? ) and is supposed to check with his case worker regularly but he changes jobs immediately and never checks in . Now , he's not well , really , and he thinks he's a CIA operative , and has latched on to a beautiful young high school senior , Tuesday Weld , who buys his " CIA operative " story and becomes his " partner " . Now , Dennis is working at a chemical plant and when he's fired he plots to collapse some chutes and equipment , and while he & his accomplice ( Weld ) are loosening bolts they are forced to kill an old security guard , and his death is somewhat covered up in the collapse , but it appears suspicious , and things get more hairy . Now , Weld is not at all what she seems , since she lives with her mother who is an alcoholic and is on her case all the time , so she's plotting to get rid of her . And who better to help her with this than Dennis ? A rather twisty and surprising film , well done and definitely deserving of more attention than it's gotten over the years . Thankfully it's now on DVD so I could actually have the opportunity to see it , and I thought it was well worth seeing and would recommend it . .
alternate histories	This is a short little " mockumentary " done by Peter Jackson for NZ TV , I guess , about the life of film maker Colin McKenzie , who was a pioneer in many ways in early film making , including talkies , color , and smut . This has a very dry humor to it for the most part and I found it to be wonderful from start to finish . This begins with Peter Jackson talking about how he was asked by McKenzie's widow if he'd be interested in a bunch of old films in a trunk in her garden shed . So Jackson takes the films to a historical archive where they are quite amazed at the contents . According to this , McKenzie filmed the first airplane flight , which preceded that of the Wright Brothers by 9 months . He also filmed the first ' talkie ' , which was a failure because all the actors were speaking Chinese . He was also the pioneer in color film , because he went to Tahiti to get some special berries that could be used in the creation of color , and when he was using the resulting film to capture images , topless and curious Tahitian women wandered into the picture , resulting in his arrest for portraying smut on film . This also chronicles the creation of the never-finished film " Salome " , for which McKenzie built an entire city somewhere on the est coast of NZ . This is a film that suffered numerous setbacks including financial problems and WW1 . At the time McKenzie partnered up with a comedian , Stan the Man , who's big claim to fame was throwing pies in people's faces , but it paid the bills . Too bad at one point he didn't recognize the Prime Minster , after which he was beaten by cops . Of course McKenzie had that all on film too , and Leonard Matlin , in one of his usual over-excited commentaries , compares it to the filming of the Rodney King beating . Forgotten Silver is vastly entertaining and the humor is wonderful and droll . It's too bad it's only an hour but I suppose that's better than overstaying its welcome . stars .
Danger Will Robinson . . . . . .	Danger Will Robinson , if you've stumbled into this review then this will be my warning : This is in Russian , with subtitles , it's very long , and it's by the same guy that did Solaris ( the real one , not the George Clooney one ) so if you've seen that and didn't like it you can stop reading now . Now , if you're still with me , this is an incredible movie , and yes , it's very long , but I loved it from start to finish . This is beautifully filmed , and probably is closer to " real " science fiction than what is pawned off on the general public as such anymore . It has a great atmosphere of beauty & dread mixed together as three men venture into " The Zone " , an area where a meteorite fell 20 years ago and which is sealed off from the populace . And who are these men ? One is a professor , one is a writer , and the other is a " Stalker " , one who is attuned to the ways of The Zone . And what exactly is IN The Zone ? Is it a place of horror and dread , or is it merely a beautiful place surrounded by legends and superstition ? Mostly it's pretty difficult to tell . It is true that strange and inexplicable things do happen there . Anyway I'm saying nothing further about the adventures of these men , this is an incredibly great movie that I didn't want to end . If you've seen Solaris and liked it , you can expect some of the same from this , it's a beautiful movie despite its length , and it's weird and eerie enough to capture the imagination . This would probably not be a movie for the " exploding Death Star " fan , but if you have a sense of adventure and wonder , then please check it out , you may be glad you did . .
Blurring the line between fantasy & reality	The Fall is about an 1920's movie stuntman , seriously injured ( you see some of the aftermath at the beginning of the film ) in a stunt , who is in an hospital , in Los Angeles , and who befriends a little Romanian girl who has a broken arm , also from a fall , but from picking oranges . Now the stunt man is a kind man , and tells the little girl stories of Alexander the Great , and others , but he's also a troubled man , he may be injured for life , his girlfriend has just left him , and he is wanting to end it all , and some of that begins to creep into his stories . He even gets Alexandria to go to the dispensary to get him morphine , but he's not successful in his attempts to end all his woes . Alexandria is a cheerful and playful young girl , for the most part , considering that her family's home was burned down by " angry people " and her father was killed , and she fell from a ladder picking oranges , which is not exactly a job for a five-year-old . The stories are beautiful , humorous , and somewhat inaccurate in detail , being that a man from India is an Indian but would not have a squaw , etc . The story's characters are made up of the people around the actor & the little girl , like the hospital staff , the ice-man , the Indian man from Alexandria's picture , etc . The look and feel of the film is stunning , and beautiful , and it's all very well done . The little girl , Alexandria , plays her part quite well & naturally , given her age . Don't know much about the director , Tarsem , but this is an excellent film and comes off very well . Very much worth seeing and recommended . .
Now available again for your viewing unease	For all their faults , Lion's Gate does things right sometimes too , and the latest is their re-release of Parents ( with the movie " Fear " from 1990 ) on DVD , which has long been out of print . And this fairly inexpensive double feature is nicely remastered too and looks great . Now , as for the movie , Parents is considered a " dark comedy " by some , I guess , but for me it works just fine as straight horror , although it does have some ( darkly ) humorous moments . Young Michael Lemley moves from Massachussets to So . Cal . in the mid-50's with his parents and all looks fine . . . the have a new house , his dad has a new job , and it's all " Cherry Pink and Apple Blossom White " and mystery meat for dinner every night . Randy Quaid oozes creepiness as " dad " and he's not so sure about his strange young son , and Mary Beth Hurt , who plays mom , does so with a cheerful yet distracted air . As the movie goes on Michael manages to weasel his way into dad's workplace , Toxico , which gives him a little better idea what is ending up on their table . This is one creepy and strange little movie , and well worth seeing . It's been years since I last saw it and I had forgotten just how good it was . If you haven't yet seen it , and you like disturbing and strange little horror flicks , scare this one up , you'll be glad you did . .
Beautifully done , surreal tale of evil & vengeance	When Mayor Varlam , of a small Georgian town , dies , he's buried after a fairly lavish funeral , only to show up in the garden of his son's house the next day . Of course , this causes some alarm , & again he's buried , but only to turn up yet again , and then again . Precautions are taken to secure the grave site but to no avail , so a crew of men is posted to watch over the site & the perpetrator is shot and apprehended , only to turn out to be a woman . The woman is placed on trial , and during her trial she explains why she's doing what she's doing . When Varlam became Mayor , he did horrible things , including arresting old people for wanting their church to not be a laboratory ( which is was ) , and the man also harassed her parents & eventually arrested them and took them away . The character of Varlam is played out a bit like Mussolini , Hitler , Stalin , with a dash of seemingly benevolent " Big Brother " thrown in for good measure . But he feels a duty to the Soviet Republic and therefore carries out his duties with no feelings toward individuals . This is a beautifully filmed movie , a dark comedy , and long but worthwhile . One feels very strongly for the characters , at least the ones that were persecuted . There are parts of this that are quite surreal & a few dream sequences that have you wondering if it is supposed to be real or a dream . Well worth seeing out and apparently is the last of a trilogy , too , which also contains " The Wishing Tree " . . . which I will now have to seek out . .
Cool horror / comedy / drama with great monster ! !	As our story begins we see a man being directed to empty chemicals down a sink . He's reluctant as they're toxic and could cause problems , but he's ordered to do it anyway so he does . Fast forward to a couple years later when two fisherman are in the Han River fishing , and one sees something odd , which he catches in a cup , but he drops it and it swims away . Fast forward to the present , where it's an idyllic day by the Han River as people are enjoying the day & buying good things to eat from a little food shack , that being run by the seemingly narcoleptic Gung-Du Park and his father . Something is in the river and everyone's attention is focused on it , but suddenly it's NOT in the river anymore , it's on land and it's moving fast , and people are running for their lives . Sound like a nice day to you ? Now , Gung-Du's daughter Hyun-Seo has just graduated to middle-school and in the rush of trying to get away , even though he was holding her hand , Gung-Du loses track of her & she's seized by this creature who takes off into the river again & seemingly swallows her . All the people that live or are in that particular area are evacuated & there's some talk of viruses and infections , so effectively this family is kept from looking for Hyun-Seo , but she is alive and gets hold of her cell phone & calls in the middle of the night . Of course , no one believes she's alive but her family is determined to find her no matter what the consequences . This is a well done and EXCITING monster flick , with some decent humor and great effects . The monster itself is rather amazing and there's some humor to its movements too as it swings underneath bridges like a high-wire performer . The thing is sort of like a mutated two-legged tadpole with a bit of squid and who knows what else thrown in . Very much a winner , and a good balance of various genres makes it interesting and it's NEVER boring . .
highly disturbing and as relevant today as when it was made	Punishment Park is a pseudo-documentary made by Peter Watkins . The premise is that the nation's dissidents ( hippies , musicians , protesters , pacifists , etc . ) are being rounded up and tried by a tribunal and then given the choice of prison or running the course of Punishment Park . It's a 52 mile grueling trek through the desert to an American flag , with police , National Guard , and various other authority figures in pursuit . The idea is , that if you make it to the flag , you're set free . The tribunal consists of a bunch of conservative types , all condemning any behavior that is not like their own , and there is no result except a prison sentence or the option of " Punishment Park " for any of those on trial . There are a lot of things in this that still ring true today , which is quite disturbing in itself . The people running the course are promised water at the half-way point , which isn't true , and the pursuing officials are mostly a sadistic bunch that are just out for a bit of target practice . This is not a very graphic film but it's more shocking in its ideas and themes than anything else . The scary thing is , it could happen . Not a very upbeat film but definitely worth seeing . Warning : it might make you angry . .
incredibly good Danish hospital horror / drama / comedy	I really loved " Riget " ( The Kingdom ) but one wonders if Von Trier doesn't owe a bit to David Lynch's " Twin Peaks " . It's not that it's a rip-off , by any means , but one wonders if The Kingdom would have come about had it not been for Lynch's pioneering ultra-weird TV show . The Kingdom is about a very strange hospital in Copenhagen , built where bleaching ponds used to be and there's been a lot of strange things that have happened there over the years . Now all those strange things seem to be coming to a head . Stig Helmar , a pompous Swedish doctor , has come to The Kingdom to work , but is universally hated except by his main squeeze , Rigmor . Hook is a strange character that lives in the basement & is sort of a " Robin Hood " of hospital supplies . Moosegard is sort of a Danish Leslie Nielsen but not as much of a buffoon . Sigard Drusse is an old woman whose son works in the hospital , and she repeatedly admits herself to study the hospital and the spirits that live there . Bondo is a doctor who is so interested in a dying man's cancerous liver he has it transplanted into himself . . . and so on . This is filmed in a rather creepy style that fits the material well . This is funny , creepy , and just plain weird most of the time and is a delight to watch . Followed by " Riget II " which continues the saga , and supposedly there was to be a " Riget III " but the main characters have now passed on so that's an impossibility . Well worth seeing , check it out ! .
ALL films of Jeunet & Caro are masterpieces	Hey now , a local store of a video chain was actually selling a used copy of this so I scored , huh huh . This film is a masterpiece of wonder , but so are ALL the films of Jeunet & Caro , they're sort of modern fairy-tales set in a world that could be the 30's or 40's and yet they have modern contrivances . This particular one is a tale of a grumpy old scientist that kidnaps children to steal their dreams . He goes for the young & innocent ones so their dreams are pure , but something still creeps in to ruin the experience . He is aided by clones , 5 of them I think , all Domenic Pinon , who is in other movies of theirs as well . Ron Perlman plays a fun-fair strongman who is very strong physically but not mentally , which is nice because he doesn't have a lot to say so I was able to endure his presence . The imagery in Jeunet & Caro's films is unlike much you've ever seen , perhaps with the exception of the films of Terry Gilliam , and I've read that they " rip off " Gilliam but that's rather harsh . Their films mix the macabre with whimsy , the grotesque with cute , and somehow they manage to weave their films into the most enthralling stories you'd ever want to see . That is , if you don't mind subtitles , but I think it can be watched in dubbed version too . This gets a in my book , so now where is their FIRST film , Delicatessen ? ?
Wonderful early Hitchcock is highly recommended	Most of my interest in Hitchcock films has been in the 50's forward , but since I've seen all those ( and most more than once ) I've started to work my way backward & found THIS delight , from 1938 . It seems that a small group of English people are stranded in a hotel in the fictional country of Bandrika , due to an avalanche that has stopped train service . Iris has befriended a middle-aged governess named Mrs . Froy , and has also had a couple run-ins with a rather obnoxious man named Gilbert , who has a fondness for obnoxious European folk dances . There are also Caldicott & Charters , whose biggest concern is getting back to Manchester for Cricket test matches . Eventually they're all able to board a train which will take them back to where they can get to England . Iris suffers a bump on the head from a piece of luggage before boarding the train , and Mrs . Froy appears to assist her & they end up sharing a compartment with several others . But then Mrs . Froy mysteriously disappears and no one will believe Iris , and they deny Mrs . Froy's existence entirely . So what exactly is going on ? There's a couple who did see Mrs . Froy , but they're having an affair and don't want to get involved in case of scandal . Gilbert happens to be on the train also , and he and Iris partner up to find Mrs . Froy , despite their misgivings about each other . They uncover what appears to be a conspiracy and of course save the day , but I don't really want to say anymore to give away some of the plot . This is a very witty film , and there's a lot of thrills to it too . This is a side of Hitchcock that I wasn't really aware existed , really , and I'm glad I found it . Highly recommended . .
Sleazy and fun Hitchock tribute	I saw this in the theater back when it first came out and to me this has always been one of my favorite films , and I've seen it numerous times over the years and it still holds up well . An out of work actor witnesses a murder while house-sitting , and everything isn't what it seems as the murder victim and the woman he'd been peeping in on don't appear to be one and the same person . I've read lots of good things and lots of bad things about this movie , and frankly I don't care what others think , this was made in the spirit of Hitchcock movies although the dialog and visuals would never have shown up in any of his films ! Some of the scenes are lifted straight from Hitchcock's movies , like the terraced hotel and beach with changing tents , and for me scenes like this only add to the enjoyment of the film . I guess in all there are elements to this that drag it down a bit , and there's some things that seem downright silly , like Gloria Ravell ( the murder victim ) driving all the way into town to buy one pair of panties ) but whatever , she's rich and can do whatever she wants , I reckon . Overall though , that doesn't spoil my enjoyment of this film . .
Enlightenment , the Jodorowsky way	I just got the newly released Jodorowsky box set ( El Topo , Fando & Lis , and this ) a few days ago & have been working my way through it . While El Topo is great & interesting to watch it may have things in it that were entirely lost on me . Holy Mountain may have things in it that are lost on everyone , because it seems to be a mockery of those who would seek enlightenment but it's also a jaw-dropping array of images and bizarre scenarios that will leave you gaping in awe . It's extremely strange and creepy and yet it's also quite humorous at times . A group of people have been drawn together by a mystic ( played by Jodorowsky ) and they go to seek the " holy mountain " of course . This is chock full of so much bizarre and disturbing imagery that it's probably hard to catch everything all in one viewing . There's a lot of social commentary in this too , and while a lot of it's pretty off-the-wall it's also dead on at times , even though this was made 30-something years ago . I could ramble on for some time about this but I won't , it's just plain fascinating and a must-see for anyone who loves bizarre films . , go get your mitts on this one .
Those Aussies know how to go OVER THE TOP	Hey now , I'm usually up for any Aussie film , although I've seen some stinkers in my time but this isn't one of them . Nothing like a little romp through the outback with inbred mutants all juiced up on kangaroo pituitary glands , YEE HA ! Whew . . . . OK , so the residents of this little suburban area are being given " vitamin supplements " but they aren't really aware they're being tested . The results of these " supplements " is a bunch of nasty giving-way of bodily functions and eventually a big slimy mess . Ultra cool . And believe me , there's nothing like watching a guy run into a convenience store for a refreshing " Big Gulp " of liquid detergent . There's this nice little compound where this stuff is being tested , all very proper and nice on the outside but very sinister and slimy on the inside . This place is masquerading as a health club but it's not very healthy , believe me . This hearkens back to movies like " Dead Alive " ( aka Braindead ) in pulling out all the stops , full speed ahead . I loved it . . See it , and bring your sense of humor along .
nightmarish , creepy , and downright scary	First , I should mention I guess , that I have experimented with hallucinogenic drugs a few times , back in the late 70's and early 80's , but I don't take ANYTHING anymore . Now , for those of you that enjoy ingesting a few controlled substances before settling down to watch a movie , please reconsider before watching this , first of all , you don't need it , and second of all , the movie pretty much takes care of all that . Unless , of course , you don't MIND your landlord having to let the paramedics in to drag you out of the back of the closet where you've been huddling , whimpering , under a musty sleeping bag for a week . Iskanov's earlier film , " Nails " is quite good but it pales in comparison to THIS , which is a full blown nightmare on your screen , of horrifying proportions at times . I guess it has something to do with some sort of vampires that roam the earth when it rains , and perhaps they live in the telephone lines or something , or so says a telephone repair man when he comes to fix a young man's phone , and right before the repair man is drained of all life force , I guess these things were eavesdropping . We seem to have something going on at this club too , Night Club Delerium , an apt name , lots of people doing drugs and apparently doing some kind of twisted S & M stuff , including one guy beating the crap out of some woman while everyone passively watches . The central character appears to be trapped in his apartment , afraid to leave , watched by strange people from outside who are trying to get in and appear to be these " vampires " that he's heard about . There's also a couple sidelines about a drug dealer at this club and some guy that appears to be a priest but that doesn't stop him from getting all goth and going to this club to ingest some hallucinogens and join in the fun . There is plenty of VERY disturbing imagery that will probably have the squeamish or unadventurous hitting the stop button on the DVD player and moving on to something more palatable , but I watched this , gaping , from start to finish , and it's incredibly good but also incredibly disturbing . This is a man to watch , this guy , Iskanov , hard to believe this comes out of Russia too . A man with talent , for sure , very dark and disturbing but probably one of the scariest things I've seen in ages . , this is a masterpiece of horror .
Disturbing , demented , and delightful	Jan Svankmajer's films are 3-D . . . . disturbing , demented , and delightful . Actually the only other film I'd seem prior to this was " Alice " and that's the Alice in Wonderland story turned on its ear , so then he tackled the legend of Faust , a man who sold his soul to the Devil . This begins with ordinary streets scenes in Prague or some large Czech city , where some men are handing out leaflets to everyone , and this man takes one , only to crumble it and throw it away . Upon arriving home he gets his mail and goes to his apartment where he finds a black chicken . . . . and suddenly something strange happens when he finds another leaflet in his mail , the sky turns dark , lightning strikes and the two leaflet distributors are standing beneath his window wearing weird contacts and holding the black chicken . . . ? ? At any rate once this little scene is over the man takes the leaflet , which is a map , compares it to a city map and sets out to find this place , whatever it is . Seems to be a theater , of sorts , where he finds a cape , a fake beard & wig , makeup , etc . and he dresses up to find himself in a play , or is he ? There are lots of creepy puppets in this too , mostly of 1800's vintage , it seems , like a lot of props in Svankmajer's films . At any rate this shifts gears numerous times till the viewer isn't really sure what's supposed to be real and what's not . Some of the puppets manage to get about on their own , it seems , and some of the scenes with them running through the countryside and city streets are fairly creepy . This is not a film that can easily be described in writing , at least not by me . If you've seen Alice then you know roughly what to expect . Svankmajer is a master of surrealist animation and stop motion photography and his films are pretty much wonders to behold . If you like the strange and bizarre , and you enjoy live-action and animation combined , then you will want to see this . And it's even in English if you get the Kino Video release . Highly recommended , but not for everyone . .
A truly astounding movie	This is the first time I've seen all of Metropolis , that is , in a clear and " as complete as possible " print . I will have to say that for 1927 this was an astounding achievement , and is probably one of the most innovative films for its time . The story is , from what I can tell , that the very rich exploit the very poor , and the poor rise up . Now , the poor all work in a factory 10 hours a day while the rich frolic , but one young man , the son of the heartless factory owner , is sympathetic to their plight and wants to help . He has fallen in love with a young woman ( Maria ) who preaches to the factory workers in catacombs under the city . She preaches peace and harmony , so it's rather a shock when a crazy inventor uses her image to create a robot that will bring the downfall of Metropolis . The facial expressions convey a lot of what's going on in this film , and I thought it quite amusing when the robot Maria is doing her " erotic dance " thing , since the expressions on the men in the audience were almost cartoon-like as they watched and drooled . The Kino Video version of this is clear and crisp , and you wouldn't think at times you were watching a almost 80 year old film . It's also very sad to note that this movie was " cut " to make it more " normal length " and a lot of the original film is lost forever , so there are " title cards " in this that explain what's going on without the viewer seeing any of the actual scene . This version also has a recreation of the original orchestral accompaniment which works very well with the film . Metropolis is truly one of the greatest films of all time , but unfortunately some didn't see it as such as saw fit to " trim " it . .
creepy , disturbing , gets under your skin and STAYS there	Kopfrkingl is a man who runs a crematorium in pre-world war 2 Czechoslavakia . He has a wife & two children , a comfortable home , and a more than a couple of loose screws . He enlists a man as his agent to entice people to arrange for cremation upon their deaths , and his business seems to be doing well . But , there are German soldiers that are gathering at the borders , and no one knows what will come of all this . An old school friend of Kopfrkingl's extols the virtues of joining " The Party " , and talk of cleansing and getting rid of undesirables starts to circulate . Eventually , Kopfrkingl comes over to that way of thinking and begins to find fault with all around him & decide that it could all do with a good cleansing . And Kopfrkingl seems to think that it is his duty to begin with his family . And eventually Kopfrkingl's help is enlisted by Germany to create something very important for them , which , if you've ever read history books , you'll know about . I can't quite say this is like any other film I've seen , and the subject matter and the execution ( so to speak ) are highly original . This is a very disturbing and creepy film , and it's very subtle , so the " willies " creep up on you perhaps AFTER you watched it , like it did with me . Kopfrkingl is so mild-mannered & matter-of-fact about everything yet he's CREEPY , and there's obviously something wrong with the man but it's certainly not on the surface . The black and white photography suits this film perfectly & the grim atmosphere & feeling of impending doom don't exactly make this the " feel good movie of the year " , but it's HIGHLY worthwhile for those who like Czech " new wave " films ( as I do ) and I would recommend it . .
jet black comedy with creepy overtones	Finally " The Loved One " is available on DVD and is now available for your viewing pleasure . I read , perhaps somewhere on the message boards here , that this version would be " colorized " , but that's not true , it's in glorious original black and white . The tag line of ' something to offend everyone ' is still applicable , too , although this may in no way be QUITE as offensive as it was in 1965 . This is dark , dark , black comedy , and there are some scenes that are just plain creepy and menacing , which is mostly due to the funereal organ music that makes up a good deal of the soundtrack . Robert Morse plays Dennis Barlow , a young man who wins an airline ticket while at the airport in England and decides to come to LA to see his uncle , who is an artist and works at a movie studio . When his uncle is fired from the movie studio he hangs himself , leaving his nephew to make the funeral arrangements at the creepy Whispering Glades , a vast cemetery for WASPs only , run by the Blessed Reverend ( as played by Jonathan Winters ) . While making funeral arrangements Dennis finds himself falling for the young cosmetician Aimee ( Anjanette Comer ) and pursues a relationship with the reluctant girl . Seems as though Whispering Glades is a way of life , and it's more than a way of life , it's kind of a cult run by the Blessed Reverend . Also working at the funeral parlor is the creepy Mr . Joyboy ( Rod Steiger ) who also has a thing for Aimee . After several failed attempts at employment , Dennis finds work at a Pet Cemetery ( The Happier Hunting Ground ) and meets with various misadventures while trying to romance Aimee . Aimee is rather torn between Dennis and Mr . Joyboy . She does get invited to Mr . Joyboy's home and meets mom , about 400 pounds of fun who watches food commercials on TV with lip-smacking glee and attacks an entire roast pig while lounging in bed . Also notable is an appearance by a young Paul Williams who plays a model rocket genius who adds a bit of flair to the Pet Cemetarie's repertoire by sending critters up into space , and this is noticed by the Blessed Reverend who involves the US government in an attempt to move on from Whispering Glades as a " Place of Rest " and turn it into a retirement home while sending the interred bodies into space . Yes , this sounds like a busy movie and it is , and this all actually comes together much better in the actual movie . This is top notch stuff and if you like black comedies and have never seen it , grab it , you'll love it . Perhaps I hadn't really noticed the creepy overtones this film has before because of the sound , which is definitely more pronounced through your stereo speakers ( or home sound system , whatever ) than through a tinny TV speaker . A wonderful film , well done , a good look and feel to it and almost perfect in every way . .
4 more years , and WHY ?	OK , let's just start out by saying that if you voted for George W . Bush on November 2nd , you approve of all that he does and will hate this movie so you can stop reading right now . Having said that , this is a movie that anyone with an open mind should see . I'm sure Moore takes an opportunity here & there to put his own spin on things , but then again so does Bush & his administration , and probably to a much greater degree . If this movie pisses you off because you feel it paints an ugly portrait of a great man , you're already too far gone , far beyond the bend . This is food for thought , and closely examines the relationships between the Bush family & administration & the Saudis , not to mention Cheney's old company , Halliburton , which is doing quite well now , surprise surprise . It also shows poor black Americans being recruited to join the armed forces , even one guy trying to appeal to one young man by telling him that rap star Shaggy was a former Marine . It also shows the mentality of a lot of the soldiers in Iraq , not understanding , when we are there to " help " them , why they face such opposition . Yeah , imagine that . Those with blinders firmly in place will not appreciate this movie at all , and apparently are pleased with getting what they're getting because they keep doing what they're doing . This is a movie to see , if you don't like what's going on around you and would like a few insights on why things are as they are . HIGHLY RECOMMENDED . stars .
quite possibly the best movie in a long time	Guy Fawkes tried to blow up the house of Parliment on November 5th , in the old dark days , and in a future totalitarian society led by a crazed religious zealot , a man wearing a Guy Fawkes mask decides that Britain could possibly need such a change again . V for Vendetta is probably full of dangerous idealism and cool symbolism but it's also finely crafted and is an amazing film . What would you think of a society that stages ' disasters ' so they can keep their people afraid and docile ? Couldn't happen here , you say ? Or does it sound somewhat familiar ? At any rate John Hurt as the Chancellor provides rather a fine yet scary " Big Brother " type image , as he's mostly always seem on a huge screen and you can almost feel the spit fly as he rants and raves . This man is in love with complete control . Now " V " stages an event at a television station and takes over the airwaves long enough to get his message out to the masses , and he almost doesn't get away although he's masked all the crew at the station to throw off the cops . . . and he's almost away when one cop takes a bead on him and a young lady ( Natalie Portman ) nails him with mace , after which she's knocked unconscious and when she awakens , she finds she's been taken to V's hideout . Of course at that point she's in trouble with the powers that be so her alliance with V is kind of a given at that point . The more she's with him the more she understands how corrupt things are and after a raid and imprisonment after she's caught with her old TV producer ( who has committed a double crime , he's gay & he has a copy of the Koran at his house ) , she's to the point where she no longer has any fear . . . . . but there's a twist there . In many ways this reminds me of a more brutal version of 1984 , with more modern overtones . It's not a far cry from it but then again it's not a " rip off " of it either . In many ways this is stunning and brilliant and yet it's probably something your government would prefer you didn't see . I don't want to say too much more about the film but it's been pushed back for release many times , apparently , so there must be something worthwhile about it . I don't advocate terrorism but this will make you wonder if real terrorism exists or if it's just something to keep you afraid & loyal so you'll be protected by your benevolent leader ( s ) . , an amazing and wonderful film , not for the faint-hearted though .
Absolutely wonderful	OK , you won't find many ' kids ' movies in my reviews , but I went to see this yesterday with friends and I have to give it the highest rating of pretty much any movie I've seen in a while . When Tim Burton is at his best ( which is usually ) his films are a wonder to behold , and he's truly outdone himself this time . The basic premise is similar to the 1970 film , the 5 golden tickets in the Wonka Bars which will allow 5 children to tour the factory , but for the most part the resemblance is left in the dust after that . Depp as Willie Wonka is great , he's both child-like and disturbing at once . One gets to see how he became like he is , via flashbacks , as a child with some horrible contraption on his head for his teeth ( Dad was a dentist , played by Christopher Lee , and all candy was bad ) . The children are wonderfully horrible , with the exception of Charlie , and all do a marvelous job at their roles , especially Veruka Salt . The Oompah Loompahs are outrageous , in fact there's only one Oopah Loompah , played by Deep Roy , but he's digitally cloned and most of the musical numbers in the movie are Loompah-driven , all being in matching outfits and singing songs about the downfalls of each greedy child as they happen . Watch for the " rock star " Oopmah Loompahs , it's hilarious . The sets themselves are very Tim Burton , dank , dreary , Gothic , and yet inside the factory most things are incredibly bright and colorful and dammit , just plain FUN . Like most Tim Burton films , this is for kids of ALL ages . A wonderful film , forget Tom Cruise and go see THIS . Again , , for anyone that missed that .
wild and weird	I am not sure if there's a name for the " current wave " of Japanese films that have surfaced in the US in the past few years , some of which actually date back to the late 90's , but I'm pretty much grabbing anything I can find on the Kino Video label , so far I haven't gone wrong . According to the back of the box , Shark Skin Man & Peach Hip Girl is " in the spirit of Natural Born Killers " but if so then it's channeled by David Lynch . There's a bleached blonde guy in a leather bullet proof suit that crawls around on the ground sniffing like a dog , there's an amateur hit-man that drives around in a little 60's car straight out of Ultra Man , dresses in 50's clothing and has a rather geeky personality , supposedly he's " love struck " but with who is the question ? Anyway , this takes the cake for bizarre & eccentric , has some of the characteristic overblown & cartoonish violence , but the focus of this one is more on the strange than the violent . A real hoot and well worth seeing .
