A Tale Of A Duck & A Bear	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Beekeeper Donald is infuriated when a BEEZY BEAR from neighboring Brownstone National Park begins stealing his honey . This humorous cartoon was one of a series to feature Humphrey Bear & Ranger J . Audubon Woodlore . Always an enjoyable duo , they starred in a short series of cartoons but ultimately disappeared into animated obscurity . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice , while Bill Thompson does the honors for the Ranger . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Wrestlemania With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Waldo , as the Masked Marvel , is to wrestle Wildcat Alfalfa for the possession of a new football . It's here CAME THE BRAWN , however , when Butch takes Waldo's place so he can beat-up Alfalfa himself ( something to do with Darla's affections ) . Things are likely to get mighty serious for our skinny hero , mighty fast . . . A few laughs in this little film . Alfalfa is funny , as usual . Once again , Darla's fickleness is a bit wearying .
Another Nail In John Gilbert's Cinematic Coffin	A dying gangster reveals himself as the true father of a young society man , thus turning that GENTLEMAN'S FATE completely upside down . . . According to cinematic legend , all the talkie MGM films starring John Gilbert were dreadful - the result of a bitter hatred between Gilbert ( the highest paid star in Hollywood , with a $1 . 5 million contract ) & studio boss Louis B . Mayer . A determination on Gilbert's part to fulfill the contract , and a campaign instituted by Mayer to destroy Gilbert's career - including spreading the rumor that Gilbert's voice was ' high & feminine ' , culminated in several unwatchable movies . Not entirely true . The Studio had a huge financial investment in Jack Gilbert and was not going to completely cut its own throat by showcasing him in nothing but dreck . However , of the 8 MGM talkies in which he appeared as solo star ( 1929 - HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT ; 1930 - REDEMPTION ; WAY FOR A SAILOR ; 1931 - GENTLEMAN'S FATE ; THE PHANTOM OF Paris ; WEST OF Broadway ; 1932 - DOWNSTAIRS ; 1933 - FAST WORKERS ) most , including GENTLEMAN'S FATE , were rather ghastly . Poor editing , a tawdry story line about unpleasant people , unattractive sets and a depressing climax all work together to sink the film . Poor Gilbert seems deflated , obviously embarrassed by appearing in such a poor film . His rather cold appearance & demeanor make it hard to sympathize with his character . What makes matters worse is that he is continually upstaged by Louis Wolheim , who actually gives a noteworthy performance as Gilbert's older , plug-ugly brother . ( That these two could actually be siblings is one of the script's most unbelievable contrivances . ) Two lovely ladies , Leila Hyams & Anita Page , grace the film with their presence , but they are sadly wasted . Their romantic tribulations are meaningless to the audience because it is so difficult to warm up to Gilbert , the object of their affections . Paul Porcasi , Frank Reicher & John Miljan all strive to make their small roles meaningful , but they are largely defeated by the unforgiving script . Marie Prevost has some good moments as a slatternly moll , but it is very sad to see her scenes with Gilbert . One is inevitably reminded that both their lives would be cut short by acute alcoholism , her final circumstances being especially atrocious . Finally , about The Voice . There was nothing at all strange or unnaturally high about Gilbert's voice . As a matter of fact , it was of medium range & rather cultured & refined . That was the crux of the problem , of course . While it is possible that no voice could have ever matched the perfect one viewers heard in their minds while watching his strong , virile silent roles , the reality was very different from what they wanted to hear ( imagine Robert Montgomery's voice coming out of Clark Gable's mouth . ) Gilbert was doomed from his first scene in his debut talkie ; his war with Mayer only intensified the agony . He would die in 1936 , forgotten by most of his former fans , at the age of only 36 .
A Cartoon Strictly For The Birds	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The BIRDS IN THE SPRING are kept busy building nests & hatching their eggs . One particularly adventurous young fledging wanders from home , tangles with a frightful serpent and brings back a swarm of angry bees . Papa Bird has a forceful way of showing his displeasure . . . Not much plot in this little film , but it did give the Disney animators an exercise in animating comic birds . The SILLY SYMPHONYS , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonys the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonys , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonys became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONYS ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Just The Facts With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . To impress Darla , Alfalfa tells her he's a famous bear tamer . Her dad , a circus owner , just happens to have a bear costume ; now he's determined to get Alfalfa's real BEAR FACTS . . . This little film tries hard for laughs and delivers a few . Highlight : Alfalfa's dance with the ? bear ' .
John Gilbert's Swan Song	Two steelworker buddies are real FAST WORKERS when it comes to romancing & dumping the women in their lives - until a loose lady with a shady past shakes up their complacency & threatens their friendship . According to cinematic legend , all the talkie MGM films starring John Gilbert were dreadful - the result of a bitter hatred between Gilbert ( the highest paid star in Hollywood , with a $1 . 5 million contract ) & studio boss Louis B . Mayer . A determination on Gilbert's part to fulfill the contract , and a campaign instituted by Mayer to destroy Gilbert's career - including spreading the rumor that Gilbert's voice was ' high & feminine ' , culminated in several unwatchable movies . Not entirely true . The Studio had a huge financial investment in Jack Gilbert and was not going to completely cut its own throat by showcasing him in nothing but dreck . However , of the 8 MGM talkies in which he appeared as solo star ( 1929 - HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT ; 1930 - REDEMPTION ; WAY FOR A SAILOR ; 1931 - GENTLEMAN'S FATE ; THE PHANTOM OF Paris ; WEST OF Broadway ; 1932 - DOWNSTAIRS ; 1933 - FAST WORKERS ) most were certainly rather ghastly . FAST WORKERS was a sad end to Gilbert's MGM contract . Although it boosts some fine moments in the alarmingly vertiginous opening scenes atop a skyscraper ( for once using decent rear projection ) , back on the ground it descended into turgid romantics which were a waste of the stars ' talents . Unattractive & depressing , the film could easily be subtitled The Tawdry Lives Of Unpleasant People . Gilbert was always trying to push himself as an actor , attempting to produce the best performance possible . But the script and the cheap production values gives him no assistance . It is to Mayer's eternal shame that the actor who was the most popular male star at the end of the silent era and who made a great deal of money for MGM , should be treated in such a shabby , humiliating way at the end of his career . The film was also a Studio letdown for director Tod Browning , who had helmed several splendid silent Lon Chaney shockers and whose talkies included the classics Dracula & FREAKS . His career would soon spiral into obscurity . Robert Armstrong and a funny Sterling Holloway offer fine support to Gilbert , as do Mae Clarke , Muriel Kirkland , pretty Muriel Evans and unbilled Herman Bing & Nora Cecil , but it's all to no avail . The picture was doomed & John Gilbert was out the door , his contract expired . It must be stated that there was nothing at all strange or unnaturally high about Gilbert's voice . As a matter of fact , it was of medium range & rather cultured & refined - which was the crux of the problem , of course . While it is possible that no voice could have ever matched the perfect one viewers heard in their minds while watching his strong , virile silent roles , the reality was very different from what they were expecting ( imagine Robert Montgomery's voice coming out of Clark Gable's mouth ) . Gilbert was doomed from his first scene in his debut talkie ; his war with Mayer only intensified the agony . At Garbo's insistence , John Gilbert would return to MGM later in 1933 to appear as her love interest in QUEEN Christina , but she was the star and Gilbert received below-the-title billing . He would make only one more film - THE CAPTAIN HATES THE SEA for Columbia in 1934 . Then he retired to his villa to live a life of drunken , sybaritic obsolescence . He was planning to return to the screen to costar with his last lover , Marlene Dietrich , in THE GARDEN OF ALLAH when he suddenly died on January 9 , 1936 of heart failure , forgotten by most of his former fans . John Gilbert was only 36 years old .
A Duck Tale With Gators	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald tricks his Nephews into believing he's been magically reverted into an infant after discovering DON'S FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH . The always enjoyable Duck gives a humorous performance in an otherwise routine film . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Ramon Novarro Romance Film of Old Vienna	When a young Imperial Officer offhandedly insults the poor girl he's smitten with , it precipitates her into the arms of a bullying , rich old gambler . Trying to win her back , the Lieutenant becomes greatly in debt to her new lover . Will the young man retain his honor & his life , come next DAYBREAK ? The plot is a bit musty , but the performers do what they can with the material . Ramon Novarro , always a good actor , provides the latest in a series of ethnic impersonations - this time playing a highborn Austrian . Helen Chandler is a pretty love interest , especially good in the Grinzing wine garden scene . Jean Hersholt provides quiet menace as the heavy . As always , Sir C . Aubrey Smith is nothing less than excellent , this time playing a gruff old general - watch him imperiously send an impecunious young officer off to commit suicide . Morally , this is definitely a pre-Production Code movie . Casual sex is implied , much of the action takes place in a fancy brothel and just why is Novarro's manservant wearing Novarro's drawers ?
A Little William Haines Romantic Comedy	The American nephew of an English nobleman is appalled at the prospect of an arranged marriage . To prove to his uncle that all girls are not sweet & innocent , he disguises himself as his intended's paid dancing companion , to see if she'll have an affair with him . To his surprise , he falls in love with her . When she catches on to the trick , will she acknowledge her hidden love for him , or will she continue to treat him as JUST A GIGOLO ? William Haines , always enjoyable to watch , sparks this little pre-Production Code comedy , in which his silly-billy antics are toned down a bit . He's particularly fun in the climaxing scenes at the San Sebastian Inn , when he thinks Irene Purcell has surrendered a wee bit too far to his charms . Miss Purcell gives a pert performance as a spoiled young noblewoman in need of firm handling . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith is excellent as a crusty lord who has much to learn about modern youth , circa 1931 . Haines was one of the art directors on this picture . The following year , with his dismissal from MGM , he would start a new & very successful career as a Hollywood interior decorator .
Jeeves & Wooster - Sir P . G . Wodehouse's Classic Creations	When muddleheaded Bertie Wooster - London playboy & man about town - gets himself into trouble , he can always rely on the inimitable Jeeves , his gentleman's gentleman , to extricate him from the plight . When Bertie becomes involved with a beautiful mystery woman , Jeeves must utilize brawn , not brain , to rescue him from a dangerous gang of international thieves . Hopefully , Wooster will once again be able to say , ' THANK YOU , JEEVES ! ' Very loosely based on one of his novels , Sir P . G . Wodehouse's immortal characters come alive in this , the first of two Jeeves films produced by 20th Century Fox . At only 57 minutes long , the film wastes no time in getting into its funny business . Fans of the short stories & novels will notice that liberties were taken with the characters . Jeeves is less of the all-knowing automaton ; in fact , he uses not his cerebral matter but a knowledge of fisticuffs to catch the villains . Bertie is still rather zany , but his ( eventual ) success with the fair sex has noticeably improved . Having played butlers so often , Arthur Treacher here has the plum role of his career . He is perfect as Jeeves : tall , with forbidding intellect - but not afraid to unbend and sing a rousing hunting song or swing a mean battle-ax . David Niven is a lot of fun as Wooster , vague & a bit befuddled , but loyal & brave in defending his lady love . She is played nicely by Virginia Field . Willie Best has some very funny moments as a stranded saxophonist who adds to the hilarity .
Going Goofy At Home	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy tries coping with the child , the pets and all the housework during FATHER'S DAY OFF . Here is a cautionary little film for any male who's ever thought his wife had it easy around the house . Pete has a tiny cameo at the end as a police detective . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
No Mutton Tonight	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . SHEEP DOG Pluto has enough difficulty guarding his flock without the unwanted interference of two hungry coyotes . This little film is fun , but quite unremarkable . The mangy coyotes , Bent-Tail and his none-too-brilliant son , Bent-Tail , Junior , were featured in a short series of Disney cartoons , only to vanish as quickly as they came . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pluto's Pests	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . A couple of chipmunks believe they have SQUATTER'S RIGHTS in Mickey's mountain cabin . This enjoyable , albeit unremarkable , cartoon was the second to feature the Chipmunks - although they had yet to completely metamorphose into Chip ' n ' Dale . Their dialogue is almost completely unintelligible . Pluto gets most of the screen time - Mickey is left with just the bits & pieces . The last gag is strangely cruel . Nominated for an Academy Award . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Not Little Shirley's Finest Hour	A SHIRLEY TEMPLE Short Subject . It can get mighty rough at Buttermilk Pete's Cafe when the local contingency of diaper-clad WAR BABIES come in for their midday milk break . This primitive little film - a spoof of military movies - provides a few chuckles , but little else : tiny tots talking tough can begin to pall in a short time . Shirley Temple , playing a duplicitous hip-swinging French miss , hasn't much to do in this pre-celebrity performance . Highlight : the real signs of toddler temper when a few of the infants unexpectedly get well & truly soaked with milk . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Shirley Temple's Last Child Role	An obnoxious girl , unable to find joy in her life , is sent by an elderly fairy into the Lands of the Past & the Future to seek for THE BLUE BIRD of Happiness . Her search will change her life profoundly . . . Fantasy is the most difficult genre for film to create successfully . All the elements have to come together just right , and then , more often than not , success is a happy accident . Fantasy is not replicable ; note the number of failed sequels . If 20th Century Fox was trying to emulate MGM's THE WIZARD OF OZ ( an initial box office flop , it should be remembered ) , it was not a wise endeavor . Given its troubled production history , OZ should have been a disaster . That it was not still puzzles & delights film historians . THE BLUE BIRD's ultimate failure is not complete . There are several very good things about it . The main trouble seems to be in the casting of Shirley Temple in the lead role . The greatest child star of them all was now aging , and prepubescent Shirley seems to depend a bit too much on the gracious memories of her devotees . She's still cute , but this time that's just not enough . Also , it must have been awkward acting such a nasty role , one doomed to be disliked by the audience for much of the film . Gale Sondergaard , as the Cat , has much the same problem . She tries hard , but the role is very unsympathetic & we are never told why her character is so wicked - indeed , capable of murder . It's interesting to note that both Temple & Sondergaard were important contenders for major roles in OZ , but were instead rejected for Judy Garland & Margaret Hamilton . There are several cast members that do an excellent job with their material : Spring Byington , tender as Shirley's mother ; wonderful old Jessie Ralph as the fairy ; Eddie Collins , often very funny as the Dog ; Nigel Bruce & Laura Hope Crews , giving ripe performances as Mister & Mrs . Luxury ; and dear Cecilia Loftus & Al Shean as Shirley's lonely , dead grandparents . Some of the minor casting is also very effective , witness Thurston Hall as Father Time , Edwin Maxwell as Old Man Oak & Sterling Holloway , on screen only a few seconds as Wild Plum . That's Scotty Beckett , from the old OUR GANG Comedies , as one of the Unborn Boys . The use of Technicolor is very eye-appealing , although its initial entry into the film lacks the dramatic punch produced in OZ . The forest firestorm sequence is very well done & the Unborn Children scenes have genuine pathos .
Early Disney Animation	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Toiling together , THE BUSY BEAVERS have devised many ingenious ways to complete their dam . After retiring to their lodges , a mighty flood threatens to wipe out all their hard work . Only one lone beaver has the energy to save the day . . . This black & white entry in the series is an exercise in dealing with the movement of light & dark forms ; action & reaction . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Drinkin ' Medicine With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . After drinking unmixed digestive powders , Alfalfa gets BUBBLING TROUBLES . When his abdomen swells tremendously , Spanky and the Gang are certain he's swallowed some of Butch's ' liquid dynamite ' . Now if they can only get Alfalfa home without his exploding . . . Few real laughs in this otherwise innocuous little film . Made after MGM got direct control of the Gang , and with the kids themselves noticeably growing up , it bears scant resemblance to the Rascals ' classics of yesteryear .
A Feline Nightmare From Disney	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It's dark and THE CAT'S OUT for the evening . A night spent screeching on the fence & stalking birds takes a strange turn when an accidental bang on the head throws kitty into a world of nightmare . . . This black & white cartoon is pleasant without being noteworthy . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Early Our Gang Short Featuring Wheezer	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . When a new little arrival comes to Wheezer's home , he finds himself neglected & depressed . Unable to get any positive attention ( making breakfast pancakes out of Plaster of Paris only makes matters worse ) and wanting no more BOUNCING BABIES around the house , he decides to take his new brother back to the hospital and ask the nurse to return him to Heaven . This is an adequate little comedy , but nowhere close to any of the Rascals ' classics . Chubby is funny as a Halloween demon with a spooky voice . Wheezer has a very interesting way of getting himself & Pete across the very busy street near his home - but it makes you wonder why his mother would allow the tiny tyke so close to such dangerous traffic .
Taking Care Of Baby With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . The Boys make THEIR FIRST MISTAKE when Stan convinces Ollie to adopt a tiny baby in order to placate his ferocious wife . Arriving home with the infant , the Boys discover that Mrs . Hardy has left him for good - leaving Stan & Ollie to look after the baby . This , of course , is something they are spectacularly ill-equipped to do . Not much plot in this little film - plenty of sight gags , though . Stan's preparation to milk the baby is hilarious . That's Billy Gilbert as the process server & Mae Busch as Mrs . Hardy .
Donald Goes Buggy	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . An elderly BOOTLE BEETLE recalls his encounter years earlier with bug collector Donald Duck . This enjoyable little film was the first in a very short series to feature the Bootle Beetles . Although undeniably cute , they did not make an impression on the viewers and quickly retired from the screen . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Dog & His Horse	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof demonstrates HOW TO PLAY BASEBALL in the worse possible way . In this " How To " entry , the National Pastime is subjected to much good natured ribbing . The jokes and animation are both fine , though unremarkable . John McLeish narrates in his best documentary style . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Way Out West With William Haines	Although he's all but forgotten now , in 1930 , Hollywood's first full year of talkie films , William Haines was king of the box office . His movies - he starred in three of them - made more money than those of any other male star . WAY OUT WEST is one of those films . Haines plays a carnival shyster who cheats some cowboys out of their money with a crooked roulette wheel . They retaliate by kidnapping him , taking him back to their ranch and forcing him to work off the debt . There are some of the usual silly-billy antics you expect from a Bill Haines film . But there are also lapses into very serious areas as well . The look on Haines ' bleeding face after he's been roughed-up by a big cowboy , without a word spoken , speaks volumes . Also appearing are Leila Hyams , one of MGM's pretty starlets of the early 1930's ; Francis X . Bushman , Jr . ; the ubiquitous Polly Moran ; and little Cliff Edwards , who gets to play his ukulele & sing .
A Duck Tale With Chipmunks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . CHIP AN ' DALE make Donald's life miserable after he cuts down their tree for firewood . The story & animation are routine , but the film is significant in that it is the first in which the Chipmunks are named , hence the title . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice ; the little rodents are often unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Robert Louis Stevenson Adventure Film	A young Scotsman , on his way to becoming laird of his family property , instead finds himself in the very thick of his country's rebellion against the English , hunted & harried & in constant peril , after his evil uncle has him KIDNAPPED . This is a fairly good adventure film which , now and again , actually includes some of the original plot as penned in the famous novel by Robert Louis Stevenson . Action scenes are well done , but the wholly unnecessary romantic subplot gets very much in the way . Warner Baxter is completely miscast as the great literary hero , Alan Breck ; he doesn't even attempt to act Scots and his accent is pure Yankee . One wonders what Fox Studio had in mind . In the supporting cast was a star from silent screen days , British actor Ralph Forbes , who could have given the role more authority & punch . Instead , Forbes is given a tiny part & disappears quickly . Freddie Bartholomew does a fine job as young David Balfour and there is an excellent supporting cast of sterling character players of the period : John Carradine , Nigel Bruce , Mary Gordon , Halliwell Hobbes , E . E . Clive , Montague Love , H . B . Warner & Eily Maylon . Reginald Owen is especially good as an old rapscallion of a sea captain , while Sir C . Aubrey Smith scores as a wise old duke .
Learning The Importance Of School Work With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . With the help of his dad , Alfalfa imagines what it would be like in college , when , as a football hero , he is ineligible to play in the big game because he neglected his TIME OUT FOR LESSONS . This little movie with a moral , made when the Rascals were a bit older , is thoroughly unfunny . Only the jitterbugging scene - with Darla belting out ' Swinging The Jinx Away ' - has any pep to it .
Eatin ' Birthday Dinner With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Darla's dad is celebrating his 32nd birthday & wants nothing more than a quiet evening at home with his family , enjoying his mock turtle soup , roast chicken & cake . Serenity is shattered , however , by the arrival of Alfalfa , Percy & Porky . To his infinite disgust , all Mr . Hood can do is FEED ' EM AND WEEP . . . This little film has a few good moments , mostly dealing with the Rascals . Johnny Arthur , as Papa ( a champion whiner ) , actually turned 55 the year this was filmed . Wilma Cox is levelheaded Mama . Alfalfa warbles ' Many Happy Returns Of The Day ' .
A Frozen Pup Tale	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Crossing the chilly wastes to Quagmire Airport , MAIL DOG Pluto is hampered in his mission by a rabbit desperate to get warm . Fun though unremarkable , this little film features Flutter Foot the rabbit in his only Disney appearance . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Joan Blondell Dishes Out The Diced Carrots	A bored & beautiful SMARTY enjoys goading both of her husbands into fits of jealous rage . This very bizarre little comedy from Warner Bros . , which sneaked in under the wire before the imposition of the Production Code , actually espouses physical abuse as the secret ingredient needed in keeping the romantic spark alive in marriage . This distressful assertion is promoted by skillful players and smug dialogue , but to no avail . Joan Blondell , as blonde & curvaceous as ever , is portrayed as an intensely annoying young virago with all the charm of an acid bath . Endlessly nagging , the script gives her one shrill note to play , which she does with unnerving tenacity . In most of her other roles of the period she played a smart & sassy gal who has to fight her way to happiness by final fadeout . Here , Blondell starts with everything and seems determined to claw her way to the bottom again . Must be some sort of mental aberration . Patrician Warren William & nervous Edward Everett Horton supplied wonderful moments in dozens of Golden Age films . Here , as the two men caught in Blondell's web , although they make valiant efforts , they seem out of place in the rather sordid storyline . Rounding out the cast as two friends seemingly without meaningful lives of their own , viewers will probably find Frank McHugh to be distressingly simpleminded and pretty Claire Dodd vindictive & catty . Neither exemplify the sort of friend one would want to have during a time of domestic crisis . Perhaps it would be well to quote a single paragraph from celebrated journalist Harriet Hubbard Ayer's essay ' What Not To Do , ' published in CORRECT SOCIAL USAGE ( The New York Society Of Self-Culture , 1903 ) ' Don't nag ; there's nothing in it but hateful thoughts for all concerned , and such thoughts are germs that breed deceit on one side and ungovernable temper on the other . At the end of the road is division of hearts , often a divorce court . ' Blondell & Company should have paid heed .
Comic Characters in College Campus Comedy	An outrageous liar , pretending to be Baron Munchausen the famous explorer , arrives in new York City with his lowbrow companion . They proceed to defraud everyone in sight , before finally settling in at Cuddle College - where they plan to give the coeds the opportunity to MEET THE BARON . In the early 1930's , Jack Pearl was a huge success on radio as Baron ( ' Vas you dere , Charley ? ' ) Munchausen , the champion fibber . MGM decided to groom him for film stardom , playing his famous character . Here , in the first of two films - HOLLYWOOD PARTY ( 1934 ) was the second - he is surrounded by first rate talent : the great Jimmy Durante as his sidekick ; fluttery Zasu Pitts ; the inimitable Edna May Oliver as the college dean ; and Ted Healy & the Three Stooges . The movie , while no classic , is enjoyable . Pearl , Durante and Misses Oliver & Pitts all have good moments . Fans of the Stooges will appreciate their contributions to the lunacy of the plot . Film mavens will want to look fast for Robert Greig & Lionel Belmore as explorers and Mary Gordon as the college washerwoman . ' Clean As A Whistle ' has to be the strangest song ever included in an MGM movie - it takes place entirely in the college shower room . . .
Adventures In India With Ramon Novarro	A handsome young merchant prince must fight first for his life and then for his identity . But when he struggles to keep the love of a beautiful young American , he is reminded that he is still but a SON OF INDIA . This is a decent little film , with good production values and MGM lavished a lot of care in making it look exotic . As regards the plot , Ramon Novarro is practically the whole story . Here he adds another portrait to his long series of ethnic interpretations . Silent screen star Conrad Nagel appears as Novarro's American friend & a lovely Madge Evans plays his sister , Novarro's love interest . Marjorie Rambeau is given little do to as their unsympathetic aunt , while old Sir C . Aubrey Smith has a tiny role as a wise old English doctor .
A Duck Tale With Chipmunks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . The two tiny CORN CHIPS ( Chip ' n ' Dale ) turn Donald's snowy front yard into a battlefield as they fight him for control of his popcorn . Here is another routine Duck versus Chipmunks film , but the antagonists are always a pleasure to watch . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice ; the Chipmunks are often unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Chipmunks After Dark	A Walt Disney CHIP ' N ' DALE Cartoon . There's lots of rodent romance going on at the Acorn Club when TWO CHIPS AND A MISS get together . Here is a very routine Chipmunks film which ( rather embarrassingly ) puts their pint-sized canoodling on display . The lovely Clarice , for all her furry allure , would make only this one film appearance . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Makin ' A Movie With The Little Rascals	After thoroughly disrupting the opening of a new Hollywood movie , the Gang decides to make their own film , The Misterryus Mistery . At THE BIG PREMIERE , with the neighbor kids in attendance , cinematic chaos ensues . . . Few real laughs in this otherwise innocuous little film . Made after MGM got direct control of the Gang , and with the kids themselves noticeably growing up , it bears scant resemblance to the Rascals ' classics of yesteryear .
Makin ' Lemonade With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Nasty Leonard & his equally repulsive dad , new owners of a neighborhood fruit stand , see to it that the lemonade cart belonging to little Scotty Beckett & his grandpa is thrown off THE LUCKY CORNER where it's stood for years . Moving into a less-frequented alley , business looks bleak . It's a good thing Spanky & The Gang are on hand to drum up some more customers . A funny little film , with spunky Spanky , Buckwheat ' on ice ' and Alfalfa crooning ' Little Brown Jug ' the highlights . Leonard Kibrick was the quintessential tough redheaded kid in many films of the 1930's , often without credit . That's Gus Leonard playing Grandpa .
More Nephew Trouble For Donald	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald runs a crooked shooting gallery at the Carnival , until some real STRAIGHT SHOOTERS - his three Nephews - happen by . This is another in a long series of cartoons in which The Donald gets punished for his bad behavior . The story is unremarkable , but the animation is well done . However , the Nephews disguising themselves as a curvaceous duck vamp in order to attract the romantic attentions of their somewhat lecherous Uncle has rather disturbing implications . . . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Playin ' On Trains With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . While playing in the train yard , Fat Joe Cobb , Farina & the Gang go RAILROADIN ' in a runaway train , which none of them knows how to stop . . . A funny little early talkie . Due to its age , some of the dialogue is difficult to hear . Highlight : Farina on the tracks . Fat Joe & Chubby are so obese it's painful to watch them .
Wheeler & Woolsey Go Crazy In Egypt	Two zany ditch diggers join an expedition intent on returning a cursed treasure to the burial chamber of Egyptian King Pharatime . But when a crazed killer starts spreading comedic terror in the tomb , who will come rescue the MUMMY'S BOYS ? This starts out as a suspense tale , with mysterious deaths & a Pharaoh's curse , but it soon becomes a typical Wheeler & Woolsey comedy ( Bert Wheeler is the one with the curly hair ; Robert Woolsey has the cigar & spectacles ) . The Boys are always fun to watch and this film is no exception , even if the plot is exceptionally silly . Unlike Laurel & Hardy , who relied heavily on slapstick & physical humor , Wheeler & Woolsey's comedy derived largely from the dialogue . Their best bit here : the ' twenty miles as the crow flies ' routine . Barbara Pepper is Wheeler's love interest here ; Willie Best adds to the craziness .
William Haines & Jimmy Durante Score Big in Comedy Crime Caper	James Rufus Wallingford , master swindler , returns to America - cheating suckers & dodging the law . But then he falls in love with the daughter of an old man he wants to defraud . He needs to watch his step , or there won't be any NEW ADVENTURES OF GET RICH QUICK WALLINGFORD . William Haines was perfectly cast as a smooth-talking operator in this , his fastest-moving , most densely plotted film . Leila Hyams is cute as his love interest , but she doesn't have a lot to do but look pretty or distressed . Clara Blandwick , as her mother , acts like a tough old customer . Guy Kibbee is fun as the detective waiting for Wallingford to slip-up . As Haines ' accomplices in crime , Ernest Torrence and pickpocket Jimmy Durante are especially good . This was Durante's film debut and he soon would be a top Hollywood star . By the way , for many decades this movie ( based on a character already established in short stories in Cosmopolitan Magazine & a couple of silent films ) held the distinction as the Hollywood film with the longest title .
Lost In The Links	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Pluto acts as CANINE CADDY for Mickey's golf game - with predictable results . Good animation is the highlight of this otherwise unremarkable little film . The Pup has far more screen time than The Mouse , especially after the arrival of the requisite tiny critter - in this instance a gopher - into the plot to plague Pluto . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Movie In Possession of Two Fine Comedy Stars	A penniless society girl living by her wits finds herself falling in love with the handsome sheriff's man sent to keep an eye on her belongings . What will happen if one of her suitors discovers that the fellow masquerading as her butler is both her lover and THE MAN IN POSSESSION ? This is a pleasant little drawing-room comedy which spotlights two stars of the past in serious peril of becoming forgotten . Robert Montgomery was both dashing & debonair . He handles the title role with much natural charm . Long-legged Charlotte Greenwood is a delight . Her delivery & timing are as fresh as today's coffee . The rest of the cast is equally good : lovely Irene Purcell ; sweet , elderly Beryl Mercer ; plus Reginald Owen & Alan Mowbray as a couple of pompous twits . Sir C . Aubrey Smith is excellent as Montgomery's gruff , blustery father . As he normally played roles of great dignity , it is tremendous fun here to see his reaction when a platter of parsnips & gravy is smashed into his vest . This is very defiantly a pre-Production Code comedy - Montgomery & Purcell go to bed together only hours after meeting . The sight of Purcell's torn chemise lying at the foot of her bed would never have been allowed a few years later .
On The Race Track With Bill Haines	Love & revenge , thrills & spills . A cocky young man . A beautiful young lady . A nasty celebrity racer and a decent old driver with a bad heart . They will all come together for the great Decoration Day Race at the Indianapolis SPEEDWAYThis is a fairly typical William Haines silent comedy . He chases pretty Anita Page throughout , engaging in antics so annoying they'd get him arrested today . Haines ' personality is a bit much at times , but he is never anything less than entertaining . He benefits here by much location shooting at the famous Raceway . The supporting cast is good : Ernest Torrence & Eugenie Besserer are the old driver & his wife who've taken Haines in like a son ; Karl Dane is a good-natured , if slow-witted , mechanic ; John Miljan is properly repugnant as the bad guy . The ubiquitous Polly Moran scores in her one scene as a frowzy hash house waitress .
A Broadway Brevity	A Vitaphone Short SubjectA handsome South American lieutenant has his KISSING TIME with a beautiful American traveler rudely interrupted by his uncouth general , who wants the lady for himself . . . Although this short film can boast little beyond its ludicrous lovemaking , the songs are sung nicely , and the characters of the obese general and fey Englishman are slightly humorous . The unusually dense plot , with its ghostly , bell ringing hermit & unhappy ending , makes this musical somewhat atypical for its time . Operettas were idea subject matter for early talky two-reelers . They were swiftly paced , colorful ( even in black & white ) and rather cheap to produce , utilizing as they did the sets & costumes of the feature films . Their brief length negated any need for character exposition and the stories were easy to follow , even when sung by heavily accented voices . Best of all , they were full of Sound , and that was still enough of a novelty to keep most audiences from becoming overly critical or expectant of anything smacking of real art .
Disney Peeps Under The Sea	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The FROLICKING FISH at the bottom of the ocean are having a wonderful day , swimming & darting about . The arrival of a hungry octopus , however , seriously threatens to disrupt their fun . . . With virtually no plot to speak of , this black & white cartoon is another exercise in action / reaction animation . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Another Duck Tale With Chipmunks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Logger Donald finds himself UP A TREE after he attempts to cut down Chip ' n ' Dale's home . Here is another routine Duck versus Chipmunks film , but the antagonists are always a pleasure to watch . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice ; the Chipmunks are often unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Wheeler & Woolsey's Comic Misadventures in Hotel Management	A couple of scam artists go legit to help a young lady run the dilapidated hotel she's inherited . Over time they turn the place into a swanky high-society hot spot . But when mobsters , a crooked lawyer & a phony countess arrive , the Boys find themselves in trouble HOOK , LINE AND SINKER . This slight comedy features the always watchable team of Wheeler & Woolsey . ( Bert Wheeler is the one with curly hair ; Robert Woolsey is the skinny fellow with glasses . ) Their one-liners fly faster than the bullets which climax the movie . Dorothy Lee , their frequent co-star & Wheeler's perpetual love interest , is still kewpie-doll cute . The massive Jobyna Howland is great as Woolsey's lady love - a ferocious female not to be fooled with . Hugh Herbert , usually so much fun , is given little to do as the ineffectual hotel detective .
Fun On The Water With William Haines	William Haines is a fast-talking ex-sailor with big ideas for building the world's fastest speed boat , winning the love of a rich man's daughter and foiling the plots of a crooked young banker . Maybe some of his dreams will come true , if he can only slow down his hectic FAST LIFE . The story is silly , as were most of Haines ' pictures , but he's always enjoyable to watch . Extensive location shooting around the Catalina Island waterfront gives the film a boost . Haines is his normal antic , brash self , doing all he can to annoy Madge Evans , as the love interest . Conrad Nagel is the banker , in a pleasant departure from his usual good guy roles . Little Cliff Edwards is funny as Haines ' buddy . Karl Dane appears uncredited in a bit part as a wharf watchman . Only a few years before he'd been one of MGM's silent stars , but his thick Danish accent didn't pass the grade in the new world of talking pictures and he quickly faded . He would die a suicide two years after FAST LIFE was released . This was also to be William Haines ' last MGM film . He & Louis B . Mayer had loathed each other for years and Haines was finally given the shove . After a couple of films at a minor studio , he would become a very successful interior decorator .
Not Enough Cake At This Party	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . With all the young mice in the neighborhood invited to PLUTO'S PARTY , no wonder the affair turns into a complete shambles . A mildly humorous , although completely unremarkable , cartoon . No attempt whatsoever is made to delineate any of the small rodents . Listen carefully and you'll hear Mickey clearly name Donald's nephews , Huey , Dewey & Louie , as among the expected party guests , but apparently the little ducks had second thoughts about attending . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An Invitation From Mr . Jimmy Durante	That romantic & devilishly handsome movie star , Jimmy Durante , decides to throw the HOLLYWOOD PARTY every celebrity in town will want to attend . And he does , with somewhat mixed results . This nonsense film ( no directors are credited , but several important ones were involved ) was an excuse for MGM to show off , somewhat ostentatiously , its comedy talent . Enough talent , indeed , to waste . Laurel & Hardy show up for a scene with Lupe Velez and it is hilarious . The ubiquitous Polly Moran , Charles Butterworth & Arthur Treacher are generally worth watching . Ted Healey & The 3 Stooges , Jack Pearl & Eddie Quillan are hampered by inadequate material . Even Robert Young appears for a few moments , playing himself and looking a wee bit silly . Apparently having wandered over from another studio , Mickey Mouse shows up unexpectedly , in animated form & voiced by Walt Disney . He proves he can hold his own in trading wisecracks with Durante and then introduces a fairly good Disney Technicolor cartoon , ' Hot Chocolate Soldiers ' and it's enjoyable . If you get invited to this party , try hanging out with Stan & Ollie , or The Mouse . They're where all the fun is .
The Tale Of A Hound & A Critter	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . It is PLUTO AND THE ARMADILLO he encounters that provides the excitement during Mickey's brief stopover in Belem , Brazil . This is one of the many films in which Pluto gets to interact with a small critter of some sort . The gags are routine . That's Brazilian star Carmen Miranda that The Pup spoofs for a few moments with the fruity headgear . Mickey's appearance is little more than a cameo . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Jeeves Returns in Crime Caper Comedy	When a couple of swindlers convince Jeeves , that impeccable gentleman's gentleman , that he is the long-lost heir to the fortune of Sir Francis Drake , he embarks with them to New York , where he is immediately embroiled with bank robbers & mobsters . To get yourself out of this pickle , you'll need to STEP LIVELY , JEEVES ! In this , the second of two Jeeves films ( following THANK YOU , JEEVES ! - 1936 ) , Arthur Treacher once again has a field day as the world's most famous butler . He is always great fun , with his icy stare & nasal tones . Too bad the plot doesn't give us more of him . With three sets of crooks & a couple of snoopy reporters , Jeeves sometimes gets lost in the proceedings . This is also a different Jeeves from the one created by Sir P . G . Wodehouse . Bertie Wooster is nowhere to be seen , nor is he even mentioned . Also , the Movie Jeeves is much too easily duped by the criminals - the Literary Jeeves would have sent the fellows packing with a flea in their ear . The Movie Jeeves gets falling-down drunk , unthinkable for his Literary Counterpart . The Movie Jeeves also claims his first name is ' Rupert ' - whereas from the novels we know his real name is ' Reginald ' . Ah , ha ! An impostor ! In the supporting cast , George Givot has some funny moments as a phony Russian prince . Franklin Pangborn shines in a tiny role as a headwaiter ; too bad he has no scenes with Treacher .
Heated Hysteria	A Warner Brothers VITAPHONE VARIETIES Short Subject . Lost in the HOT SANDS of Death Valley , a honeymooning couple make a strange pact with three strangers in order to survive . Billy Wayne & Thelma White star in this incredibly silly little film which strains mightily for the few chuckles it tries to elicit . But , of course , it's a difficult task to find anything very convivial about attempted cannibalism . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Totally Mad Short Subject	An MGM Colortone Novelty Short . A prospective patient takes a tour of the Lame Brain Sanitarium . It only takes a few minutes in the CRAZY HOUSE to show him that everyone , staff included , is insane . A completely inane little film , with jokes so bad it becomes quite funny . During his short stroll , Benny Rubin meets Karl Dane , Cliff Edwards & the ubiquitous Polly Moran . Dancer Snake Hips performs a remarkable routine which proves he has no bones in his body whatsoever . And ending the film with four murders is supposed to be the biggest joke of all . It's rough to see actor Karl Dane be subjected to humiliation & ridicule , even in fun . A comic star in silent films , his thick Danish accent would soon sabotage his talkie career and within a few years he would die a suicide .
Aged Wheeler & Woolsey Musical	A kidnapped heiress & a daring pilot . A wicked baron & an evil gypsy king . A wealthy matron & a cute young Romany . Not to mention a couple of fake psychics who are as crazy as THE CUCKOOS in any clock . This ancient musical was Wheeler & Woolsey's 2nd film ( Bert Wheeler is the little curly-haired guy ; Robert Woolsey is the skinny bespectacled one ) . The Boys are always fun to watch , and they've got some good songs , but when they're off screen the film groans badly . However , it must be said that the massive Jobyna Howland is a great Dumont-esque foil for them & more than holds her own . The Boys ' frequent kewpie-doll co-star , Dorothy Lee , is on hand - and in Wheeler's arms . Ivan Lebedeff is OK as the villain . The romance between June Clyde & Hugh Trevor is dull stuff . Three early Technicolor scenes are included and they are easy on the eyes . Some of the musical numbers seem to exist solely for the purpose of exhibiting the RKO chorus girls in various stages of undress . Wondering what a band of Eastern European gypsies are doing in Northern Mexico ? In films like this you don't ask questions like that . . .
Football Film Trounces Ramon Novarro	A young steelworker earns a scholarship to Yale , where he eventually joins the prestigious football team . But will he ever get to HUDDLE with the best player's upper-class sister ? Ramon Novarro , MGM's chameleon star of the 1920's & ' 30's , gives this minor film the old college try , but is ultimately defeated by the plot & story line . His acting is good , as usual , and he even gets to sing a little , but he's simply too old to be playing a university football hero ( he turned 33 in 1932 ) . The real difficulty , however , is that the film tries for some degree of social consciousness in its dealing with class struggle , but the framework is just too flimsy for such a weighty , albeit noble , subject . It is difficult to get much solemnity out of a sports film , especially when sprinkled with such ludicrous scenes as Novarro drunk in a public restroom or fist fighting with his coach . The game sequences seem a trifle interminable and MGM didn't help by giving the movie rather cheap production values . One expects action & romance from a Ramon Novarro picture , not a message film , but the Studio was obviously losing interest in its star . Novarro had become a relic from a bygone era , his private life was always a worry to the front office , and by 1935 his career at MGM would be over . Novarro's costars , although rather boisterous , are ultimately defeated by the script as well . Pretty Madge Evans is the girl Novarro pines after for four years . John Arledge plays Novarro's loyal roommate ; their scenes together , perhaps unconsciously , tend to be a mite gynandrous . Frank Albertson ( an actor who deserved major stardom , but never achieved it ) is a college buddy , while Kane Richmond is Novarro's nemesis . Ralph Graves , who was actually a year younger than Novarro , gives a fine performance as Yale's football coach . Una Merkel is a Southern doll with an almost impenetrable accent . Henry Armetta & Ferike Boros add more than a dash of ethnicity as Novarro's Italian-American parents . Finally , Ramon Novarro still remains the principle reason to watch most of his MGM sound films . As a young immigrant , he had persevered over much hardship to become a major silent screen star . Charming & talented , it is a shame that today Novarro is remembered chiefly for the manner of his death rather than his contribution to American movies .
Pooch Problems For Goofy	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy brings home MAN'S BEST FRIEND and his life is completely changed by the mangy mutt . While the animation is unremarkable , the film remains humorous and will ring true for any viewer whose life has ever been dominated by a dog . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Journeys Across The Ice	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The denizens of the North Pole are engaged in ARCTIC ANTICS . The penguins , seals , polar bear , and even a large walrus are marching about , jumping & dancing & slapping their bottoms an amazing number of times . . . This black & white cartoon has an invisible plot and is basically an exercise in action / reaction animation . The Disney animators seem to know a curiously large number of posterior gags . Notice that the face of the polar bear cub enjoys a remarkable resemblance to that of Mickey Mouse . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Goofy Tale	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Mr . Geef bids farewell to his old office job and HELLO ALOHA to the soothing peace of a Polynesian isle . Routine animation illustrates this typical Goofy tale . The portrayal of the Hawaiians is rather negative , albeit amusing . Harry Owens and his Orchestra supply the silky music . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Routine Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Peanut vendor Donald tries to cheat THE FLYING SQUIRREL who helps him in a park - with predictable results . This little film is unremarkable , but still enjoyable . The title character is undeniably cute , but would not return for any subsequent Disney cartoons . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Love , Romance & A Volcano	A young man , sailing the South Seas with friends , is saved from a shark by a lovely chief's daughter . They fall madly in love , only to have him learn that his beautiful BIRD OF PARADISE is destined to be sacrificed to Pele , the volcano god . Essentially a piece of fluff , this film is enhanced by the performances of Dolores Del Rio & Joel McCrea . They handle the romantics quite nicely ( her skinny dip providing proof this is a pre-Production Code movie ) . The rest of the cast , which includes Lon Chaney Jr . & ' Skeets ' Gallagher , exist purely to provide support to the stars . Location filming in Hawaii and a beautiful , evocative score by Max Steiner emphasize the languid mood of the plot .
A Baby Roo And Donald , Too	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . For some unfathomable reason , Donald yearns to become a DADDY DUCK and adopts Joey , an unruly baby kangaroo . This is a fun , but completely unremarkable , little film . Although cute & full of spunk , young Joey would not appear in any other Disney cartoon . Clarence " Ducky " Nash gives voice to Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Little Hammett - A Lot Of Ham	A cynical private eye becomes entangled with a gang of dangerous criminals trying to find a fabled ram's horn . SATAN MET A LADY is an alternate movie version of Dashiell Hammett's ? Maltese Falcon ' and has received much criticism because it isn't closer to the Bogart model . This is unfortunate , as the film has much going for it and should not be placed into unfair comparison with the more famous film . Here is a lighthearted , comedic take on the story , full of snappy dialogue and a few good laughs . It is quite able to stand on its own . Although she receives top billing , Bette Davis is rather overshadowed by the over-the-top acting of her costars . Her mystery woman character gets to act suitably dangerous , but her talent is seldom really engaged . Indeed , this would be one of the films which would soon put Davis into rebellion against Warner Bros . in her demand for better roles . Warren William plays detective Ted Shayne ( no Sam Spade here ) in a wonderfully sardonic manner , always ready to puncture the balloons of pomposity around him , whether they be from client , criminal or cop ; here he even turns a graveyard murder site into the location for a few deadpan utterances . With his patrician profile and glib delivery , William was always enjoyable to watch ; it is a shame this very fine actor is so obscure today . British character actress Alison Skipworth steals her few scenes as the elderly Madame Barabbas , the grandmotherly criminal mastermind with the looks of a sweet old lady and the instincts of a born killer . Arthur Treacher is marvelously droll as an English gentleman crook , apologetic & polite , seeking the ram's horn . Pert & pretty , Marie Wilson scores in her role as William's ditzy secretary . Winifred Shaw plays the glamorous widow of William's late partner . An uncredited Maynard Holmes appears as Miss Skipworth's gunsel nephew .
Come Play In This Garden	A strange little girl finds peace for her troubled heart after confronting the mystery of THE SECRET GARDEN . Based on the classic novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett , this family film is a perennial favorite , in no whit dimmed by more recent , flashier versions . The excellent production values by MGM allow the viewer to experience the weird atmosphere of Misselthwaite Manor and the joyous fecundity of the Garden . The movie can be enjoyed for the plot alone , but there are other , deeper , levels which can be appreciated as well . Most of the main characters are desperately unhappy when the film begins , but the spontaneous love of life exhibited by the Sowerby family - which leads directly to the discovery of the Garden - ultimately brings about the redemption of several ( but not all ) of the others . This Joy is not altogether of our world . If the viewer senses the unseen Presence of Something Bright & Beautiful in the Garden , so be it . The film's main drawback - and this is a small quibble - is the intent to increase tension by adding a possible murder mystery to the plot ( How did Colin's mother really die ? Did Archibald Craven kill her ? ) . This is quite unnecessary , the story has enough conflict already . But the desire to add additional menace to the Dark Old House theme probably proved irresistible - as well as giving the excellent British actor , Herbert Marshall , more dramatic gristle on which to chew . The plot revolves , as it should , around the experiences of three children , each peculiar in their own way . Margaret O'Brien , Dean Stockwell & Brian Roper flesh out their roles most agreeably . The adult roles are so well cast that one tends to forget that they are mostly caricatures : Dame Gladys Cooper as the wicked , frustrated housekeeper ; Elsa Lanchester as the irrepressibly happy maid ; dour Reginald Owen as the elemental gardener . Even the small cameo performances sparkle : Billy Bevan as an overheated British soldier in India ; Dennis Hoey as Marshall's stern valet ; Aubrey Mather & George Zucco as young Stockwell's doctors ; and Norma Varden as his wise nurse . Movie mavens should recognize Elspeth Dudgeon in the tiny role of Dickon's mother & the wonderful Marni Nixon as the dubbed singing voice of Miss O'Brien - both uncredited . The film makes very judicious use of Technicolor to heighten appreciation of the distinctive nature of the Garden .
Dietrich , A Devious & Dangerous Delight	A young Spanish radical in old Sevilla learns that THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN , when he falls hopelessly in love with a mysterious female . Mesmerizing & hypnotic , this is a film which arouses all the senses . Dreamlike in its visuals & nightmarish of plot , it presents imagery so persuasive as to be practically palpable . Director Josef von Sternberg & writer John Dos Passos constructed a miniature madhouse for the mind , in which the viewer gladly finds himself consigned . Fascinating , coy , deceptive , utterly alluring , Marlene Dietrich dominates the film as an icy-hearted harlot who strews her pathway with the broken bodies & wasted lives of the men she's betrayed . With heavily lidded eyes peering out of her disturbingly beautiful face , she is the very picture of sardonic seduction . Wisely , the film allows her a moment of amusement ( for the viewer ) , letting her perfectly sum up her philosophy in the comic song ? Three Sweethearts Have I . ' Dietrich's two leading men are both excellent . Lionel Atwill , sadly ignored today , once again exhibits the depth of his acting talent ; Hollywood's propensity to place him in horror films often obscured his abilities . Here , he shows us a man fully aware of his complete degradation . Cesar Romero , in one of the finest roles of his early career , more than adequately carries on the tradition of the Latin Lover , but with a twist - here is a romantic hero who is not strong enough to escape from the web of the female spider . Peevish & pompous , Edward Everett Horton is thoroughly amusing as a flustered Spanish bureaucrat . Two wonderful English character actresses enliven the proceedings in small roles : Alison Skipworth as Dietrich's disreputable matriarch and Tempe Pigott as an old one-eyed harridan . Movie mavens will spot Edwin Maxwell as the manager of the cigarette factory and Charles Sellon as a professional letter writer , both uncredited . Von Sternberg created a masterwork of cinematic symbolism , with innuendo so rife it is incredible it passed the Production Code . In every way , the film is a worthy follow-up to his previous collaboration with Dietrich , the orgiastic SCARLETT EMPRESS ( 1934 ) .
A Splendid Silent Swashbuckler	A brave English knight , betrayed by his brother , kidnapped by pirates , and captured by Spaniards , takes up a new identity under the Moors as ' Sakr-el-Bahr , ' - the Sea Hawk - to become the scourge & terror of the Spanish navy near Gibraltar . Although sadly neglected for years , this is a splendid swashbuckler , full of action & romance , which should please the fans of silent cinema adventure . Much more faithful to Rafael Sabatini's original novel than the Errol Flynn 1940 version , this is a film which can stand on its own worthy merits . Given excellent production values by First National , the rousing sea battle sequences are especially worthy of mention . Using full scale ships , they possess an aura of authenticity not possible with models . Indeed , some of these nautical scenes were extracted for years for use in other films . Milton Sills gives a grand performance as the hero . Although lacking in bravura athletic skills , he becomes almost Fairbankian by the film's conclusion . ( He even resembles Fairbanks in the shipboard scenes , surely no mere accident . ) Appearing in movies since 1914 , this was the film which made Sills a major star , and he would be given other popular , courageous roles before his career - and life - were ended by a heart attack in 1930 , at the age of 48 . Although he had appeared in 85 films , Milton Sills is all but forgotten today . Beefy Wallace Beery , blustering & bullying as usual , steals all his scenes as a pirate captain who becomes Sills ' toady . Enid Bennett is beautiful as the young Cornish woman beloved by the Sea Hawk . Lloyd Hughes gives a good performance as Sills ' faithless half-brother . Wallace MacDonald is the very picture of a violent young bully . Lionel Belmore appears briefly as a friendly magistrate . Elderly Frank Currier & young William Collier Jr . both do well in roles that exude Moorish duplicity . Quick eyed movie mavens may spot George O'Brien as a galley slave . Although the film has been tinted & toned , notice the nice extra touch during the 3 shots of the Basha's nighttime visit to the Sea Hawk , in which the flickering torches have been hand colored a theatric yellow . Composer Robert Israel has given the film's restored print a very fine organ score which interpolates familiar melodies from as far afield as Gilbert & Sullivan .
A Bird & His Bug	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Elderly SEA SALTS Donald Duck & " Mac " Bootle Beetle have shared many seafaring adventures - especially when they were castaway on a deserted island back in 1926 . . . Although the animation in this little film is routine , the story is still quite engaging , showing , as it does , the affectionate bond between The Duck & The Bug . This was the second of only three cartoons to feature the Bootle Beetle ; his popularity never caught fire and stardom remained an elusive dream . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies the voice for Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
As Pertinent As Ever	The inhabitants of ANIMAL FARM - sorely distressed and downtrodden - unhappily trade one form of dictatorship for another . George Orwell's wise fable comes alive in what is supposedly Britain's first animated feature . The tale of totalitarian treachery is well told with stark visuals highly reminiscent of Soviet poster art of the 1930's . Not meant for children , this is a cartoon geared for grownup appreciation . It should be pointed out that Orwell wrote his satire after returning from a sojourn in the Soviet Union , much disillusioned by the evil & corruption he saw there . He wanted to express his views in the form of a fantasy and , hence , ANIMAL FARM was born . So , Farmer Jones is a symbol of the Czar , Old Major is Marx , Napoleon is Lenin , Snowball is Trotsky & Squealer is Stalin . The other creatures are symbols of the Russian people . The ending of the film , which is different from the book , is strangely prophetic of the events which would start to unfold in Eastern Europe in 1989 . Gordon Heath narrates the film ; all of the animal voices are performed by Maurice Denham .
Birds Of A Feather Showoff Together	An MGM Oddity Short Subject . A menagerie full of fabulous fowls preen their FINE FEATHERS for the camera . Birds of all sorts , from the flamboyant Manchurian Crane to the ordinary Barn Owl , from the exotic Victoria Crown Pigeon to the unprepossessing Vulturine Guinea Fowl , are on exhibit in this humorous early Technicolor film . Explanatory remarks are by the ever-eccentric Pete Smith . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Quiet , Unassuming , Perfect	Much about love & life can be learned from watching the folks at THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER . Ernst Lubitsch had another quiet triumph added to his credit with this lovely film . With sparkling dialogue ( courtesy of his longtime collaborator Samson Raphaelson ) and wonderful performances from a cast of abundantly talented performers , he created a truly memorable movie . Always believing in playing up to the intelligence of his viewers , and favoring sophistication over slapstick , the director concocted a scintillating cinematic repast seasoned with that elusive , enigmatic quality known as the ? Lubitsch touch . ' Although the story is set in Budapest ( and there is a jumble of accents among the players ) this is of no consequence . The beautiful simplicity of the plot is that any great American city or small town could easily be the locus for the action . Jimmy Stewart & Margaret Sullavan are wonderful as the clerks in love with romance and then with each other - without knowing it . Their dialogue - so adeptly handled as to seem utterly natural - perfectly conveys their confusion & quiet desperation as they seek for soul mates . Theirs is one of the classic love stories of the cinema . Cherubic Frank Morgan has a more serious role than usual , that of a man whose transient importance in his little world is shattered when he finds himself to be a cuckold . An accomplished scene stealer , he allows no emotion to escape unvented . Additionally , Morgan provides the film with its most joyous few moments - near the end - when he determines that his store's newest employee , an impoverished youth , enjoys a memorable Christmas Eve . Joseph Schildkraut adds another vivid depiction to his roster of screen portrayals , this time that of a toadying , sycophantic Lothario who thoroughly deserves the punishment eventually meted out to him . Gentle Felix Bressart has his finest film role as a family man who really can not afford to become involved in shop intrigues , yet remains a steadfast friend to Stewart . Sara Haden graces the small role of a sales clerk . William Tracy is hilarious as the ambitious errand boy who takes advantage of unforeseen developments to leverage himself onto the sales force . In tiny roles , Charles Halton plays a no-nonsense detective and Edwin Maxwell appears as a pompous doctor . Movie mavens will recognize Mary Carr & Mabel Colcord - both uncredited - in their single scene as Miss Sullavan's grandmother & aunt .
A Flustered Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . A desperate Donald tries to keep a mother bird from tracking up the WET PAINT on his convertible . The main attraction in this little film is watching the Duck engage in yet another temper tantrum . This was Susie the Bird's only appearance in a Disney cartoon . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Three Stars Shine In This Light Comedy	An ordinary businessman is appalled when his no-talent wife becomes infatuated with amateur theatrics , propelling Mr . DOUBTING THOMAS into a bizarre world populated by stage-struck eccentrics . Will Rogers is perfectly cast as the perplexed husband with the wry , homespun humor , bursting balloons of pomposity at every turn . His was a unique personality - always a joy to watch . His dialogue gives him ample opportunity to charm the audience & show once again why he was one of Hollywood's - and America's - favorite personalities . Will is given two female co-stars worthy of him . Billie Burke , as his wife , is her usual wonderful , flighty self , perfectly playing one of the air head parts she practically patented . Monumental Alison Skipworth , formidable as the play's directress , all but steals the entire picture in her hilarious role . It is a shame this splendid actress is almost forgotten today . It's also a pity that young Frank Albertson , as Will's son , is given no chance to display his considerable musical comedy talent . The rest of the cast - Gail Patrick , Sterling Holloway , Johnny Arthur , John Qualen - are all given moments to shine .
Fine Performances Propel Melodrama	A young husband has his DAY OF RECKONING when he's sent to prison for embezzlement . Fine performances raise what is essentially a soap opera above its material and provides some dandy entertainment along the way . While the subplots grow a little thick , all is resolved in time for an idyllic , if somewhat bittersweet , ending . Leading man Richard Dix sheds his usual in-charge persona for a much more vulnerable characterization . Although they share few scenes , he is given firm support by perky Una Merkel playing his devoted Southern maid . She easily upstages pretty Madge Evans as Dix's conflicted wife . Stalwart Stuart Erwin plays the friendly milkman in love with Merkel . Some fine character actors do quite well in smaller roles . Conway Tearle is the family friend who takes advantage of Dix's absence . Isabel Jewell is properly distraught as Tearle's former mistress . Raymond Hatton is effective as a prison trustee who befriends Dix . James Bell is noteworthy as a prisoner driven crazy by worry over his wife's supposed infidelity . Samuel S . Hinds manages to become suitably repellent in his brief screen time as a crooked lawyer . Tiny Spanky McFarland , of OUR GANG fame , turns on the charm as Dix's infant son . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Clarence Wilson as a bail bondsman .
Engrossing Tale Of Homicide	THE VERDICT in a vicious murder case impacts the lives of several London citizens . Massive Sydney Greenstreet & diminutive Peter Lorre team once again in another suspenseful crime film from Warner Brothers . This Laurel & Hardy of the Sinister could always be counted on for their good acting and enjoyable scene stealing antics . While two of the movies they made ( in conjunction with Humphrey Bogart ) are undisputed classics , their lesser forays into the shadows are no less welcome . Corpulent Greenstreet portrays a discredited former Scotland Yard superintendent , who , with the aid of eccentric artist Lorre , privately investigates the stabbing of a neighbor . Like a cello and violin duet , these two performers made a delightful team , their very different personas eliciting ominous music from their partnership . British character actress Rosalind Ivan gives a vivid performance as Lorre's hysterical landlady . Others in the supporting cast also acquit themselves well : George Coulouris as Greenstreet's befuddled successor ; Holmes Herbert as the stern head of Scotland Yard ; Arthur Shields as a distressed clergyman ; Morton Lowry as a playboy & Paul Cavanagh as a Member of Parliament , both with secrets to protect ; and little Clyde Cook as a helpful burglar . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Ian Wolfe appearing as a murder trial jury foreman .
Another Peek At America's Sweetheart	Spunky little AMARILLY OF CLOTHES-LINE ALLEY has two suitors - her longtime bartender beau and a frivolous society boy . With whom would she be most happy ? This urban fairy tale , with romance , heartbreak & happiness all wrapped-up into a neat package , was exactly the sort of movie that Mary Pickford's legions of fans loved to see her in . America's Sweetheart was only too happy to oblige , constantly replaying the image of a resourceful little girl or adolescent at odds with a cruel world or snobbish society . This is no disparagement or faint praise . By expertly giving the public what it wanted , Pickford became the most powerful person in Hollywood . Here , she has a fairly straightforward story line , without too many kinks in the plot . As always , Mary is imminently watchable . Whether dancing enthusiastically across a crowded floor , selling cigarettes to the ' swells , ' or reacting frantically to an accidental shooting , she never lets the viewer forget that the reason we watch a Pickford film is Pickford herself . William Scott gives excellent support as Terry the bartender ; the feelings he has for Mary are palpably real & true . Norman Kerry , full of boisterous high jinks , is fine as the society fellow who wishes to ' better ' her . Special mention should be made of jolly Kate Price as Pickford's mother , the very picture of an Irish washerwoman . Her round , jovial face bespeaks the goodness of her character's soul . Pickford produced this film herself and she was ably abetted by screenwriter Frances Marion , her best friend and Marshall Neilan , her favorite director . Neilan had started his movie career as a romantic lead , but eventually moved behind the camera & Pickford considered him to be superior even to the legendary D . W . Griffith . Neilan's major failing were the frequent delays caused by his drinking , however he never failed in charming himself back into Pickford's good graces . This talented trio's collaborations continue to delight audiences today .
Taut , Tight Little Film Packs A Punch	Framed for crimes they did not commit , two young men are sentenced to five years at hard labor on a Southern prison's brutal ROAD GANG . Here is a fine example of the type of crime film which Warner Bros . produced so well . Although there are no big stars in the film , the acting is generally good , the stifling atmosphere is well maintained and the production values - especially in the prison camp / mine sequences - are of a high standard . Donald Woods makes a sturdy , stalwart hero ; made to endure various humiliations & punishments , he never wavers in his fight for justice . This is quite typical of the fine performances Woods gave during his career . Kay Linaker is enjoyable as his courageous fiance . The film is sparked by a handful of noteworthy performances among the large cast : Carlyle Moore Jr . as Woods faithful , tragic buddy ; Henry O'Neill as a slick , utterly corrupt politician ; Edward Van Sloan as a shyster lawyer ; Olin Howlin as the lethargic prison doctor ; and Charles Middleton as the Blackfoot Mine's vile warden . ROAD GANG was a partial re-make of Warner's ' hit film from four years earlier , I AM A FUGITIVE FROM A CHAIN GANG ( 1932 ) , starring Paul Muni . In the days of the studio factory system , when churning out one picture after another in an almost endless supply was vitally important , it was not at all unusual to recycle the plots of successful A movies . The B pictures department would change elements here & there ( ROAD GANG has a much happier ending than the Muni film ) , and release an entirely new picture , hoping for another winner . This was the first film scripted by the young Dalton Trumbo , destined to be famous for more than just his celebrated screenwriting abilities .
Military Overview	An MGM Short Subject . THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG in 1863 was a turning point in America's history . This short film , narrated by Leslie Nielsen , relates the story of the great pivotal battle during the War Between The States . Dispassionate & evenhanded , it deals with its subject in a noncontroversial manner . Touching upon each of the major aspects of the days of engagement , the film ends with Abraham Lincoln's beautiful Gettysburg Address . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Looking For That Long Winter's Sleep	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Humphrey is BEARLY ASLEEP for the Winter when his snoring gets him ostracized from the ursine cave . Will Ranger Duck be persuaded to give him more salubrious hibernation accommodations ? This was one of a short series of cartoons to feature Humphrey . The film is quite routine , but the Duck and the Bear are always humorous to watch . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplied Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Historical Spectacle - DeMille Style	A playboy king & a beautiful princess . A holy hermit & a sacred mission . Intrigue & romance & sin & spectacle . In fact , another Cecil B . DeMille history lesson . This time , DeMille takes on THE CRUSADES , a highly complex military & political enterprise that actually played out over 200 years . He focuses on one episode : The Third Crusade & England's King Richard the Lionheart's thrust to claim Jerusalem & the Holy Land from the Seljuk Turks in 1188-1192 . Interestingly enough , DeMille gets a lot of his historical facts correct , but he does spend quite a bit of time detailing Richard's lustful , wanton ways . Literature & film have tended to wildly romanticize Richard . In historical fact , he was a bad king interested primarily in his own glory . He spent only 6 months of his reign in Britain , he bankrupted the Treasury with his Crusading schemes and he abandoned his young wife . But such is the power of Romance that he is generally seen as the beau ideal of kingliness . Henry Wilcoxon is a good , sturdy , if unspectacular , Richard . Loretta Young is beautiful , as always , as the Princess he marries . Sir C . Aubrey Smith is magnificent as the Holy Hermit who is the spiritual leader of the Crusade . Others in the fine cast are Alan Hale , Joseph Schildkraut , Mischa Auer & John Carradine ( pay close attention to find him ) . As a master of spectacle , DeMille really comes through towards the end of the film with the siege & capture of Acre ( north of present day Haifa in Israel ) . All the stops are pulled out to show the full panoply & horror of mediaeval battle .
High , High Up In The Sky	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The most dangerous place in the air may well be GOOFY'S GLIDER . There are plenty of chuckles in this the first of the Sports Goofy cartoons . Some pertinent information about gliders is actually given in between the Goof's attempts to get airborne . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
May Robson Rides The Range	A rowdy , straight-shooting old lady turns amateur sleuth to discover the murderer of her granddaughter's ex-husband . There's bound to be plenty of gunplay when both ladies become prime suspects . Every bit as rambunctious as its elderly heroine , GRANNY GET YOUR GUN is a very pleasant bit of film fluff - light and easygoing . It's a shame the film is hard to find & seldom seen , as it gives a rare chance for senior citizen stars to shine for a blessed change . The movie is a showcase for the talents of 82-year old veteran character actress May Robson . The old darling is nothing less than delightful . Born Mary Robinson in 1858 in Melbourne , Australia , Robson had began appearing in movies in 1915 . By the time of GRANNY , Robson had given solid support in some of Hollywood's finest films from its Golden Age ( LADY FOR A DAY , A STAR IS BORN , BRINGING UP BABY , etc . ) . Playing grumpy or gracious equally well , Robson never failed to entertain . Here , she pushes her five feet , two inches into one amusing situation after another , whether prospecting for gold with mule & chauffeur-driven limousine , or stealing a jalopy to dash after a dangerous killer . The scene where she disguises herself as a gentle , soft-spoken , sweet-tempered old lady , so as to beat a murder rap , is hilarious . Miss May Robson would appear in four more films after GRANNY . She died in 1942 . Old-timers Harry Davenport ( as Robson's lawyer beau ) , Clem Bevans ( as an old codger who loves reading true mystery magazines ) and Vera Lewis ( as Robson's elderly companion ) all add to the fun of the proceedings . Erle Stanley Gardner , creator of Perry Mason , contributed the original novel , The Case of the Dangerous Dowager , upon which this film was based .
Thoughtful Silence	Spreading from island to island , the WHITE SHADOWS IN THE SOUTH SEAS corrupt every culture they encounter . This unfortunately obscure film , produced by MGM right at the cusp when the Silent Era was giving way to Sound , is a fascinating look at the vanishing way of life to be found in the South Pacific Islands . Its beautiful , vivid photography justly won the Oscar for Best Cinematography . This ' Camera Record ' was directed by W . S . Van Dyke , the Studio's on-location master . The film's prologue states " Produced and photographed on the natural locations and with the ancient native tribes of the Marquesas Islands in the South Seas . " The footage depicting the pearl divers and the coconut tree climbers is particularly noteworthy . Monte Blue gives a very fine performance as a derelict doctor who finds himself acclaimed as a white god on an island of gentle , friendly natives . His despair at the arrival of brutish Caucasian traders in this idyllic paradise is riveting . Mexican actress Raquel Torres , in her film debut , is poignant as the island maiden who captures Blue's heart .
Little Shirley Invites You To Join Her For A Snack Of Animal Crackers	A spunky little orphan , who brings happiness into the rather bleak institution where she lives , shakes her CURLY TOP and wins the heart of a young bachelor millionaire . Her beautiful older sister doesn't do so badly , either . . . Shirley Temple is in her prime in this delightful family film . Her infectious smile & sparkling personality are ample indications as to why she was Hollywood's box office champ for years . Replete with talent & abundant charm , Little Miss Temple is a constant joy to watch & a source of never-failing amusement . Up against a champion scene stealer , the romantic leads in Shirley's films never got a great deal of attention and it is no different here . Although both are attractive and more than competent , John Boles & Rochelle Hudson are the latest duo to sacrifice themselves on Temple's altar . Each are even given pleasant songs to sing , but the viewer squirms impatiently , wishing the story to return to The Real Star . Shirley always found much stiffer competition from the wonderful character actors who populated her films . Here she's up against some heavy hitters . Sweet Jane Darwell & peppery Rafaela Ottiano appear as the matrons of the orphanage . Etienne Girardot plays a nasty-tempered trustee . Most especially there's the inimitable Arthur Treacher , adding another comic butler to his resume . This tall , imperious Englishman with the properly stiff upper lip was always a memorable cinematic companion to Miss Temple and he was more than capable of holding his own against the little moppet in the four films they shared . Movie mavens will recognize the great Billy Gilbert as Boles ' comic cook . Shirley gets to sing ' When I Grow Up ' & her classic ' Animal Crackers . '
Another Triumph From Mr . Lon Chaney	Somewhere WEST OF ZANZIBAR , a crippled magician insanely plots revenge on the ivory hunter who ruined his life . . . Lon Chaney dominates this fascinatingly bizarre little silent movie . More than just a ? horror actor , ' Chaney was a consummate craftsman who , here using a minimum of makeup , could sway an audience with the slightest facial twinge or glance from his haunted eyes . Completely convincing as a cripple , dragging his dead legs behind him across the floor , he becomes more a monstrous aberration than a human being . Lionel Barrymore , Warner Baxter & lovely Mary Nolan all give excellent performances in supporting roles , but this is really Chaney's picture all the way . The fine production values , courtesy of MGM , only enhance its star's dominance of the medium . With Tod Browning , Chaney's frequent collaborator , as director , it is fascinating to speculate how much Chaney's physical performance here later influenced Browning's vision in his masterwork , FREAKS ( 1932 ) .
Sir Seymour Hicks Shines In British Mystery Movie	A titled amateur detective & his mystery-writing bride spend a BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON when a murdered corpse is discovered in their new Devonshire home . Beginning with its first release in 1938 and for several years thereafter , MGM maintained a sister studio in England . In this way she could take advantage of the wealth of British acting talent available , and also get around the UK restriction on the import of foreign films . American stars were often sent over to take the top roles , an increasingly dicey maneuver as the Atlantic became dangerous with Nazi U-boats . BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON ( called HAUNTED HONEYMOON in the USA ) was one of those films . BUSMAN'S HONEYMOON , while not unpleasant to look at , is not without its flaws . The mystery isn't all that enthralling , but the main difficulty seems to lie in Robert Montgomery's portrayal of Lord Peter Wimsey . It just doesn't click . This very fine actor made a career from playing suave , sophisticated characters , which Lord Peter should be , but you can never for a moment forget that this is only Robert Montgomery playing a role ; nor for an instant do you believe that this is Lord Peter come to life . And the American accent surely doesn't help , either . The lovely Constance Cummings , as Lady Harriet , suffers much the same fate . A fine gaggle of British actors , including Robert Newton , Leslie Banks & Googie Withers , appear in supporting roles . But the real joy in watching this film is reveling in the rare opportunity to see the marvelous old actor Sir Seymour Hicks , who portrays Bunter the butler . Sir Seymour ( 1871-1949 ) had been one of the great actor-managers & dramatists of the turn of the century . With his plumy voice & broad , impish face , he easily steals scene after scene with his stagy intonations & mannerisms . It would take the passage of several decades & the arrival of a completely new medium - television - before Dorothy L . Sayer's hero received superlative interpretations from actors Ian Carmichael & Edward Petherbridge .
A Glimpse Of Hades	An amusement pier attraction based on DANTE'S INFERNO helps change the life of an unscrupulous concessionaire . Spencer Tracy dominates this nifty little drama , which keeps its audience satisfied with good acting and special effects . Two disasters ( the first on the pier and the second aboard a luxury party liner ) add punch to the plot . Between them comes a remarkable 9-minute tour into the depths of the real Inferno , populated by scores of naked extras writhing in anguish . The Depression Era viewers which first saw this film certainly got their money's worth . Tracy , always entertaining as he schemes & plots his way to unsavory success , is well served by his supporting players : lovely Claire Trevor as his loyal wife ; gaunt Henry B . Walthall as Trevor's saintly father ; little Scotty Beckett ( one of the OUR GANG kids ) as Tracy's innocent son ; and Alan Dinehart as a faithful friend . That's Rita Hayworth as the featured dancer aboard the S . S . Paradise .
Hepburn Soars	Sir CHRISTOPHER STRONG , staunch family man and Conservative MP , finds himself falling in love with a free-spirited aviatrix . Given splendid production values by RKO Radio Pictures , this high-class soap opera proved to be an excellent showcase for the talents of young Katharine Hepburn . Tall , angular , tomboyish , in a role patterned after Amelia Earhart , Hepburn is utterly fascinating as the woman who's never loved . Whether striding about in men's clothing or swathed in an outrageous moth costume , she makes the heartache & jubilation of her character play across her expressive features . It is almost painful to try imagining anyone else in the role . Her final scene , as she gives the ultimate sacrifice , is especially poignant . Colin Clive seems an unlikely choice as the object of Hepburn's passion , but he acts his part with great earnestness , deftly underplaying what could have easily been a stiff & cardboard characterization . In a serious role , the wonderful Billie Burke skillfully delineates the agony of the unloved wife . Like Hepburn , she remains in the memory long after the film ends . Helen Chandler & Irene Browne , as Clive's daughter & sister respectively , do well with their portrayals of socially irresponsible females . Ralph Forbes , as an upper class philanderer , also resonates in an important supporting role ; here was an actor with the talent & charm to have become a major Hollywood star , but it was not to be . Pioneering director Dorothy Arzner includes subtle suggestions of the sapphist in Hepburn's character , to be rejected or respected by individual viewers . As it is , certain situations in the plot show its pre-Production Code status .
A Portrait Of A Genius - By A Genius	REMBRANDT Harmenszoon van Rijn ( 1606-1669 ) , overcomes personal tragedy & great sorrow to be revered as the world's greatest painter . Sir Alexander Korda's production of the life of the celebrated artist is beautifully presented on screen . Chief among its assets - and the main reason for its success - is the magnificent performance by Charles Laughton . Eccentric & temperamental , Laughton could be difficult to work with . But once fascinated by a role he gave it the full vibrato of his own extensive genius - here he makes Rembrandt an equal member of his continuing roster of fascinating portraits from the decade : Henry VIII , Bligh , Quasimodo . Laughton had the remarkable ability - like the English actor George Arliss , working in the American cinema - of using his physical ugliness to great advantage , his eyes in particular offering glimpses of his characters ' souls . At various points throughout the film - a monologue of Woman's Mysteries ; reading from The Scriptures - Laughton's beautiful , soothing voice reaches beyond the screen and down the years to caress the listener . Making a rare screen appearance , stage legend Gertrude Lawrence plays Rembrandt's shrewish housekeeper & companion , Geertje Dirx . Laughton's wife , the luminous Elsa Lanchester , is unforgettable as Hendrickje Stoffels , the housemaid who wins her employer's love and becomes his greatest defender and champion . The wonderful actor Roger Livesey , almost unrecognizable behind a bushy beard ( but there's no disguising that unique voice ) is memorable as the ragged beggar Rembrandt hires to model the Old Testament despot Saul ; Livesey's scenes with Laughton are among the best in the entire film . John Bryning turns in a sensitive portrait as Rembrandt's son Titus . Sir John Clements has the small role as Govert Flinck ( 1615-1660 ) , Rembrandt's disaffected apprentice and eventual rival . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Wilfred Hyde-White in a tiny cameo as an officer of the Amsterdam Civic Guard . The film is given first rate production values , with marvelous interior sets & costumes . The exterior Amsterdam sets are visually striking , with the camera angles and the stark angularity of the buildings making them look almost expressionistic . These contrast nicely with the simplicity with which the brief outdoor rural scenes are depicted . Some important dates in the life of Rembrandt : 15 July 1606 - born in Leiden , The Netherlands , to the local miller . 1620-21 - attends University of Leiden . 1631 - moves to Amsterdam . 1634 - marries wealthy Saskia van Uylenburgh . 1639 - purchases large Amsterdam house . 1641 - son Titus is born . 1642 - Saskia dies ; Rembrandt paints ' The Shooting Company of Captain Franc Banning Cocq ( ' The Night Watch ' ) . ' 1649 - hires Hendrickje Stoffels as housekeeper ; she becomes his common-law wife . 1654 - Hendrickje , pregnant with daughter , is censured by church council for living in sin . 1656 - Rembrandt declared insolvent ; house & goods auctioned to pay debts . 1663 - death of Hendrickje . 1668 - death of son Titus , aged 26 . 4 October 1669 - dies in Amsterdam . Rembrandt produced approximately 300 etchings , 600 paintings and 1 , 400 drawings .
Over There With Joe E . Brown	A mild-mannered stage comedian is most unhappily swept up into the World War One Army and shipped off to France . Fast-moving & fun , SONS O ' GUNS is another example of the comedy picture that Warner Bros . was so expert at producing during the 1930's . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Putty-faced comic Joe E . Brown dominates the film with his special brand of wacky humor . Given a good script , Brown could be a very funny fellow indeed and he lives up to his reputation here , his tremendous mouth and mischievous eyes always on the move , waiting to signal the next wisecrack . Many of his jokes vigorously push the boundaries of the Production Code , which only adds to their amusement . Pretty Joan Blondell , playing an innocent French miss ( with a strangely Russian-sounding accent ) , very much takes second fiddle to Brown , letting him dominate nearly all of their scenes . And even her limited screen time has to be shared with Beverly Roberts as Brown's disaffected fiance & Wini Shaw as one of the women out of his past . Still , Blondell is always lovely to look at and the film is fortunate to have her . Brown's true costar in the movie is Eric Blore , very droll as the respectful British valet who becomes his employer's tough-talking sergeant in the war's front lines . The very different acting styles of these two gentlemen mesh quite well on screen , and , particularly in their first scenes , provide the viewer with some very enjoyable moments . Movie mavens will recognize Mischa Auer in a small role as a jovial German spy .
Two Mice On A Girder	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey is busy BUILDING A BUILDING . . . until he's distracted by Miss Minnie , who has arrived to sell her box lunches . With a definite nod to Harold Lloyd , this very funny little black & white film had enough laughs and thrills to earn it an Academy Award nomination . Pegleg Pete is suitably black-hearted as Mickey's boss ; Pluto has a cameo as the means of locomotion for Minnie's lunch cart . For the record , Minnie's box lunches contain baloney , macaroni and a huckleberry pie , plus corn on the cob , all for only 15 . Walt Disney provided Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An Ancient Frosty Flick	The students from a young ladies ' school enjoy A WINTER STRAW RIDE through the snowy countryside , eventually exacting revenge upon the young gentlemen who pelted them with snowballs . This little film , from the Edison Manufacturing Company , is a very amusing look back at an innocent bygone era . Notice how the girls manage to fall decorously out of the wagons whenever the camera is pointed their way . That camera was under the co-direction of the celebrated Edwin S . Porter , one of the great names in early cinema history . Al Kryszak provided the score for the video compilation A Christmas Past , in which this film appears .
Much Medical Merriment With Mr . Lloyd	Young DR . JACK tries to save a pretty invalid from the machinations of an unscrupulous medical quack . Silent comedian Harold Lloyd had another success in this wildly funny movie . Healthy servings of sentimental nostalgia mixed into the plot only add to the fun . Playing a doctor whose good humor & common sense make him the most popular fellow in rural Magnolia Meadows , Harold makes full use of his tremendous athletic abilities to propel the storyline , piling one gag on top of another . Whether exiting his moving jalopy to shoo cows from his path , saving a naughty tyke from a spanking or breaking up a poker game in a most unique fashion , Harold is never less than hilarious . Finally , he leads one of his wild trademark chases , this time through a spooky house , a sequence that includes both a wonderful Lon Chaney spoof and one of the funniest enraged dogs to ever appear on film . Mildred Davis has an unusually good role , showing off her acting skills as the spunky invalid . Eric Mayne is appropriately hissable as the bearded villain . Movie mavens will recognize OUR GANG's mischievous Mickey Daniels as Harold's freckle-faced patient and darling old Anna Townsend as the lonely mother of Harold's lawyer friend - both uncredited . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Mickey & Pluto Chase Another Critter	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . A wily raccoon proves to be smarter than either hunter Mickey or R'COON DAWG Pluto . There are humorous moments in this little film , but nothing new or original . Disney has ploughed this field before . . . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Sea Sunders True Love In Fine Silent Film	' Those that go DOWN TO THE SEA IN SHIPS , that do business in great waters ; these see the works of the Lord , and His wonders in the deep . ' Psalms 107 : 23 , 24Filmed on location in and around the old sailing center of New Bedford , Massachusetts , here is a silent film with exciting drama & action . The production values are excellent and the necessary romantic elements do not intrude on the swift flow of the plot . With kidnapping & murder , mutiny at sea & hungry sharks , the pace never slackens . Marguerite Courtot is the pretty heroine who pines at home after her lover , sturdy Raymond McKee , is abducted and spirited off in a whaler . She is given little to do except play with her dolls and fend off a lecherous knave , but Mr . McKee is plunked right into the thick of things , engaged in all the most dangerous tasks which a whaleman must accomplish - and it is obvious that the actor is placed in some jeopardy as well . ( Beautiful Miss Courtot & handsome Mr . McKee were both popular players during silent days . They married a year after the release of DOWN TO THE SEA IN SHIPS . She ended her film career in 1923 , while his did not survive the coming of talkies . They remained married for 61 years , until his death in 1984 at the age of 91 . She died in 1986 , aged 88 . ) The film is also notable as providing the breakout role for 16-year old Clara Bow , playing the spunky niece of Miss Courtot , who becomes a stowaway on the whaler in order to be near the young cabin boy on whom she dotes . Clara is feisty and full of fight & fun and it's easy to see how this film helped make her a star . ( She would enliven the rest of the silent era , but her movie career would be over before her 30th birthday . She died in 1965 at the age of 60 . ) Patrick Hartigan , as a bestial seaman and J . Thornton Baston , as a half-caste Asian disguised as a Quaker , make very fine villains . The film offers interesting insight into the lives of the New England Quakers of the 19th Century . There is also much to be learned about whaling operations and the authentic footage of the capture and dissection of a sperm whale will either fascinate or repulse the viewer . The film's opening credits give special commendation to the brave cameramen who risked their lives to photograph the thrilling footage at sea .
Watchin ' Grandma's Store With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Jackie , Farina , Chubby & the rest of the Gang are HELPING GRANDMA run her little grocery store . After 55 years in business , there's a possibility that a chain store enterprise may buy her out at a good profit . But when a dishonest charlatan gets involved & attempts to cheat the old lady , it's time for serious action . A good little film with both laughs & tears . Notice how the older Rascals vacate the whole midsection of the film , so as to showcase the younger generation . Highlight : Stymie's ' smell test ' . That's Margaret Mann playing Grandma .
Madcap Movie Of Marital Mishaps	A frustrated Broadway playwright finds himself SNOWED UNDER in a Connecticut country house with both of his ex-wives , the flirtatious girl next door , a deputy sheriff and a lawyer . This delightful little comedy is an excellent example of the fluff films that Warner Bros . was so adept at producing during Hollywood's Golden Age . Boasting fine production values , a literate script & some genuinely funny performances , it is a shame that the film is so obscure today . George Brent & Genevieve Tobin have charm to spare as the protagonists whose divorce seems in danger of floundering ; sophisticated & witty , they are a very entertaining duo . Glenda Farrell is hilarious as the boozy floozy after Brent for unpaid alimony - this brassy blonde could always be counted on for some mischievous merriment . Pixilated Frank McHugh is the milkman turned most unlikely deputy . John Eldredge plays the gentle young lawyer ; Patricia Ellis is not gentle at all as the pushy prom princess from next door . Apoplectic producer Porter Hall & sassy housekeeper Helen Lowell add to the amusement . Movie mavens should recognize Mary Treen as a secretary & Olin Howlin as the sheriff , both uncredited .
In The Ring With Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald quickly becomes a CANVAS BACK DUCK after getting suckered into going three rounds with boxing thug Peewee Pete . While this is a very routine Duck cartoon in every way , it is still humorous enough . It is interesting to note that this is a rare instance in which Donald's Nephews are totally on his side , doing all they can to help him against the abominable Pete . Clarence Nash provided the unique voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Another Shirley Temple Crowd Pleaser	A frantic radio producer must find the perfect Little Miss America for an advertiser's national program . He discovers her in his country neighbor , REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM , an incredibly talented & precocious moppet , who proceeds to charm all around her & bring happiness into the lives of those who love her . Little Shirley Temple turns in another crowd-pleasing performance in this pleasant family film - which bears almost no resemblance to the Kate Douglas Wiggin classic . It's easy to see why the little tyke was Hollywood's top star for years . Her smile & vivacity are still stunning decades later . This time Shirley is surrounded by a plethora of male talent : rugged Randolph Scott , giving a slightly wooden performance no doubt caused by the chagrin of playing second fiddle to a ten-year-old ; peppy Jack Haley , always eager to please ; veteran William Demerest , displaying some of his best pratfalls ; laconic comic Slim Summerville , the unlikeliest lover ; flustered Franklin Pangborn , as a very nervous organist ; and the great Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson , given distressingly little to do in his role as a farmhand - until the film's final moments when he gets to shine in a tap routine with Shirley . Helen Westley is great fun as grumpy Aunt Miranda ; lovely Gloria Stuart is given little to do except look , well , lovely . That's champion character actress Eily Malyon as the Reverend's cake-eating wife . Movie mavens will recognize old Clarence Wilson as a shyster attorney . Shirley sings ' An Old Straw Hat ' & ' Come And Get Your Happiness ' , as well as a medley of her past hits . Query : Why do film makers think radio audiences are thrilled by listening to tap dancing ? In films like this you don't ask questions like that .
Orson Welles & Sir Felix Aylmer Revel Amid Medieval Pomp & Panoply	A cunning young soldier of fortune finds himself in the employ of Cesare Borgia , THE PRINCE OF FOXES . The young man is sent on a diplomatic mission to pave the way for Borgia's conquest of Italy , but instead he falls in love - exposing himself to the full force of his master's wrath . . . Strangely overlooked & underrated , this is a wonderful film , full of swashbuckling action , intrigue & adventure . The acting is mostly first rate and the production values & photography are both sumptuous . But beyond this , PRINCE OF FOXES is blessed with a literate , intelligent script & story line in which it is an actual pleasure to immerse oneself . Intelligent viewers are amply rewarded for their time & attention . Tyrone Power is the valiant hero and he gives a good performance , even if his American accent seems a bit out of place . Always concerned that his handsome looks were more appreciated than his thespian abilities , he finds himself here surrounded by co-stars replete with protean skills . What can one say about Orson Welles ? That he takes the small role of Cesare Borgia and turns it into a fascinating character study ? This is only to be expected . But there is more . Welles ' oversized talent & personality nearly overwhelm the screen - the medium was almost too small to contain him . He imbues his part with such sardonic humor & sly cunning as to almost make Borgia - and this is high praise indeed - stand on a par with his forthcoming Harry Lime . In fact , Cesare & Harry have much in common , beyond the fact that they were both portrayed by the same splendid actor . They both reveal human evil in all its charming rapacity . Both are utterly , deadly ruthless . Borgia is Lime with an army . A further joy in watching PRINCE OF FOXES is the chance to see the wonderful old actor Sir Felix Aylmer in a role worthy of his skill . For nearly four decades this quiet , unassuming man appeared in a multitude of British films , usually in small , unexciting parts . Here , he is given a generous role as an elderly count who must contend with Borgia . Deftly underplaying his scenes & giving his lines full justice with his unique voice , Sir Felix gives a master's class in good acting . Everett Sloane , Welles ' old buddy from their Mercury Theater days , gives a finely nuanced performance as a hired assassin - his face a mask of treacherous villainy . As Power's peasant mother , Katina Paxinou is powerful in her small role . Filmed throughout Italy in various magnificent Renaissance locations , it is the fairy tale walls of San Marino which stand out in particular , doubling for the fictitious Citta del Monte . This tiny republic , the world's oldest , spreads its 23 square miles over Mount Titano , east of Florence , and is completely surrounded by Italy . ( Ironically , San Marino was actually captured by Cesare Borgia at one time ) . The triple fortresses of its capital , crowning the heights of Titano , provide the film with its most memorable vistas . And herein lies an interesting bit of cinematic trivia . Although it had been a safe haven for anti-Mussolini dissidents during the Second World War , the Republic had suffered damage to its majestic walls after being mistakenly bombed by the Allies near the end of the conflict . When the folks from Twentieth Century Fox arrived wanting to make PRINCE OF FOXES and use San Marino as a pivotal backdrop , the Republic agreed , on condition that the film company repair the bomb damage to the fortifications on Mount Titano . Which is why San Marino reminds some tourists today of a Hollywood set . . . The film ends very ambiguously as to the fate of Cesare Borgia , but history is not so vague . The illegitimate son of Pope Alexander VI , Cesare ( 1475-1507 ) started his rise to power early , first in his ancestral Spain and later in Italy . At the age of seven he was created prothonotary & canon of the cathedral of Valencia - but it was in 1491 at the age of sixteen that his career really started to move . Over the course of the next two years Cesare was quickly created bishop , archbishop & cardinal . In 1498 he renounced his cardinalate to become Captain General of the Papal Army . Working hand in glove with the Pope , they furthered their schemes towards wresting a northern Italian kingdom for Cesare . A marriage that same year with the sister of the King of Navarre and the acceptance of a French dukedom , gave Cesare & Alexander the French support they would need for their plots of conquest . The film begins in 1500 , by which time Cesare was fully immersed in his generally successful campaigns . ( The opening scene shows the funeral of Cesare's brother-in-law , Duke Alfonso of Bisceglie , the husband of Cesare's wicked sister Lucrezia ; that unlucky gentleman had been stabbed by a quartet of Cesare's assassins and subsequently strangled in his sickbed by Cesare's servant . ) Hated & despised by the rank and file of the citizenry of Italy , Alexander & Cesare had to constantly fight against the overwhelming tide of public opinion . Surviving one rebellion in his army - and treacherously murdering the ringleaders after feigning peace - Cesare's fortunes at last crumbled with the death of his father in 1503 . The new pope , Julius II , was an implacable enemy and demanded the release of Cesare's dominions . Cesare was eventually captured by the Spanish , imprisoned in Spain , and made a daring escape . He now offered his services to his brother-in-law , the King of Navarre . Cesare Borgia's short , violent , utterly fascinating life came to an end in 1507 when he was killed in a skirmish with rebels .
An Excellent Little Murder Mystery	Can Lionel Barrymore commit the perfect crime , for the sake of his daughter's honor , and get by with it ? That's the question posed in this fine film which is NOT a " whodunit " . Almost forgotten by nearly 7 decades of bigger , splashier movies , fans of crime films will not want to miss this little gem . Tightly plotted and suspenseful , GUILTY HANDS ( yes , the title is important ) rewards the thoughtful viewer . Barrymore is great , as always . Kay Francis is a shady lady with too much past . Alan Mowbray - in a welcome departure from his comic butler roles - is suave and evil . Madge Evans , Polly Moran & Sir C . Aubrey Smith round out the supporting cast . And what a great ending - unexpected and appropriate .
A Story That Is Told In Dublin	Driving to Dublin late one night , Orson Welles stops to pick-up a stranded motorist . The man proceeds to tell Welles about what happened to him late one evening at that very spot in the road , when he was flagged down by two women . As his tale continues , it wraps back to enfold Welles and the viewer in its skein of mystery - inviting us all to RETURN TO GLENNASCAUL . . . In 1951 , during a hiatus in the production of his OTHELLO , two of the actors in the Shakespearean film asked Welles , their old friend , to appear in a short film they were producing . They were Hilton Edwards & Michel Mac Liammir , the founders of the famed Dublin Gate Theatre . They thought Welles would be the perfect choice to tell their little ghost tale . They were right - his magnificent voice still worked its magic as it had in radio's heyday . Others in the cast , all excellent , were Michael Laurence ( also on leave from OTHELLO ) , Shelah Richards & Helena Hughes . This Irish two-reeler is a superb example of what can be done in a very short amount of screen time . Beautifully crafted , not a frame of film or line of dialogue is wasted . Intriguing & entertaining , it's a shame this little gem is so obscure today .
An Early Peek At Robert Taylor	An MGM CRIME DOES NOT PAY Short Subject . An imprisoned embezzler begins to worry about the $200 , 000 in BURIED LOOT he's secreted in New Jersey . This two-reeler was the first in a series featuring true crime stories told in a compelling , hard-hitting fashion . It is well plotted & acted , with no dull moments or unnecessary subplots . No cast credits are given , but movie mavens will enjoy the ripe performance of Robert Taylor , only steps away from discovery & stardom , as the bad guy consumed not by conscience but by fears of ultimate failure to enjoy his ill-gotten gains . Many of the prison shots were lifted right out of MGM's classic feature THE BIG HOUSE ( 1930 ) . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Fighting A French Duel With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Parisian Christmas Card salesmen Stan & Ollie become THE FIXER UPPERS when they try to help a distraught woman who thinks she's lost the affections of her husband . Ollie agrees to play the part of her lover , but is too convincing & arouses the man's extreme jealousy . When he challenges Ollie to a duel , the Boys ' troubles are just beginning . . . A very funny little film - the Boys ' reactions to Mae Busch's passionate kisses are hilarious . Charles Middleton plays her furious spouse .
Wood Working With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie have taken a job at a lumber mill . Arriving for work , they quickly become BUSY BODIES by making a shambles of their carpentry shop & antagonizing both their foreman and a bullying co-worker . A fun little film , with good slapstick . Once again , Ollie's gracefulness during the physical comedy is nothing less than astonishing .
A Knitted Problem For Pluto	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . PLUTO'S SWEATER , a gift from Minnie , gives him no end of trouble . Although not one of Disney's classics , this little film offers some funny moments as the Pup deals with his hideous new possession . Minnie Mouse is given a few moments to shine as the dreadfully dedicated sweater knitter . Making one of his limited appearances in a cartoon short , Pinocchio's pal Figaro proves to be a good antagonist for Pluto . Look fast for a cameo by Butch the bully bulldog . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
This Box Walks	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . PLUTO'S SURPRISE PACKAGE consists of a very stubborn little turtle , which makes the Pup's job of bringing in the mail rather difficult . This is an enjoyable cartoon , but the plot is certainly nothing new - Pluto meets yet another small critter with a mind of its own . Notice that the Pup is rather rusticated in this film , which makes one wonder if Mickey has moved to the woods , or if this is his vacation home . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Entertaining Award Winning Short Subject	A Warner Brothers Short Subject . The biggest liar in the Marine Corps claims to be a musical genius , but his buddies get mighty sore when a piano is delivered to their South Seas island base and the fellow says ' I WON'T PLAY . ' Propelled by the wise guy personality of Dane Clark and the loveliness of Janice Paige ( who gets to sing ' Body and Soul ' ) , here is an enjoyable , lighthearted little film which still should entertain viewers today . This is the type of fast-moving escapist fare that was so valued by weary movie audiences as World War Two dragged into its sixth year . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . This particular film was the winner of the Academy Award for the Best 2-Reel Live Action Short for 1944 .
A Tour de Force For Mr . Asther	A young missionary finds herself swept into a world of Oriental intrigue & power , after being ? rescued ' by a Chinese warlord . With THE BITTER TEA OF GENERAL YEN , Columbia Pictures & director Frank Capra created a small cinematic gem . Not only does the film boast of superb production values , a first-class script & excellent performances , but it enwraps its audience in a sensual romance which rewards intelligent viewing , while offering a liberal dash of pre-Code sensibilities . Miscegenation , so soon to become absolutely taboo in Hollywood , here is made palatable & attractive , indeed , reasonable , the natural outcome of passions molded by tumultuous times . Although billed second , Nils Asther takes acting honors in the title role . A matinee idol during silent days , Asther found it difficult to find good roles in talking pictures , hampered by his exotic looks which made him hard to cast to his advantage . But with BITTER TEA he found the role of a lifetime . Although tall & Swedish , he completely inhabits the skin of his Asian character , making the General at once believable & sympathetic . His every movement , shift of the eyes , even the way he chews his food are all part of his persona . Nearly forgotten now , Asther shows with this one performance what he was capable of achieving . As the missionary captive , Barbara Stanwyck gives the kind of competent , skillful & engaging interpretation which she would bring to all of her roles over the course of several decades . Capra's favorite actress , the dramatic flames she lights are an intriguing counterpoint to the repressed emotions of Asther's Yen . Loud , brash Walter Connolly , as the General's financial advisor , makes a good contrast to Asther ; his plainspoken character often gives voice to what the others are thinking . Lovely Toshi Mori graces the role of the General's unfaithful concubine . A young Richard Loo is her secret lover . Movie mavens will recognize Clara Blandick in the role of the feisty missionary hostess at the beginning of the film & Willie Fung as the rebel train engineer , both uncredited . While meant to be funny and introduce the plot , the opening scenes are a bit unfair to Western missionaries in China , portraying them as rather fatuous , repressed & gossipy . By in large , missionaries lived lives full of self-sacrifice & devotion . In return , not a few were rewarded with penury and an early grave . That today the ? Underground Church ' in China numbers many millions of Christian believers stands as a witness to the faithfulness of these good people . The era of the Chinese warlord - such as General Yen in the film - was brief but colorful and extremely violent . The Qing dynasty , China's last , was overthrown in 1911 and the Republic of China was formed . Its despotic president , Yan Shih-kai , relied more on military force than democratic principles to maintain his authority over China's vast stretches & huge population . Upon his death in 1916 , the country was thrown into confusion & chaos , with numerous military officers & powerful bandit kings all using their armies to control districts and even whole provinces , constantly warring with each other amid a swirling sea of ever-changing alliances and bitter feuds . Foreign powers ( Soviet Russia , Imperial Japan & Great Britain ) only made matters worse by supporting various factions . It was the ordinary Chinese citizen who suffered most , with the depredations of war's brutality & the inevitable famines rained upon them . It was not until 1928 , with the capture of Peking by Republican General Chiang Kai-shek , and the reunification of China , that the power of the warlords was finally broken .
Sailing Rough Seas With The Goof	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy demonstrates HOW TO BE A SAILOR in the worst possible way . Some practical information may be gleaned between the laughs in this funny little film . The viewer learns about the origin of the paddle and the oar , navigating by the stars , pirates , semaphore flags , knots & the hornpipe . The story ends on an appropriately patriotic note , as befits this wartime cartoon . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pluto Versus The Gopher - Round 2	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . PLUTO AND THE GOPHER he catches in Miss Minnie's garden create quite a disturbance inside & out . Although enjoyable , this is a routine film in which Pluto chases yet another canny little critter . The Gopher makes the second ( and final ) appearance in a Disney cartoon here , having previously provoked Pluto in BONE BANDIT ( 1948 ) . Minnie Mouse has a small cameo role . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
An Eagle - No Divot	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof demonstrates HOW TO PLAY GOLF very badly . Here is one of the very earliest of the Goofy Sports Cartoons , and , with its fast action and fine animation , it remains one of the best . Along with other golfing esoterica , the viewer should forever remember the game's Golden Rule : Always play the ball where it lies . The demonstration stick figure makes an interesting & funny character . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Beguiling Version Of Classic Story	Four unhappy women leave dreary London to spend an ENCHANTED APRIL in a castle on the coast of Italy . Elizabeth von Arnim's novel comes alive in this charming little film which beautifully demonstrates the virtues of a literate script and ensemble acting . All the elements come together to produce a movie that , although nearly forgotten now , still produces a feeling of appreciation at the story's appropriate resolution . The actresses each acquit themselves splendidly . Ann Harding is the free-spirited wife longing for ' wisteria & tranquillity ' far from foggy London . Katharine Alexander plays the quiet housewife wishing for the elegant responsibility of acting as hostess in the castle . Jane Baxter is the beautiful young noblewoman temporarily escaped from her throng of male admirers . Jessie Ralph steals every scene she's in as an old lady wanting only to be alone with her memories of the past . The men in the story are also well cast . As Miss Harding's husband , Frank Morgan has a rather complex role as a mousy researcher who has a disturbing personality change when he becomes a successful writer . Reginald Owen , as Miss Alexander's spouse , is marvelously pompous as a man well equipped to bore for England ( his hilarious attempt to take an English bath in an Italian bathtub is made even funnier with the assistance of Charles Judels & Rafaela Ottiano as the castle's harried servants ) . Finally , Ralph Forbes , one of the decade's finest forgotten actors , is joyously eccentric as the ladies ' lighthearted landlord . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Ethel Griffies playing the proprietress of the Hampstead Housewives Club .
Enjoyable Two-Reeler	A SHIRLEY TEMPLE Short Subject . Taking his musical students with him , a school teacher goes on live radio to promote DORA'S DUNKING DOUGHNUTS - a specialty snack invented by his sweetheart . This is an amusing little film , with lots of slapstick worked into the plot . Miss Shirley is sweet & adorable , but really has not much to do . The real star is Scottish comic actor Andy Clyde , who played slightly befuddled or cantankerous gentlemen for years in films and later on television . Appearing all too briefly is English actress Florence Gill , playing herself in her film debut ; this lady , who had the odd talent of being able to sing like a chicken , voiced the formidable Clara Cluck for a handful of Walt Disney cartoons in the 1930's & ' 40's . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Doggie Dream	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Mickey's hound Pluto dreams of a remarkable PLUTOPIA , where he is the master and Milton the cat is his obedient , obsequious servant . This is an enjoyable little film with an exceptionally funny performance by Milton , in his first of three Disney cartoon appearances . Mickey's participation the film is very limited . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Singing Cetacean	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Endowed with tremendous vocal powers , WILLIE THE OPERATIC WHALE dreams of leaving his ocean home and becoming a success on the stage of the New York Met . This heart touching little film , originally the closing segment of MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) , is buoyed along by the colorful animation and a prodigious vocal performance by Nelson Eddy who enacts all the roles - young & old , male & female , human & animal . The ending couldn't be better . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Holmes Saves Old England Once Again	The evil Professor Moriarty plots to gain control of both SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEAPON which could win the war for the Nazis . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce return to the screen as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's beloved detective and sidekick , Sherlock Holmes & Dr . Watson , in this entertaining little mystery . Universal Studios wasted no money on either fancy production values or a sensible script , knowing that its two stars would be all the attraction an audience would need . Indeed Rathbone , as the cerebral ego , and Bruce , as the bumbling id , seem to actually become the characters they are creating , gleefully keeping their faces straight while engaged in the most utter nonsense . Dennis Hoey makes his first appearance as the dogged Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard ; teamed with Bruce , these two good-hearted but pedantic fellows actually get to save the intellectually superior Holmes ' life twice . Lionel Atwill , a master of the sinister who deserves more recognition for his talent , does a fine job as Moriarty , making the wicked rascal a foe worthy of Holmes ' steel , relishing the scenes in which he gets to inflict torture & pain . William Post Jr . and Kaaren Verne play the Swiss scientist and his girlfriend who are at the heart of the mystery , but they're not given much to do . Sweet Mary Gordon makes a token appearance as Holmes ' landlady Mrs . Hudson . Rathbone spices up his already classic interpretation of Holmes by getting to appear in disguise three times during the story , thereby revealing to the viewer that the great sleuth was a bit of a ham actor at heart . This film - - which is based very loosely on elements in Sir Arthur's short stories ' The Dancing Men ' and ' The Empty House ' - - followed SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE VOICE OF TERROR ( 1942 ) and preceded SHERLOCK HOLMES IN WASHINGTON ( 1943 ) .
Holmes & Watson - - Updated	Sherlock Holmes strives to destroy the band of Nazi saboteurs whose actions are extolled by THE VOICE OF TERROR . After a hiatus of three years , and a change of studios from Fox to Universal , Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce returned to portray the beloved characters they had embodied twice before on the screen . And there was one other significant change - - the stories were now set during World War Two and served as morale boosters as well as cinematic entertainment . This leap ahead of nearly 50 years does no violence to Holmes & Watson , although purists might lament the absence of late Victorian ambiance . Indeed , if Shakespeare can be performed in modern dress and become the basis for Broadway musicals , then the inhabitants of 221B Baker Street are served no injustice by this updating . The film offers this explanation as its preamble : ' Sherlock Holmes , the immortal character of fiction created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle , is ageless , invincible and unchanging . In solving significant problems of the present day he remains - as ever - the supreme master of deductive reasoning . ' Here , in a plot very loosely based on Conan Doyle's short story ? His Last Bow , ' Rathbone & Bruce play their roles as comfortably as one might wear an old pair of well-worn slippers . Rathbone , triumphantly cerebral , and Bruce , comfortingly common , are simply perfect for their roles , actually seeming to become Holmes & Watson , rather than just enacting them . In the tiny exchange , where Watson stops Holmes from leaving their flat wearing his famed deerstalker rather than modern headgear , the actors give a wink and a nod to the original conceptions of their celebrated characters . Kindly Reginald Denny and angry Henry Daniell give their usual stalwart performances as high government officials struggling with the Nazi depredations . Evelyn Ankers adds a bit of spice as the Limehouse lassie who has her own motives for helping Holmes . Thomas Gomez gives a compelling portrayal as a Nazi agent with strange delusions of grandeur . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited & lovable Mary Gordon as Mrs . Hudson , Holmes landlady , who has also been time transported along with her tenants . That's Edgar Barrier , excellent as the Voice of Terror . This was the third in the Sherlock Holmes film series , following THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ( 1939 ) , and preceding SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEAPON ( 1942 ) .
Next Stop , Burgundy !	This very funny British comedy shows what might happen if a section of London , in this case Pimlico , were to declare itself independent from the rest of the UK and its laws , taxes & post-war restrictions . Merry mayhem is what would happen . The explosion of a wartime bomb leads to the discovery of ancient documents which show that Pimlico was ceded to the Duchy of Burgundy centuries ago , a small historical footnote long since forgotten . To the new Burgundians , however , this is an unexpected opportunity to live as they please , free from any interference from Whitehall . Stanley Holloway is excellent as the minor city politician who suddenly finds himself leading one of the world's tiniest nations . Dame Margaret Rutherford is a delight as the history professor who sides with Pimlico . Others in the stand-out cast include Hermione Baddeley , Paul Duplis , Naughton Wayne , Basil Radford & Sir Michael Hordern . Welcome to Burgundy !
Jazz Pizzazz	A Walt Disney Cartoon . The Benny Goodman Quartet and the Disney animators give a wildly syncopated swing to the popular tune AFTER YOU'VE GONE . Originally , along with ALL THE CATS JOIN IN , part of TWO FOR THE RECORD , which was Goodman's contribution to Disney's MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) , this exuberantly improvisational three-minute film is a feast for the ears & eyes . The Quartet's clarinet , bass , piano & drums come to life and embark on a jaunt through their own animated universe , with constant variations in color & shape which perfectly matches the music . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Keaton's Electrifying Experience	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . THE ELECTRIC HOUSE Buster has just retrofitted with modern appliances is about to have a chaotic debut when some wires get crossed . . . One sight gag after another keeps this wonderful little film humming along . All of Buster's gadgets are funny when they operate correctly - they slip over the line into hilarity when things go wrong . Highlight : Buster trying to beat an obstinate escalator . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Fishing For Dummies	A Vitaphone EDGAR BERGEN Short Subject . An eye specialist must examine a peculiar and most loquacious young fellow . Master ventriloquist Edgar Bergen found a brief showcase for his talents in THE EYES HAVE IT , a humorous little film which provided some funny lines for wooden gadfly Charlie McCarthy . Unsurprisingly , McCarthy tends to dominate the proceedings . Talking films were the perfect medium for Bergen & McCarthy , although they would have an amazing success on the radio as well . Christina Graver plays Bergen's pretty nurse .
Faster Than A Streak Of Lightning	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . Someone , disguised as Superman , is pulling off a series of daring robberies throughout Metropolis and it's time for the real Man of Steel to force a SHOWDOWN with the Big Boss behind it all . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
An Epic Silent Film Of The Klondike Gold Rush	In 1896 gold was discovered on a small creek in the Klondike district of Canada's Yukon region . Despite the extreme remoteness of the location and the tremendous difficulties involved in getting there , over the next four years 30 , 000 people would travel to the boom town of Dawson City , desperate for wealth . Eventually , $100 , 000 , 000 in gold would be discovered by these hardy argonauts . THE TRAIL OF ' 98 tells their story . One of the last epic silent films , MGM spared no expense and filmed largely on location . Although almost forgotten today , this is a wonderful movie full of romance & adventure . Its most famous scenes involve the hideous climb over Chilkoot Pass , which separated the disembarkation point of Skagway from the Yukon River , where the gold seekers had to build their own boats and run the rapids down to Dawson . The shots of the long line of men & women , toiling like ants up the steep slope of Chilkoot , with the weak dying along the way , isn't soon forgotten . The cast is first rate , although many of them are forgotten now : Dolores Del Rio , Ralph Forbes , Harry Carey , Karl Dane , Emily Fitzroy , Roscoe Karns , Tully Marshall & Doris Lloyd . Playing saints or sinners , they help make this film truly memorable . Tragedy struck during the filming of the short river rapids sequence . A cord was strung across the river , but the safety loops hanging from it were allowed to become knotted & slippery , thus giving the stuntmen nothing to grab and cling to as they swept beneath it . Of the eight stuntmen shown in the film running the rapids , four were to drown ; two of the bodies were never recovered .
Comic Riot With Miss Jean Harlow & Mr . Lee Tracy	Lola Burns is Hollywood's greatest Blonde BOMBSHELL - but her life is a chaotic wreck thanks to eccentric relatives , sassy staff and studio publicity director Space Hanlon . Jean Harlow & Lee Tracy are wonderfully matched in this pre-Code Comedy , one of the funniest films of the 1930's , and another proof - if one was needed - that Hollywood had an endless appetite for self-ridicule . With her platinum hair and couturier's parade of billowy fashions , Harlow is still essentially playing a parody of her own unhappy private life . Her constant high-decibel groans of complaint as to her celebrity's misuse at the hands of those closest to her have the ring of veracity . And no one gives her greater grief than Tracy , who is determined to wring every last drop of publicity out of her , even if his meddling in her personal life drives her insane . Immovable object meets irresistible force . Result : laughter . A most impressive gathering of character actors appear in the supporting cast : sturdy Pat O'Brien as Harlow's director pal ; delightful Frank Morgan as her dyspeptic father ; Ted Healy as her shiftless brother ; Una Merkel as her conniving secretary ; and Louise Beavers as Harlow's plain talking maid . Franchot Tone adds a touch of class to the proceedings as a sophisticated fellow who takes a shine to Harlow ; Mary Forbes & marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith are his wealthy parents . Ivan Lebedeff gives some laughs as a penniless marquis who is happy to live off of Harlow's money . Movie mavens will recognize boxing champ Primo Carnera in the opening montage ; Greta Meyer as Harlow's masseuse ; Gus Arnheim as the Coconut Grove band leader ; Ethel Griffies as one of the orphanage representatives ; and Billy Dooley as the lunatic who claims Harlow is his wife - all uncredited . Although the action takes place in the imaginary Monarch Studios , all the real stars & films mentioned are pure MGM . This was one of five films Lee Tracy made for MGM in 1933 ( CLEAR ALL WIRES ! , THE NUISANCE , TURN BACK THE CLOCK , DINNER AT EIGHT , BOMBSHELL ) , and arguably the best role of his career . It was certainly the culmination of nearly all the other roles he'd had over the past couple of years in various studios , where he'd perfected the depiction of shyster lawyers , unscrupulous talent agents , snoopy reporters & disreputable gossip columnists . There is certainly no telling how far he might have gone with MGM , but his career literally went south in 1934 after a few moments of drunken indiscretion . While in Mexico for location shooting for VIVA VILLA ! , Tracy stepped out onto his hotel balcony and urinated on a passing military parade . He was immediately arrested and deported from the country . Embarrassed & furious , Louis B . Mayer fired him instantly from MGM . With only the smaller studios willing to hire him , Tracy's film career largely slipped into obscurity . Years later , no longer young , he did some television work . He had a short comeback , of sorts , in 1964 , when he was nominated for a Supporting Actor Oscar for THE BEST MAN . This was to be his cinematic swan song ; old and tired , he no longer resembled the hot shot who delighted audiences in the early 1930's . Lee Tracy died in 1968 of cancer , at the age of 70 .
Silliness At Sea	A Warner Brothers Vitaphone Short Subject . With music provided by Roger Wolfe Kahn & His Orchestra , THE YACHT PARTY provides some snappy music for a few idle rich guests . Without enough plot to hang a yachtsman's hat on , this short film is simply an excuse for a few minutes of silly songs . Highlights are comic singer Gertrude Niesen's impersonation of Lyda Roberti and incredibly double-jointed Melissa Mason performing a solo dance in which she does things with her legs which scarcely seem human . Rich kid Kahn produces some enjoyable music ; the final moments , in which he supposedly conducts his orchestra from a biplane , presages his eventual career change to airplane design & testing . Music mavens will spot an unbilled Artie Shaw playing the clarinet . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Mania , Murder & Melodrama	With all England horrified by the fiendish exploits of Jack the Ripper , a London family slowly becomes concerned by the strange habits of THE LODGER who has rented rooms upstairs . . . Atmospheric & creepy , this is one of the great suspense films . Based on the celebrated 1913 horror novel of Marie Belloc Lowndes , the movie memorably captures the panic & paranoia which reigned in London during the Ripper crimes . Using the full palette of shades available to black & white cinematography , the movie creates a chilling , eerie , atmosphere in which one can walk Whitechapel's narrow streets with the murderer . Laird Cregar mesmerizes in the title role , his great , strange eyes following the viewer like those in the portraits he detests . He is the very picture of obsession & madness . Although lovely Merle Oberon & stalwart George Sanders do very well as the romantic leads , it is Cregar , his tremendous bulk moving silently through the shadows , who will remain in viewers ' imaginations . As the landlords , Sara Allgood & Sir Cedric Hardwicke are exceptional , portraying basically quiet people who come to the alarming conclusion that all is not right in their household . A solid group of character actors - Queenie Leonard , Helena Pickard , Anita Sharp-Bolster , Lumsden Hare - also give vivid performances . Movie mavens will recognize uncredited turns by Billy Bevan as a bartender and , behind the mustache , little Charlie Hall , veteran of many a Laurel & Hardy comedy , as the music hall comedian whose song is interrupted by the Ripper's last attack . Special mention should be made of British Doris Lloyd ( 1896-1968 ) , an excellent actress usually seen only in tiny bit roles , often uncredited . Here , unforgettably , she gets to deliver a short , sharp lesson in utter terror as the last of the Ripper's victims . Arriving in Hollywood during the Silent Era , Miss Lloyd would continue to grace small movie moments for decades to come . Laird Cregar is one of the great What Ifs ? of American cinema . Arising out of obscurity , this young actor quickly showed a remarkable talent and was quite soon given featured & starring roles , of which THE LODGER is the most memorable . Alas , his star was to blink out as fast as it rose . Wishing to move into leading & romantic parts , he subjected his 300-pound frame to an extreme crash diet . His body responded with a massive heart attack , killing him only a few months after THE LODGER's release . He was 28 years old . The film gives a somewhat fictionalized account of the depredations of Jack the Ripper , his identity & the true names of his victims being the most obvious changes . From August 7th to November 10th , 1888 , a killer who would become known as Jack the Ripper horrifically butchered seven prostitutes in London's East End , committing acts of such barbaric savagery on the bodies as to be positively bestial . He was never caught , despite a huge public outcry and tremendous efforts from Scotland Yard . In the intervening years there have been numerous suggestive solutions to his identity put forward , some quite fanciful , but no proofs have ever been posited . Jack took his terrible secrets with him to the grave .
Covering The Miles With Mr . Langdon	Desperately in need to pay the rent , a naive young fellow begins the long TRAMP , TRAMP , TRAMP of a walking race across the United States for the prize money . Harry Langdon brings his own brand of minimalist comedy to this charming little silent film . Eschewing most manifestations of slapstick , Harry instead portrayed his famous character as an innocent child-man , a kind of adult baby , who reacts with insouciant naivet to the perils the wicked world flings at him . Here he must compete with his devious landlord for the prize money , while the race itself confronts him with prison gangs , wild weather & honest-to-goodness cliffhangers . All the while Harry never loses the daffy optimism which continues to propel him along . A talented supporting cast adds to the film's success : Alec B . Francis as Harry's crippled , impoverished shoemaker father ; Tom Murray as the belligerent landlord , who also just happens to be the world's champion race walker ; and Edward Davis as the shoe tycoon who sponsors the race . As his lovely daughter , Joan Crawford doesn't have much to do except encourage Langdon in his endeavors , but her few romantic scenes with him manage to be both poignant & ludicrous simultaneously . Harry's production company burnished the film up nicely , with the cyclone sequence particularly effective . One of the story writers was a young Frank Capra , who would be a big contributor to Harry's short-lived stardom .
Lionel Barrymore Gives An Oscar Winning Acting Lesson	They are alike , this father & daughter . Liberal , passionate , willful - they live life on their own terms , disdaining their narrow-minded relations . Few regrets & even fewer apologies cloud either conscious - yet each harbors a character trait that threatens to destroy them . Hers is emotional instability ; his , acute alcoholism . Although both will make bad choices that will haunt them , each will continue to see their reflection in the other , unique & individual , A FREE SOUL . Based on a book by Adela Rogers St . Johns , Norma Shearer gets top billing in this aged but enjoyable soap opera , and she is very good , turning on the histrionics most effectively . But it is Lionel Barrymore who gets full honors - and a Best Actor Oscar - for his portrayal of her brilliant , tragic , lawyer father . Masterfully , he dominates his every scene . His final appearance , a tempestuous summation to a murder trial jury , is considered a classic . Playing the two very different men in Shearer's life are Clark Gable & Leslie Howard . Gable is excellent , oozing the virility that was about to make him a huge star . Howard deftly underplays his less flashy role and becomes the film's calm center . James Gleason as Barrymore's factotum , and Lucy Beaumont as Barrymore's patrician mother , both give memorable performances . Film mavens will spot Edward Brophy as one of Gable's henchmen & master stutterer Roscoe Ates as the man in the washroom window .
A Yuletide Duck Tale With Chipmunks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Chip ' n ' Dale become TOY TINKERS after discovering the treasures spread out under Donald's Christmas tree . Although enjoyable , this little Oscar nominated Duck versus Chipmunks Holiday film is unremarkable as far as animation & storyline are concerned . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice ; the Chipmunks are largely unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Delightful Disney Cartoon For A Christmas Season Long Ago	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Landing in a dump , a lively sailor doll finds the place has become the home for a collection of discarded BROKEN TOYS who have all given up hope of finding happiness again . Instilling new enthusiasm & dignity in them , the sailor doll helps get them repaired & cleaned-up . He even replaces the button eyes on a beautiful blind doll , finding romance in the bargain . But now , with Winter coming on , the sailor doll has big plans for the toys ' future . . . This very charming film was Disney's Christmas cartoon for 1935 . Good animation & story are a real plus . A few Hollywood celebrities are caricatured amusingly : Ned Sparks , Zasu Pitts , W . C . Fields & Stepin Fetchit ( in unedited versions ) . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Pre-Code Tale Stops The Presses	The muckraking editor of The Gazette revives an old murder case ( with a FIVE STAR FINAL ) to increase the paper's circulation . Movies have long been fascinated with the fast-paced action of the journalistic newsroom and have mined stories about newspaper shenanigans for both comedies & dramas . Here , from First National Pictures , was one of the earliest talkies to have a real success in exploring the medium . The action is fast and the dialogue fits . The film goes further , however , reaching beyond the newspaper staff and focusing on a family who becomes the victim of untrammeled yellow journalism . Pugnacious Edward G . Robinson gives a vivid portrayal of the unscrupulous editor who slowly begins to develop a soul when he is confronted by the turmoil his decisions have on the lives of innocent folks . Seemingly incapable of giving a bad performance , Robinson fascinates as he chews the scenery with his full-throttle performance . The always sterling Aline MacMahon scores as his wise , levelheaded secretary who nurses a secret love for him . Their scenes together are riveting . In supporting roles , creepy Boris Karloff plays an alcoholic reporter without any morals whatsoever . Wisecracking Ona Munson has fun with her role of a floozy who becomes a girl reporter . Oscar Apfel is good as the paper's spineless owner . Rat-faced George E . Stone is rather repulsive as the guy who sends out the goons to strong-arm newspaper vendors on the street . H . B . Warner & Frances Starr both shine as an innocent couple whose lives are made a misery by the rapacious Gazette . Playing their daughter , Marian Marsh has a terrific scene at the film's climax when she confronts the three newspapermen who destroyed her home . Sturdy Anthony Bushell appears as her steadfast society boyfriend . Movie mavens will recognize little Frank Darien as an eager undertaker . And that's blonde Polly Walters as the Gazette's kooky-voiced telephone operator .
Tearful Troubles For Marion Davies	The daughter of a FIVE AND TEN store mogul is accused of trying to crash high society when she falls in love with a handsome architect . As mistress of William Randolph Hearst & chatelaine of San Simeon , California's most fabulous residence , Marion Davies was a Very Important Star at MGM in the early 1930's . A good actress & extremely talented comedienne , she longed to venture out into strongly dramatic roles . Unfortunately , Hearst preferred seeing her in lightweight fluff films , and even soap operas , which FIVE AND TEN unmistakably is , still left her with some silly plots to wade through . Hearst's crushing grasp on her career at MGM , and later at Warner's - even with an occasional good picture - explains as well as anything else why her films have remained so obscure for decades . Despite lavish production values , Davies & her romantic interest , Leslie Howard , are bogged down by the turgid story line , making it difficult for the audience to find much empathy with their wealthy woes . Davies ' infectious good spirits and Howard's trademark sophistication only rarely are allowed to escape . Their one good sequence - locked on the rooftop of the world's tallest building for a night - comes too late . Irene Rich , as Davies lonely mother , fares little better . The film does boast two excellent performances , however , which should be noted . Veteran stage actor Richard Bennett ( 1872-1944 ) is splendid as Davies ' distracted father , a man so obsessed with accumulating more power that he doesn't notice the disintegration of his own family . As Davies ' disillusioned younger brother , Kent Douglass ( 1907-1966 ) is first-rate in a role which has him descend from giddy youth into eventual depression & madness . Both gentlemen rescue the film from completely sinking into melodramatics . Movie mavens will recognize Henry Armetta as a cabby , and the wonderful Halliwell Hobbes as Bennett's butler , both uncredited .
Visiting Canadian Lakes & A Mighty Big Waterfall	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . During this short tour of ONTARIO , LAND OF LAKES , we are taken first to Ottawa , to view the government buildings of the Dominion of Canada . Then it's on to the Shrine of the Martyrs , where the ashes of Jesuit priests , slain during Indian massacres , are buried . We then get to travel along two of the province's beautiful lakes . Arriving in Toronto , we are shown the edifices of the provincial government & we enjoy Scottish Highland lassie bagpipers . Finally , we end our tour at mighty Niagara Falls . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
A Very Funny Our Gang Comedy	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Grandma , the Rascals ' sweet old neighbor lady , is being victimized by her scoundrel of a stepson . He wants to seize her property & put her in the county poor house . Most of all , he wants her suddenly very valuable corporate shares , which she believes are worthless . Using them as weights , she ties the papers to the tail of Chubby's kite . When the wicked wastrel tries to steal the kite , the Rascals & Grandma teach him a painful lesson he won't soon forget . ' Hey , Mister , do you wanna FLY MY KITE ? ' A very funny little film . The Rascals handle the bad guy in a most satisfying manner . That's Margaret Mann as Grandma .
Bert Crashes - - Charlotte Soars	A slightly unscrupulous promoter hopes to be FLYING HIGH after selling stock in a half-crazed inventor's aerocopter . The rather bizarre humor of comic Bert Lahr is showcased in this fast-moving little comedy . Rather an acquired taste , Lahr's antics will either delight or depress the viewer , who should not be expecting to see an early version of the Cowardly Lion . Lahr's style of humor might be best described as moronic and those who enjoy laughing at the feebleminded should find him quite amusing . What helps to ameliorate Lahr's antics is his teaming for much of the film with the great Charlotte Greenwood , who excelled in deadpan physical comedy . With her long legs and horsy features , Greenwood makes her man-crazy character into a real source of fun . Whether it's chasing Lahr around an airport , enduring a riotous Wedding Morning , or flailing about in his contraption thousands of feet in the air , Miss Greenwood never fails to pack in the laughs . Pat O'Brien seems rather uncomfortable as Lahr's straight man and his romantic scenes with spunky Kathryn Crawford are somewhat less than enthralling . Charles Winninger catches the viewer's attention as a naughty , pre-Code doctor interested in examining a bevy of young aviatrixes . Cherubic Guy Kibbee & stately Hedda Hopper do credit to their short screen time as Miss Crawford's parents . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Clarence Wilson as Greenwood's bad-tempered lunch counter boss . Busby Berkeley has provided some fairly decent dance sequences whose sole motivation seems to be to reveal as much feminine flesh as possible , but the overhead kaleidoscopic shots are pleasant harbingers of the classic work he would perform a few years later at Warner's . Lahr's aerocopter , which may or may not be technically feasible , is based on the gyrocopter or Autogiro , both of which actually did fly but have now been almost completely superseded by the helicopter .
Superb Look Back At Silent Cinema	Here is the definitive video history of the art of the American silent film . This 13-episode documentary was literally produced in the nick of time , as many of those interviewed would be deceased in a few short years - their wonderful memories lost forever . Produced in 1980 for Thames Television , this is certainly one of the crowning achievements of the British team of Kevin Brownlow & David Gill , who together have done so much to preserve not only the history of silent cinema , but also the actual films themselves . The one great lesson of the series is that non-talking films were a distinct art form , complete & satisfying , which had developed a universal language , understood everywhere , through the perfected medium of mime . This was all swept away with the arrival of Talk . So complete was the dismissal of silent films ( which were never really silent ) that within a short period of time they would be disparaged as intrinsically valueless & technically inferior . As HOLLYWOOD triumphantly shows , nothing could have been further from the truth . Films of enormous expertise & intense emotional impact were almost routinely created by the pioneers who were perfecting their new invention . The achievements of Silent Cinema's 35 years constitute a new cultural renaissance . Episodes focus on such topics as Westerns , comedies , war films , stunts , camera techniques & scandals . Not only do we hear from such luminaries as Lillian Gish , Gloria Swanson , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . & even John Wayne , but we are also enchanted by the recollections of Viola Dana , Leatrice Joy , Bessie Love , Colleen Moore & Blanche Sweet , performers in danger of obscurement due to the fact that their careers were so very long ago and their films are largely unavailable or lost . Hearing Miss Dana discuss the death of the stunt pilot she loved , or Miss Joy recollecting a tender note from husband John Gilbert , or Miss Moore hilariously describing her voice lessons when talkies arrived , is to inculcate real human personalities into what would otherwise be only historical footnotes . A parade of directors , cameramen , stunt men & theater musicians also reminisce , as do writer Adela Rogers St . Johns & choreographer Agnes de Mille , who between them seem to have been everywhere & known everyone . Even Lord Louis Mountbatten recalls his memories of halcyon days at Pickfair . While some fans may not want to have all the mysteries revealed as to how Douglas Fairbanks & Harold Lloyd achieved some of their most famous stunts , it is still fascinating information and detracts not a whit from the stars ' prestige . It is rather sad , however , to see such stars as John Gilbert , Roscoe Arbuckle , James Murray & Ramon Novarro in their prime , with the knowledge of what Fate had in store for them . . . Fans of HOLLYWOOD will be pleased to know that in the decades that have passed since its production many of the silent films it highlights have been fully restored and show now to much greater advantage that the rather faded appearance they make in the documentary . Much appreciation must go to two men whose contributions go very far in contributing to the success of the series . Carl Davis provides a wonderfully evocative score for HOLLYWOOD , his use of traditional tunes & his own lilting melodies a splendid match for what is taking place on screen . James Mason's narration is absolutely perfect - his rich voice , so warm & intimate , ironically proving that there is a place for talking pictures after all .
Matador Mirth	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Hapless tourist Goofy finds himself facing the meanest toro in all of Old Mexico . This gentle spoof of bullfighting has plenty of chuckles as the Goof continues to get himself into increasingly dangerous difficulties . Although Goofy emerges triumphant , he appears to be literally ' cowed ' by the sight of a bovine henceforth . It is interesting to compare this short with Disney's classic FERDINAND THE BULL ( 1938 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pigskin Panache	A Walt Disney Cartoon . To illustrate the differences between FOOTBALL NOW AND THEN a grandfather imaginatively details a game between the Moderns and the Oldtimers . Although the usual gang of Disney cartoon characters do not appear in this little film , any fan of gridiron sports should find it very amusing . Both eras of the game are well depicted by the slightly stylized animation . The black & white TV commercials for the Whirling Dervish Dishwasher are hilarious . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Goofy Devastates Another Sport	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy uses his TENNIS RACQUET to create merry mayhem all over the court . . . This amusing little film is another entrant in the long series of Sports Goofy cartoons . Tennis fans will particularly appreciate the way in which their pastime is mercilessly mangled by the Goof . Doodles Weaver is the excitable narrator . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Thousand And One Adventures	Abu , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD , helps King Ahmed regain his kingdom from a wicked sorcerer . As Europe was going to war and significant sections of the world was going up in flames , Sir Alexander Korda's London Films unveiled this lavish escapist fare from the legends of The Arabian Nights . Replete with swords & sorcery , it gave audiences in 1940 a short respite from the headlines . It also is a fine piece of film making , featuring good acting and an intelligent script . Conrad Veidt gets top billing and he deserves it , playing the evil magician Jaffar . His saturnine face with its piercing eyes makes one recall the macabre roles he played with such relish during Silent days . Here is a villain worth watching . As the boyish Thief , Sabu is perfectly cast in this , his third film . While not a hero in the typical sense of the word , his character is certainly heroic in deed & action . The rest of the cast do fine work . John Justin is both energetic & sensitive as the unenlightened king who must learn about the realities of live the hard way ; Sabu gets a significant part of the action ( when he's not transformed into a dog ) but Justin is appropriately athletic when needs must . Lovely June Duprez plays the endangered Princess of Basra , coveted by two very different men . Appearing late in the film , massive Rex Ingram shakes things up as a genie with an attitude . Allan Jeayes uses his fine voice to good advantage as the Storyteller . Miles Malleson gets another eccentric role as the childlike Sultan of Basra , forever dithering on about his mechanical toys ( Malleson was also responsible for the film's screen play & dialogue ) . Aged Morton Selten portrays the benevolent King of Legend . Mary Morris , later an exceptional stage actress , plays the dual roles of Jaffar's accomplice and the six-armed Silver Dancer . The film was begun in Britain , but wartime difficulties made Korda move it to Southern California , which probably explains the presence of American Ingram in the cast . The art direction , in vibrant Technicolor , is most attractive , especially the fairy tale architecture in blues , whites & pinks . Born Sabu Dastagir in 1924 , Sabu was employed in the Maharaja of Mysore's stables when he was discovered by Korda's company and set before the cameras . His first four films ( ELEPHANT BOY-1937 , THE DRUM-1938 , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD-1940 , JUNGLE BOOK-1942 ) were his best and he found himself working out of Hollywood when they were completed . After distinguished military service in World War II he resumed his film career , but he became endlessly confined for years playing ethnic roles in undistinguished minor films , BLACK NARCISSUS ( 1947 ) being the one great exception . His final movie , Walt Disney's A TIGER WALKS ( 1964 ) was an improvement , but it was too late . Sabu had died of a heart attack in late 1963 , only 39 years of age .
Murder , Mystery & Harry Lime	Post-war Vienna . A dangerous city , full of intrigue , crime & sudden death . Notorious American racketeer Harry Lime starts to cross a street . There is an accident and he is killed instantly . Or is he ? His body is carried to the sidewalk by two friends . Or does another man assist them ? If so , who is THE THIRD MAN and what does he know about Lime's suspicious death ? Such is the puzzle at the beginning of what many consider to be the greatest film ever made . Its glories are so obvious that it is almost futile to pick out any for observation : the marvelous sewer chase , the balloon man , the little boy with the ball , the giant wheel , the cuckoo clock speech & the long closing walk across the cemetery . All of these linger in the mind , becoming permanent residents of our cinematic subconscious . The entire cast is excellent : Joseph Cotton as Lime's American friend trying to piece together what has happened ; Trevor Howard as the stalwart British Major of Police ; gorgeous Valli as Harry's faithful lover ; Bernard Lee as the tragic Police Sergeant ; Wilfrid Hyde-White as a dithering English cultural attach . And then there's Orson Welles . . . The character of Harry Lime , alive or dead , on-screen or not , is one of cinema's most fascinating villains . Charming & deadly as any cobra , he attracts & repels at the same moment . It is interesting to note that BBC Radio resurrected the character for the series ' The Lives of Harry Lime ' very shortly after the film's release . Harry was not allowed to stay in his grave for long . . . Three more items of note : ( 1 ) The cinematography is first-rate , making Vienna by night look almost lunar . ( 2 ) Orson Welles ' first appearance on screen is a real dandy . ( 3 ) Above & around & through everything is the famous zither music of Anton Karas , which becomes like a Greek Chorus , commenting on the action . Its complete silence during the sewer chase only underscores the starkness of the sequence .
Mr . Mouse Hooks The Bait	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey & Pluto find plenty of trouble while FISHIN ' AROUND on the lake . This is a fun little black & white cartoon , with plenty of humor . The fish our pals encounter are certainly a strange breed - they all have navels . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Walt Disney's Salute To Hollywood	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . MOTHER GOOSE GOES Hollywood when a collection of animated celebrities spoof the characters in wacky interpretations of famous old Nursery Rhymes . Aided by excellent voice artists , the Disney animators get to display their caricaturing talents in this very enjoyable cartoon . This was not as easy as it looks , melding the personality of the celebrity with the persona of the Nursery character and leaving them both recognizable . And it gets even more complicated than that . In the 3 Men In A Tub sequence , the celebrity is also spoofing a famous movie role they've played ( Charles Laughton as Captain Bligh in MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY , Spencer Tracy as Manuel in CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS & Freddie Bartholomew as David COPPERFIELD ) . That Disney was able to pull off these characterizations in the space of only a few seconds speaks volumes for the high level of expertise attained by the Studio . Movie mavens will love spotting & naming each animated celebrity . Others will have a difficult time , since many of these stars are now rather obscure . Here , for the record , is a listing of the celebrity spoofs : Katharine Hepburn as Little Bo Peep ; Hugh Herbert as Old King Cole ; Groucho , Chico & Harpo Marx as the Fiddlers Three ; Ned Sparks as the King's Jester ; Joe Penner as the King's Servant ; Donald Duck as himself ; Charles Laughton , Spencer Tracy & Freddie Bartholomew as the 3 Men In A Tub ; W . C . Fields as Humpty Dumpty ; Charlie McCarthy as himself ; Stan Laurel as Simple Simon ; Oliver Hardy as the Pieman ; Edward G . Robinson & Greta Garbo in See Saw Margery Daw ; Wallace Beery as Little Boy Blue ; Edna May Oliver , Mae West & ZaSu Pitts as the trumpeters ; Clark Gable as the flautist ; George Arliss as the saxophonist ; Joe E . Brown & Martha Raye as the jitterbug dancers . Apparently , unedited versions of the cartoon also feature ' appearances ' by Fred Astaire , Cab Calloway , Eddie Cantor , Stepin Fetchit & Fats Waller . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mickey's Adventure In The Sky	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey regales his young audience with a description of how he climbed a beanstalk into the clouds and confronted the monstrous King of GIANTLAND . This splendid little black & white film boasts of a lively story and very fine animation . Mickey's squeaky voice is supplied by Walt Disney , who would explore the theme of Mickey versus giants again in the classic BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR ( 1938 ) & the ' Mickey and the Beanstalk ' sequence in FUN AND FANCY FREE ( 1947 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Master Of All He Surveys	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald wants nothing OUT OF SCALE in his elaborate backyard model railroad and town - including Chip ' n ' Dale and their tree . Here is another typical Duck versus Chipmunks film - fun & fast-moving , but no classic . The cartoon is rare in that amity reigns over all at the conclusion . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice ; the Chipmunks are largely unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Lighthearted Look At Serious Problem	An MGM Short Subject . Who's that boorish fellow , with his constant negative talk about our Allies and the War effort ? Why , it's MR . BLABBERMOUTH ! This little film uses a humorous approach to illustrate a problem nagging the country . It is not , as the title might suggest , a ' Loose Lips Sink Ships ' lecture , but rather how to deal with those Americans who constantly brought down the morale of others by their pessimistic attitudes about our fight against the Axis . It is just as pertinent now as it was then . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighborhood theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination .
The Professor Sings	A Walt Disney LUDWIG VON DRAKE Short Subject . The renowned Professor performs a few of his own compositions which together comprise A SYMPOSIUM ON POPULAR SONGS . Disney uses the zany Professor and six wacky songs by the Sherman Brothers to illustrate the musical styles in America during the first half of the 20th Century . In quick succession everything from ragtime to rock ' n ' roll is spoofed . This is all done in a spirit of fun - absolutely no attempt is given to actually discuss or compare the various genres . Amusing stop motion animation helps to punctuate the selections . The inimitable Paul Frees provided the voice for the Professor . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Dangerous Duo	A Dutch mystery writer tries to strip away THE MASK OF DIMITRIOS Makropoulos to discover the truth about his wicked life . From Warner Bros . and director Jean Negulesco comes this well-produced version of Eric Ambler's novel A Coffin For Dimitrios . Thickly plotted and jammed with intriguing characters , the film will amply reward the attentive viewer . Moving quickly across Europe ( Istanbul , Athens , Sofia , Geneva , Belgrade & Paris ) the plot never lags as it adds details to the plots & crimes of Dimitrios . The final culmination of his nefarious career is most justified and quite satisfying . Diminutive Peter Lorre ( undeserving of the pitiful 4th place billing he receives ) brings his unique talents to the role of the Dutch author . Feisty and tenacious , he lets nothing get in his way as he ferrets out the details for which he's searching . Massive Sydney Greenstreet portrays the mysterious stout gentleman who arranges an alliance with Lorre to seek information about the violently deceased Dimitrios . Looking somewhat like a malevolently cheerful Buddha , Greenstreet literally dominates most of his scenes with his enormous talent , his great bulk and expressive eyes put to most effective dramatic use . Teamed with Lorre , the pair make a compelling duo - - like a sinister Laurel & Hardy - - and are most entertaining to watch . They would appear in nine films together ; this was one of their best . The movie's only real drawback is the complete absence of Greenstreet & Lorre during the lengthy flashback sequences . But this is but a minor quibble as the rest of the cast comport themselves quite well . As the despicable Dimitrios , Zachary Scott manages to divest himself of any hint of the heroic , while retaining a certain dash and smarmy charm about his persona . Faye Emerson , the picture's leading lady , has actually a rather limited role , but she makes good use of her screen time as a Sofia nightclub owner with a sad story to tell Lorre . The large supporting cast features a considerable number of European character actors . Especially noteworthy are Kurt Katch as a Turkish police detective ; Eduardo Ciannelli as a helpful Bulgarian reporter ; Victor Francen as a cat-loving spy master living in Switzerland ; and Steven Geray as a most unfortunate Yugoslavian governmental clerk . Chatty Florence Bates livens up her one short scene as an American society hostess living in Istanbul . Set in 1938 , the film was produced during World War Two . It is a fine example of how movie magic and back lot technology could transport an audience to a temporarily inaccessible geographic location .
Antique Western Worth Remembering	During the Civil War , FIGHTING CARAVANS of freight wagons make their way West , crossing hostile Indian country . This sturdy Zane Grey Western , largely forgotten over the decades , offers some fine entertainment with its good performances and vivid location filming . The number of wagons , livestock and extras used show that Paramount Studios paid out a fair few pennies for decent production values . The dramatic struggles across the wilderness and a rousing Indian attack help punch up the action considerably . Laconic Gary Cooper stars as the trail guide helping to lead the teamsters and settlers through dangerous territory . Hot-tempered Lili Damita plays a solitary French maiden driving her wagon West . Their intermittent romance is completely predictable , but the two young performers make it all very watchable . Stealing their every scene are a pair of old pros from the Silent days : Ernest Torrence & Tully Marshall . Playing a couple of grizzled , drunken , women-hating trail guides - - as well as Coop's best buddies - - they are very amusing in their attempts to break-up the budding romance between their protg and the troubling Miss Damita . Rotund Eugene Palette is on hand as a lovelorn member of the wagon train . Charles Winninger enlivens the film's opening minutes as the blustery Marshal of Independence , Missouri . Movie mavens will recognize sweet Jane Darwell as a pioneer and Iron Eyes Cody as a Fort Indian in search of firewater , both uncredited .
Action , Adventure & Romance In The Yukon	The Yukon Gold Rush : A savage dog and a lonely man each respond to THE CALL OF THE WILD , that primordial release of primitive urges , in their own way . It should be understood immediately that this movie only borrows the title and a few incidents from Jack London's classic novel . And at that point the comparison between the two should end . This film , rousing & adventurous , is able to stand on its own merits . An excellent cast , fine production values ( notice particularly the care with which Skagway & Dawson are depicted ) and location shooting in Washington State are the film's strongest assets . The plot , meant solely for entertainment , is pure hokum . . . Clark Gable brings his trademark masculinity to a role that didn't require a lot of stretching of his thespian muscles . But in essentially playing himself he is perfectly cast . One cannot overcome the suspicion that London's original story was reworked for the star . Gable had been through this before - remote setting , forces of nature , beautiful woman , adultery . Think RED DUST in the snow . Loretta Young is the beautiful woman . From scene to scene , no matter what the hardship , she remains living proof that a first class Hollywood makeup job can withstand the worst ravages of the Klondike . This is perhaps too harsh . Like Gable , little more is required of her than to exude physicality . She is indeed a treat to the eyes , even if her inclusion in the plot is patently ludicrous . ( The on screen attraction between Gable & Young wasn't faked . A daughter , ostensibly ' adopted ' by Young in France , would be the result . ) As Gable's sidekick , comic Jack Oakie has one of his best screen roles . Getting to play most of his scenes strictly for laughs , he adds chuckles to the story which , one assumes , would have outraged London . Twisting his usual pomposity to a sinister bent , English character actor Reginald Owen is memorable as the film's villain . Dangerously wicked , he makes us want to know more about this man called Smith , with money to burn and a raging temper . The screenplay , wisely , leaves his biography up to the imagination of the viewer . Sidney Toler & Herman Bing are very good in small roles . Movie mavens will recognize Arthur Housman , veteran of many Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts , as a Skagway drunk with a surprisingly mean punch . The affection between Gable and Buck , the great St . Bernard with whom he shares so many scenes , is obvious .
War Drama Still Highly Significant	With her peaceful English life suddenly thrown into turmoil by the Second World War , MRS . MINIVER continues to provide a solid rock of security for her family . Released seven months after America's entry into the War , this film did a great deal to inform the American people about Britain's defiance against Nazi Germany and the steadfast resolution of the British people in the face of seemingly overwhelming odds . Coming at a time of heightened emotions - as well as being expertly produced and extremely well acted - it is easy to see why the film earned 6 Oscars , including Best Picture & Best Director . Greer Garson is completely marvelous in the title role , ( for which she won the Best Actress Oscar ) , presenting a portrait of grace & courage under fire which transcends mere acting . She is representing an entire island full of women who grew the crops & ran the factories and kept the nation operating while the men went to battle . Through her wonderful performance , Garson shows how those she symbolized more than did their part in the fight against the Axis . Two other ladies give outstanding performances in the film . As the local aristocrat , Dame May Whitty is properly imperious & proud , yet the viewer sees her character unbend over the course of the film to become much more vulnerable . Winning the Best Supporting Actress Oscar , lovely Teresa Wright is luminous as Dame May's granddaughter . Sweetly sensible , elegantly at ease , joyous during hardships , Miss Wright gives a performance not easy to forget . In solid , understated roles , both Walter Pidgeon as Mr . Miniver & Richard Ney as his elder son , supply good support to the ladies in the cast . Pidgeon gets to pilot one of the Little Boats to Dunkirk and Ney becomes a flyer with the RAF , but both are performed in an almost subdued manner , leaving the heroics to the women . A quintet of fine actors add small , deft brushstrokes to the movie's canvas : cherubic Henry Travers as the station-master who delights in the gentle art of breeding roses ; blustery Reginald Owen as the local storekeeper who eagerly takes over as air raid warden ; kindly Henry Wilcoxon as the village vicar ; blunt Rhys Williams as the boyfriend of the Miniver's maid ( comically played by Brenda Forbes ) ; and Helmut Dantine as the pitiless German pilot who briefly invades the Miniver household . Six-year-old Christopher Severn will either delight or annoy as the Miniver's talkative infant son . Clare Sandars , as his slightly older sister , is left something of a cipher by the script . Movie mavens should recognize Ian Wolfe , uncredited as a boatman helping with the Dunkirk rescue . The scenes involving the brutal aerial bombardment are still vividly suspenseful , focusing primarily on the faces of the actors involved .
Dame Detectives	Two gold digging chorines think they can solve the mystery of a criminal's murder and a GIRL MISSING on her wedding night . Fast-moving & fun , this is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Brothers was so expert at producing . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Warners ' wisecracking brassy blonde , Glenda Farrell , and pretty Mary Brian play the chorus girls stranded in Florida who must crack the homicide and kidnapping case in order to earn the sizable reward . They are both excellent in their roles , with sassy Farrell especially funny slinging her one-liners . Ben Lyon plays the newlywed husband with much unexpected trouble on his hands . Lyle Talbot appears as a successful New York gigolo gone adventuring to Miami . Little Ferdinand Gottschalk is the eccentric parent of the purloined bride and wonderful character actor Guy Kibbee enlivens his few scenes as an old lecher desperate to get his hands on Miss Brian . Movie mavens will recognize Louise Beavers as a maid & Walter Brennan as a garage attendant , both uncredited .
Fine Telling Of Fantasy Tale	A wonderful PEACHBOY vows to vanquish a dreadful island full of evil ogres and rescue all the people kidnapped years before . The folks at Rabbit Ears have brought us another international story , this time from Japan , which quietly teaches lessons of courage , comradeship & commitment . The expressive narration of Sigourney Weaver is perfectly complemented by the evocative music of Ryuich Sakamoto and the colorful drawings of Jeffrey Smith .
A Heavenly Performance From Edmund Gwenn	THE BISHOP MISBEHAVES , perhaps just a little , when he sets aside his ecclesiastical duties to attempt solving a puzzling robbery in a neighboring pub . This is a splendid little crime comedy from MGM , sadly neglected , which boasts fine production values and , most especially , delightful performances from a small constellation of first-rate character actors . Edmund Gwenn - in his American movie debut - is charming in the title role , a small , cherubic cleric who loves to read detective novels . Incisive & methodical , he misses very little and faces danger with bubbling enthusiasm . Watching him deal with an assortment of villains is great entertainment . Lucile Watson , as his elderly sister , also plays her part with a superb sense of fun . As the romantic interests , Maureen O ' Sullivan & Norman Foster add a fine comedic flair to their roles . Here's a pair of lovebirds who don't mind getting involved in theft & kidnapping - for a good cause . ( Mr . Foster would eventually become a director of fine repute , associating with Orson Welles & Walt Disney . ) Reginald Owen makes a marvelous , blustery bad guy . Robert Greig , instead of portraying one of his usual plumy butlers , surprises as a Limehouse lowlife who enjoys needlepoint while plotting crimes . Clicking , chittering Etienne Girardot is hilarious as Gwenn's nervous amanuensis . Lilian Bond , Dudley Digges & Melville Cooper round out the excellent cast . If only the Church of England could have more bishops like Edmund Gwenn . . .
Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy Invite You To Join Them In Scotland & Imperial India	Stan & Ollie arrive in BONNIE SCOTLAND to claim Stan's inheritance . Through a series of mishaps , the Boys end up in the British Army , stationed in India & threatened with imminent death at the hands of a fierce tribal chief . . . With rather more plot than usual in a typical Laurel & Hardy film - the romantic subplot has virtually nothing to do with Stan & Ollie - this is still a delight for fans of the Boys . By this point in their joint career they were past perfection & beyond praise . Seeing them act together is like watching an intricate piece of clockwork . Among the highlights here : the candle under the bed ; the ' invisible ' accordion ; and the dance to ? A Hundred Pipers ' . Stan & Ollie are given fine support by the rest of the cast : Mary Gordon , as the hotel proprietress ; David Torrence , as a crusty old lawyer ; Daphne Pollard , as a feisty little maid ; and James Finlayson , the Boys ' eternal foil , as their long-suffering Sergeant Major . June Lang & William Janney supply the romantics . The lovely opening shots of Village life set the mood beautifully ; early scene where blacksmith Lionel Belmore hammers out the ' Cuckoo Song ' - while the Boys make their first appearance & march towards the camera - is a joy .
Disney's Deluge	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Work is proceeding at a hectic pace to complete the building of FATHER NOAH'S ARK . Each of the eight humans , and all of the animals , have specific chores to do . The immense task is no sooner finished than the storm clouds start rolling in . . . A lively retelling of the Biblical story . The large menagerie of animals are fun to look at and must have kept the animators very busy . Most Sunday School lessons would not include the rabbit & dog gags with which Disney ends the cartoon . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Little Shirley Struts Her Stuff	Fleeing from bandit-ridden China , a cute & incredibly precocious little orphan accidentally becomes a STOWAWAY on a luxury liner . Once aboard , she proceeds to charm ( nearly ) everyone in sight , while working to bring about the marriage of two lonely Americans . Shirley Temple switches on her megawatt smile & captures the viewers ' hearts once more in this pleasant , crowd pleasing movie . Amply displaying the charm which made her Hollywood's box office queen for years , Shirley gets to sing , dance , and even speak quite a bit of Chinese . Robert Young & Alice Faye appear as the romantic leads , and they do a good job , but ultimately they are just so much grist for Shirley's mill . Little Miss Temple always found her stiffest acting competition coming from the character performers and this film features some fine examples : Helen Westley as a dreadful mother-in-law in-waiting ; wonderful Arthur Treacher as Young's comic butler ; Eugene Palette , boisterous as a perpetually inebriated American ; Philip Ahn as a faithful friend of Shirley's family ; Willie Fung as the negligent boatman who spirits her to Shanghai ; J . Edward Bromberg as a no-nonsense judge ; and Robert Greig as the kindly ship captain . 20th Century Fox obviously pumped a good deal of money into this film and the production values show it . The scenes in China are particularly well done , although the use of rear projection during Shirley's walk near the Shanghai waterfront is all too obvious . Shirley sings ' Goodnight My Love , ' ' That's What I Want For Christmas ' & ' You've Gotta S-M-I-L-E To Be H-A-double P-Y ' . During the performance of this latter song Shirley mimics Al Jolson , Eddie Cantor & Ginger Rogers . Originally , she also impersonated Mae West but that segment was considered too hot and excised .
A Classic Of Gender Reversal	A powerful FEMALE tycoon is accustomed to getting everything she wants - including men - until she meets a fellow utterly unimpressed by her wealth . Ruth Chatterton completely dominates this brilliant , fascinating little film , until off-screen spouse George Brent shows up midway through the proceedings . Deftly handling the details of her life - from controlling her commercial competitors to adroitly arranging her next romantic conquest , Chatterton never lets up for a moment . Suave & composed , Brent arrives on the scene , calmly pegging targets in a sideshow , and presents the immovable object to her irresistible force . Definitely pre-Code , the script throws a few zingers into the face of complacent modern viewers , with Chatterton & Brent doing all they can to entertain their audience . If her toughness turns into compliant conformity at the fadeout , it's a small price to pay for an hour's amusement . Impish Ferdinand Gottschalk steals several scenes as Chatterton's fey factotum , while Ruth Donnelly makes the most of her tiny role as a spinster secretary . Johnny Mack Brown & Philip Reed are two of Chatterton's discarded young men . Movie mavens will recognize Robert Greig & Rafaela Ottiano as Chatterton's butler & maid , as well as elderly Charley Grapewin as a sidewalk inebriate , all uncredited . Warner Brothers gave the film a first-rate production ; the terrific sets use detail to add to the story , rather than detract from it . Also , notice the ironic use of the Harry Warren tune during the seduction scenes ; by the end of 1933 it would be famous as ' Shanghai Lil , ' ( with lyrics by Al Dubin ) climaxing Warner's FOOTLIGHT PARADE .
A Cinematic Peek At Italy	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . This colorful little film takes the viewer VISITING ITALY , quickly looking at the highlights in the cities of Rome , Assisi , Pisa & Florence . The beautiful Italian countryside is also glimpsed in passing . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Brown's Peak	Dazzled by the BRIGHT LIGHTS of Broadway success , a burlesque actor is blinded as to what's really most important in life . The film career of Joe E . Brown , Warner's rubber-faced comedian , essentially reached its zenith in this very enjoyable little comedy / drama obviously tailored for Joe's considerable skills . All too soon a change of studios would sidetrack Brown into cheaply made movies which would inevitably dim his celebrity . But here , in this backstage show biz story , his talents may still be enjoyed at full throttle . Although the movie was directed by Busby Berkeley , it includes none of his celebrated dance extravaganzas , focusing instead on personality rather than pulchritude . The film is fortunate in that Brown , presented as a Broadway star , is genuinely funny when engaging in his slapstick humor . Whether dangerously balancing on a balcony rail as part of his stage act , using his tremendous mouth to great advantage while telling a party story about a ' little mousie , ' or engaging in impressive nightclub acrobatic stunts with The Maxellos , Joe is never less than hilarious . Although the focus is firmly on Brown , he is given able support from the rest of the cast : Ann Dvorak as his patient , long-suffering wife ; Joseph Cawthorn as a fatherly theatrical troupe manager ; William Gargan as an energetic press agent ; and lovely Patricia Ellis as a stage bound heiress . William Demarest appears for a few seconds as a determined detective . Best of all is Arthur Treacher , wonderful as Brown's impeccable new valet . Movie mavens will recognize sour faced Clarence Wilson as a train station clerk .
Takin ' A Train Trip With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Vaudeville musicians Stan & Ollie board a train heading for Pottsville . Finding their reserved ' upper ' , their attempts to get into it & maneuver around it are a study in total frustration . They'll have more bruises than just BERTH MARKS when they finally reach their destination . This little film is pure slapstick and very funny . The Boys make travelling in an upper berth look absolutely hideous .
Another Successful Military Engagement For William Haines	A brash , self-centered Army cadet arrives at WEST POINT with a dangerous wise guy attitude towards the Corps . In a role obviously tailor-made for him , William Haines shines in this highly enjoyable tale of honor & friendship . A grade-A scene stealer , Haines during the first half of the film is up to his usual Silly Billy behavior , which under normal circumstances should have gotten him confined to the guardhouse . The last half , however , becomes very serious , leading up to Haines ' moral redemption and giving him a fine opportunity to exhibit his acting talents . If WEST POINT does not quite reach the caliber of Haines ' previous TELL IT TO THE MARINES ( 1926 ) , this is doubtless due to the absence here of a costar of the charisma & quality of Lon Chaney for Haines to interact with . However , this tribute to the Army is very effective entertainment and should be appreciated on its own merit . Joan Crawford appears as Haines ' love interest , playing the virginal daughter of the local innkeeper . Joan is pert & pretty and especially shines in her first scenes , when she meets Haines on a Hudson River ferry and is subjected to his usual immature antics . Haines & Crawford made five silent feature films together and were tremendous friends for life . He was the much bigger celebrity at this period and gave her many hints for getting ahead in Hollywood . A superstar herself by the early 1930's , she reciprocated after his ouster from MGM in 1932 by encouraging his career change to interior decoration . Little William Bakewell is effectively cast as a Plebe who idolizes Haines ; their relationship is actually given more of a sentimental treatment than that of Haines & Crawford . The film was made with the full cooperation of the War Department . Extensive location filming at the Academy helps tremendously with the production's ambiance , which was given splendid production values by MGM . WEST POINT has been recently restored and given a rousing new score by David Davidson .
Three Sillies At Sea	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . TUGBOAT MICKEY , along with crewmen Donald Duck & Goofy , attempts to rush to the rescue of a quickly sinking ship . Here is another classic little film , with excellent animation and lots of good laughs . Many younger viewers may not understand the final gag , what with all the changes in American popular entertainment since 1940 . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice ; Clarence Nash does the honors for the Duck . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pre-Code Soap Suds	A beautiful young model finds THE EASIEST WAY to support her needy family is to become a rich man's mistress - - until she falls in love with an energetic reporter . This little film is strictly soap opera , but it's well presented and makes a pleasant diversion . The production values are good , especially in the opening sequence which reveals the inside of a tenement flat , and causes the viewer to appreciate the trouble MGM expended on even its small pictures . Beautiful Constance Bennett is very convincing as a woman who frankly admits her moral standing - - until true love complicates everything . Urbane Adolphe Menjou , as the rich businessman who controls Bennett , is slightly more sympathetic than usual in a role he could probably have played in his sleep . And Robert Montgomery gives his patented friendly portrayal as the steadfast fellow who earnestly loves Bennett - - until he is told the truth of her situation . A fine supporting cast helps the proceedings : tough-talking Marjorie Rambeau as an aging model out to squeeze every penny possible from the male animal ; lazy J . Farrell MacDonald & careworn Clara Blandick as Bennett's poor parents ; blonde Anita Page as Bennett's lively younger sister ; and sturdy Clark Gable , as Page's laundryman boyfriend , who would eventually supplant Montgomery as MGM's favorite heartthrob . Movie mavens will recognize jovial Dell Henderson and stately Hedda Hopper , both uncredited as Bennett's Colorado hosts .
One Of The Best Eisenhower Era Science Fiction Films	This is the tale of the very cruel joke played upon a young man by Fate . Against horrifying odds he triumphs and retains his dignity . In so doing , this film is raised from being a merely superior monster movie to one of strangely spiritual significance . The special effects are still pleasing and the tarantula remains one of Cinema's truly terrifying embodiments of mindless evil . This was to be Grant William's finest film . He died in 1985 at the age of only 54 .
Disney Opens An Ancient Tomb	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A large spider enters the Sphinx at Giza and makes its way to the burial chamber . Once there , the adventurous arachnid gets the scare of its life when the mummies & wall paintings come to life to the strains of EGYPTIAN MELODIES . . . This is a wacky , wonderful black & white cartoon . Forget the plot - there almost isn't any . When the stylized wall paintings awake , the animators indulge themselves in a perfect riot of humorous movement which delights the eye . These few moments are one of the great unheralded gems of early Disney animation . Also noteworthy is the sinuous ease with which the ' camera ' flows along the corridors & down the staircases inside the Sphinx . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Cagney Struts His Stuff In Busby Berkley Spectacular	The energetic young producer of theatrical prologues ( those staged performances , usually musical , that often proceeded the movie in the larger cinemas in bygone days ) must deal with crooked competition , fraudulent partners , unfaithful lovers & amateur talent to realize his dream of making his mark on the FOOTLIGHT PARADE . While closely resembling other Warner's musical spectaculars , notably the GOLDDIGGER films , this movie had a special attraction none of the others had : Jimmy Cagney . He is a wonder , loose-jointed and lithe , as agile as any tomcat - a creature he actually mimics a few times during the movie . Cagney grabs the viewers attention & never lets go , powering the rapid-fire dialogue and corny plot with his charisma & buoyant charm . The rest of the cast gives their best , as well . Joan Blondell is perfect as the smart-mouthed , big-hearted blonde secretary , infatuated with Cagney ( major quibble - why wasn't she given a musical number ? ) . Dick Powell & Ruby Keeler once again play lovers onstage & off ; the fact that her singing & acting abilities are a bit on the lean side are compensated for by her dancing ; Powell still exudes boyish enthusiasm in his unaccustomed position as second male lead . Guy Kibbee & Hugh Herbert are lots of fun as brothers-in-law , both scheming to cheat Cagney in different ways . Ruth Donnelly scores as Kibbee's wealthy wife , a woman devoted to her handsome protgs . Frank McHugh's harried choreographer is an apt foil for Cagney's wit . Herman Bing is hilarious in his one tiny scene as a music arranger . Mavens will spot little Billy Barty , Jimmy Conlin & maybe even John Garfield during the musical numbers . Finally , there's Busby Berkeley , choreographer nonpareil . His terpsichorean confections , sprinkled throughout the decade of the 1930's , were a supreme example of the cinematic escapism that Depression audiences wanted to enjoy . The big joke about Berkeley's creations , of course , was that they were meant , as part of the plot , to be stage productions . But no theater could ever hold these products of the master's imagination . They are perfect illustrations of the type of entertainment only made possible by the movie camera . Berkeley's musical offerings generally took one of two different approaches , either a story ( often rather bizarre ) told with song & dance ; or else stunning geometrically designed numbers , eye candy , featuring plentiful chorus girls , overhead camerawork & a romantic tune . In a spasm of outr extravagance , FOOTLIGHT PARADE climaxes with three Berkeley masterworks : ' Honeymoon Hotel ' and its pre-Production Code telling of a couple's wedding night ; ' By A Waterfall ' - dozens of unclad females , splashing , floating & diving in perfect patterns & designs ( peer closely & you'll see how the synchronous effects were achieved ) ; and finally , ' Shanghai Lil ' - a fitting tribute to the talents of both Cagney & Berkeley .
A Slice of History , Cinema Style	Just how did India become part of the British Empire ? This film will introduce you to Robert Clive , one of the great names in English history . After viewing , a perusal of the Encyclopaedia Britannica convinced me that essentially the film got most of the facts right . This is a colorful , sometimes a little violent , story ( empires don't come easy ) which also deals with the political complications for men who take Big Chances . Ronald Colman is always fun to watch . Loretta Young is beautiful , even if her American accent gets in the way of her performance occasionally . Cesar Romero , Colin Clive & Sir C . Aubrey Smith all have small rolls . The historical Clive died an opium addict and a suicide at the age of only 49 . CLIVE OF INDIA shows us a little of his brilliance and tragedy .
Disney Invades The Poultry Yard	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Fighting COCK O ' THE WALK arrives in town , the star of his own conceited parade , and proceeds to win the hearts of all the biddies . He latches onto fickle Prunella Pullet , who acquiesces completely to his charms - much to the chagrin of her skinny boyfriend , Hick Rooster . . . This is a very colorful & entertaining cartoon . Its highlight is a wild spoof of Hollywood dance musicals , from Rogers / Astaire ( complete with " The Carioca " ) to a terpsichorean extravaganza even Busby Berkeley would be proud of . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
" To The Victor Belongs The Spoils "	A Walt Disney GOOFY CartoonTHE OLYMPIC CHAMP was the greatest athlete of the ancient world . And then there's the Goof . . . This very humorous little film was one of the best of the Sports Goofy cartoons , what with its above average animation and sly commentary . Tidbits of interesting information may be gleaned concerning the tradition of the Torchbearer and various Olympic track & field sports - running , hurtling , the pole vault , the hammer throw and the decathlon . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Marvelous Mary In Her Final Little Girl Role	A spunky orphan girl , enslaved on a horrible baby farm , looks after the younger children as tenderly as Christ cares for His little SPARROWS . Mary Pickford , America's Sweetheart and the most popular movie star in Hollywood's history , had made a career out of playing little girls in general & orphans in particular . Her legions of international fans thrilled at her adventures in harsh orphanages , dealing with stony-hearted adults . Time relentlessly marched on , however , and it became obvious that Little Mary could not carry on the adolescent act forever . Thus , in 1926 at the age of 34 , Pickford appeared in her final orphan picture and she made sure it was a doozy . Never before had one of her characters been subjected to such hideous conditions , surrounded by quicksand , starved & overworked , living at the mercy of a self-avowed baby killer - a reptilian old reprobate who doesn't hesitate to ' chuck children into the swamp ' whenever he feels like it . Mary's audiences ate it up like sweet molasses on hot cornbread . Several sequences are memorable . The selling of a little boy to a hog-buying farmer sets up a remarkably poignant shot : as the little fellow is driven out of the gates of the baby farm he feebly waves farewell towards the barn , where Mary & the other children remain hidden ; poking through cracks & crevices in the wooden structure several hands sadly wave back . Later , the coming of The Good Shepherd for the dead baby cradled in Mary's arms would have been maudlin in less reverent hands ; here it succeeds because it is presented with true emotion . Finally , the escape & chase across the swamp , with desperate Mary leading eight tiny children through the perils of mud & crocodiles , is still as exciting & suspenseful now as it was at the film's inception . Gustav von Seyffertitz makes a marvelously hissable villain ; abetted by his vile wife & unspeakable son , old Grimes is evil to his very core . His final fate is both just & emphatically well-deserved . SPARROWS boasts very high production values , and although burdened with a couple of climaxes too many , Mary's lively performance should effortlessly win over the toughest of critics .
Excellent Golden Era Film	' In the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia , on THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE , ' a young woman discovers love , but no respite from the violent feud which has torn apart two families . Full of good performances & boasting excellent production values courtesy of Paramount Studios , this fine drama brings to its viewers a not-so-subtle message of peace & tolerance . The vividly depicted consequences of mindless , violent behavior give the film a real punch . The film's romantic triangle consists of barefoot mountain lass Sylvia Sidney , her decent , uncomplicated cousin Henry Fonda , and mining executive Fred MacMurray , who , as a newcomer to the backwoods , rebels against the traditions of violence & revenge he finds there . All three deliver compelling performances , with a slight advantage going to the gentlemen , as their roles do not require as much shrill , fickle behavior as does Miss Sidney's . The marvelous character actress Beulah Bondi appears as Miss Sidney's mother , one of the first in a decades-long line of stubborn , proud old women she would play ; her eyes tell of the world of trouble her character has seen on the mountain . Cuddly Nigel Bruce is MacMurray's associate - gruff & grumbly , but with a heart of gold . Special mention should be made of seven-year-old Spanky McFarland , who plays Miss Sidney's little brother . Already the star of numerous OUR GANG comedies , the tiny tyke here displays the talent that placed him in the front rank of child movie stars . Precocious & poignant , Spanky's character is quite unforgettable . Fred Stone & Robert Barrat play the heads of the two feuding clans , one gentle - the other fierce . Movie mavens will recognize Clara Blandick as a frightened landlady and Samuel S . Hinds as the Gaptown sheriff . The film is stitched together by the evocative , nostalgic singing of Fuzzy Knight , who introduces ? Twilight On The Trail ' & ? A Melody From The Sky , ' ( both by Louis Alter and Sidney D . Mitchell ) . The tune for the chorus of ? The Trail Of The Lonesome Pine , ' by Ballard MacDonald & Harry Carroll , can be briefly heard during the opening credits ; viewers will need to watch Laurel & Hardy's WAY OUT WEST ( 1937 ) to hear this fine old song actually sung . Famous as the first outdoor film produced in full Technicolor , THE TRAIL OF THE LONESOME PINE benefits greatly from its location filming near Cedar Lake , in California's San Bernardino Mountains .
All Runners Batted In	ELMER , THE GREAT home run hitter doesn't want to leave his pretty boss in Gentryville , Indiana , to play ball for the Chicago Cubs . Rubber-limbed comic Joe E . Brown scores big in this fine little comedy . Without even trying , the fellow could be funny - his huge grin and mischievous eyes a sure catalyst for laughter . In his first scenes , the mere act of his putting on his socks or eating his breakfast is a riot . The film also gives him a chance to suffer from unrequited love and face the abuse heaped on him for his yokel ways as he tries to deal with professional ballplayers and dangerous gamblers . Brown carries it all off with natural aplomb . A sturdy cast lends fine support : pretty Patricia Ellis as Brown's conflicted boss ; sweet Emma Dunn as his loving mother ; goofy Sterling Holloway , perfectly cast , as Brown's baseball-mad younger brother ( notice that Holloway's name is spelled incorrectly in the credits ) . Blustery Berton Churchill plays the owner of the Cubs , Preston Foster is the manager . Genial Frank McHugh plays the Cubs catcher . Claire Dodd has a mysterious role ; she seems to be a chum of the ballplayers and little else - but at least she's easy on the eyes and the plot doesn't try to set up a silly romance between her and Brown . Casino hoodlum J . Carrol Naish plays the film's villain . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Jessie Ralph as Brown's plain speaking , softhearted housekeeper . The early scenes in Gentryville have a delightfully homespun , nostalgic charm which the later Chicago sequences can't match . Notice the fine use the minimal soundtrack makes of just two songs : ? Take Me Out To The Ball Game ' & ? On The Banks Of The Wabash . ' Brown's use of a four-letter word near the film's climax underscores the film's pre-Code status . Also of interest , in the last inning of the final World Series game , the plot has the catcher & pitcher of the New York Yankees deliberately and maliciously cheat in an attempt to win . One wonders what Babe Ruth & Lou Gehrig must have thought of that . . . ELMER , THE GREAT was the second of Brown's ? baseball trilogy , ' the other films being FIREMAN , SAVE MY CHILD ( 1932 ) & ALIBI IKE ( 1935 ) .
Triple Threat	THREE STRANGERS stake their future fortunes on the whims of Kwan Yin , an ancient Chinese goddess . The original story behind this tidy little thriller was originally conceived by John Huston as a sequel to THE MALTESE FALCON ( 1941 ) . That not proving possible , it was shaped into its present form with help from the writer Howard Koch and turned over to the noted director Jean Negulesco . The film stars Sydney Greenstreet & Peter Lorre in one of their several pairings . Greenstreet , huge and implacable , plays a desperately duplicitous solicitor . Spooky-eyed Lorre , who gets to play a rare romantic role , is a petty criminal on the lam from the police . Their actual screen time together is sparse , but they make the most of it - - the nervous little fellow playing perfectly off of the rumbling fat man . Greenstreet , especially , overacts magnificently , descending into melancholia and , eventually , madness , to the delight of the viewer . Geraldine Fitzgerald is pure vixen as the third member of the trio , a woman so consumed by jealousy , and obsessed with the supposed powers of the goddess Kwan Yin , that she has ceased being influenced by natural love & affection . Every man's nightmare , she is unadulterated malice . The supporting cast includes the sprightly Joan Lorring as Lorre's loyal girlfriend ; Alan Napier as Fitzgerald's estranged husband ; Rosalind Ivan as a widowed dowager still in communication with her deceased husband ; Arthur Shields as a stern prosecutor ; and the always competent Doris Lloyd as Lorre's slovenly landlady . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Ian Wolfe as a London barrister .
Getting Courage With Mr . Lloyd	GRANDMA'S BOY is a terribly timid fellow until the old lady decides to instill some much needed courage into him . This sweetly poignant and very funny film started off as a two-reeler , but star Harold Lloyd , with the approval of producer Hal Roach , kept adding gags until the completed picture ran about an hour . Harold also wanted something else - to instill a serious element to the story and his character , an innovation new to American comedy films . He succeeded brilliantly , with the finished film a joy , blending the hilarious and the sentimental seamlessly . As always , Harold is a special treat to watch , his amazing athletic abilities made even more impressive by the fact that he was missing half of his right hand . The plot makes Harold deal with both a contemptible bully and a vicious tramp , giving our hero full opportunity for running , falling , leaping & almost endless fisticuffs , all of which he carries off with great skill and good humor . And just to show that his bag of tricks is not depleted Harold throws in an uproarious Civil War flashback to delight the viewer . Lovely Mildred Davis plays the girl of Harold's dreams . Charles Stevenson as the Rival and Dick Sutherland as the Tramp both make wonderful villains . Noah Young , who so often played the heavy in Harold's films , here has the relatively small role as the sheriff of Blossom Bend . Best of all is sweet elderly Anna Townsend , playing Harold's little darling of a grandma ; whether attacking the Tramp with a broom or rejoicing at her grandson's newly found courage , she remains the heart of this very special movie . Anna Townsend would die the following year , 1923 , at the age of 78 . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
To Heal The Sick	With almost Biblical intensity , a courageous doctor searches for the cure for a disease which ravaged the South in the years before 1920 . This short film memorably profiles Dr . Joseph Goldberger ( 1874-1929 ) and his conquest of the scourge pellagra . Shepperd Strudwick plays the good doctor . The extracts from newsreel footage woven into the narrative give the story historical authenticity . ( To be technically specific , the missing protein substance which caused the dietary deficiency was niacin , and was identified after Goldberger's death . ) Directed by Fred Zinnemann , this was part of the MGM series John Nesbitt's Passing Parade , and was narrated by Mr . Nesbitt . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Bill Wolfe , W . C . Fields ' buddy , appearing for a few moments as a hungry , destitute man . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Fond Look Back	A Warner Bros . Short Subject . An elderly gentleman tells his granddaughter about THOSE GOOD OLD DAYS of vaudeville . William T . Orr energetically performs his way through three sprightly musical numbers which illustrate a typical song-and-dance man's routine in the glory days of vaudeville . This pleasant little film was helmed by Jean Negulesco , later a celebrated director . Notice the mention of television in the script . It greatly threatened the popularity of movies & radio , which had themselves been the cause of the demise of vaudeville . The reference is also ironic in that Mr . Orr would eventually become an important & talented executive producer in the new medium , responsible for many successful TV shows . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Disney's Freeway Safety Lesson	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . GOOFY'S FREEWAY TROUBLES begin the moment he leaves common sense behind and heads out onto the busy motor ways . This valuable cartoon is full of practical advice on how to maintain safety while driving America's most dangerous roads . Goofy illustrates in the persona of Stupidicus ultimus . Paul Frees supplies the narration . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Classic Walt Disney Nature Documentary	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE Short Subject . NATURE'S HALF ACRE could be anywhere - a backyard , a corner of an abandoned orchard , or a patch of wildflowers . Wherever , it teams with a myriad of life . Focusing on the domestic lives of birds & honeybees ( plus looks at spiders , mud dauber wasps & chameleons ) , this superior & compelling little documentary climaxes with superb time-lapse photography of blossoming flowers . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . These films are photographed in their natural settings and are completely authentic , unstaged and unrehearsed . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
Mr . Langdon Brings Down The House	A shy young Belgian immigrate searches for the American girl who wrote of her love to him during the Great War . Director Frank Capra and clown Harry Langdon together fashioned THE STRONG MAN , one of the finest comedies of the Silent Era . Moving the action from No Man's Land in Western Europe , to Ellis Island and the hectic streets of New York , and finally to the temporarily corrupted village of Cloverdale , Capra & Langdon expertly mix belly laughs with scenes of great emotional tenderness . If either of them had never made another film , this one would have been enough to have ensured each a footnote in movie history . Langdon's minimalist style is highlighted in a series of vignettes which perfectly captures his unique adult baby persona : Harry's hilarious encounter with Broadway Lily , which includes his classic up-the-stairs-backward routine ; Harry's finding of blind Mary Brown and the incredibly poignant way in which he immediately falls in love with her ; Langdon's hapless impersonation of The Strong Man and his single-handed battle against a saloon full of bad guys . A sturdy cast gives able support : Gertrude Astor as dangerous Lily ; saintly William V . Mong as Holy Joe , the Cloverdale minister ; Priscilla Bonner as sweet Mary ; beefy Arthur Thalasso as The Great Zandow ; Robert McKim as Cloverdale's wicked criminal boss ; and Brooks Benedict as a tough passenger encountered by Harry on a bus . A quick caricature of Harry , dressed in his policeman's uniform from the end of the movie , appears courtesy of Walt Disney at the beginning of the animated MICKEY'S GALA PREMIER ( 1933 ) .
Tears & Laughter With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Living with their wicked stepmother , Wheezer & Dorothy discover that DOGS IS DOGS when the evil woman threatens Pete , but protects nasty Sherwood's pedigreed Nero . Things start to move fast , however , when Sherwood falls down a well & Pete is accused of killing the neighbor's chickens . A very good little film , with equal measures of comedy & tears . It's difficult to watch Wheezer being beaten . Standout performance from the inimitable Stymie . Highlight : Stymie's ham & eggs story . That's Billy Gilbert as the crazed neighbor with the gun .
Frozen North Comes Alive In Forgotten Documentary	The arrival of White Men in Arctic Canada challenges the freedom of a fearless ESKIMO hunter . W . S . Van Dyke , MGM's peripatetic director , was responsible for this fascinating look at life in the Arctic among the Inuit . His production was on location filming from April 1932 until November 1933 ( although some annoying rear projection effects show that some of the shooting took place back at the Studio ) . While considered a documentary at the time , we would likely term it a ' docudrama ' as it is scripted with an intriguing plot & storyline . The film shows the daily life of the Eskimo , both Winter & Summer , and in fact starts in the warmer time of the year without any snow or ice in sight . The constant striving for food is depicted , and the viewer gets to watch the exciting hunts for walrus , polar bear , whale & caribou . The native language is used throughout , with the use of title cards ; the only English is spoken by the fishermen & Mounties encountered by the Eskimo . In fact , it is the arrival of White Men , both good & bad , and the change they make on Eskimo society , which is a major element in the narrative . This Pre-Code film deals in a refreshingly frank manner with the Eskimo moral code , particularly with their practice of wife-sharing , which was an important and completely innocent part of their culture . In fact , the entire film can be appreciated as a valuable look at a way of life which was rapidly disappearing even in the early 1930's . None of the cast receives screen credit , which is a shame as there are some notable performances . Foremost among them is that of Ray Wise , playing the leading role of Mala the Eskimo . Wise ( 1906-1952 ) was an Alaskan Native of Inuit ancestry and is absolutely splendid and perfectly believable in what was a very demanding part . As handsome as any Hollywood star , he would continue acting , using the name of Ray Mala , in a sporadic film career , often in tiny unbilled roles . Lovely Japanese-Hawaiian actress Lotus Long plays Mala's loyal second wife ; the names of the fine actresses playing his other two wives are now obscure . Director Woody Van Dyke steps in front of the cameras as a strict North West Mounted Police inspector . The two decent-hearted Mounties who must deliver Mala to Canadian justice are played by Joe Sawyer & Edgar Dearing , both longtime movie character actors . Danish author Peter Freuchen , upon whose books the film was based , has a short vivid role of an evil wooden-legged sea captain who unwisely rouses Mala's icy wrath .
Disney's Tortoise Versus Hare , Round Two	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . TOBY TORTOISE RETURNS to compete once more with Max Hare , this time in the boxing ring . What's needed now is some fancy footwork , but all Toby has to offer is ' slow and steady ' . . . This little film , a follow-up to THE TORTOISE AND THE HARE ( 1935 ) , is enjoyable & entertaining , but not on the same stylistic level as its Oscar-winning predecessor . Several characters from other SILLY SYMPHONIES make cameo appearances , including the Three Little Pigs and Jenny Wren . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Paul Robeson's Triumph	By murder & guile , a black Pullman conductor becomes THE EMPEROR JONES on an impoverished Caribbean isle . Eugene O'Neill's allegorical fable comes alive in this unique and intriguing film , recently restored by the Library of Congress . The legendary Paul Robeson dominates the film as a man who abandons his wife & Baptist upbringing to worship himself , wallowing gleefully in sin & violence as long as it furthers his goal for power & riches - the chance to become an emperor of his own tiny domain is merely the latest opportunity in a serendipitous sequence to be exploited . Robeson's athletic physique , magnificent singing voice , accomplished acting skills and over-sized personality make him the ideal choice for the complex role . Whether leading chained prisoners in song , using brains & bravado to seize his little kingdom , or slyly peering at himself in a succession of mirrors as he enters his throne room in full military regalia , Robeson is never less than fully entertaining . Fredi Washington shines in her small role as Robeson's faithful wife . Dudley Digges is appropriately unsavory as the white trader with whom Robeson must do business in order to keep his throne . Movie mavens will recognize a young Moms Mabley as the owner of a New York City nightclub ; an even younger Harold Nicholas ( of the Nicholas Brothers ) as a boy tap dancer & the wonderful Rex Ingram as Robeson's Court Crier - all uncredited . This film should be considered as a product of its times ; it makes no pretensions towards political correctness . O'Neill's play is obviously based on the historical Henri Christophe ( 1767-1820 ) , the former slave who , after being involved in the bloody revolution against the French and the assassination of his predecessor , became president of northern Haiti in 1807 and its self-proclaimed king in 1811 . Despotic & brilliant , King Henri enjoyed a reign of enormous brutality and opulence . He built for himself 6 chteaux , 8 palaces and the massive Citadelle Laferrire , still considered one of the wonders of the age . Christophe supported himself with a fabricated nobility consisting of 4 princes , 8 dukes , 22 counts , 37 barons & 14 knights . After a paralytic stroke left him disabled , the people rose in revolt and Christophe ? s followers fled . Naturally reluctant to face the wrath of his former subjects , Christophe shot himself with a silver bullet .
Delightful Disney Cartoon	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A hobo gingerbread man helps a sweet young thing become queen of THE COOKIE CARNIVAL . Varied male desserts now vie for her attention , but who will she select to be her king ? An excellent example of the wealth of imagination Disney was developing . Cookie & dessert motifs abound throughout this cartoon . That's Pinto Colvig , normally heard as Goofy , who voices the gingerbread man . And who wouldn't love to see more of Miss Jello ? The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Speeding Towards Death	The passengers of a train running from London to Edinburgh endure TERROR BY NIGHT when a murderer goes after a fabulous gem . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce yet again step into the personas of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic characters , Sherlock Holmes & Dr . Watson . As before , the two actors are the main reason for watching the film , with Rathbone the epitome of cerebral acuity , and Bruce mumbling and grumbling alongside , but Universal Studios also made sure the tale could boast of some fine atmospherics and plenty of action . Inevitably , some viewers will be reminded of Murder On The Orient Express by Dame Agatha Christie . Dennis Hoey returns as Scotland Yard's intrepid Inspector Lestrade . Alan Mowbray , one of the really fine character actors of the era , makes something of his role as a slightly stuffy retired officer from the Indian Service . Pretty Renee Godfrey plays a mysterious young woman accompanying an odd coffin to Scotland . Chubby Billy Bevan is a friendly train attendant , and Boyd Davis does well with his small role as a gruff Scots Police Inspector . There must always be eccentrics in every Sherlock Holmes film , and this one is well served by imperious Mary Forbes as an insufferable noblewoman ; cranky Frederick Worlock as a most displeased mathematics professor ; Gerald Hamer & Janet Murdock as a very nervous married couple ; and little Skelton Knaggs as a creepy killer . Movie mavens will recognize marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith , the leader of Hollywood's British Colony , in a tiny unbilled cameo as the crusty gentleman Bruce & Mowbray nearly knock over on the train platform . This film , which borrowed elements from Sir Arthur's stories The Empty House and The Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax , was preceded by PURSUIT TO ALGIERS ( 1945 ) and followed by DRESSED TO KILL ( 1946 ) , the last in the series .
Powerful Pre-Code Retail Drama	12 , 000 workers pass through the EMPLOYEES ' ENTRANCE of Franklin Monroe & Co . , the world's largest department store . Hounded & harried by their merciless management , they have produced a superior retail establishment . However , the cost in broken hearts & lives has been tremendous , as greed & ambition struggle for control of the entire corporation . . . This is an excellent film that rewards diligent attention from the viewer . Like its predecessor , SKYSCRAPER SOULS ( 1932 ) , the story takes a diverse cast of characters , puts them in a large structure , stirs in a witches ' brew of human emotions , and applies intense pressure on them all from the top down . Fine production values help the believability in this pre-Production Code drama . Warren William dominates the picture - just as he did in SKYSCRAPER SOULS ( 1932 ) in an identical role - as the store's completely amoral , conniving , tyrannical manager . He is perfect in the part and it is fascinating to watch a skilled actor portray a thoroughly bad character . As one of the finer actors of the decade , it is indeed a shame the William is all but forgotten today . The rest of the cast is excellent : Wallace Ford & Loretta Young as a secretly married couple whom William tries to corrupt ; Alice White as the store floozy , willing to drop her morals at William's command ; Ruth Donnelly as William's no-nonsense secretary ; Frank Reicher & Charles Sellon as two old men who respond in very different ways to having William destroy their livelihood ; and Hale Hamilton as the store's ineffectual , absentee owner . Movie mavens will recognize Allen Jenkins as an undercover store security officer and Charles Lane as a shoe salesman , both unbilled . Although meant to be great entertainment and nothing more , this film should raise just enough questions in the viewer's mind so as to get them pondering what really goes on behind all those closed doors at their own favorite department store .
Mister Mouse Delivers The Music	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey THE DELIVERY BOY spots Minnie washing clothes and that's all it takes for the two of them to stop and make merry music together . The action in this humorous little black & white cartoon is driven entirely by the soundtrack and its renditions of ' In The Shade Of The Old Apple Tree ' & ' Stars And Stripes Forever . ' The animators have included several of their favorite underwear gags , but the turtle spoofing the Yiddish dancer takes the booby prize for dubious taste . Look for a quick cameo appearance by Pegleg Pete as a dynamite blaster . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy Fall In Among Thieves	Two hapless misfits find themselves working for Fra Diavolo ( THE DEVIL'S BROTHER ) , the notorious singing bandit of the early 18th century . Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy are at the top of their form - high praise indeed - in this lavish , but rather obscure , rendition of Daniel-Franois Auber's popular operetta . Laurel's frightened squeak & Ollie's pout of wounded dignity are on display , as is the easy camaraderie and genuine affection of these two gentle souls . Here they are simply allowed to do what they did best : amuse . One hilarious sequence follows another : Stan attempting to hang Ollie ( really ! ) ; their slapstick endeavor to capture the bandit ; the Boys helpless in an uncontrollable fit of laughter . Director Hal Roach understood their comedic style better than anyone , and he lets them make the most of their time before the cameras . Their every moment captured on film is precious ; each minute they are missing so that subplots may develop is decried as an intolerable waste . In the title role , British opera star Dennis King monopolizes much of the screen time . A good deal of his vocalizing is unintelligible , but he plays the charming rogue well . However , it is important to notice that despite his charm , he is one of the most dangerous villains the Boys encounter in any of their films . Beneath the thin veneer of civility , he is little more than a murderous , thieving rapscallion . He has nothing but his handsome face & dulcet tones to separate him from a Karloff or a Lugosi . Peppery James Finlayson & lovely , tragic Thelma Todd play silly , vain aristocrats who have more jewels than common sense . Both of these wonderful performers were always welcome in roles large or small - his bristling mustache and popping eyes & her classic beauty so often the focal point of great humor . But here they have very little contact with the Boys and so much of their comedic talent is rather dissipated in mildly adulterous scenes with the Bandit Chief . Pity . . . There is a subplot involving the Innkeeper's daughter and her forbidden love of a young military officer , but fortunately it is not allowed to intrude too much . Henry Armetta as the Innkeeper , however , is given some very funny moments as he tries without success to duplicate Stan's intricate hand games .
Do We Hear Wedding Bells ?	An MGM PETE SMITH SPECIALITY Short Subject . While THE DOMINEERING MALE may think the romantic initiative is all his , it's often the female who's doing the real conniving . This bit of typical Pete Smith zaniness takes a humorously cynical look at a wily woman's for-profit relationship with the man she intends to marry . The poor sap probably doesn't stand a chance . . . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Blondell & McHugh In The Winner's Circle	A meek & mild fellow , with the uncanny knack of picking winning race horses , is taken in charge by a trio of racketeering gamblers . Fast-moving & fun , THREE MEN ON A HORSE is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Bros . was so expert at producing in the 1930's . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Frank McHugh & Joan Blondell are both well cast in the lead roles , especially Brooklyn-accented Blondell with her unsophisticated charm & pert blonde looks . Interesting thing about the screenplay is that there is absolutely no romantic development between McHugh & Blondell . He remains true to his dimwitted spouse Carol Hughes , while Blondell carries the torch for her bad guy boyfriend Sam Levene . The rest of the cast is excellent . Guy Kibbee appears as McHugh's bad-tempered blustery boss . Plain talking Allen Jenkins & excitable little Teddy Hart play Levene's gang members . Slow-burning Edgar Kennedy has a good role as the bartender who wants to use McHugh's talents to finance his early retirement . Obnoxious Paul Harvey does very well as McHugh's bullying brother-in-law . In smaller roles , Eddie ? Rochester ' Anderson scores as a gambling elevator operator ; Harry Davenport has one tiny scene as an employee in a greeting card publishing house ; and Eily Malyon plays a stern maternity ward nurse . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Charles Lane playing a laconic laundry man .
Seein ' The Dentist With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . In order to earn money for their baseball equipment , Alfalfa & the Rascals plan to have all their teeth extracted and then left under their pillow for the Good Fairy to turn into dimes . However , the kindly dentist the kids visit has a few plans of his own & soon the Boys will have to face THE AWFUL TOOTHA funny little film . Highlight : Alfalfa in the dentist's chair .
More Troubles With The Big Bad Wolf	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The Big Bad Wolf returns to the forest , this time with his sons , the THREE LITTLE WOLVES . Fortunately for them , Fifer & Fiddler Pigs are as gullible & silly as ever . . . A follow-up to THE BIG BAD WOLF ( 1934 ) and THE THREE LITTLE PIGS ' second sequel , this is a very pleasant cartoon with lots of good imagination at work . The ' Wolf Pacifier ' is fascinating & must have warmed the heart of Rube Goldberg himself . Followed by the non-Symphony THE PRACTICAL PIG ( 1939 ) . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Baseball or Beethoven ?	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald & Buzz-Buzz have an energetic disagreement over what should be playing on the patio radio - the World Series or classical music . SLIDE DONALD SLIDE was one of a small number of cartoons which showcased the struggle between the Duck & the Bee and is fairly typical of the lot - fast moving and quite funny . The maestro Buzz-Buzz is imitating is most likely Leopold Stokowski , who was a major collaborator with Walt Disney in the creation FANTASIA ( 1940 ) . Clarence Nash provided Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Cleaning Chimneys With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . The Boys arrive to sweep the chimneys at the home of Professor Noodle , a mad scientist who's just perfected his rejuvenation serum . Stan & Ollie proceed with their DIRTY WORK , spreading destruction inside the house and on the roof . Then the Professor wants to try out his new potion . . . A very funny little film . The ending is a bit abrupt , but much of the slapstick leading up to it is terrific . Especially good is Stan & Ollie's contest of wills at opposite ends of the chimney . That's Lucien Littlefield as the Professor .
An All-Star Classic	A flamboyant old actress with memories of lovers long dead . An alcoholic actor desperate for one more chance on the stage . An Oklahoma tycoon and his below-the-tracks , tough as nails wife . A philandering doctor and his faithful wife . They're all invited to meet tonight at the mansion home of a dying industrialist and his flighty , society-obsessed wife for DINNER AT EIGHT . Following the great success of GRAND HOTEL in 1932 , MGM & producer David O . Selznick embarked on producing an even greater all-star triumph . They succeeded . DINNER AT EIGHT takes a first class list of performers at the top of their form ( Marie Dressler , John Barrymore , Lionel Barrymore , Wallace Beery , Jean Harlow , Billie Burke ) and seamlessly , if a bit implausibly , weaves a plot full of comedy & tragedy which allows each star to strut their stuff . Dressler was Hollywood's top star at this time and she is wonderful , fingering her jewelry - each piece a remembrance of an ancient romance . She has only one scene with gorgeous Harlow and that comes at the very end of the film , but it's a classic . The rest of the cast is a wonderful grab bag of talent : peppery Lee Tracy , elderly Louise Closser Hale , gentle Jean Hersholt , as well as Phillips Holmes , Edmund Lowe , Karen Morley , Madge Evans , Grant Mitchell , Elizabeth Patterson , May Robson , Herman Bing . Take a moment to consider Edward Woods , playing Eddie the bell boy . The year before at Warner Brothers he had traded roles with James Cagney in a little picture called PUBLIC ENEMY . Cagney became an instant , huge celebrity . Woods continued to play bell boy roles . . .
Wheeler & Woolsey Journey Into A State Of Confusion	A pacifistic Indian tribe sends two zany barbers to be its envoys at the Peace Conference in Geneva . The DIPLOMANIACS soon find themselves up against the machinations of spies working for a powerful munitions company who have a vested interest in seeing that war continues the demand for their explosive bullets . Wheeler & Woolsey take a plot ridiculous even by their standards and manage to get some solid laughs out of it . The Boys ( Bert Wheeler is the little fellow with the curly hair ; Robert Woolsey is the skinny guy with the cigar & glasses ) are always tremendous fun to watch , but the viewer who tries to find anything meaningful or coherent in this film would be wasting their time . However , in its own goofy way , DIPLOMANIACS holds its own against DUCK SOUP & MILLION DOLLAR LEGS , two contemporary films with which it shares an hysterical point of view . The Boys are given a fine supporting cast , each of whom get to shine for a few moments , as they are given no chance for any real character development : Louis Calhern as the suave master spy ; Edgar Kennedy as the harried head of the Peace Conference ; elderly Richard Carle as an inebriated ship's captain ; spunky little Marjorie White as Wheeler's violent love interest , choking him into submission ( a very funny comedienne nearly forgotten today , a tragic car wreck would claim her life two years after the release of this film ) ; and Hugh Herbert as an inscrutable proverb-spouting Oriental . Movie mavens will spot Charlie Hall as an eager beaver valet . Wheeler & White fight their way through ' Sing To Me ' - while the Boys vocalize with ' On The Boulevard ' and ' No More War . '
Behind Studio Doors	An MGM PETE SMITH SPECIALITY Short SubjectNarrator Pete Smith takes the viewer on a tour of a few of the more unusual things to see during a behind-the-scenes STUDIO VISIT . What gets to be seen is slight-of-hand master Louis Zingone at work ; beautiful Lena Horne singing in a bathtub ; and remarkable Helen Sue Goldy , aged three , who exhibits her amazing sense of balance . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
War's Cost , Love's Hope	An MGM PASSING PARADE Short Subject . Peter Ravitch , a gentle soul from a small Yugoslav town , writes a poignant letter TO MY UNBORN SON as he lies dying from a Nazi bullet . This true-life story of courage against the Nazi oppressor features a reading of Peter's remarkable letter , in which he hopes for a peaceful world full of boundless opportunity & joy for his son . The film is a good example of MGM's mastery of the short subject format . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighborhood theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Pup Tale With Beasties	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . You can be sure there will be plenty of action with PLUTO AT THE ZOO attempting to steal a huge bone from the lion . This standard Disney film is enlivened by Pluto's encounters with the lion , kangaroo , ape & crocodile . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
On The High Seas Of Adventure With Gable , Harlow & Beery	British Hong Kong , mid 1930's . A freighter makes ready to lift anchor on its way to Singapore , carrying with it 250 , 000 in hidden gold . The passengers & crew are a colorful mix of often violent hatreds & animosities . Traveling into typhoon-swept , pirate-haunted waters , danger & death awaits all those who enter the CHINA SEAS . While admittedly the plot is a little far-fetched , this was one of the great all-star features which MGM did so well during its heyday . The sets are lavish ( especially the bustling docks ) and except for the occasional use of a model , the ship scenes look realistic . The cast is made-up of some of the Studio's best : Clark Gable as the captain - given to drink & homesick for England , he must choose between the two women he loves ; Jean Harlow , the brassy blonde with too much past , passionate in defense of her man ; Wallace Beery , gambler & exporter , bluff , hearty & treacherous ; Rosalind Russell , the English society girl , cool & beautiful . Rounding out the excellent supporting cast are Lewis Stone , as an old ship's officer accused of cowardice ; Robert Benchley as a perpetually inebriated American novelist ; Edward Brophy & Lillian Bond as American tourists who attract the notice of lustful Russian swindler Akim Tamiroff ; and wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith , as the founder of the shipping line . Film mavens will spot uncredited performances by Willie Fung as a cabin boy ; Donald Meek as a chess player ; Emily Fitzroy as a gossipy passenger ; and especially Hattie McDaniel , hilarious as Harlow's maid . On a side note , one of the writers for this film was Paul Bern , an important MGM producer & Harlow's husband . His 1932 murder by his deranged common-law spouse , made to look like a suicide by MGM security to protect Harlow's career , would provide one of Hollywood with one of its most famous scandals .
Love & Lies	Three innocent people have their lives shattered by malicious gossip . THESE THREE is a vividly acted , excruciatingly dramatic look at how unrequited love & evil lies can undermine relationships and destroy reputations . Lillian Hellman authored the script ( and altered the emotional bias ) from her original play , The Children's Hour and director William Wyler created a film which never lets up in its emotional intensity . The viewer feels terribly for the three protagonists as they suffer unjustly and equally powerless to do anything about it . Teachers Miriam Hopkins & Merle Oberon both love doctor Joel McCrea . One will win him , the other will hurt quietly . All three act at a perfect pitch , each performer complementing and supporting the other two , most especially when their characters experience the devastation created by a wicked student ( played with chilling persuasion by Bonita Granville ) . Two fine character actresses now in danger of being forgotten have important supporting roles . Catherine Doucet plays Hopkins ' silly , vindictive aunt , a vain woman completely capable of doing the wrong thing every time . Alma Kruger plays Granville's wealthy grandmother , proud & patrician , she is seduced into doing much harm through her unwise love . In a small role , Walter Brennan is a joy as a rustic taxi driver . Marcia Mae Jones is quite compelling as a child struggling against enormous iniquity . Marvelous Margaret Hamilton , as Kruger's no-nonsense hatchet-faced housekeeper , gets to deliver one of cinema's most satisfying face slaps . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Greta Meyer as a Viennese waitress .
A Serious Subject Presented With A Laugh	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Getting over FREEWAYPHOBIA and other bad habits behind the wheel are essential to developing good driving skills on the Super Highways . Aside from being entertaining , this cartoon presents some valuable advice to staying safe on the nation's busiest roads . Goofy takes on the personas of Driverius timidicus , Neglecterus maximus and Motoramus fidgitus . Paul Frees is the narrator . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
John Ford & Will Rogers : A Great Combination	Will Rogers stars in this little slice of Americana . He's the town's only doctor and a bit of a ladies ' man . He's also the source of most of the local old maids ' gossip . Which gives Will a great chance to use his special brand of humor to skewer the foibles of the human creature . John Ford provides good atmosphere . This would be the first of 3 pictures he would make with Will . Rochelle Hudson shows why she was one of the prettiest actresses of the early ' 30's and Andy Devine is hilarious as a hypochondriac who is the bane of Doctor Bull's existence .
Mr . Wheeler & Mr . Woolsey Are At It Again	A couple of CRACKED NUTS find themselves mixed-up in a Latin American revolution . Wheeler & Woolsey , America's greatest forgotten comedy team - Burt Wheeler was the short guy with curly hair , Robert Woolsey had the spectacles & cigar - find themselves in a film with as inane a plot as any they ever made . Which is all to the good as far as the Boys are concerned , as it gives them ample opportunity to sling the dialogue at each other , fast & furious . They are never boring & always funny ( their El Dorinda map routine , with fierce general & villain Stanley Fields , will remind viewers of the Brothers Marx ) . Unfortunately , their co-stars are given few lines with any life . Dorothy Lee is , appropriately , Wheeler's love interest , but she gets little to do except look kewpie-doll-cute . The formidable Edna May Oliver does what she can in the role of Miss Lee's dragon aunt , but she deserves much better dialogue to be really effective . Interestingly , there is no interaction between her character & Woolsey , as might be expected . Far better roles would await Miss Oliver in years to come & she would not disappoint . Boris Karloff appears as a financier trying to foment revolution . Once again , his lines let him down & give him very little to work with ; he gives no hints in this RKO film as to the legend he would very shortly become at Universal Studios . Movie mavens will recognize Silent Cinema comic Ben Turpin as the cross-eyed bombardier . Wheeler & Miss Lee sing ? Dance And The World Dances With You . '
Superior Western	A trio of desperadoes , fleeing from a violent Christmastime bank robbery , become THREE GODFATHERS after rescuing a dead mother's baby in the desert . Here is a very fine little film , ( largely forgotten due to its color remake years later starring John Wayne ) which rewards the fortunate viewer with very good acting , excellent production values , some taut drama and a fair amount of humor . Lewis Stone dominates the film as the thief with a conscience . Quietly intellectual & patrician , his tenderness for the infant is immediate and absolute . Stone's acting cannot be faulted ; watching him painfully choose which of his beloved books to leave behind in the burning desert is to see a true artist at work . Chester Morris does a dandy job of making the viewer both like and despise his character . Quick-tempered & revengeful , his attack upon the New Jerusalem bank is his opportunity to wreck havoc on both the town which rejected him and the decent young banker in love with his former sweetheart . Morris wants nothing to slow down his escape - - not poisoned water holes or dead horses , and especially not a helpless baby . Walter Brennan practically steals the entire movie with his portrayal of an old , illiterate outlaw whose childlike innocence and decency compels him to protect the infant . He also has some droll comedy sequences , especially at the Church Social , where he has a memorable encounter with a plate of asparagus . His scenes in the desert , with desperate thirst stalking his footsteps , show the consummate skill he would exhibit the rest of his life as one of America's favorite character actors . In smaller roles , Sidney Toler is wonderfully droll as an itinerate dentist with a deadly aim ; bucktoothed Victor Potel is his unfortunate customer . Rotund Roger Imhof plays the friendly sheriff of New Jerusalem ; Dorothy Tree is the saloon hostess with a hankering for Morris . Pretty Irene Hervey does well as Morris ' former love ; her fianc is nicely played by Robert Livingston , who finds the padding in his Santa suit to be most fortuitous .
Disney Spoofs Dumas	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The THREE BLIND MOUSEKETEERS set about getting their cheesy meal , despite the best efforts of villainous Captain Katt to destroy them . An enjoyable , though unremarkable , spoof of swashbuckling movies . Disney would revive the term ' Mouseketeer ' two decades later for use in the Mickey Mouse Club TV show . Katt seems to owe a lot to the personality of character actor Noah Beery ; and is that Walt vocalizing the skinny mouse ? The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Medical Murder Mystery	Private Thatcher Hospital is suffering a spate of murders , but THE PATIENT IN ROOM 18 - a young detective recovering from a nervous breakdown - is determined to find the killer . Fast-moving & fun , this is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Brothers was so expert at producing almost without effort . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Patric Knowles & Ann Sheridan spark the action here . As a convalescing detective & stern head nurse with romantic difficulties in their recent past , they keep the plot racing - especially after murder rears its ugly head . Knowles , who never quite graduated to starring roles in major pictures , shows a fine flair for comedy . Sleepwalking down the street dressed in pajamas & bowler , he is indeed a very droll sight . Sheridan shows flashes of the talent that would eventually make her an important star at Warner Brothers . Unfortunately , the two most potentially interesting characters in the film - Eric Stanley's English valet & Greta Meyer's German cook - are given very little to do . And what about the film's other mystery : just what is so special about Room 18 ?
No Luck For Mister Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald holds the LUCKY NUMBER which will win him his coveted Zoom V-8 sports car - but only his Nephews know it . This standard Donald versus Nephews film is noteworthy in that it portrays Huey , Dewey & Louie as teenagers ( it had been 13 years since their first cartoon ) . As if Donald didn't already have enough trouble . . . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies the voices for the entire Duck family . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Daisy's Moment To Shine	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S DILEMMA is really Daisy's - after a conk on the head leaves her boyfriend a crooning sensation with no remembrance of her whatsoever . Daisy has one of her very best screen roles in this humorous little film . The fickleness of the public's taste in popular entertainment comes in for a bit of gentle ribbing . Roy Williams , one of the adult members of TV's The Mickey Mouse Club , was the writer on this project . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his ordinary voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Flying High With Mister Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald puts together an airplane made entirely out of plastic . Now he's ready for the test flight . . . THE PLASTICS INVENTOR is a very enjoyable little film , with good sight gags & a funny plot which is perfect for the frenetic Duck . The Plastic Hour , with the soothing murmur of Professor Butterfield giving outrageous instructions , is a hilarious spoof of radio cooking programs of the era . Clarence Nash provides Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Mouse Tale For The Birds	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Utter chaos ensues when THE WAYWARD CANARY Mickey brings Minnie turns its tiny babies loose in the house . This black & white little film has some fun humor , although the plot is quite familiar . The swastika on Minnie's cigarette lighter ( ? ! ) has nothing to do with the Nazis ; it is an ancient symbol used in many cultures centuries before the Third Reich . The autographed photos on Minnie's desk are of Doug Fairbanks & Mary Pickford . Walt Disney provides Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Blackmailing Business With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . It's CHICKENS COME HOME to roost when a crazy lady from Ollie's past shows up to blackmail him just as he is to receive the nomination for mayor . When she threatens to disrupt a dinner party at his home , Ollie sends Stan to distract her . That's when the trouble really starts . . . This is a hilarious little film , with the Boys & Mae Busch , as the frantic female , at their best . Lots of laughs . That's Thelma Todd as Mrs . Hardy , Norma Drew as Mrs . Laurel , Patsy O'Byrne as the busybody & the long-suffering James Finlayson as Ollie's butler .
Holmes ' Creeping Menace	While searching for THE PEARL OF DEATH , Holmes & Watson encounter a master criminal and his terrifying backbreaking thug . This vivid & suspenseful film makes a welcome addition in the series of movies highlighting the exploits of Baker Street's most famous inhabitants . There is danger around every corner and Holmes must match his intellect against raw brute evil as he attempts to recover the Black Pearl of the Borgias . As always , Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce are beyond praise as they bring Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated characters to life . To the viewers ' delight , Holmes finds he can be thoroughly duped and Watson uses his mouth for something other than gab . Holmes ' rivals for possession of the Pearl are little Miles Mander and pretty Evelyn Ankers . Together , they provide the master detective with one of his most challenging cases . All three characters ( most especially the men ) make good use of cunning disguises to try to find the diminutive treasure . Dennis Hoey as the inept but courageous Inspector Lestrade and dear Mary Gordon as Mrs . Hudson return to roles they've already essayed very well in the past . The always reliable Ian Wolfe has the small part of a helpful crockery shop proprietor . The most intriguing member of the cast is Rondo Hatton , a tragic sufferer from acromegaly , a terrible disease which deformed his body into a grotesque horror . He is most effective as the sinister Creeper , especially during his few moments with Rathbone at the film's climax , and he was immediately spun-off into cheaply produced chillers playing essentially the same character . Apparently he hated being exploited , but this was to end sadly with his sudden death in 1945 . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Billy Bevan as a meal-bearing constable . This film was loosely based on Conan Doyle's short story The Adventure of the Six Napoleons . It was preceded by THE SCARLET CLAW ( 1944 ) and followed by THE HOUSE OF FEAR ( 1945 ) .
True Friendship Suffers Much	A Walt Disney Cartoon . THE PELICAN AND THE SNIPE atop a lighthouse off the coast of Uruguay almost have their friendship destroyed due to an unfortunate misunderstanding caused by the Pelican's dangerous somnambulism . This humorous little film strikes a serious note about the pressures put upon true friendship . Note the wartime atmosphere - U . S . troops did lots of training in Latin America before being sent overseas . As narrator , Sterling Holloway gives another first rate performance . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Disney's Tale Told Under The Blue Willow Tree	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . THE CHINA PLATE on the shelf has much to tell , if you examine the picture on its face carefully . There you'll find the story of a dreadful old mandarin who forbids the love of his daughter for a simple fisherman . . . An interesting black & white cartoon , which alternates between action / reaction antics & the plot of the romantic story . The animation is stylized to look somewhat like a blue willow pattern plate . Quite a few racist elements in the story . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Epic Frontier Film	A charismatic Kansas lawyer takes his bride to the Oklahoma Territory's CIMARRON Country to start a newspaper in the violent , rawboned town of Osage . Edna Ferber's sprawling novel of frontier life comes to the big screen in a film deemed fine enough to win a few Oscars , including Best Picture . It was one of the first great epics of the Sound Era and is still very entertaining to watch . Occasionally there is a bit of overacting , perhaps , and technical difficulties with the microphones can be discerned while trying to hear the stars ' voices clearly during some crowd scenes , but this in no way detracts from the enjoyment of viewing the film . The performance of Richard Dix as pioneer & dreamer Yancey Cravat has been criticized as being too florid and overripe , but this is unfair . The popular actor had his roots in silent films when acting techniques were somewhat different , but this robust style perfectly suits the energetic wanderlust of his character . Anything less than abundant enthusiasm would look silly in a fellow called upon to deliver a sermon and shoot an outlaw almost simultaneously , vigorously champion the rights of fallen women and racial minorities and yet still blithely abandon his family for long years as he follows his own star of destiny . Call it what you may , Dix's performance can certainly never be tagged as being dull . Irene Dunne , as Yancey's wife Sabra - his ? Sugar ' - provides the calm emotional center for the film . She is the one who holds the family and newspaper together while her husband is off bringing civilization to other frontiers . She is even able to achieve substantial business and political importance . What saves Dunne's performance from becoming too sweet is the story giving her a few personality wrinkles to deal with , most notably her determination to destroy the town's bawdy house madam ( well played by Estelle Taylor ) and her intense bigotry towards the local Indians . Her growth as a human being is juxtaposed with that of Oklahoma's expansion as a state . Some fine character actors provide prime entertainment value : stuttering Roscoe Ates as the Cravats ' faithful printer ; George E . Stone as a gentle Jewish peddler who becomes a firm family friend ; Stanley Fields as a town tough who tangles with the wrong hombre ; William Collier Jr in a brief , vibrant outlaw role as The Kid ; and Eugene Jackson as the young Black servant who gives the ultimate sacrifice of loyalty to the Cravats . Marvelous gossipy Edna May Oliver , replete with snooty sniffs & piercing glances , neatly tucks all her scenes as a society matron into her handbag and stalks off with them . With production costs of 1 . 5 million dollars , RKO could give CIMARRON excellent production values , featuring crowds of extras and very realistic sets . A few of the scenes are classics and remain in the mind for a long time : the 1889 Land Rush sequence which opens the film ; the church service in the saloon ; the gun battle in the dusty street . It is very interesting to watch how the town of Osage changes during the movie , from a dangerous dirty settlement to an Oklahoma metropolis in 1930 , all achieved most convincingly for the screen . The Cimarron is a wild & unruly river that arises in New Mexico and runs for about 600 miles before becoming a tributary of the Arkansas River near Tulsa , Oklahoma . The word is Old Spanish and refers to the thickets along the River and the bighorn sheep which inhabited them
Holiday Short Subject	This hard-to-find little film was MGM's Christmas Short Subject for 1931 and it's a lot of fun for old movie buffs . The plot ( Jackie Cooper wants to give a Christmas dinner to his neighborhood pals and his friends at the studio lend a hand ) is a mere contrivance to show as many of MGM's top talent as possible in 9 minutes . Norma Shearer - as Thalberg's wife she was Queen of the Lot - gets the most screen time . The enjoyment is in trying to put the correct moniker to all the others as they appear - most for only a few seconds . In order of their appearance , here is a complete listing of the uncredited celebrities : Jackie Cooper , Norma Shearer , Jimmy Durante ( dressed as Santa ) , Marie Dressler , Wallace Beery , Polly Moran , Reginald Denny , Clark Gable , Charlotte Greenwood , Lionel Barrymore , Leila Hyams , Cliff Edwards , Ramon Novarro , Marion Davies , and Anita Page . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
New Trouble For Pluto	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto has some major BONE TROUBLE when he attempts stealing the delicious comestible from a ferocious Butch next door . This very humorous little film , scripted by the legendary Carl Barks , was the debut for Butch the bully bulldog ; he would antagonize the Pup in a number of cartoons through 1950 . The excellently animated Hall of Mirrors scene will strike many viewers as a precursor to the somewhat similar ' Pink Elephants On Parade ' segment in DUMBO ( 1941 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Cutting The Rug With Mister Geef	A Walt Disney Goofy Cartoon . Tired of being a wallflower , Goofy takes instructions in HOW TO DANCE . This humorous little film was one of several made by Disney between 1940 & 1956 in which Goofy receives instruction in some task or pastime - with inevitably chaotic results . In this cartoon the Goof once again portrays his vaguely human alter ego George Geef . The snappy soundtrack was provided by The Fire House Five Plus Two , a lively little Dixie band founded by wacky Disney animator Ward Kimball and consisting entirely of other Disney staffers ; they appear as toons during the film's closing scene ( Kimball is the fellow playing the trombone ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Disney Takes A Tick Tock Tour	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . With the coming on night , the denizens of THE CLOCK STORE all awake to dance & sway & pirouette to their rhythmical music . There is virtually no plot in this little black & white film , until the boxing alarm clocks start their fisticuffs at the climax . The cartoon boasts a lovely opening scene , however , with the old lamplighter moving along the block , dispelling shadows . This one sequence hints at the quality Disney would display in later years . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Neglected Drama of Canadian Life	The grand old house stands on an extensive estate , for generations home to the Whiteoaks , prosperous Canadian farmers . Ruled by a sharp-tongued but benevolent matriarch , life flows on much as it always has , evenly & predictably . But when two brides are brought home on the same day , passions are unleashed that will bring heartbreak , despair & death , right to the very core of JALNA . Based on a Canadian bestseller , this unpretentious film has been unfortunately ignored . Filled with both charm & good acting , it rewards thoughtful viewing . All of the performers do a fine job : Ian Hunter as the brother too busy running the farm to have a life of his own ; David Manners , in arguably his finest role , charming & self-centered as the brother with a poetic bent ; Theodore Newton , blunt & passionate , as the brother determined to find love ; sister Peggy Wood , jilted by hearty neighbor Nigel Bruce , suffering noisily for twenty years ; Sir C . Aubrey Smith & Halliwell Hobbes as the old bachelor uncles ; Jessie Ralph , as the peppery 99-year old grandmother , wise with age ; and Kay Johnson , compassionate & sensible , as the American newcomer who marries into the family . Notice the interesting way the film introduces the characters in the first scene , by panning around the supper table & labeling each actor .
Goofy Yearns For Yawns	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Down through history , man has encountered the age-old problem of HOW TO SLEEP . . . Electric blankets , hot milk & counting sheep are just some of the remedies Goofy uses to fall asleep in this humorous pseudo-documentary . A few nuggets of authentic information can be gleaned among the chuckles . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Basic Biology From Disney	A Walt Disney THE HUMAN ANIMAL Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket gives us just the facts concerning YOU AND YOUR SENSE OF TOUCH and its receptors for warmth , cold , pressure and pain . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . Did you know that our sense of touch never rests , but is constantly helping us learn about the world around us ? Jiminy , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
More Basic Biology From Disney	A Walt Disney THE HUMAN ANIMAL Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket gives us just the facts concerning YOU AND YOUR FOOD and how it helps us grow , supplies us with energy and helps us to keep fit . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . Did you know that a balanced diet of the five kinds of food ( meats , cereals , dairy , vegetables & fruit ) should give us all the proteins , carbohydrates , fats , minerals & vitamins we need to keep us full of pep ? Jiminy , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
High Kicking Kids	A WARNER BROS . VITAPHONE Short Subject . A pair of dancing sweethearts carry on a private romance in a very public department store window . TIP TAP TOE is an enjoyable little film and serves primarily as a showcase for its incredibly lithe & limber young stars Hal LeRoy and Mitzi Mayfair , stars of the Ziegfeld Follies of 1931 . The story is very silly , but agreeable , and the plot doesn't get too much in the way of the highly energetic duo . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Another Mouthful For Mr . Brown	A couple of BROADMINDED fellows find romance on a road trip to Pasadena , California . Comic Joe E . Brown scores another hit in this very humorous little Pre-Code film which gives him free rein to engage in his madcap capers . Here he plays the supposedly responsible young man chosen to chaperone his highly libidinous cousin after the latter is forced to beat a hasty retreat from a Big City scandal . Brown , of course , proves remarkably capable of causing trouble wherever they travel , thus providing the film with much of its plot . With his large rubbery face & huge mouth a constant source of amusement , Brown enters the movie with much hilarity - - costumed as a bawling infant at the baby party which opens the film . Further on , the scene where he finds himself locked out of his hotel room in his underwear is particularly jovial . Most of the cast is on hand to provide support during Brown's antics : William Collier Jr . as his frisky cousin ; Holmes Herbert as Collier's stern New York City father ; Margaret Livingston as Collier's vindictive former flame ; Ona Munson as Collier's new heart throb ; Grayce Hampton as her frightful aunt . Even perky little Marjorie White , as Brown's new gal pal , is not given much to do . The two major exceptions are statuesque Thelma Todd , delightful as a compliant actress eager to help the boys out of a nasty jam , and marvelous Bela Lugosi - - the same year he would become an international star as Count Dracula - - lending his malevolent presence as the fierce Gentleman From South America who menaces Brown throughout the film . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Margaret Mann as an elderly hotel guest eager to see some Indians .
Little Shirley Lights Up The Stage	Orphaned Betsy Brown is sent to live in a New York City theatrical boarding hotel and quickly becomes involved in the struggle to keep the sour old landlady from closing down the establishment . By starring as LITTLE MISS BROADWAY in a show staged in a judge's courtroom , the moppet hopes to sway the verdict in her friends ' favor . Shirley Temple shines in this pleasant musical comedy . Her youthful spunk and astonishing talent are very much on display . As her leading man , dancer George Murphy is elegant & charming , just what the audience expects from Shirley's knight errant . Murphy's flirtation with Phyllis Brooks is dull stuff ; we can't wait for him to dance again with Miss Temple . Along with Murphy , Shirley faces unusually stiff competition from the comics & character actors involved in this film . The inimitable Edna May Oliver is the villainess here , and she doesn't care a fig for the feelings of the little girl ; diminutive Donald Meek is her brother who longs for an adventurous theatrical life . The great Jimmy Durante brings his own brand of insanity to the proceedings as a band leader ; it's almost criminal that he's given so little screen time with Shirley . Dialect comedian El Brendel has some funny moments and gets to interact with a peculiar penguin . That's Jerry Colonna as one of the band members . Jane Darwell is sweet , as always , in her matronly role as the orphanage director - she would appear in several Temple films in similar roles . Old Claude Gillingwater has fun with his role as the sympathetic judge . George & Olive Brasno , two of Hollywood's famous Little People , appear as themselves . Movie mavens will spot an unbilled Dick Elliott as a cheerful cellist . Shirley warbles ' Be Optimistic , ' ' How Can I Thank You ? ' & ' If All The World Were Paper ; ' Murphy joins her in singing & dancing through ' We Should Be Together ' & ' Little Miss Broadway . '
Settin ' Off Firecrackers With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Buckwheat & Porky are simply TWO TOO YOUNG to have firecrackers , but have them they do and it is up to Spanky & Alfalfa to scheme a way to get the explosives for themselves . A funny little film , with good performances from Buckwheat & Porky . Highlight : Alfalfa's recitation of ' The Charge of the Light Brigade ' . Rosina Lawrence plays the teacher .
Dangerous Waters , Sinister Shores	Two American adventurers on a Mexican island find themselves swept up in the search for the fabled RIVER OF GOLD . This made-for-TV feature is an enjoyable tale , offering plenty of fisticuffs and romantics . Although the plot is a bit more convoluted than the film's 74 minutes can handle , there is still entertainment in enjoying the action , puzzling out the meaning of a mysterious poem ( don't try ) and enjoying the antics of a good cast . Playing an evil millionaire who won't shirk at murder , Ray Milland acts properly villainous in his three scenes . Lovely Suzanne Pleshette is completely fetching as an eagerly amorous young widow . As the buddy duo sailboating around the world , sensitive Dack Rambo & stalwart Roger Davis make an energetic team - - it's too bad the ratings didn't warrant producing more of their exploits . From the first edition of his 1974 autobiography , Wide-eyed In Babylon , it is obvious that Milland despised this film and had contempt for his two male costars . The name of the guys ' sailboat , the Fred C . Dobbs , was Bogart's shiftless character in THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ( 1948 ) .
A Mouse Tale On The Tracks	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MR . MOUSE TAKES A TRIP by train from Burbank to Pomona - a distance of about twenty-five miles as the elephant flies - but Pluto's presence on board causes a major confrontation with the conductor . This very enjoyable little film is a tip of the straw hat to the classic screwball comedies of the 1930's , with their wild antics often set on board trains . Superior animation and quick pacing keep the action moving right along . Pete is perfect as the villainous conductor . Can there be any doubt that the unseen female he twice upsets in the lower berth is none other than Clarabelle Cow ? Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
George Arliss ' Most Famous Role	London , 1874 . The old man sits in the great office , endlessly plotting & planning , benevolently scheming for the good of Queen & Empire . Although not too busy to further the romance of two young persons he loves , he puts all his talents & force of will into keeping Russia from dominating Asia & British India . This can only be achieved by thwarting a wily female spy & secretly purchasing control over the Suez Canal from the corrupt Egyptian khedive . Will he fail & suffer political disaster , or triumph & forever make famous the name of Prime Minister Benjamin DISRAELI ? Reveling in his most famous film role , George Arliss gives an Oscar-winning acting lesson . Endlessly fascinating to watch , his every twitch of eyebrow or turn of hand is capable of great humor or emotion . He becomes Disraeli , inhabits the fellow , and presents him before our eyes . It's a shame that Mr . Arliss has become obscure & almost forgotten to modern movie fans . It is their loss . Although George Arliss is the main reason to watch any George Arliss film , he is given good support here from Florence Arliss , his real-life wife , playing Disraeli's wife Mary . Also appearing are Doris Lloyd as Mrs . Travers , the convivial spy ; Joan Bennett & Anthony Bushell as the two young lovers ; and Ivan F . Simpson as a Jewish financier . If the production appears rather stiff & stagy , it must be remembered that this is a very early talkie , and that directors & performers were still adapting to the demands & restrictions imposed upon them by that new tyrant , the microphone . Just keep your attention on Arliss - his acting skills transcend the limitations . It must be mentioned that the film distorts historical reality in two very significant areas . Opening in 1874 , it portrays Disraeli as a very happily married man with a loving , elderly wife . The marriage had indeed been an outstanding one , but Mary had died of cancer in 1872 . Also , financier Hugh Myers , who bankrolls the Suez scheme , is fictional . It was the Rothschild family who came to Disraeli's aid .
A Tiny Treasure	A much abused young man , driven to desperation & murder , hears his conscience rebel in the beating of THE TELL-TALE HEART . Edgar Allen Poe's story is turned into a short subject gem , with the magnificent performance of Joseph Schildkraut & the inspired direction of Jules Dassin . This is a prime example of what can be done in a very limited time frame - here , 20 minutes - when inspiration & bravado are used to interpret a great story . The original has been altered & expanded somewhat to explain more fully the reasons for the murder and to create sympathy for the killer . Schildkraut's depiction of growing guilt & Dassin's creation of an oppressive atmosphere do the story more than justice . Dassin would go on to become a celebrated features director . Schildkraut , already an Oscar winner , would enliven cinema & television roles with his talent for many years . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
The End Of The Beginning For John Gilbert	Kidnapped by jewel thieves , the manager of a British diamond mining operation in Africa spends long DESERT NIGHTS plotting his escape . . . John Gilbert is most enjoyable in this lively yarn , his last starring performance in a silent film ( he would appear in the William Haines ' picture A MAN'S MAN , which was released a few months after DESERT NIGHTS , but that was in a cameo role as himself ) . His verve & vitality propel the ( sometimes silly ) plot and make the movie into a very enjoyable action picture . Ernest Torrence - in a fine portrayal - makes a florid , hammy villain . Beautiful Mary Nolan enacts the sort of woman any red-blooded male viewer would gladly walk the Kalahari to gain . By 1929 silent films were truly an art form in their own right . ( Witness the piano sequence early in the picture , with Gilbert & Nolan waltzing on the porch , to see the kind of nuance possible in this not-so-silent medium . ) MGM was at the apex of the industry & Jack Gilbert was the Studio's greatest male star . Which is what makes DESERT NIGHTS so poignant . Before the year ended silent cinema , that most emotionally penetrating of all the photo dramas , would be dead & Gilbert's career would be dying . A new crop of stars would be on the rise & Noise would be king .
Will Rogers ' Last Bow	A feud has been simmering for years between two prominent families of horse breeders IN OLD KENTUCKY's Bluegrass Country . Eventually , it will take the cunning of a crafty old horse trainer to set matters right , while also promoting a little romance on the side . . . As always , it is immensely pleasurable to watch Will Rogers at work . Exuding folksy homespun charm , he made acting look so easy , and here he is obviously having a good time in a pleasant film which features some excellent sequences . ( Will's foray into a dress shop has to be one of the funniest scenes in any of his films . ) Essentially , Will is simply playing himself and he is perfectly cast . All of the co-stars do a very competent job , but three should be singled out . Elderly Charles Sellon is hilarious as a shotgun toting grandpa who is a menace to the entire community . Tiny Etienne Girardot is puckish as a screwball rainmaker . And the legendary Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson is on hand , displaying some of his fanciest , most breathtaking footwork . At this point in his career , Robinson was simply beyond praise & without compare ; the scene where he teaches Rogers to tap-dance is delightful . It should be noted that there is more than just a little racism in the story . It should also be understood that this was not unusual in Hollywood films of that era . Released 3 months after his tragic & untimely death , this was Will Rogers ' final film . He loved adventure & travel & seeing what was around the next bend or over the horizon . In August of 1935 he left with 35-year old Wiley Post , the famed aviator who was first to solo around the world , on a trip to Alaska to check on chances of initiating an Arctic mail route to Russia . In what still remains something of a mystery , the plane crashed moments after taking off near Point Barrow , Alaska . Both men were killed instantly . ( Will had been in the back seat of the plane , his portable typewriter on his lap , working on his weekly newspaper column . The last word he typed was ' death ' . ) The entire nation went into mourning . What was it that made Americans adore Will Rogers , this plain speaking quarter-Cherokee cowboy from Oklahoma ? Two reasons stand out : first he was one of the people . Although he conquered vaudeville , Broadway , radio & the movies , ending his life as Hollywood's number one box office male and the highest salaried actor in films , he never let it go to his head . He always remained ' common ' and he genuinely liked every man he ever met . Second , Will was good , decent , & honorable , a true secular saint , the sort of fellow who comes along only too rarely and has the ability to lighten the mood of an entire nation . We have not seen his like since .
Powerful & Profound	In the days before World War One , a lonely traveler in a desolate part of the Alps encounters THE MAN WHO PLANTED TREES - and his life is forever changed . . . This gentle & beautiful Canadian film , based on the story by Jean Giono , is a flawless combination of subject & style . Presented impressionistically , the animation revels just enough to engage the imagination . The story , about an uncomplicated shepherd whose soul is at peace with God & who stolidly accomplishes a remarkable task , is profound emotionally & spiritually . The narration by Christopher Plummer , in the English version , is perfection ; soft & seductive , it wraps around the viewer & entices him further into the story . The final gleam on this little jewel was the introduction & epilogue provided by James Earl Jones for its PBS presentation . This deeply satisfying drama was the winner of the 1987 Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film .
Swashbuckling Fun With Douglas Fairbanks	He is feared by men and adored by women - but only one woman will tame him . He acknowledges no creed , but only One Faith will claim him . No jail shall hold him or treasure elude him . He is South America's greatest bandit and soon the fate of the Andes ' most venerated shrine will be in his hands . He is THE GAUCHO . Douglas Fairbanks was at the pinnacle of his fame when he made this wonderful adventure film . His buoyant on-screen charm is matched only by his superb & graceful athleticism . He is secure in his position as one of the very greatest of cinema legends . Lupe Velez makes a fiery & beautiful love interest as the Mountain Girl , flirting or fighting with Fairbanks at every twist of the plot ; Nigel De Brulier as The Padre & Eve Southern as the Girl of The Shrine are saintly in their supporting roles . That's Mary Pickford in a cameo as the Virgin Mary . And once seen , who can ever forget The Victim of the Black Doom ? The sets and the special effects shots - using glass mattes - are exceptional . The very long City of the Miracles set is one of the finest ever created for a silent film .
Early Talkie A Triumph For Mr . Ramon Novarro	Fleeing for his life , a young Bonapartist with a DEVIL-MAY-CARE attitude discovers romantic complications after hiding in the boudoir of a lovely young lady . Ramon Novarro made his all-talking picture debut in this romantic comedy , one of Hollywood's very first musicals . MGM's Mexican star adds another role to his long list of ethnic portrayals , this time as a Frenchman . Knowing he had made the successful transition from silents to talkies , he seems to be having a great time with the swashbuckling antics of his character . Exhibiting a considerable amount of mischievous charm , he completely dominates the entire picture . It is important to remember that this was an extremely early talkie , yet director Sidney Franklin and sound artist Douglas Shearer prove more than capable of tackling the difficulties with the microphone . Indeed , there are times , particularly during the musical scenes , when one is beguiled into believing that sound production provided no impediments whatsoever , so smoothly do the scenes flow . Surely this was an indication of considerable talent behind the camera . Kudos should also go to cinematographer Merriitt B . Gerstad , who makes beautiful use of shadows , showing the power of black & white photography . This is even further highlighted by the inclusion of one scene filmed in early Technicolor , near the end of the picture . Novarro's singing voice had been a significant success earlier in 1929 in THE PAGAN . In DEVIL-MAY-CARE he seems to be crooning most of the time , doing full justice to a series of songs by Herbert Stothart & Clifford Grey . Dorothy Jordan & Marion Harris play the cousins who figure so prominently in Novarro's life . Both are comely and their non-Gaelic accents only occasionally intrude upon their performances . John Miljan is enjoyable as the comic Royalist who pursues Novarro . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Lionel Belmore as an inebriated Innkeeper . Historically speaking , our young hero's elation at the return of the Emperor Napoleon in March of 1815 , from 10-month's exile on the island of Elba , was doomed to be short-lived . Although thousands flocked to join him during his triumphal march to Paris , Napoleon's Hundred Days of glory came to an end on the battlefield of Waterloo , on June 18 , 1815 , with utter and irreversible defeat at the hands of the British & Prussians . On July 15 , 1815 , Napoleon's second exile began , this time on the tiny South Atlantic isle of St . Helena . There would be no further escape . Abandoned & alone , Napoleon Bonaparte died on May 5 , 1821 , very possibly as a result of arsenic poisoning .
Mickey Rooney Steals The Show !	A young & talented thief , masquerading as the obnoxious LORD JEFF , is captured and sent to a naval school to rehabilitate . There he meets an Irish lad , whose decent behavior has a profound effect upon him . Think CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS meets BOYS TOWN , and you have an idea of this good , but unremarkable , little picture . Freddie Bartholomew , coming to the end of his glory days as MGM's reigning child star , is hampered mightily by the fact that his character is so rotten , the audience has an overwhelming desire to loathe him for most of the film . Mickey Rooney , on the other hand , right on the cusp of his tremendous stardom , steals his every scene with his unique & infectious bravado . Notice that the boys get equal billing . That would not happen again . Rooney was the major star from here on out . The rest of the cast all do a fine job , especially Charles Colburn , Herbert Mundin & Emma Dunn , all memorable as supervisors at the naval school . That's Monty Woolley , soon to be an important character actor , as a London jeweler . Gale Sondergaard ( in good disguise ) & George Zucco have small roles as the adult thieves , while Terry Kilburn ( nicely effective ) & Peter Lawford play two of the young fellows . Movie mavens will recognize Rex Evans as the hotel doorman & Doris Lloyd as the hostess of a party the boys attend .
On An Island With Mr . Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey THE CASTAWAY makes merry music with the piano which is swept onto the beach of a lonely isle with him . This little film boasts some interesting animation in the first sequence where the Mouse battles the undulating waves . Once reaching the shore , however , it becomes a typical Mickey & Music story , with all the island creatures reacting rhythmically to the melodies . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Delightful Wheeler & Woolsey Comedy	Two failed vaudevillians take on the task of helping a sweet old lady save her rundown drugstore from foreclosure . Reinvigorating the establishment with a lunch counter & live radio broadcast , they soon have the business thriving . However , when a crooked businessman attempts to smear the place as a speakeasy , will the boys be able to trace the bootleg liquor , or simply get CAUGHT PLASTERED ? Wheeler & Woolsey are in top form in this sadly neglected comedy . ( Bert Wheeler is the curly-headed fellow , Robert Woolsey is the skinny , bespectacled one . ) Always much fun to watch , they've got great dialogue here and they keep it coming rapid fire . Their gags at the expense of the drugstore patrons ( society lady , nasty kid , effeminate gentleman , demanding diners ) are often hilarious . Once very popular , it's a shame this delightful duo has been virtually forgotten . Frequent co-star Dorothy Lee is still kewpie-doll cute . Lucy Beaumont is darling as the little old lady . Jason Robards Sr . is effective as the suave crook .
Traffic Troubles With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD 2-Reeler . A young man races across town in his beloved new Model T - occasionally having to GET OUT AND GET UNDER to repair it - to keep an appointment with his girlfriend . Harold Lloyd is simply hilarious as the single-minded fellow who will go to any length to protect his Ford car , even giving it a shot of heroin at one point to keep its motor running . Of course , every indignity & frustration is heaped upon him as he makes his determined way towards his destination , making for some wonderful sight gags . As always , his athletic prowess is remarkable , especially considering this film was produced after the accident which cost him half of his right hand . Mildred Davis , who would later marry Harold , plays his girlfriend . Sunshine Sammy Morrison , one of the earliest OUR GANG members , is very funny as the kid with the banana . Vince Giordano and His Nighthawk Orchestra have supplied an excellent antique film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
A Cinematic Souffl	Beat together three witty stars until stiff , add a small gaggle of top character actors , gently fold in a few romantic locations , sprinkle liberally with sophisticated dialogue and steam bake for 83 minutes . Result - TROUBLE IN PARADISE . This scintillating & rarely seen comedy - director Ernst Lubitsch's masterpiece - is the epitome of frothy pre-Code sophistication . An utter delight from start ( operatic-singing garbage gondolier ) to finish ( pocket picking in a taxi ) , the film should leave the viewer breathless in admiration . Lubitsch relied heavily on the intelligence of his audience . He knew that a delicate touch would be appreciated by those able to anticipate & understand the nuances of his humor . The fact that this worked so beautifully only two years after Hollywood fully embraced sound pictures shows the genius of the director's craft . This was to become his favorite film , and for very good reason . The plot , about a couple of adroit jewel thieves & the wealthy woman they attempt to fleece , is almost lighter-than-air , so effervescent is the quality of the writing . The performances add to this feeling of airy lightheadedness . Herbert Marshall is the very picture of moral ambiguity - the most larcenous situations cause not even the lift of an eyebrow ; as a ladies ' man , he positively oozes suavity from every pore . His partner in crime , Miriam Hopkins , is a comic study in barely controlled passion and the perfect match for Marshall ; their intimate tit-for-tat body burgling is a refreshing take on a romantic prelude . Kay Francis , the center of the filmic storm , is pure stylish glamour ; her sleek demeanor is entrancing as she deals with the other players , most of whom are interested in her millions . Rounding out the cast is a quartet of prime character actors : befuddled Edward Everett Horton & bemused Charlie Ruggles as Miss Francis ' suitors ; unctuous Robert Greig as her butler ; and old Sir C . Aubrey Smith , marvelously fierce as the chairman of her corporate board of directors . Each is superb in his role . Movie mavens will recognize Leonid Kinskey as an angry Russian radical . Interestingly , when Paramount tried to reissue TROUBLE IN PARADISE in 1935 , the rules of the newly enforced Production Code forbade it . The film's full cargo of innuendo kept it from entering any redistribution harbor for almost 30 years .
Mickey Mouse - Gridiron Hero	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . It's up to TOUCHDOWN MICKEY to win the important football game played against the brutish Alley Cats . Although virtually without plot ( and spoofing the silent pigskin films of Harold Lloyd , Buster Keaton & William Haines ) this is a very fine example of the sort of cartoon Mickey made in his early black & white days . Minnie , Goofy & Pluto all make prominent appearances , but the attentive viewer should also spot Horace Horsecollar & Clarabelle Cow among the enthusiastic supporters for Mickey's Manglers . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Repairing A Boat With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie buy an old derelict hulk so that they can catch the raw material needed for their fresh fish business . The repair job soon finds them TOWED IN A HOLE as nearly everything which can go wrong , does . . . A very funny little film , with lots of slapstick humor . That's Billy Gilbert as the boat seller .
Return With Us To The Thrilling Days Of Yesteryear	A Warner Brothers Short Subject . Leering villains . Damsels in distress . Frantic chases . Wacky slapstick humor . All this & more , as we fondly remember so many HAPPY TIMES AND JOLLY MOMENTS from the days of Silent Cinema . This nostalgic little film is a look at many crazy highlights from the Mack Sennett Studios ' heyday . Ben Turpin , James Finlayson , and other stars of the past are recollected in some of their funniest film clips . We get to watch a Mack Sennett Bathing Beauty talent contest . We're taken to a splendiferous custard pie throwing melee with Roscoe ' Fatty ' Arbuckle . Finally , after pratfalls , violence & assorted mayhem , we get to ride along with the Keystone Kops on a wild & wonderful road chase .
Bagging Laughs	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy & his mechanical duck Clementine do some FOUL HUNTING . This is a humorous little film which showcases the Goof at his most genially inept . His handling of a shotgun should bring a shudder to any viewer who practices good gun safety . The mallards are cute little guys and may remind viewers of Sonia the Duck in Disney's PETER AND THE WOLF ( 1946 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Fun Romp With Mr . Lloyd	This is an unusual domestic comedy for Harold Lloyd . Instead of spending the movie trying to " get the girl , " he marries her in the first few minutes and spends the next hour dealing with the trials of wedded bliss . In a way , the feature can really be seen as a melding together of 3 shorts . In the first , Harold attempts to navigate his way home with multiple small packages & a very live turkey . In the second , Harold illustrates the pitfalls of taking the in-laws ( including a monstrous mother-in-law ) for a ride about town in the new family car . In the third segment , well - it's hilarious , but you'll need to see it for yourself . . . Harold Lloyd is wonderful throughout . But then you expected that , didn't you ?
Excellent Early World War II Thriller	An intrepid British spy boards the NIGHT TRAIN TO MUNICH in a desperate attempt to rescue a scientist & his beautiful daughter from the Nazis . Here is an excellent wartime thriller , with just the right amount of puckish humor to keep the film from becoming too heavy . Very fine acting & excellent production values add tremendously to the success of the film , with director Sir Carol Reed showing hints of the style which would distinguish his postwar crime classic , THE THIRD MAN , a decade hence . Margaret Lockwood is lovely , but she is given remarkably little to do outside of looking anxious or scared . Not to worry , the action is carried admirably by the male side of the cast , most notably Sir Rex Harrison as the British agent . Whether glibly singing silly songs or engaged in deadly gun battles in the Bavarian Alps , he carries off his role with his characteristic aplomb . Paul Henreid completes the quasi-romantic triangle . Menacing & sophisticated , he is an excellent example of Nazi determination & evil . Sir Felix Aylmer , very effectively playing against type , wraps his unique voice around the small part of a German spy master . Roland Culver , Torin Thatcher & Ian Fleming - the character actor , not the author - might be glimpsed in cameo roles . Fans of Sir Alfred Hitchcock's splendid THE LADY VANISHES ( 1938 ) will be heartened at seeing the return of the characters Charters & Caldicott , those criquet-mad twits , played by the original actors , Basil Radford & Naughton Wayne . Their initial performances had proved so successful that they were given the opportunity to reprise the roles several times , this being the most successful of their reappearances . Their inclusion here , about two-thirds into the story , gives the film a decided lift , making the whole procedure jolly good entertainment .
Disney's Visit To Bird Land In Early Animation	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It is a beautiful day , and the BIRDS OF A FEATHER of the forest & farmyard are romancing their mates and tending to their young . That is , until a rapacious raptor comes on the scene & carries off a baby chick . . . This black & white cartoon is another example of how important music ( often classical ) was to the Symphonies . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mr . Mouse Plays The Blues	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey's musicians swing a real BLUE RHYTHM as they perform a wacky version of " St . Louis Blues . " There's no dialogue in this black & white film . . . and hardly any plot . We do learn a bit more about the musical talents of the gang : Mickey plays clarinet ; Horace Horsecollar , the saxophone ; Clarabelle Cow , the bass ; and even Pluto plays a mean trombone . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Fighting Mad Science With Superman	A mad scientist has developed a contraption capable of pulling celestial bodies out of the heavens . When he succeeds in bringing a highly destructive comet upon Metropolis , and with intrepid reporter Lois Lane in harm's way , only Superman can stop the chaos caused by THE MAGNETIC TELESCOPE . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons Max Fleischer produced for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
Piercing The Veil	An MGM PROPHECIES OF NOSTRADAMUS Short Subject . Why do so many people believe in these thousand curious verses ? Because NOSTRADAMUS SAYS SO ! This intriguing little film tells of the background of the famous seer Michel de Nostradamus ( 1503-1566 ) and of some of his prophecies concerning the 20th Century , including World War Two , the Atomic bomb , the United Nations , the Korean Conflict , and the Succession to the British Throne . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Pompeii , Pageantry & Pontius Pilate	Conscious stricken after abandoning Christ on the way to Golgotha , a jaded slave trader witnesses THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII , and the city's horrific destruction . Although burdened with occasional wooden acting , this is generally a fine historical drama . RKO spent quite a bit of money on its production and it shows in the large crowd scenes and still noteworthy special effects . The film boasted a very fine team behind the camera , working together as they had on KING KONG ( 1933 ) . Directorial duties were shared by Ernest B . Schoedsack & Meriam C . Cooper . Special effects wizard Willis O'Brien worked his magic , while composer Max Steiner contributed a pounding score . Preston Foster had one of his finest roles as the stalwart blacksmith turned gladiator and slaver . His performance during the prolonged climax , while desperately trying to save the life of his doomed son , is especially effective . David Holt & John Wood , playing the youth at different ages , are also very good . Additional fine support is offered by Alan Hale as the rough mercenary who teams with Foster ; and by villainous Louis Calhern as Pompeii's last prefect . Acting honors , however , go to marvelous Basil Rathbone , who gives a most sophisticated performance as Pontius Pilate , by turns rogue , fate's victim & moral philosopher . Movie mavens should recognize Ward Bond as a boastful gladiator , elderly Zeffie Tilbury as a soothsayer , Edward Van Sloan as Pilate's clerk & Edwin Maxwell as a Pompeii official , all uncredited . The film makes rather a mishmash of historical chronology . Young Flavius appears to be about ten years old at the time of Christ's crucifixion , which occurred around AD 29 . It would be another fifty years - August 24 , AD 79 , to be precise - until Vesuvius ' eruption destroyed Pompeii , yet Flavius is still depicted as a youthful fellow , just reaching maturity . Early Christian tradition also holds that Pilate committed suicide in AD 39 - four decades before Pompeii's rendezvous with destiny . While using the same title & location , this film tells quite a different story from that of the classic 1834 novel by Baron Bulwer-Lytton .
The Granddaddy Of Them All	A song & dance sister act strives for happiness and fame on the Great White Way . Hailed as Hollywood's first true musical , THE Broadway MELODY shows its age , but ought to be judged by its own era , not ours . When it premiered in 1929 , the movie industry was still releasing its last silent films . To see a hundred-minute movie full of music & talk , with a storyline that made sense , some good acting and genuinely hummable tunes - this was all tremendously exciting . That the film won the Academy Award for Best Picture of the year is hardly surprising . From this source the mighty American Movie Musical would spring . Some of the acting is a bit awkward , illustrating the rough transition from silents to talkies - the Microphone was a Monster that would completely devour some actors - but most of the performances are adequate . Of special note is Miss Bessie Love . Pert & pretty , as well as a most engaging actress , she dominates the proceedings as the tough , realistic half of the sibling duo . Able to show joy or despair with equal conviction , she amply demonstrates her mastery of the new medium . Her Academy Award nomination was well earned . As her younger sister , Anita Page is lovely to look at . Her ease with the microphone would increase with her next few acting assignments . Broadway singing star Charles King plays the composer / performer loved by both young ladies and he is quite agreeable in this role . Mr . King had the distinction of being America's first male musical movie star , aside from Jolson , but his film career would be very short , covering only six pictures from 1928 to 1930 . The team of Arthur Freed & Nacio Herb Brown supplied the tunes , including the classics ' The Broadway Melody , ' ' You Were Meant For Me ' & ' The Wedding of the Painted Doll , ' which is unfortunately missing its original Technicolor hues . Mr . Brown can be spotted as a piano player in the film , while movie mavens should recognize James Gleason as a music publisher in the opening sequence and Jed Prouty as the girl's stuttering agent - both uncredited .
Heart Facts	A Frank Capra WONDERS OF LIFE film . Keeping the blood pumping through our veins is the responsibility of hardworking HEMO THE Magnificent . In the mid-1950's , AT & T and Bell Science teamed with famed Hollywood director Frank Capra to produce a series of CBS television science films to educate the public about the Universe around them . A far cry from the dreary black & white fodder so often foisted off on young scholars , the Capra films would both instruct and entertain with lively scripts and eye-catching visuals shown in Technicolor . The four films - OUR MR . SUN ( 1956 ) , THE STRANGE CASE OF THE COSMIC RAYS ( 1957 ) , HEMO THE MAGNIFICENT ( 1957 ) , THE UNCHAINED GODDESS ( 1958 ) - quickly became schoolhouse favorites , where they were endlessly shown in 16mm format . The star of the series was Dr . Frank C . Baxter ( 1896-1982 ) , an affable English professor at the University of Southern California . This avuncular pedagogue proved to be the perfect film instructor , genially imparting to his audience the sometimes complex facts in a manner which never made them seem dull or boring . Dr . Baxter , who won a Peabody Award for his achievements , continued making high quality instructional films after the Capra quartet were concluded . HEMO THE Magnificent , which was produced , written & directed by Capra , relates the story of the human heart and blood circulation system , using animation and gentle humor . Film star Richard Carlson appears as the Fiction Writer , energetically helping Dr . Baxter tell Hemo's tale . Movie mavens will recognize Sterling Holloway as part of the TV production crew , and the voices of Marvin Miller , Mel Blanc , June Foray & Pinto Colvig as various cartoon characters , all uncredited . The devotional Scripture which begins the film is completely in tune with the tenor & tone of the production .
Return To Mull	This short documentary takes a backward glance at one of the finest romantic films ever made : Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger's 1945 classic I KNOW WHERE I'M GOING ! Interesting details about the making of the film are related by actresses Dame Wendy Hiller & Petula Clark and cinematographer Erwin Hiller . Filmmaker Martin Scorsese discusses why the movie is important to him . Stitching the narrative together is New Yorker media critic Nancy Franklin , who explains why the film changed her life and takes the viewer for a fascinating look at the Isle of Mull in the Scottish Inner Hebrides to visit shooting locations and meet a couple of elderly islanders who were involved with the film's production .
Great Performance by Sir C . Aubrey Smith	A grumpy old baronet , happily unmarried , decides to send for his three grown-up illegitimate children and provide them a home at his manor . To his surprise , he finds himself bonding with his uninhibited American daughter . Can he find satisfaction in his new role as THE BACHELOR FATHER ? This 1931 film , in which he gives a robust performance , marked the arrival at MGM of elderly Sir C . Aubrey Smith , very soon to be one of Hollywood's most valuable character actors . With his great hooked nose & beetling brows , Sir Aubrey looked every inch the part of the duke or general or statesman he would play so often . The acknowledged leader of the British community in Hollywood , Sir Aubrey would also champion the game of criquet in Southern California . He would remain very much in demand in studios all over town , right up to his death in 1948 . The film's top-billed star is Marion Davies . Best remembered today as the mistress of media mogul William Randolph Hearst & the chatelaine of Hearst Castle , the most fabulous residence on the West Coast , she was actually a very talented & pretty comedienne . For a few years , Hearst attempted to make her the queen of MGM ( with her own production company & a huge bungalow-dressing room ) but the studio already had several other queens - Dressler , Garbo , Shearer , Crawford - and he eventually moved her to Warner Bros . Here Miss Davies gets a chance to joke & clown and her scenes with Sir Aubrey are entertaining . Her love interest is played by Ralph Forbes , a handsome young British actor who was just starting to find good films ( THE TRAIL OF ? 98 ) as the silent days ended . He had all the qualities for major stardom , but sadly it was not to be . Celebrity would come to Ray Milland , here making one of his first screen appearances . Halliwell Hobbes & Doris Lloyd also appear to advantage .
A Few Minutes Out West With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD Short Subject . Harold becomes AN EASTERN WESTERNER when his wealthy father banishes him from Broadway to Piute Patch . Harold displays his remarkable athletic ability in this funny little film made shortly after he lost half of his right hand in a freak accident . Although his special glove ( made by Sam Goldwyn's family ) is visible at times , you would never know he was handicapped in any way . Whether trying to sneak into a New York nightclub , or escape from the dangerous Masked Angels out West , Harold is never less than hilarious . Mildred Davis , Harold's future wife , plays the sweet Girl of the West ; Noah Young is the nasty outlaw . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
A Close Look At The American Alligator	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE Short Subject . Florida's great water lands may look placid , but an implacable menace lurks just below the surface . The PROWLERS OF THE EVERGLADES - the alligator - is revealed in this fascinating little film as the dominate life-force in its ecosystem . Highlight : the exhilarating escapades of the otters . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . In the making of these films , nature is the dramatist . There are no fictitious situations or characters . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
More Biology From Disney	A Walt Disney THE HUMAN ANIMAL Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket gives us just the facts concerning YOU AND YOUR EARS and how they are vital for our being able to hear & keep our balance . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . The film illustrates the fascinating journey of a tune from the outer ear , through the wonderful mechanisms of the middle & inner ears , all the way to the brain . Jiminy , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Slapstick Fun With Stan & Ollie	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . The Boys are all set to take their wives for a weekend in Atlantic City when Ollie discovers that the gang at the club are going to hold a stag party in their honor that very night . Feigning a terrific nervous headache , he gets Stanley to agree to send the wives on ahead by themselves . Now Ollie & Stanley can dress for the party - except for the little matter of Stanley's boots on Ollie's feet . If the wives find out they've been tricked , the Boys had better face their wrath like grownups and BE BIG ! This is a very funny film , relying almost entirely on slapstick humor - one has to wonder how Ollie could take those falls without seriously hurting himself . Watching him strain to get Stanley's boot off his right leg is genuinely exhausting and will make all fat men ache in sympathy .
Into The Waves With Mister Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey , Minnie & friends are enjoying THE BEACH PARTY they've arranged ( with swimming & a picnic ) , until Pluto inadvertently disturbs a wrathful octopus . . . This very enjoyable little black & white film includes lots of humor and action - the mood is established right from the start with the playing of ' By The Sea ' on the soundtrack . The cartoon also provides supporting actors Horace Horsecollar & Clarabelle Cow with unusually good rolls . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Caveman Canon	Prehistoric man strives to elevate himself above the bestial in ONE MILLION B . C . Hal Roach Studios produced this vivid and exciting film which ambitiously takes on nothing less than presenting the Birth of Civilization and the Beginning of Civility . That it does so without seeming pedantic or foolish is due in large measure to fine performances and special effects which still look good many decades later . The viewer knows the exploding volcano is a fraud and the dinosaurs are actually magnified lizards , but somehow it does not matter . The entertainment value is real and the sentiments presented by the actors still ring true . Victor Mature & Carole Landis do quite well in roles which demanded speaking little more than nonsense words and grunts and using a significant amount of pantomime . They have no difficulty in conveying their thoughts and emotions to the audience . Their characters ' efforts just to survive in an exceedingly harsh environment elicit the viewer's interest and respect . Lon Chaney Jr , in a role his father would have relished , plays the brutal chief of the Rock People . Silent film actor Nigel De Brulier portrays the Shell People's gentle patriarch . Another star from silent days , Conrad Nagel , appears in the movie's opening sequence as the slightly obsessed scientist who interprets the cave paintings which tell the film's tale .
Joining The Foreign Legion With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Suffering from a failed love affair , Ollie drags Stan off to join the French Foreign Legion . Once in the desert , their merry mix ups cause much mayhem . The BEAU HUNKS are soon sent to relieve an isolated fort , but arrive just in time to endure a fierce Arab attack . . . A bit longer & more elaborate than most of the Boys ' short subjects . Stan & Ollie were excellent at this kind of farce ; they provide lots of laughs as they try to act like competent Legionaries . As an added treat , Ollie gets to sing ' I Love You ' in that wonderfully nostalgic high tenor voice of his .
A Mouse Tale For The Birds	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Bumped out of a moving van , a hot-tempered parrot takes refuge in Mickey's home . MICKEY'S PARROT is an excellent little film , with very fine animation and some good gags . The plot follows Pluto more closely than Mickey , but that is not unusual . Despite a strong debut , the Parrot would make no further appearances in any Disney animated films . Mickey's voice is supplied by Walt Disney . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Goes Beneath The Sea	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The MERBABIES are frolicking beneath the salt waves - swimming & playing with various sea creatures . An elaborate underwater circus parade & performances fill much of their day , culminating in a rise to the surface in the expelled breath of a whale at sunset . While the plot is virtually invisible in this little film , there's much to fill the eye as the colorful images cavort about the screen . The real significance of this cartoon is that it gave the folks in Disney Animation some excellent experience in working with the particular aspects of underwater scenes ( bubble movement , light & shadow ) which would be so important in the under seas sequence in PINOCCHIO . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Very Merry Movie	A highly intelligent ? tramp ' is hired to become chauffeur for an eccentric , wealthy family . MERRILY WE LIVE is a prime example of a tremendously funny screwball comedy which has become undeservedly obscure with the passage of time . Bright & breezy , with snappy dialogue and some wonderful performances , it is a complete delight . The production values are excellent and the film's free spirit is perfectly encapsulated by the opening shot in which the principal cast marches arm-in-arm along the estate's long driveway while the credits and title song role . Suave , sophisticated and just a wee bit naughty , British Brian Aherne is the perfect match for crisply cool blonde Constance Bennett . Their growing attraction to each other , hidden behind a rivalry for intellectual dominance , is great fun to watch . This ? hobo ' has much to teach the rich girl about life & love . A very fine supporting cast offers much to the film's enjoyment . In one of her best roles , dithering Billie Burke , as Miss Bennett's utterly out-of-touch mother , is a complete joy . Alan Mowbray plays the proper English butler who experiences frequent bouts of emotional distress . Ensconced in the kitchen , tough-talking Patsy Kelly is the family's cook with a strong yen to stir-up some romance with handsome Aherne . Impressively agile Clarence Kolb is Miss Burke's grumpy husband . Tom Brown & Bonita Granville are their two younger , spoiled children . Philip Reed plays a bullying society Lothario interested in Miss Bennett . Ann Dvorak is a senator's headstrong daughter who usually gets what she wants and what she wants now is Aherne . Even the smaller character roles can be fun : watch for Sidney Bracey as a sour-faced temporary butler & Willie Best as a very frightened country store janitor .
A Big Party For A Little Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Minnie gets help from Donald Duck , Goofy , Clarabelle Cow , Horace Horsecollar & Clara Cluck to make MICKEY'S BIRTHDAY PARTY a big success . Lots of fun in this little film , with much amusement derived from watching Madame Cluck nearly dance the feathers off Donald and seeing hapless Goofy turned loose in Minnie's kitchen . Also of interest is enjoying Horace , Clarabelle & the formidable Clara in their virtual swan song performances . Subsequently , Clara would make only the most fleeting of curtain calls 41 years later in MICKEY'S CHRISTMAS CAROL ( 1983 ) , while it would be another 48 years until Clarabelle & Horace had substantial roles again , in THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER ( 1990 ) . Blame must regrettably be laid at Disney's door for allowing these talented thespians to be forcibly retired from the screen . Clarence Nash & Florence Gill provide the unique voices for the Duck & the Cluck . For the record , Mickey turned 14 in November of 1942 , the year this cartoon was released . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Mickey On The Radio	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE BARNYARD BROADCAST from Mickey's Station ICU is disrupted by the persistent depredations of a stray cat & her incorrigible kittens . This enjoyable black & white film shows a little more about the euterpian versatility of Mickey's friends : Clarabelle Cow tickles the ivories , while Horace Horsecollar is proficient on both the violin and the musical saw & Minnie delights with the saxophone and harp . The scene showing the kittens attempting to nurse off of the electrical equipment dials is a bit of an eye-opener . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Brown Comes To Town	A Texas cowboy with funds to invest arrives in New York City . Just how long will it take for THE TENDERFOOT and his money to be parted ? Comic Joe E . Brown has a wonderful time , striding about Manhattan in a ten-gallon hat & boots , packing a pair of six-shooters and carrying a lasso . No hick he , shysters of both sexes find he's not an easy mark - - until he's taken in by a couple of desperate play producers who want to unload 49 % of their latest flop . Brown is a constant wide-mouthed delight , whether roping his luggage at Grand Central Terminal , trying to be neighborly to a bunch of chorus boy cowboys , or galloping after a group of taxi-driven gangsters on a busy New York street , he makes this rather naughty Pre-Code comedy boil . Perky Ginger Rogers scores as a secretary honest enough to want to protect Joe and his money . Lew Cody & Robert Greig ooze false charm as the producers ( Greig even looks a little like the great Mostel ) and brassy Vivien Oakland stirs things up a bit as the play's spoiled star . Movie mavens will recognize Herman Bing as an opinionated chef , Nat Pendleton as a jealous husband and Richard Cramer as a gangster , all three uncredited . The last few seconds of the film , involving some very peculiar triplets , is hilarious .
Mickey & Friends Take The High Road To Adventure	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . With Goofy at the wheel , a vacation spent in MICKEY'S TRAILER soon turns into a road trip to terror for The Mouse & Donald Duck . Here is one of the classic Disney cartoons , full of good humor , keen inventiveness & some genuine hair-raising thrills . The animation is excellent , giving each member of the trio a chance to shine . The animators took obvious delight in showing the trailer's various gizmos & gadgets , all compacted into a very small space . The opening sequence is very clever , with a tiny cottage and its bucolic setting being transmogrified by Mickey into a jalopy , trailer and stinking city dump . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Fuss ' n ' Feathers	A Walt Disney FIGARO Cartoon . The battle rages in Minnie's living room between the kitten FIGARO AND FRANKIE the canary bird , but the sudden arrival of Butch the bulldog is going to completely upset the balance of power . Here is another in the short series of cartoons to feature the feline from PINOCCHIO ( 1940 ) . Fast & funny , it was the only Disney film to include an appearance by little Frankie . Minnie Mouse has a small , rather thankless , part - but she does get to wield a mean broom . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Pup Tale With Pork	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto becomes a PANTRY PIRATE as he attempts to filch the beautiful ham just baked by Mammy Twoshoes . This enjoyable little film allows Pluto to act almost completely unrestricted by involvement with any other character ( Mammy only appears for a few seconds ) and he does quite nicely as a solo performer . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Burning Desire Fuels Disney Cartoon	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A curvaceous young insect attracts the attentions of a boy MOTH AND THE FLAME of a candle , both of whom want to possess her for different reasons . The flame proving practically inextinguishable , the resulting fiery melee is not settled until further night fliers swarm to the rescue . Without any great technical innovations or underlying social themes , this pleasant , perky little cartoon seemingly exists purely for entertainment . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Fine Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S VACATION alongside a mountain river is immediately upset by a voracious swarm of chipmunks & a ferocious bear . This is a very enjoyable little film , with first-rate animation . The opening sequence , with Donald canoeing along the river , dodging waterfalls & making music with his guitar , is especially fine . Clarence " Ducky " Nash shows what an integral component he was in Donald's cinematic success - his vocalizations here are excellent . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
The Duck Comes Clean	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S DOG LAUNDRY is ready for business and the plucky Duck has chosen poor Pluto as his first customer . This is a very lively & enjoyable little film and features humorous interplay between the two characters . Watching Donald fall foul to his rube goldberg kit-built contraption is great fun . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Pluto Splats Into Spring	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . A new SPRINGTIME FOR PLUTO brings butterflies & birds to delight him - but also a fair share of vicious bees , poison ivy , pollen & hail . There are some good laughs in this amusing little film - the Pup's modern dance with the beehive ( a probable salute to Charlie Chaplin & the globe in THE GREAT DICTATOR from 1940 ) is hilarious . The Spirit of Spring looks like a Greek demigod escaped from FANTASIA ( 1940 ) . The inimitable Thurl Ravenscroft , who would add his voice to so many Disney projects over the coming decades , is the bass singer heard briefly vocalizing about caterpillars spinning cocoonsWalt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Ventures Into The Land of Greek Mythology	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Jolly monarch King Midas is gold mad and nothing seems to satisfy his avarice . Then one day a strange little elf grants him THE GOLDEN TOUCH . . . An enjoyable retelling of the tale from Greek Mythology , competently animated . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Delightful Screwball Escapade	A spoiled rich girl wants revenge on the gas station attendant who humiliated her - he wants to sell his idea for auto courts across America ; both are about to learn that some things in life are very HARD TO GET . This is a wonderful , hilarious screwball comedy , boasting good performances , genuine laughs & fine production values . Witty & winning , it is a shame it is so obscure today . Dick Powell appears to be having a terrific time as the young go-getter with the big ideas . As eager to please as a puppy dog , he enthusiastically hurls himself into the zany plot permutations . Whether impersonating Jolson singing ? Sonny Boy , ' or introducing the song hit ? You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby , ' Powell is never less than entertaining . Lovely Olivia de Havilland is a pure pleasure to watch as she slowly bends to Powell's winning ways . Considered more of a dramatic actress , her considerable comedic talents are on full display here . The scene where she attempts to serve a fancy dinner while impersonating her maid is a quiet riot . An unusually large cast of supporting players help move the fun right along : cuddly Charles Winninger as Olivia's physical fitness mad dad ; Isabel Jeans & Bonita Granville as his insufferably snooty wife & youngest daughter ; Melville Cooper as Winninger's long-suffering valet ; Allen Jenkins as Powell's dimwitted buddy ; Thurston Hall as a banker with a dangerous love of practical joking ; Grady Sutton as Olivia's flaccid suitor ; and Penny Singleton as a wonderfully unsophisticated servant . Movie mavens will recognize Arthur Housman as a polite inebriate , and Arthur Hoyt , Vera Lewis & Jimmy Conlin as attendees at a flower lovers ' banquet , all uncredited . Rear projection screening was the bane of the cinema for years , as its patently fake visuals tended to distract from the action . HARD TO GET , therefore , deserves some credit for its splendidly vertiginous high-rise construction segment , which really does grab hold of the viewer's spine .
Miss Henie Skates - Miss Merman Sings	After making a HAPPY LANDING in Norway , a flying bandleader and his manager both find themselves fascinated by a lovely young figure skater . Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . Quickly going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 with ONE IN A MILLION , which was her American film debut . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . In this regard , some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . As her career progressed , it became increasingly difficult for Fox to find decent stories for Henie and the excuses for the lavish ice dancing numbers were often implausible . No matter . Audiences did not flock to her films to watch Sonja recite Shakespeare . The movies were meant to be pure escapist fantasy , plain & simple . HAPPY LANDING is no exception and its story is often quite silly - any film which relies on a striptease by comic Wally Vernon to supply a few chuckles seems a bit too eager to plunge into burlesque . However , the moments on the ice never bore and the co-stars are rather interesting . As the manager , Don Ameche is stolid & faintly dour throughout , as though he rather disapproved of the entire proceedings . More fun is raffish Cesar Romero as the zany bandleader , who gives his natural proclivity for frivolity full rein - especially when teamed with brassy singer Ethel Merman . And although her songs are rather lackluster , there is nothing shy or demure about the way Merman steamrollers her way through her scenes . Gentle Jean Hersholt usually provided an aura of quiet dignity to his films , but here , as Sonja's rather foolish papa , he does himself no favors . He must have been grateful to have been allowed to disappear from the film early on . Much funnier are Billy Gilbert as a diner owner desperate to serve pot roast , and dialect comedian El Brendel as an ice rink band conductor . In their single scenes each shows how to effortlessly steal the attention of the audience for a few moments . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Lon Chaney Jr . as a reporter near the end of the film . Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides effortlessly into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of silver suspended over frozen water .
Berkeley Brings Home The Bacon	The GOLD DIGGERS OF 1935 converge on a resort hotel and get involved in staging a lavish charity stage show . With this film , Busby Berkeley , Warner Bros . ' genius choreographer , produced another tuneful , eye-popping spectacle to beguile Depression audiences out of their spare change . With some gutsy performers unhampered by anything remotely resembling an intelligent plot , Berkeley provided plenty of laughs & glitz in this follow-up to his popular GOLD DIGGERS OF 1933 . The large cast is all attuned to the nonsensical merriment . Preppy Dick Powell is in excellent good voice as the hotel employee wooing rich girl Gloria Stuart , who only has to look lovely for the cameras . Alice Brady is properly shrill & strident as a miserly millionaire insistent on getting her own way in all things . Hugh Herbert is delightful as a daffy fellow interested only in his collection of snuff boxes . Hilarious Adolphe Menjou steals his every scene as a penniless Russian impresario who is obviously slightly crazed . Bold & brassy , the marvelous Glenda Farrell gets to play the only true gold digger in the film . Frank McHugh is Brady's son , desperate to enjoy a forbidden romance . Grant Mitchell oozes unctuous charm as the somewhat smarmy hotel manager . Movie mavens will recognize Nora Cecil as the head hotel housekeeper & E . E . Clive as Herbert's chauffeur , both uncredited . While the cast is all shamelessly willing to entertain , it is the two production numbers near the film's climax which have given it its place in movie history . ? The Words Are In My Heart , ' with its gorgeous girls and hypnotically undulating white pianos , showcases Berkeley's love for regimented precision & choreography , engendered years before during his stint with the military . The seminal ? Lullaby Of Broadway ' is a perfect example of Berkeley's way of telling a story through music & dance - - in this instance the tale of a Big City girl's ultimately horrific night . These two completely different numbers are tied together by the skein of Berkeley's genius and counterpoint each other beautifully .
Up The Nile & Across The Desert With Novarro & Loy	Kidnapped in the Egyptian desert , a beautiful American finds herself alternately loving & loathing THE BARBARIAN who abducted her . Taken solely as romantic adventure , this lavish little MGM film has much to offer , including good acting & fine production values . Considered only from the standpoint of the plot , the story is ludicrous , what with a heroine suffering histrionics among the sand dunes & a hero who is a completely unprincipled cad . Ramon Novarro does well in the title role , a reprise of his silent film THE ARAB ( 1924 ) . MGM's Mexican star adds yet another ethnic stripe to his thespian escutcheon , this time portraying an Egyptian prince . Looking a little like a Valentino clone , he gets to sing & act in a variety of languages . Myrna Loy , who only gets billing below the title , is excellent as the Englishwoman caught-up in the allures & entrapments of the Nile Desert . After paying her dues in roles like this , she would very soon become a major Hollywood movie star . In the very able supporting cast Reginald Denny plays Loy's stuffy fianc ; Edward Arnold is an unctuous pasha ; Hedda Hopper appears briefly as an American tourist very pleased with Novarro's attentions . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith is well cast as Loy's eccentric uncle and elderly , tart-tongued Louise Closser Hale steals every scene she's in as Loy's peppery companion . This film is definitely pre-Production Code vintage , a fact made plainly obvious by Loy's lounge-in-the-tub scene . Considered rationally , many of THE BARBARIAN's implications are rather disturbing . That Loy could only be happy with the man who has humiliated , beaten , abused & raped her are decidedly unwholesome ideas to come from the pen of screenwriter - and liberated woman - Anita Loos . Novarro sings ' Love Songs of the Nile ' quite well , but interminably . If it sounds suspiciously like his previous ' Pagan Love Song ' hit , it may be because the two songs share the same composers , Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed .
Highly Enjoyable Silent Creeper	Like the deadly game between THE CAT AND THE CANARY , so a young heiress feels trapped in a very peculiar haunted house , surrounded by lurking , unseen evils . . . This is a dandy old creeper of a silent horror film , with just the right mix of menace & mirth to please the uncritical viewer . Universal gave the movie very fine production values , which extend not only to the atmospheric sets , but also to the humorously spooky title cards scattered throughout . This film is really story driven , rather than dominated by the personalities of its stars . However , mention should be made of very entertaining performances by Tully Marshall as the scabrous old lawyer , Flora Finch as a terrified auntie , and Lucien Littlefield as an exceedingly strange doctor . Laura La Plante as the lovely , frightened heiress & Creighton Hale as her nervous , scatterbrained cousin give a light touch to the romantic subplot . THE CAT AND THE CANARY is a choice example from the Old Dark House genre of spook tales . All the elements are here : distressed young ladies , a crumbling mansion , a housekeeper of baleful aspect , a lawyer who knows too much , an escaped lunatic , stalking ghosts or monsters , missing wills , meetings at midnight , bony and / or hairy hands appearing from hidden bedroom panels , secret passageways , and sudden death . Unnerved characters are forever making silly choices which always lead them into the clutches of the ravening ghosts / monsters / lunatics . But the Old Dark House has for long years been a respected avenue in literature & movies to maximize suspense & tension . Indeed , it's only a short walk from West Mansion in this film to Wuthering Heights , Baskerville Hall , Manderley & the Bates House . . .
Goulies & Ghosties & The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . ? Eegle Eye Detektive ' Alfalfa , with assistants Buckwheat & Porky , are hunting Darla's missing box of candy . But when they end up in the Haunted House on the Amusement Pier at Long Beach , they soon find themselves playing HIDE AND SHRIEK with the resident monsters . A funny little film , with Alfalfa's disguises especially humorous . Highlight : in the Haunted House . That's comic Billy Bletcher's voice on the recording .
A Mouse Tale With Magic	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey plans on building PLUTO'S DREAM HOUSE - with a big assist from a magic lamp . This is a wonderful little film and boasts a hilarious performance from the lamp itself . Things really get wild in the climax when it starts taking orders from Mickey's malfunctioning radio . There is no genii - the lamp is enchanted and speaks with a voice that will remind some viewers of Jack Benny's Rochester ( Eddie Anderson ) . Mickey gets his unique voice from Walt Disney . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Documented Case	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Although happily suffering from AQUAMANIA , ' Mr . X ' ( Goofy ) is about to enter the water for the scariest experience of his life . . . This little film is a friendly poke in the ribs of anyone who's ever been consumed with water sports . The quality of the animation is not up to the standard of the classics of earlier decades , but the story is whimsical & amusing . Both Goofy , Jr and the terrified Octopus add to the fun . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Scenes & Views In Old London Town	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . While LOOKING AT LONDON in this little film we are shown some of the major sights of this mighty capital : Buckingham Palace , the Bank of England , Trafalgar Square , Piccadilly Circus . After gazing at bomb damage left from the Blitz , we are left to contemplate majestic St . Paul's Cathedral . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Catchin ' A Burglar With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Little Spanky has BEDTIME WORRIES . He has to sleep alone for the first time in his life and suddenly his bedroom is filled with spooky sights & sounds - to the great annoyance of his sleepy father . Then a real burglar gets into the house . . . A very funny little film , with Spanky at the top of his form . Highlight : the ' What's a shipping clerk ? ' sequence . Emerson Treacy & Gay Seabrook play Spanky's very peculiar parents .
Early Backstage Musical	While the Ziegfeld Follies is GLORIFYING THE American GIRL , one young lady sacrifices love for success . This antique musical , produced under the personal supervision of Florenz Ziegfeld for Paramount Studios , is another backstage melodrama ( a very popular genre at the time ) about finding happiness through fame and success on the stage . Like so many other pictures of the era , it revels in Talk & Music ; unfortunately , the sound quality is generally poor , making much of the dialogue & lyrics rather hard to decipher . The representation of Ziegfeld's lavish production numbers is interesting in a historical context , and would be more pleasing to the eye if the original Technicolor footage still survived . Celebrated dancer Ted Shawn was responsible for the ballet numbers , while Irving Berlin supplied some of the music . A careful attention to the soundtrack will disclose the use of old standard tunes in the soundtrack : " A Pretty Girl Is Like A Melody , " " Bye , Bye , Blackbird , " " Side By Side " & " Blue Skies . " The regular cast is made up of long-forgotten performers who still give the material their best efforts : Mary Eaton plays the dancer looking for fame in the Follies ; Dan Healy is her rapacious but talented partner . Edward Crandall is Miss Eaton's doe-eyed department store boyfriend ; Olive Shea plays the salesgirl who loves him desperately . Sarah Edwards has a few good moments as Miss Eaton's crocodilian mother . Ziegfeld brought in three big stars to liven things up during the movie's final lap . Regrettably , Rudy Vallee's rendition of his hit " Vagabond Lover " is both wooden & unintelligible . Perched on a piano , Helen Morgan is equally difficult to understand , but her personality still comes through in her rendition of a torch song . Hyperactive Eddie Cantor comes off best of all during a boisterous sketch about a Jewish haberdasher .
A Goofy Guide To Water Fun	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof demonstrates HOW TO SWIM - and also how to sink and nearly drown . Here is another Sports Goofy film , enjoyable but routine . Diving & surf bathing are also briefly touched upon , with our hero equally inept at both . Some good safety tips are presented along the way . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Goofy Casts His Line	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof illustrates HOW TO FISH in the worst possible way imaginable . This humorous little film was one of a large number of pseudo-educational cartoons produced by Disney between 1940 and 1953 to feature Goofy at his most bumbling & inarticulate . A few tidbits of actual knowledge may be gleaned amid the laughs , however , as the narration discusses when to fish , fishing fever , where to fish , the trout , how to approach the stream , fly fishing , casting the lure & lake fishing . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Let's All Sing Like The Birdies Sing	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Professor Owl teaches the students in his avian schoolhouse the importance of Melody & the sources of Inspiration in their daily lives . ADVENTURES IN MUSIC - MELODY is a very enjoyable little film which gets its musical message across in a delightful manner . This was also the Studio's first foray into the field of 3-D animation . The wacky imagination of its co-director & animator , the irrepressible Ward Kimball ( 1914-2002 ) , is evident throughout . The film would be followed the same year by a sequel , TOOT , WHISTLE , PLUNK , AND BOOM , which won the Oscar for best animated short for 1953 . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Keaton Encounters The Local Constabulary	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . A series of unfortunate misunderstandings leaves Buster being chased by seemingly all of the COPS in Los Angeles . This wonderful little film - one of the most hilarious shorts ever made - illustrates conclusively Keaton's mastery of the medium , most especially his ability to use very large spaces to his complete advantage . The running chase which climaxes the film is an absolute classic . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Another Master Class From Mr . Lon Chaney	A celebrated circus clown , HE Who Gets Slapped , plots the punishment of two evil aristocrats . Lon Chaney , the Silent Screen's master chameleon , adds another portrait to his gallery of pathetic grotesques . This time he plays a scientist who becomes a clown after his former life is destroyed by his adulterous wife and a faithless friend . A young woman provides him with someone to secretly adore , until her wicked father threatens to ruin her happiness . Chaney's face is an absolute wonder to watch as it registers pain , anguish , distress and unrequited passion , underlining the modern reassessment of him as one of cinema's greatest actors . Uninhibited in his circus costume & makeup , he provides no doubt but that he , under different circumstances , could have become a marvelous big top clown . This was the first release of the new film company merger Metro-Goldwyn , thus making Chaney their first star , and was an important rung up the ladder for the two performers playing the young lovers . Norma Shearer & John Gilbert would soon be major movie celebrities - - here they give good account of themselves as the circus ' daredevil & bareback riders , and as Chaney's truest friends ( both unaware of his love for Miss Shearer ) . In a film full of circus excitement , the director has given the young couple a moment of unexpected beauty : whilst on a picnic their innocent affections are noticed by a passing peasant , who gives the call of the cuckoo as the perfect grace note to their bucolic joy . Marc McDermott as a brutal Baron and Tully Marshall as a dissolute Count make villains well worthy of the harshest retribution . Comic Ford Sterling plays one of Chaney's fellow clowns . The Studio gave this silent film fine production values , while director Victor Sjstrm added little embellishments of cinematic flair , dealing with scenes of mysterious clown figures representing fate , which enhance the film .
A CariCATure	A Walt Disney Cartoon . When the Benny Goodman Orchestra swings out a tune , ALL THE CATS JOIN IN . Originally , along with AFTER YOU'VE GONE , part of TWO FOR THE RECORD , which was Goodman's contribution to Disney's MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) , this fast moving five-minute cartoon charts the arrival of a jalopy full of bobbysoxers at the local malt shop for some real jumpin ' & jivin ' . The Goodman Orchestra never lets the pace sag and the Disney animators add just the right touch with their line drawings come to life . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Stanwyck Sizzles	Arriving by boxcar in New York City , the shrewd young woman with the BABY FACE begins to methodically canoodle her way to the top floors of power in a great bank . Barbara Stanwyck is fascinating as the amoral heroine of this influential pre-Code drama . Without a shred of decency or regret , she coolly manipulates the removal or destruction of the men unlucky enough to find themselves in her way . A wonderful actress , Stanwyck has full opportunity here to display her ample talents . Appearing quite late in the story , George Brent is a welcome addition as the one fellow possibly able to handle Stanwyck ; his sophisticated style of acting makes a nice counterpoint to her icy demeanor . Douglas Dumbrille , Donald Cook & Henry Kolker portray a succession of her unfortunate victims . John Wayne appears for just a few scant seconds as an unsuccessful suitor for Stanwyck's affections . This would be the only time these two performers appeared together on screen . Movie mavens should recognize Nat Pendleton as a speakeasy customer , and Charles Sellon & Edward Van Sloan as bank executives - all unbilled . The music heard on the soundtrack throughout the film , perfectly punctuating the plot , is ? Baby Face ' ( 1926 ) by Benny Davis & Harry Akst and ? St . Louis Blues ' ( 1914 ) by W . C . Handy . BABY FACE is a prime example of pre-Code naughtiness . In its frank & unapologetic dealing with sex , it is precisely the kind of film which the implementation of the Production Code in 1934 was meant to eliminate .
Forgotten Pre-Code Gem	A brawling roughneck and a timid wimp are both whipped into shape by AGGIE APPLEBY MAKER OF MEN . This refreshingly forthright & honest look at a Depression-era New York City female and her two problem men is a delight from start to finish . Elements both comic and tender are blended together into a very satisfying package which , whatever the situation , rings true every time . Wynne Gibson gives a remarkably unaffected performance - - bold , brassy , bossy , but also unfailingly decent & loving . She doesn't waste time with either regrets or excuses , but gets on with her tough life , helping others whenever she can . Charles Farrell , a major box office star in the early 1930's , is excellent as the diffident young fellow who changes his entire persona , thanks to Miss Gibson's efforts . Farrell lets us see how vulnerable his character still is , even after assuming his new attitude . The short scene in which he is attacked by a bully is actually painful to watch . William Gargan epitomizes the kind of loudmouthed bruiser who's actually a softy when it comes to his girl . Wispy & almost ethereal , the enormously talented ZaSu Pitts plays the cleaning lady friend of Miss Gibson . Future consumer advocate Betty Furness portrays Farrell's surprisingly liberated hometown girlfriend , while Blanche Frederici appears as his rather frightful aunt . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Jane Darwell as Miss Gibson's practical landlady .
Literate & Intelligent Entertainment	A cunning king of France allows a rapscallion poet to become Lord High Chancellor - for the space of only one week . . . IF I WERE KING is a fascinating film based on the fictionalized lives of two very real personages , Louis XI and Franois Villon . The performances are impeccable , Preston Sturges ' script is literate and Paramount Studios provided excellent production values . As Villon , Ronald Colman makes full use of his most magnificent talent - his beautiful speaking voice . Like honey flowing over velvet , it caresses the dialogue & adds emotional heft to the lines of Villon's poetry used in the film . While perhaps a bit mature to swashbuckle altogether convincingly , he plays the lover very creditably in the romantic scenes . Obviously determined not to acquiesce the entire film to Colman , Basil Rathbone is hilarious as King Louis . Gaunt , wizened & cackling like a crone , he effortlessly steals his every scene . Eschewing the use of his own superb speaking voice , Rathbone plays a character that will remind some viewers of the disguises the actor would use shortly as Sherlock Holmes . The sequences between Rathbone & Colman are very enjoyable , especially since in their only other joint appearance , A TALE OF TWO CITIES ( 1935 ) , they had no scenes together . The two women involved in Villon's life are portrayed by Frances Dee & Ellen Drew , one an aristocrat , the other a wench - lovely ladies both . Smaller roles are filled by fine character actors Henry Wilcoxon , Walter Kingsford , Sidney Toler , John Miljan & Montague Love . Way down the cast list is the always reliable Ralph Forbes , playing the king's toady . Movie mavens will spot an uncredited Lionel Belmore playing the Chief Steward of the royal palace . Fat & ugly , Louis XI ( 1423-1483 ) was nicknamed ' the Spider ' as a grudging tribute to his remarkable skills at plotting & scheming . Although he showed talent in administration from an early age , he also was quite adept at angering his father , Charles VII , and ultimately had to take refuge at the Burgundian court until the time of his succession to the throne . Almost universally unpopular , he set up an elaborate spy network which kept him informed as to nearly all that went on in his kingdom . His overriding mission was to crush the power of the great nobles , especially Burgundy - now ruled by the successor to Louis ' former protector - and this he was largely able to do , thanks to his policy of encouraging the minor nobles and the middle class . The might of the French crown was significantly strengthened during his despotic reign . Franois Villon ( 1431-1463 ? ) was both France's greatest lyric poet and a complete scoundrel & ruffian . Raised by a chaplain , Villon absorbed none of the virtues of the Church , consorting with the basest of companions and involving himself in numerous scrapes , misdeeds & robberies . His murder of a priest during a street brawl was but one of several outrages . Imprisoned many times both in Paris and other French municipalities , Villon was almost preternaturally fortunate in being able to take advantage of various pardons & amnesties - all undeserved . After one final clemency , he was banished from Paris for life - whereupon he completely disappears from the historical record . Although stained by a most unsavory reputation , critics have long admired Villon's poetry and have extolled both the exquisite imagery of his tender verses and the unremitting detail in the poems describing his coarser experiences . The bulk of the tale told in IF I WERE KING is a complete fantasy . There is no indication that Louis XI & Villon ever even met .
A Milestone For Computer Animation	An indulgent & bemused parent - who just happens to be a desk lamp - watches its child , LUXO JR . , romp with a plastic ball . This tiny film , produced in 1986 , showed the computer animation world what results were possible , even on a small scale , when imagination is unloosed at the keyboard . The personality given to the two character objects is remarkable , especially considering the extremely short running time . Little Luxo would go on to become the corporate symbol for Pixar , who are ranked near the top of the tree in their field of expertise .
Into The Marshes With Holmes & Watson	A plea from a dead noblewoman propels Sherlock Holmes towards a confrontation with a phantom murderer known as THE SCARLET CLAW . Holmes & Watson are faced with a real thriller in this moody , atmospheric little film set in Qubec . The villain is particularly nasty - - a glow-in-the-dark fiend who savagely rips out the throats of its victims . This just might be the case which changes Holmes'mind about the reality of the supernatural . . . As ever , Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce are perfect in their roles , like two favorite old uncles , eccentric and a bit crotchety , that one still welcomes to one's fireside . Rathbone is ever the cerebral gymnast , making deductions which sometimes lead him straight into danger . Bruce is a bit more lively this time , getting to indulge himself a bit with an extremely humorous inebriated scene . A sturdy cast of character actors make up the very frightened inhabitants of the bog-girded village of La Morte Rouge : Paul Cavanagh as the occult-studying peer ; Ian Wolfe as his alcoholic butler ; Arthur Hohl as the brutal innkeeper ; Kay Harding as his unfortunate young daughter ; Gerald Hamer as a nervous postman ; Miles Mander as a terrified old judge and Victoria Horne as his disquieted housekeeper . With the war against the Axis still continuing at the time of production , the film concludes with Holmes pithy patriotic paean to Canada . This film follows SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SPIDER WOMAN ( 1944 ) and precedes THE PEARL OF DEATH ( 1944 ) .
Lofty Passions	Five nuns attempting to establish a working convent high in the Himalayas find their remote location as heady and disturbing as the scent of BLACK NARCISSUS . The celebrated cinematic team of Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger created this splendid film which casts almost a hypnotic spell with its rich visuals and stunning vistas . These are a mere decoration , however , to the real intent of the movie , which is to examine the minds and motivations of the Sisters who find themselves working in the exotic , isolated aerie , once the fortified zenana of a Hindu rajah . The madness which comes of so much introspection & loneliness is almost inevitable . A very fine cast brings the story to life : Deborah Kerr as Sister Clodagh , St Faith's young Sister Superior ; Dame Flora Robson as gentle Sister Phillippa , whose appreciation of beauty awakens troubling memories ; Judith Furse as sturdy Sister Briony , the convent's nurse ; Jenny Laird as joyful Sister Honey , whose moment of panic threatens the convent's future ; and Kathleen Byron as troubled Sister Ruth , whose physical frailty may signal emotional neuroses . As the agent of the munificent local ruler , David Farrar's casual virility troubles some of the Sisters . Indian actor Sabu had his last notable role as a charming young Prince with a fascination for Western knowledge . Young Jean Simmons appears as a wanton teen who is given a home by the nuns . Elderly Mary Hallatt steals her scenes as the convent's crotchety caretaker . Smaller roles are ably filled by Nancy Roberts as the Mother Superior of the Order of The Servants of Mary's convent in Calcutta , Esmond Knight as the Old General who gives the Palace of Mopu to the Order , and Shaun Noble as Kerr's Irish sweetheart . Movie mavens will recognize sweet Margaret Scudamore as Kerr's grandmother . The film makes magnificent use of Technicolour and thoroughly deserved the two Oscars it was awarded for cinematography & art direction The scenes showing Kerr's recollections of her former life in Ireland were originally excised by American censors , who considered them objectionable . They are not . Born Sabu Dastagir in 1924 , Sabu was employed in the Maharaja of Mysore's stables when he was discovered by Korda's company and set before the cameras . His first four films ( ELEPHANT BOY-1937 , THE DRUM-1938 , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD-1940 , JUNGLE BOOK-1942 ) were his best and he found himself working out of Hollywood when they were completed . After distinguished military service in World War II he resumed his film career , but he became endlessly confined for years playing ethnic roles in undistinguished minor films , the one great exception being BLACK NARCISSUS ( 1947 ) . His final movie , Walt Disney's A TIGER WALKS ( 1964 ) was an improvement , but it was too late . Sabu had died of a heart attack in late 1963 , only 39 years of age .
Another Excellent Historical Portrayal By Mr . George Arliss	ALEXANDER HAMILTON , the first Treasury Secretary of the new American Republic , strives mightily against tremendous odds , political & personal , to achieve his great goal : financial solidity & respect for the emerging nation . Just as his triumph seems assured , he is humiliated by a sex scandal engineered by his most powerful enemy in the Senate . . . Let it be stated immediately that George Arliss should have been the worst possible actor to portray the title figure in this film . First , he was much too old ( Hamilton was in his 30's at the time of the scandal ; Arliss turned 63 in 1931 ) . Also , the handsome Hamilton in no way resembled Arliss , who , quite frankly , looks like a death's-head . But this is not supposed to be a physical reconstruction of the historical Hamilton , but rather a look into the heart & character of the fellow . In this , Arliss succeeds admirably , using his tremendous acting talents to both inform & entertain us . Truly , he was one of the great cinematic artists of his generation and it is a shame that he is all but forgotten today . Although all centers around Arliss , the rest of the cast does well : Doris Kenyon & June Collyer as the very different women in Hamilton's life ; Dudley Digges & Ralf Harolde as his enemies ; Montague Love as Thomas Jefferson ; and old Lionel Belmore , stealing a few scenes as Hamilton's corpulent father-in-law . Special mention should be made of Alan Mowbray , very effective as George Washington . Non-political potential viewers who avoid this film risk missing a superb performance by one of the past masters .
Service With A Smile For Misses Todd & Kelly	A TODD & KELLY Comedy Short . The Girls experience extreme AIR FRIGHT when they are employed to be hostesses on the experimental airplane designed by an eccentric inventor . This is a funny entry in Hal Roach's almost forgotten series , featuring coolly elegant Thelma Todd & bumptious tomboy Patsy Kelly . Highlight : Slapstick at 5 , 000 feet . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Charlie Hall as the very worried pilot .
Going Fishin ' With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Spanky has decided to skip Sunday School in favor of trying out his new fishing pole . Followed by Buckwheat & Porky , the LITTLE SINNER heads down to the river , where a few surprises await him . . . A very funny little film . Highlights : Buckwheat and the worms ; the baptismal service . Clarence Wilson plays the old grouch .
Mr . Keaton On The Job	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . An imaginative young lady DAYDREAMS about her boyfriend Buster making it big in New York City . This very funny little film , showing the dichotomy between Buster's menial jobs & his letters to his girl , illustrates yet again Keaton's superb physical prowess as he puts himself through seemingly impossible & palpably dangerous stunts . Highlight : Buster in another marathon run from legions of lawmen . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
At The Lake With Mr . Duck & Dog	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald hopes for a quiet day in his motorboat with Pluto , but PUT-PUT TROUBLES will soon put an end to that aspiration . Fine animation and good gags highlight this little film , which was one of only a handful to team The Duck and The Pup . The exigencies of the plot , however , keeps them apart most of the time . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplied Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Compelling Little Mystery	A young Italian , the last of the Borgias , fears he is cursed with the evil of his infamous family . And now the woman he loves may be guilty of a nasty murder . . . Based on a novel by Ben Hecht , THE FLORENTINE DAGGER is raised above the level of modest murder programmers on the strength of its unusual plot , moody atmospherics and very fine acting . Sir C . Aubrey Smith graces the proceedings as a kindly old doctor who helps a young playwright and a spirited actress ( Donald Woods & Margaret Lindsay ) find happiness together , despite homicide and a possible family curse . Robert Barrat is also much fun as an eccentric , flirtatious police inspector ; surprisingly , he becomes the story's true hero in the movie's closing moments . The supporting cast includes Henry O'Neill as a Viennese theatrical producer ; Florence Fair as his troubled housekeeper ; Frank Reicher as a harried stage manager ; Rafaela Ottiano & Charles Judels as worried Italian innkeepers ; Paul Porcasi as a timid policeman ; Eily Malyon as a lady who knows more about the murder than she's willing to say ; and wonderful Herman Bing as a flustered Austrian baker . The conclusion comes as a bit of a surprise , considering the Production Code's requirement for the punishment of all movie murderers . . . Much is said , in the film's first half , about Cesare Borgia . It might prove interesting to review the facts of his life . The illegitimate son of Pope Alexander VI , Cesare ( 1475-1507 ) started his rise to power early , first in his ancestral Spain and later in Italy . At the age of seven he was created prothonotary & canon of the cathedral of Valencia - but it was in 1491 at the age of sixteen that his career really started to move . Over the course of the next two years Cesare was quickly created bishop , archbishop & cardinal . In 1498 he renounced his cardinalate to become Captain General of the Papal Army . Working hand in glove with the Pope , his father , they furthered their schemes towards wresting a northern Italian kingdom for Cesare . A marriage that same year with the sister of the King of Navarre and the acceptance of a French dukedom , gave Cesare & Alexander the French support they would need for their plots of conquest . By 1500 Cesare was fully immersed in his generally successful campaigns . ( One of his victims was Duke Alfonso of Bisceglie , the husband of Cesare's wicked sister Lucrezia ; that unlucky gentleman had been stabbed by a quartet of Cesare's assassins and subsequently strangled in his sickbed by Cesare's servant . ) Hated & despised by the rank and file of the citizenry of Italy , Alexander & Cesare had to constantly fight against the overwhelming tide of public opinion . Surviving one rebellion in his army - and treacherously murdering the ringleaders after feigning peace - Cesare's fortunes at last crumbled with the death of his father in 1503 . The new pope , Julius II , was an implacable enemy and demanded the release of Cesare's dominions . Cesare was eventually captured by the Spanish , imprisoned in Spain , and made a daring escape . He now offered his services to his brother-in-law , the King of Navarre . Cesare Borgia's short , violent , utterly fascinating life came to an end in 1507 when he was killed in a skirmish with rebels .
The Brutality Of War - From D . W . Griffith	Representative of all the innocent HEARTS OF THE WORLD , two American families living in a picturesque French village experience the horror & devastation of the Great War . This rarely seen film is the result of a somewhat surprising collaboration between the British government & genius American filmmaker D . W . Griffith . With the hideous World War still burning across Europe , the old men in Downing Street thought it would be well if filmed propaganda was produced which might help induce America into joining The Effort . After his tremendous achievements with THE BIRTH OF A NATION ( 1915 ) & INTOLERANCE ( 1916 ) , it was obvious that Griffith was the world's foremost cinematic director . A devout pacifist , he undertook the difficult challenge of turning battlefield horrors into a story suitable for the screen . That accomplished , Griffith actually took some of his cast & crew across the dangerous Atlantic to London ( and a meeting with Prime Minister David Lloyd George ) and then it was on to France for some quick filming at the front lines . All of which proved unnecessary . Infuriated by Berlin's unrestricted use of submarine warfare , America declared war on Germany in April of 1917 , months before HEARTS OF THE WORLD could be completed back in Hollywood . While not as innovative or groundbreaking as its two celebrated predecessors , HEARTS OF THE WORLD can stand on its own merits . Filled with Griffith's special touches , its principle value exists in its revelation of his contemporaneous feelings about the War , even as the conflict still raged . He bestowed on it sequences as poignant and harrowing as any in his oeuvre . Who can forget Lillian Gish on her wedding day , driven mad by the bombardment , preparing to spend her bridal night alongside the corpse of her betrothed ? Or the sight of three little boys secretly burying their dead mother in a cellar , so her body would not be disgraced by the enemy . Griffith assures scenes such as these are not easily banished from the viewer's memory . Besides the numinous Miss Gish , appreciation should be extended to Bobby Harron as the film's stalwart hero ; this fine young actor would die in 1920 of an accidental gunshot wound , not a suicide as is usually reported . Dorothy Gish plays a feisty , comedic role , giving the film a light touch at welcome intervals . Josephine Crowell & Kate Bruce are memorable as the two tragic mothers , both victims of the war . Also appearing are a couple of stars in embryo : a young Sir Nol Coward is the extra pushing the wheelbarrow containing Miss Lillian's luggage in her first scene . Technical Supervisor Erich von Stroheim is easily recognizable as a bald German officer ; he would eventually dominate Hollywood's silent films of the 1920's , using the full force of his own , rather bizarre , genius . Special appreciation should be paid to the splendid cinematography of Billy Bitzer , who performed yeoman service for Griffith in several of his epics .
Playing With Fire	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald Duck , the FIRE CHIEF of Hook & Ladder Company 13 , manages to start a roaring conflagration in his own engine house . Donald gets himself into trouble yet again - with able assistance from Huey , Dewey & Louie - in this well-animated little film . There is a good chance that viewers who have suffered a devastating fire will not find this cartoon very amusing . The story was written by the legendary Carl Barks ; Clarence Nash provides the voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Easy Come , Easy Go With Goofy	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Mr . Geef hopes to GET RICH QUICK - and gambling is the way he plans to do it . This rather odd little film has a tough time deciding where it stands in relation to Lady Luck . Goofy's two jackpot wins are hardly a warning against the dice vice for young viewers . Perhaps this ambiguity was a reflection of the animators ' own experiences . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Square One For Screen Legends	An eccentric hypochondriac staying at an Arizona dude ranch finds the time - when not popping pills - to make a little WHOOPEE ! The emergence of two diverse talents make watching this film special . Banjo-eyed Eddie Cantor , already the darling of the Ziegfeld Follies , became a fully fledged movie star in this tale of utter lunacy , his own special brand of innocent insanity completely at home in these surroundings . Never still for long , legs & hands constantly flittering about , he punctuates every double entendre with eyes rolled up as if in mild shock at his own dialogue . His handful of songs , including his signature tune ? Making Whoopee , ' only further showcase his abundant talent . This was also the first significant assignment for choreographer Busby Berkeley . He displays his genius in embryo with his precision movements ( greatly influenced by his exposure to military drills ) and initial examples of his trademark overhead shots . The film's production entirely in early Technicolor gave Berkeley a rich palette with which to work and he acquits himself well , even if his Indian maiden costumes near the end of the picture exhibit rather dubious taste . Cantor dominates the cast , but Ethel Shutta has a few good moments as Eddie's stern nurse and elderly Spencer Charters , playing the ranch's owner , has a hilariously bizarre sequence in which he & Cantor examine each other's surgical scars . Movie mavens will recognize a young , uncredited Betty Grable as the chorus girl with the lasso in the first song . A glance down the credits shows a couple of names of note : Nacio Herb Brown was among the foremost movie songwriters of the era ; Greg Toland would later be hailed as one of Hollywood's finest cinematographers . The film makes a point of dealing with bias against Native Americans . Cantor's blackface comedy sequence will then perhaps be a bit of a surprise to some , but it should be remembered that this sort of racial insensitivity was not unusual in the movie industry of 1930 .
De Mille's First Talkie	An heiress plays with DYNAMITE when she marries a Death Row prisoner in order to inherit a large fortune . In 1929 Cecil B . De Mille , perhaps Hollywood's most flamboyant director , went to work for the biggest Studio in town - - giant MGM . During his brief sojourn there , De Mille would create three films - - MADAM Satan ( 1930 ) & THE SQUAW MAN ( 1931 ) were the others . None could be considered financial successes , but each would be fine pieces of entertainment , unblemished by the mawkish acting or unnatural staging which often marred other very early sound pictures . In DYNAMITE , De Mille mixes together the worlds of the indolent rich and the hard working poor , a combination capable of producing an explosion as powerful as any stick of nitroglycerin . Kay Johnson turns in a wonderful performance as a very conflicted young woman who must decide between the two very different men in her life - - with unavoidably tragic results . Her big scenes , as a sorrowful bride , a humiliated hostess , a ditsy cook , an accident witness and the victim of a natural calamity , are all played with great skill & complete command of the new , noisy medium . Charles Bickford is very effective as the plainspoken , rough mannered coal miner whom fate suddenly thrusts into Johnson's world . His anti-hero stance plays very nicely against Conrad Nagel's portrayal of a fun loving playboy who adores Johnson , and who is given , in the movie's final moments , the chance to give his life some meaning during the suspenseful underground cave-in with which De Mille traps his three protagonists . Julia Faye , a favorite actress of De Mille's who would have small roles in his films for decades , plays Nagel's extravagant , mercenary wife . A very young Joel McCrea appears as her boyish lover . Movie mavens will recognize Russ Columbo as the singing inmate during the wedding scene ; he would become one of America's favorite crooners before his tragic & mysterious death in 1934 . That's also dear Mary Gordon , also unbilled , as Bickford's mining town neighbor . De Mille turns his artistic wildness loose a bit during the party scenes of wealthy dissipation , showing how Johnson's idle friends spend their worthless lives .
Gettin ' Locked Out With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Strange things happen WHEN THE WIND BLOWS . After getting locked out of his house on a stormy night , nightshirted Jackie seeks solace at the homes of Farina , Chubby & Mary Ann . When a neighborhood prowler shows up , things get really hectic . . . A funny little film , although the beating Jackie gets from his Dad seems a bit much . Farina's home life is shown in a stereotypical fashion , common for that era in Hollywood . Highlight : Mary Ann's flirtatious ways . That's Edgar Kennedy as the hapless cop on the beat .
A Duck Tale With Looney Bird	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . While on a photographic expedition , Donald is driven crazy by the CLOWN OF THE JUNGLE , the zany Aracuan bird . This incredibly silly little film features the second of three animated appearances by the Aracuan bird . With his debut in THE THREE CABALLEROS ( 1945 ) , his mercifully brief film career would come to a culmination in MELODY TIME ( 1948 ) . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Potent Anti-War Polemic	A mild-mannered sculptor who hates war becomes the ACE OF ACES in World War One . Although nearly forgotten for decades , this powerful little anti-war film packs a punch as it focuses on the young men of an American flying squadron stationed in France . Cynical & flippant , they know the odds are against them surviving the war and they each deal with that knowledge in their own way . Richard Dix , an excellent actor who has become undeservedly obscure , gives a powerful performance as a pilot embittered by war's savagery yet delighting in his ability to kill . His reaction at finally meeting one of the Germans he has mortally wounded is only one moment which gives the actor much scope to display his craft . Lovely Elizabeth Allan portrays the weary front-line nurse , once Dix's fiance , who brings some humanity back into his life . Ralph Bellamy plays Dix's no-nonsense superior officer ; Theodore Newton does well as Dix's barracks mate . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Grady Sutton as an excited house guest . RKO has given the film fine production values , with the flying sequences especially well mounted . The movie is marred slightly by the ending , which is rather unbelievable considering the moments leading up to it . And whatever happened to the chimp & the lion ?
Lighthearted Shirley Temple Musical	A precocious little moppet mistakes a misanthropic tycoon for Uncle Sam . She believes that by helping the old fellow , Depression woes will cease for her father and the country JUST AROUND THE CORNER . This friendly , fanciful film was exactly what the nation needed to help it forget economic hard times . Shirley Temple is bright & cheerful , as always , and never fails to amuse . The talents which made her Hollywood's top box office draw for years are abundantly on display . Legendary Bill ' Bojangles ' Robinson is on hand with 3 of his celebrated dance routines . Watch , when he dances with Shirley , how she matches him step for step - a marvelous terpsichorean treat . Comedy is handled by Bert Lahr , Joan Davis ( why aren't they included in the climactic Benefit show ? ) & especially Franklin Pangborn , in his glory as the quintessential harried apartment manager . Charles Farrell , a big star himself a few years previous , does a fine job as Shirley's dad , while Claude Gillingwater once again has fun with the part of a crotchety , rich old man . Cora Witherspoon scores as a society snob . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Williams as a persistent photographer & Leonard Kibrick as Shirley's tough kid friend . Shirley , with help from Miss Davis , Lahr & Bojangles , sings & dances her way through ' This Is A Happy Little Ditty ' & ' Just Around The Corner ' .
Brown's Comedy Stays Afloat	A penniless inventor is mistaken for a Canadian swimming champ and swept into competing in a swimming race from Santa Catalina Island to the California mainland . YOU SAID A MOUTHFUL gave rubber-faced comic Joe E . Brown a fine vehicle to show off his talents . Whether he's attempting to demonstrate his unsinkable bathing suit , trying to learn to swim in an ornate bathtub or encountering numerous difficulties on the 22-mile aquatic contest , Brown is never less than hilarious . Here , he is given fine support by perky , pretty Ginger Rogers , who lends her special magic to light up the screen . OUR GANG's Allen ? Farina ' Hoskins proves a good sidekick for Brown ; this would be one of his last significant film roles . Preston Foster plays Brown's romantic rival ; movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Guinn ? Big Boy ' Williams as the hapless real swim champ . Actual location filming at Avalon on beautiful Catalina Island greatly adds to the ambiance of the picture .
History Mystery	An MGM PROPHECIES OF NOSTRADAMUS Short Subject . The strange story of Michel de NOSTRADAMUS AND THE QUEEN of France is herein related . This short film tells the intriguing tale of the prophecies of the famous seer ( 1503-1566 ) and how they reinforced the ambitions of the rapacious Catherine de Medici ( 1519-1589 ) and the fates of her three sons , each of whom would rule France : Francis II ( 1559-1560 ) , Charles IX ( 1560-1574 ) and Henry III ( 1574-1589 ) . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Fun For All	A New York playboy & a Texas rich girl enjoy BREAKFAST FOR TWO after a wild night on the town . Here is a screwball comedy which derives its humor more from the fine acting of its cast than from zany situations . When these situations do appear late in the film the characters are well established in the viewer's mind , adding extra zest to some very funny sequences . Barbara Stanwyck stars as the highly determined young woman who uses her considerable resources to save the man she loves from his improvident lifestyle . This was an actress equally adept at the grittiest drama or the lightest comedy . Her timing was impeccable and her delivery uniquely all her own . As the object of her affections , Herbert Marshall makes excellent use of his suave demeanor and marvelous speaking voice to add a soupon of sophistication to his character's wastrel ways . An excellent supporting cast gets fully involved in the zany proceedings . Brassy Glenda Farrell plays the dumb blonde actress who adores Marshall ; good-hearted & jolly , the plot really does treat her unkindly . Eric Blore is wonderful as Marshall's faithful , scheming valet . Tiny chittering Etienne Girardot plays Marshall's elderly office manager . Donald Meek , as a flustered little Justice of the Peace , gets to preside over three of the funniest wedding ceremonies ever committed to film . RKO has given the film very fine production values , as epitomized by the mansion sets shown in the opening sequence . And what about those crazy window washers ? !
A Look At The Navy's Wings	A MGM Short Subject . After relentless , rigorous training , young men from around the USA become the EYES OF THE NAVY as pilots of the air arm of the Navy & Marines . Produced well before the entry of America into World War Two , this Short serves as both a plea for preparedness by having a strong air defense , as well as a promotional pitch for the flying fleet . It is interesting in that Uncle Sam's potential enemies ( Germany , Italy , Japan ) are never mentioned by name . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighborhood theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination .
Disney's Salute To The Seasons , Opus Four	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It is WINTER , and when not braving the icy winds the forest animals are gliding on the ice . They don't neglect their trip to Mr . Groundhog , though , to get a forecast of the coming weather . . . More action / reaction animation in this black & white cartoon . Also more posterior gags , in dubious taste , from the Disney animators . The bear cub having a face almost identical to Mickey Mouse was probably no accident . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Through The Desert With Duck & Dog	A Walt Disney DONALD AND GOOFY Cartoon . While driving their jalopy through the Sahara , the two pals get lost , become very thirsty and go CRAZY WITH THE HEAT . This very funny little film features the inspired pairing of The Duck & The Goof , Donald's rising exasperation at Goofy's bumbling sparking much of the enjoyment . Clarence " Ducky " Nash gives voice to Donald ; Paul Frees does the honors for the proprietor of the Oasis Soda Fountain . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Cautionary Tale From Prince Charles	A cheery , blundering old Scots hermit disrupts the life of the wee magic folk who have responsibility for pushing the Spring flowers up out of the ground , according to THE LEGEND OF LOCHNAGAR . This humorous little film , produced in Wales for British & American television , effectively tells its tale with fairly decent animation and an often whimsical script . The cartoon's subtle plea for ecological sensitivity will not be missed by thoughtful viewers . The film is based on a 1980 story by Britain's Prince Charles - " The Old Man of Lochnagar " - and the original illustrations of Sir Hugh Casson . The Prince appears in live action segments which bookend the cartoon , relating the Legend with a serious royal demeanor which delightfully is smashed during the film's final moments . The voice talent of Robbie Coltrane as the hermit , obsessed with his bathtub & plumbing , adds greatly to the enjoyment of the film .
More Music With The Mice	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE WHOOPEE PARTY with Mickey & his friends has lots of good times & musical merriment for every creature in attendance . There's plenty of fun in this little black & white film . Music mavens will recognize ' Sweet Rosie O'Grady , ' ' The Maple Leaf Rag ' & ' Running Wild ' among the tunes performed . A nice touch is having the ladies ( Minnie & Clarabelle Cow ) perform the music , while the gentlemen ( Mickey , Horace Horsecollar & Dippy Dawg - Goofy's early incarnation ) provide the food . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Good Silent Action In Navy Flight Film	Six young midshipmen about to graduate from Annapolis dream about the glory of joining the FLYING FLEET , unaware of the heartache & happiness the future has in store for them . . . While almost a commercial for the Navy's aviation wing , this late MGM silent film is still very enjoyable . The flying scenes are well produced and exciting and the slight plot of friendships , rivalries , a pretty girl & a tragic flight to Honolulu grab the viewer's attention . Ramon Novarro does a sturdy job as the foremost amongst the six comrades . Ralph Graves scores as Novarro's best buddy . Anita Page is lovely in a role that calls for her to do very little else except look lovely . ( Decades later she claimed Novarro proposed marriage to her ! ) Unbilled , Alfred Allen does a fine turn as a blustery , comic Admiral ; and Gardner James is excellent as Specs the navigator , who's heroism & self-sacrifice effortlessly steals the climax of the film .
Kipling & Korda	Reared in the Indian Jungle , a young man must learn to live amongst the most rapacious of Nature's creatures , Man . Sir Alexander Korda's splendid film uses Kipling's book as a launching pad to tell Mowgli's story after he left his animal friends . It is told with great verve and excitement and its evocative views of the great jungle and the Lost City , as locations for Mowgli's further adventures , revealed in vibrant Technicolor , are an indication of the excellent production values lavished to make the story come alive . As teen-aged Mowgli , Indian actor Sabu couldn't be more perfect . Whether as the Wild Boy who first enters the village , or , later , as the completely competent young man who ferrets out the secret of the Lost City's treasure , fights the tiger Shere Khan and communes with deadly snakes , elephants & wolves , he is completely believable . Kipling would have been proud . Rosemary DeCamp is a quiet delight as Mowgli's gentle mother , her scenes with Sabu are most effective and tender . John Qualen , Frank Puglia , and especially Joseph Calleia , all score as the members of the man-village who want to see Mowgli destroyed . Playing his character as an old man , Calleia also bookends the film as its storyteller , using his somber demeanor to add to the mystery of the plot . That's Silent star Noble Johnson as the Sikh whose female companion encourages the telling of the tale . Born Sabu Dastagir in 1924 , Sabu was employed in the Maharaja of Mysore's stables when he was discovered by Korda's company and set before the cameras . His first four films ( ELEPHANT BOY-1937 , THE DRUM-1938 , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD-1940 , JUNGLE BOOK-1942 ) were his best and he found himself working out of Hollywood when they were completed . After distinguished military service in World War II he resumed his film career , but he became endlessly confined for years playing ethnic roles in undistinguished minor films , BLACK NARCISSUS ( 1947 ) being the one great exception . His final movie , Walt Disney's A TIGER WALKS ( 1964 ) was an improvement , but it was too late . Sabu had died of a heart attack in late 1963 , only 39 years of age .
Poses & Postures From Olivier	A rich woman encounters her first husband during a WESTWARD PASSAGE across the Atlantic . RKO Studios joined the lovely Ann Harding and the dynamic young Laurence Olivier in this rather pedestrian little soap opera , which gains its main distinction from its casting . The emotions on display are a bit tawdry at times , but the performances are certainly always entertaining . Miss Harding , sadly rather obscure today , gives a fine portrayal of a woman slowly unfolding , like a rose , into becoming a successful , vibrant female . Even though she treats her second spouse rather shoddily , the viewer still cares about her and wishes her well . Olivier gives a marvelously hammy performance , full of stagy flourishes & fidgets . Always mindful of the camera , he makes himself a coquette to the viewers , so effortlessly stealing every scene that it's easy to forget just how petty , irresponsible & disreputable his character actually is . A fine cast of players offer able support : Irving Pichel as Harding's decent , dull second husband ; Juliette Compton & Irene Purcell as her wealthy , worldly girlfriends ; slow-burning Edgar Kennedy as a henpecked husband aboard ship ; Herman Bing as a comic factotum ; and little Bonita Granville as the precocious offspring of Harding & Olivier . Best of all is dear ZaSu Pitts , all fluttery gestures & rolling eyes , as the wonderfully vague proprietress of the quaint honeymoon inn where Olivier takes Harding , twice .
Another Entrant In John Gilbert's Vanishing Talkie Career	An alcoholic millionaire heads WEST OF BROADWAY to his Arizona ranch to shake off the paid date he married during a drunken binge . According to cinematic legend , all the talkie MGM films starring John Gilbert were dreadful - the result of a bitter hatred between Gilbert ( the highest paid star in Hollywood , with a $1 . 5 million contract ) & studio boss Louis B . Mayer . A determination on Gilbert's part to fulfill the contract , and a campaign instituted by Mayer to destroy Gilbert's career - including spreading the rumor that Gilbert's voice was ' high & feminine ' , culminated in several unwatchable movies . Not entirely true . The Studio had a huge financial investment in Jack Gilbert and was not going to completely cut its own throat by showcasing him in nothing but dreck . However , of the 8 MGM talkies in which he appeared as solo star ( 1929 - HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT ; 1930 - REDEMPTION ; WAY FOR A SAILOR ; 1931 - GENTLEMAN'S FATE ; THE PHANTOM OF PARIS ; WEST OF BROADWAY ; 1932 - DOWNSTAIRS ; 1933 - FAST WORKERS ) most were certainly rather ghastly . WEST OF BROADWAY , however , was quite decent , and , indeed , fully representative of the material the studio was producing in 1931 . Gilbert gives a dignified performance , with the occasional flash of talent that shows what he might have been capable of had MGM worked harder to give him better material . He is given excellent support by pert Lois Moran , who puts real honesty into her portrayal of a poor girl who grabs her only chance of happiness . El Brendel , popular dialect comedian of the period , gets some much needed laughs out of his pseudo-Swedish role , although his bizarre tickling sequence with house boy Willie Fung is sure to raise a few eyebrows . Lovely Madge Evans as the woman who jilts Gilbert , Ralph Bellamy as a noble cowboy , Hedda Hopper as a society snob & Gwen Lee as a floozy all do well with their supporting roles . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited John Miljan as an obnoxious cad . The film is helped immensely by outdoor location filming during the ranch scenes . Finally , about The Voice . There was nothing at all strange or unnaturally high about Gilbert's voice . As a matter of fact , it was of medium range & rather cultured & refined . Which was the crux of the problem , of course . While it is possible that no voice could have ever matched the perfect one viewers heard in their minds while watching his strong , virile silent roles , the reality was very different from what they wanted to hear ( imagine Robert Montgomery's voice coming out of Clark Gable's mouth . ) Gilbert was doomed from his first scene in his debut talkie ; his war with Mayer only intensified the agony . He would die in 1936 , forgotten by most of his former fans , at the age of only 36 .
War Wounds & Battle Scars	A young WAR NURSE learns to serve the wounded servicemen , whatever the personal cost to herself . This fine film from MGM illustrates the horrors of World War One by celebrating the American military nurses in France . The horrendous conditions they work under , the very real dangers they face , and the lives they sacrifice for their devotion to service , both gives emphasis to their tremendous dedication , and provides some fine entertainment for the viewer . While the focus remains on the hospital drama the film is at its best ; it starts going soft when the romantic escapades of two of the nurses begin to absorb considerable screen time . Anita Page gives a commendable performance as a convent schoolgirl who quickly loses her innocence to war's terrible reality , and her heart to airman Robert Ames , who also scores as her conflicted lover . June Walker , on the other hand , provides rather colorless appeal when compared to flashy flyer Robert Montgomery , who shows some of the star power that was so soon to make him one of the top draws at MGM . It's great to see the marvelous ZaSu Pitts , playing a rather downbeat , plain-talking nurse , but the role does not give her enough to do . Actually taking the movie's top acting honors is supporting actress Helen Jerome Eddy , portraying a starchy Kansas schoolmarm who slowly reveals her beautiful heart after joining the medical services . Hedda Hopper is a tower of strength in her rather small role as the nurses ' matron . Marie Prevost is on hand as a brazen Brooklyn babe who also is one of the Ladies in White .
Mister Laurel & Mister Hardy Invite You On A Most Memorable Boat Ride	Stan & Ollie become SAPS AT SEA when their wayward little boat is commandeered by a vicious murderer . The Boys are wonderful in this feature , which starts out with one of their most hilarious set pieces , the horn factory . Always a few steps out of sync with the rest of Creation , Laurel & Hardy inhabit a world where icy radios & bedded billy goats are the rule , not the exception . With its brief length , the film is more in style with their classic short subjects , which explains its episodic nature . Only the Boys get screen credit , but movie mavens will recognize other familiar faces : James Finlayson appears as a loony doctor , Richard Cramer does full justice to his bad guy role , sweet Mary Gordon plays the Boys ' perplexed neighbor . That's Charlie Hall as the apartment house desk clerk and silent screen comic Ben Turpin portrays a most peculiar plumber . One of the film's script writers was silent comedian Harry Langdon . Stan & Ollie are the main focus , however . Watching Hardy go berserk at the sound of a horn , or Laurel's antics with bananas , for instance , reminds the viewer why these fellows remain absolute cinematic giants .
Heart Warmer	A poor family living on a houseboat plans a very special Sunday DINNER FOR A SOLDIER . Here is an excellent example of the type of movie Hollywood produced during World War Two as morale boosting entertainment . It depicts the decency of the folks on the Home Front that the guys in the military were fighting to preserve and protect . Today , its unabashed nostalgia & romanticism greatly add to its appeal . Anne Baxter stars as the determined young woman who must hold her family together during difficult times ; the prospects of an affluent , but loveless , marriage only add to her strain . Appearing late in the film is John Hodiak as the gentle sergeant who comes wandering along Baxter's beach at exactly the right time . Together they epitomize the wistful longing which is forever associated with the warrior leaving for battle and the loved one left behind . Appropriately , Baxter & Hodiak were later to marry in real life . ( Tragically , John Hodiak would die of a heart attack in 1955 at the age of only 41 . ) Old Charles Winninger steals most of his scenes as Baxter's delightfully incorrigible ' Grandfeathers . ' Her younger siblings are very well played by Billy Cummings , Connie Marshall , with her beloved pet hen , and little Bobby Driscoll , standing on his head , in one of his earliest film roles . Two Oscar winning actresses enliven their smaller roles : Anne Revere as an outspoken chicken farmer who enjoys a playful feud with Winninger ; and Jane Darwell as the community's liaison with the local air base . Gravel-voiced Chill Wills plays a friendly bus driver . Near the end of the film movie mavens will recognize silent screen comic Chester Conklin as a photographer and Rory Calhoun as the sergeant who grabs Hodiak's strawberry cake , both uncredited . ' I'll See You In My Dreams ' is the lovely old tune which ties together the romantic elements throughout the film .
Just Spank The Brat	A Walt Disney GOOFY CartoonWith all the problems & perils of new parenthood raining down upon him , poor Goofy is about to discover that FATHERS ARE PEOPLE just like anyone else . The Goof manages to struggle through a preponderance of paternal pitfalls in this funny little film . Although the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune have set up residency in his home in the shape of little Junior , the big lug still manages to emerge semi-triumphantly in the end . This is one of the cartoons in which Goofy goes by the pseudonym George Geef , for reasons best known only to the Disney animators . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Voodoo & Zombies & Lugosi , Too	A diabolical voodoo master plots to turn a beautiful young American into a WHITE ZOMBIE , a slave of his perverted passions . . . Here is one of the great unheralded horror classics of the 1930's . Almost forgotten today , it is an excellent example of what can be accomplished by an obscure film company ( in this case Halperin Productions ) working with a tiny budget , but using enormous flair & imagination . Some of the visuals - the opening scene of the burial on the road , the sugar mill worked by zombies - remain in the imagination for an uncomfortable amount of time , one sure sign of true success for a horror film . Certain of the settings - the hillside graveyard , the villain's towering fortress - are as good as you'll find anywhere . Additionally , the moody music of Xavier Cugat & the make-up wizardry of Jack Pierce help tremendously . But it's the performance of Bela Lugosi , looking utterly satanic , which is truly memorable . Released the year following his celebrated Dracula , WHITE ZOMBIE gives him another character which , in measures of pure menace , is easily the equal of the Count . With his mesmeric eyes , expressive , spider-like hands & wonderfully eerie voice , Lugosi radiates absolute evil . This talented Austro-Hungarian actor ( born Bla Ferenc Dezs Blask , 1882-1956 ) would fritter away much of his career in low-budget dregs , but here he must have realized he was in competent hands and he is obviously having a wonderful time . To see his imposing , cloaked figure stalk about the screen , closely followed by his Living Dead slaves , is to enjoy one of cinema's most deliciously spooky moments . Madge Bellamy & John Harron are both impressive as Lugosi's victims . Robert Frazer is very good indeed as the plantation owner whose obsession for Miss Bellamy throws him right into Lugosi's clutches . Elderly Joseph Cawthorn scores as the aged missionary who may be the only person wise enough to thwart the zombie master . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Clarence Muse as the frightened coach driver in the opening sequence .
A Curious Short Subject	A bemused & rather pixilated Robert Benchley offers up a screen valentine to DAVID O . SELZNICK : YOUR NEW PRODUCER , showing highlights from Selznick's years at Paramount , RKO & MGM . This enjoyable little short is actually a bit of interesting film history . Up until this point , movie producers were rather an anonymous lot , generally not receiving screen credit or much recognition for their contributions . ( Irving Thalberg , for instance , authentic genius & producing guru as No . 2 at MGM , did not receive screen credit until after his death . ) But Selznick was leaving MGM and becoming a very big Hollywood player on his own terms , with his private production company . Hence this little tribute . The recognition would not be misplaced - Selznick's company would eventually become powerful enough to pick the biggest apple on the tree - GONE WITH THE WIND . Benchley's dry wit is most amusing as he cuts the absent Selznick down a peg or two . While he mentions that Selznick was raised in the business - his father was a noted silent film director - he neglects to add that Selznick's marrying Louis B . Mayer's daughter didn't hurt his prospects any , either . Excerpts are shown from the following films : Forgotten Faces ( 1928 ) , The Four Feathers ( 1929 ) , Sarah and Son ( 1930 ) , Street of Chance ( 1930 ) , The Lost Squadron ( 1932 ) , A Bill of Divorcement ( 1932 ) , Bird of Paradise ( 1932 ) , The Animal Kingdom ( 1932 ) , Symphony of Six Million ( 1932 ) , What Price Hollywood ? ( 1932 ) , Dinner at Eight ( 1933 ) , Little Women ( 1933 ) , Dancing Lady ( 1933 ) , King Kong ( 1933 ) , Topaze ( 1933 ) , Manhattan Melodrama ( 1934 ) , Viva Villa ! ( 1934 ) , Anna Karenina ( 1935 ) , David Copperfield ( 1935 ) , A Tale of Two Cities , ( 1935 ) .
Superman Versus Axis Villains	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . When America unveils its colossal new bomber , the JAPOTEURS , an elite force of Japanese spies & saboteurs , strikes . Stealing the behemoth , with intrepid girl reporter Lois Lane aboard , and the destination either Tokyo or destruction , it's time for Superman to get involved . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
Salute To A Patriot	A Vitaphone Technicolor Short Subject . John Henry's passionate ' GIVE ME LIBERTY ' speech in 1775 rouses the Virginia legislators into joining the American Revolution . This fine little film focuses in on Patrick Henry ( 1736-1799 ) and what finally led him to declare his beliefs regarding political separation from Great Britain . Actor John Litel does a magnificent job in performing the great speech which was delivered by Henry at St . John's Church in Richmond . The film errs in putting too much of a romantic twist into the plot , with Henry missing his wife so much that he can't get motivated to make his declaration until he sees her enter the church balcony unexpectedly . The real story is more interesting . Henry's first wife , Sarah Shelton , whom he married in 1754 , had gone completely insane . Mental illness was not understood in the 18th Century and was considered somewhat shameful . It is indeed ironic that Patrick Henry , that great champion of human liberty & freedom , kept his mad wife confined in the cellar . It was not until after her death that he wed Dorothea Dandridge . GIVE ME LIBERTY won the Academy Award for Best Color Short Subject for 1936 . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Accidents Wanted For Mr . Lee Tracy	J . Phineas Stevens is THE NUISANCE , an ambulance-chasing , authority-defying , woman-ogling lawyer . Pushy & loud , he's the first at the scene of any accident , handing out his cards & demanding his clients ' rights . Both charming & crooked , Stevens usually wins his court cases with street smarts & trickery . But now his powerful legal adversaries have baited a trap , using a very pretty young woman as a spy , to catch Stevens while up to his old tricks . Lee Tracy was perfectly cast in the title role of this fun , forgotten film . With his energetic , go-get-'em , in-your-face acting style , always mixed with a hint of the shady character , Tracy was ideal as talent agents , reporters or shyster lawyers . With his new stardom cemented at Warners , Tracy arrived at MGM in 1933 and immediately appeared in 5 films . He was well on his way to becoming a major star , MGM's answer to Cagney , when he had a spectacular fall from grace in 1934 . He spent most of the rest of his career at minor studios , never reaching his full potential . Today he is all but forgotten , but those fortunate enough to see his films find him to be one of the most refreshing & enjoyable movie actors of the early 1930's . Here , Tracy receives good support from his co-stars : beautiful love interest Madge Evans , a girl with a secret ; Charles Butterworth , funny as an accident faker ; Samuel S . Hinds , John Miljan & David Landau as Tracy's enemies ; Greta Meyer & Herman Bing , hilarious as an amorous Teutonic twosome . Virginia Cherrill has a tiny part as one of Tracy's alluring clients . Movie mavens will spot Nat Pendleton as a street car guard . And Frank Morgan is nothing short of wonderful as the pathetic old alcoholic doctor who loves Tracy like a son and helps him with his schemes .
Ghostly Encounters - - Act Two	Cosmo TOPPER TAKES A TRIP - - with ghostly Marion Kerby and dead dog Atlas - - to the French Riviera in hopes of winning back the estranged Mrs . Topper . Hal Roach Studios presents more of the adventures of Topper in this follow-up to their previous comedy success . Many of the comic situations are highly reminiscent of the first film , but they are still funny and enough new material has been added to engage and hold the viewer's attention . Roland Young & Billie Burke return as the Toppers and they are still a delight - - Mr . Young owlish & serious in the silliest of situations and Miss Burke forever sweetly vague and befuddled . Gorgeous Constance Bennett , as ghostess Marion , remains free-spirited in her ( unwelcome ) attempts to help Cosmo out of his latest pickle . Somber Alan Mowbray is also back - - and in top form - - as the Toppers ' devout butler . Some new costars are on hand to help liven things up : Verree Teasdale plays Mrs . Topper's catty friend ; Franklin Pangborn is the oleaginous manager of the Hotel St . Pierre ; and suave Alexander D'Arcy provides some laughs as a gigolo baron intent on acquiring Miss Burke's money . Movie mavens will recognize George Davis as a temperamental porter and Paul Porcasi as a suspicious casino manager , both uncredited . Atlas is played by that remarkable canine thespian , Asta . Cary Grant appears only in footage lifted from the first film . A couple of scenes in particular are worth waiting for - - the first when Topper , with invisible ghostly help , breaks the bank at the French casino's roulette wheel ; the second comes when D'Arcy is subjected to humiliating indignities on the beach , courtesy of Miss Bennett and Asta . This was the second of a 3-film series , coming after TOPPER ( 1937 ) and followed by TOPPER RETURNS ( 1941 ) .
An Excellent Disney Nature Documentary	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE . The MYSTERIES OF THE DEEP are many and strange . This excellent little film , which focuses on a patch of coral reef , showcases some of the more peculiar habits of its denizens . The constant drive to eat or be eaten is played out by creatures beautiful & bizarre . Highlight : the thieving antics of the jawfish . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . These films are photographed in their natural settings and are completely authentic , unstaged and unrehearsed . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
Another Dustup With The Ducks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . In order to ensure DONALD'S HAPPY BIRTHDAY , Huey , Dewey & Louie must first scheme a way to get the money to buy a gift . This is very much a routine Donald versus the Nephews cartoon , but it's pleasant enough . It is in this film that we learn that Donald's birthday is March 13th . Notice that Louie's name is misspelled ' Luey ' on the birthday card . Clarence Nash provided the voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Invites You to Sit Under The Most Famous Cork Tree In Literature	A Walt Disney Cartoon Short . Young FERDINAND THE BULL wants nothing more than to sit under his favorite cork tree , just smelling the flowers . But he is chosen to fight in the great arena in Madrid , where only the bravest , fiercest bulls have a chance for glory . . . This splendid cartoon , based on Munro Leaf's 1936 classic paean to individualism , is one of Disney's finest . The original story has been left basically intact - no animated mice or ducks , no dancing and / or singing trees & flowers needed here . Robert Lawson's evocative black & white drawings come to life in beautiful color & motion . The animators did have a bit of sly fun : the banderilleros & picadors are caricatures of the artists ; the matador is a spoof of Walt himself ( he was not amused ) . Don Wilson , Jack Benny's decades-long announcer , is an inspired choice as narrator . The personality & character of Ferdinand has been a matter of speculation for years , but the truth of the matter is perhaps best left in the privacy of the bull field . . .
Classic Film Of High Adventure	TRADER HORN , the Great White Hunter , treks into Darkest Africa in search of the long-missing daughter of a lady Missionary . MGM produced one of the seminal adventure classics with this film , a benchmark against which all others would be measured for years to come . Although beset with production difficulties & traumas , including the near death of the leading actress , the film was an eventual triumph . Rarely seen today , it still packs a punch , if for no other reason than its splendid performances and the undeniable impact of its on-location filming . Harry Carey , giving one of the first great performances of the sound era , is perfect in the title role . So well does he inhabit the character like a second skin that it is nearly impossible to imagine anyone else playing the part . Having already starred in innumerable silent Westerns , he brings enormous physicality to a movie which made great demands on its actors . Carey looks & sounds like someone who's spent years in the veldt . The slouch of his hat , the grim set of his eyes , the rough growl of his voice are all just right . Handsome Duncan Renaldo , as Horn's earnest young Spanish companion , and exquisite Edwina Booth , as a white tribal queen , are both admirably suited to their roles . The sparks of their budding , hesitant romance lightens the end of the film . Olive Golden Carey , the star's wife , is radiant in her very small role as a tough , determined but saintly missionary ; the image of her seated in a sedan chair , being carried through the jungle on her endless quest , remains in the mind . Special mention should also be made of Mutia Omoolu , as Horn's gun bearer & friend , adding dignity and strength to his role ; he was rewarded with rare recognition alongside the other performers during the opening credits . Movie mavens will recognize wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith , appearing uncredited for a few moments at the end of the film , in the role of an Irish trader . Director Woody Van Dyke liked working on location , if possible , and so MGM went to the greatly added expense of sending the entire company to Africa . ( Filming would take place in the Territory of Tanganyika , the Protectorate of Uganda , the Colony of Kenya , the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan & the Belgian Congo . ) This proved a great boon to the picture , giving it an authenticity not replicable in any studio back lot . The scenes of the actors beside a tremendous waterfall , floating down a swollen river infested with hippos , or interacting with native Africans are still sensational today . However , the cast and crew were forced to live and work under appalling conditions for many weeks . Miss Booth , one of the most beautiful actresses of the day , caught a ? jungle fever ' which left her deathly ill for years and effectively ended her film career . The attempts of the Studio to shut down the film after the company returned from Africa , and lawsuits & demands for more money on the part of ill-used performers , only added to the acrimony at the time . However , from a vantage point of more than seventy years distance , TRADER HORN has emerged as one of the great adventure movies and a prime example of the sort of film ? they just don't make anymore . '
Layin ' Around With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . It's LAZY DAYS for Farina , who is so tired laying in the shade that the least amount of effort is a bother to him . Only Fat Joe Cobb's plan to make money by entering the Gang's younger siblings in a baby contest can get Farina on his feet . An amusing little film , with some good laughs . Chubby makes a unique ' baby ' , to say the least . Highlight : Farina washing his little brother , with help from a bee , frog & monkey .
Disney Animates A Little American Classic	When station-master Flannery takes possession of a couple of guinea pigs , he decrees that PIGS IS PIGS and they will be charged the collection rate for livestock , 48 , instead of the pet rate of 44 . But McMorehouse the customer , a parsimonious old Scot , refuses to pay the extra four cents and abandons the animals to Flannery's care . And then the guinea piglets start to arrive . . . The Disney version of Ellias Parker Butler's humorous little story makes for an enjoyable cartoon . It is presented in the limited-animation style so popular in the 1950's .
Fighting For The Lost Cause With Spanky & Buckwheat	During the War for Southern Independence , GENERAL SPANKY mobilizes his forces to defend the local women & children against a Yankee invasion . In 1936 , Hal Roach decided it was time for his popular OUR GANG kids to branch out into occasional feature-length films . With the big success of Shirley Temple in two Civil War period movies in 1935 ( THE LITTLE COLONEL , THE LITTLEST REBEL ) , it was only natural that Roach would look in that same direction for his GANG . Although given a rather lavish production and distributed by MGM , GENERAL SPANKY was not a critical or box-office success . The little GANGsters would henceforth stick to short subjects . Although he's given top billing & the title role , George ? Spanky ' McFarland is rivaled throughout the film's first half by little Billie ? Buckwheat ' Thomas . Here were two of the finest young actors to ever appear in American movies . With all the experience of old , seasoned pros , these two gamin could steal scenes & hearts with equal bravado . A constant joy , without a false note between them , they provide the essential reason for watching the film today . Phillips Holmes gives a quiet , gentlemanly performance as Spanky's adult protector . Nearly forgotten now , Holmes was a fine actor who died much too soon , during World War Two . Genial Ralph Morgan is especially good as a sympathetic Union general - his scenes with Spanky are quite amusing . Other OUR GANGers appear midpoint into the movie , most notably Carl ? Alfalfa ' Switzer ; he gets to warble ? Just Before The Battle , Mother . ' Even pretty Rosina Lawrence ( the GANG's schoolmarm ) shows up to play Holmes ' beloved . Irving Pichel is particularly slimy as a cowardly cardsharp turned vindictive Yankee captain . Bumbling Willie Best & feisty Louise Beavers play Miss Lawrence's slaves . It should be noted that there is racism in the film , not unusual for Hollywood of that era - but almost completely missing in the original series of OUR GANG shorts . Fans of 19th Century music will enjoy paying attention to the soundtrack , which is a long succession of ancient tunes .
Dietrich & Old Russia - A Fascinating Phantasmagoria on Film	An innocent & obscure German princess is sent to Russia to become the wife of Grand Duke Peter , heir to the throne . Her romantic dreams are shattered when she finds her new husband to be a childish imbecile . Quickly growing wise , she soon begins taking lovers from among the military guard . So begins the legendary life of Catherine , Tsarina of Holy Russia , The Messalina of the North , THE SCARLET EMPRESS . A riotous feast for the eyes , this is one of the great , unheralded films of the 1930's - enthralling for its visual impact alone . Seldom has an American film been filled with such lush imagery - tactile , grotesque , fascinating . The Russian royal palace is a charnel house full of ghouls & gargoyles - human & artistic . The actors share the scenes with fantastic statuary , twisting & writhing in silent , unspeakable pain . ( Notice the tiny skeletons on the dining table . ) Everywhere is death , moral decay & barbarism , even in the most powerful court in Europe . At the center of this ossuary is the gorgeous Marlene Dietrich . Her beauty radiates , but never dominates , throughout the film . She is splendid as a young woman in a very dangerous place , who gains courage & great determination in her ordeal . Equally good is Sam Jaffe as Peter ; with his leering grin & demented eyes he is the very picture of a murderous madman . Louise Dresser , as the Empress Elizabeth , is very effective as a comic bully . John Lodge & Gavin Gordon , as Catherine's military lovers , are both stalwart . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith has a small role as Catherine's princely father . Film mavens will spot an uncredited Jane Darwell as Catherine's nurse . The highly emotional soundtrack , an amalgam of themes by Tchaikovsky , Mendelssohn & Wagner , explodes in the film's final moments into musical pyrotechnics .
Come Travel Under Northern Stars	THE BEAR , huge and gentle - which makes its way from the London Zoo into the bedroom of a lonely little girl - takes her on a magical journey across the Wintertime landscape . Haunting & evocative , this lovely little animated film - told entirely without narration or dialogue , is a most fitting successor to author Raymond Briggs ' earlier triumph The Snowman , to which , at one point , it pays subtle homage . After enjoying the broad comedy of the Polar Visitor trying to hide in the proper English home , the viewer is swept into the Northern sojourn which fulfills the Bear's quest . Howard Blake's score propels the fanciful images onward ; the final song is sung by Charlotte Church .
Sweet Revenge For Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Pete's severe lack of musical ability is causing TROMBONE TROUBLE in heaven ( for Jupiter & Vulcan ) and on earth ( for neighbor Donald Duck ) . This humorous little film ( written by the legendary Carl Barks ) takes good advantage of the turning worm gambit , as the pair of Greek gods , whose nap is being ruined by Pete , bestow temporary supernatural powers upon the Duck . The tune Pete is attempting to perform is the Stephen Foster classic , ' Old Black Joe . ' Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Caught In A Souk With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD Film . A conceited young twerp joins the Navy to impress his girl and becomes A SAILOR-MADE MAN . Big changes were in store for popular silent comic Harold Lloyd with the production of this film . Up until this point he had specialized in short subjects and his distribution agreement with Path allowed him to make only two-reelers . But the gags in A SAILOR-MADE MAN grew to be so funny and complicated that Harold kept adding to the picture until the final cut ran a tad over 45 minutes - extremely unusual for comedies in 1921 . Path took the chance and released it ; audiences were delighted , which pleased everyone . Lloyd was to make only feature-length films from that point on . The film breaks neatly into three parts , with the insufferably insensitive Harold in the first segment infuriating nearly everyone until his comeuppance in a Naval recruiting station . In the middle segment Harold has a series of shipboard adventures mostly dealing with the big boat's bully . Finally , and rather unexpectedly , the plot throws Harold into a wonderful escapade straight out of the Arabian Nights , as he confronts the mad Maharajah of an Oriental kingdom who has kidnapped Harold's girl . There are plenty of fakirs and scimitars and hairbreadth escapes , all punctuated by Harold's splendid athletic exuberance . Mildred Davis plays Harold's distressed love . Noah Young , who appeared in many of Lloyd's films , is great fun as the thuggish seaman who becomes Harold's best buddy . Dick Sutherland is properly repulsive as the monkey-faced potentate . Harold loved filming on location and for this film he took his cameras to the Beverly Hills Hotel and the Port of Los Angeles . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Love & Destiny in the Sahara	North Africa in the 1930's . To a small Arab town on the edge of the Sahara comes a beautiful woman looking for meaning to her life & a handsome Trappist monk fleeing from his crisis of faith . They will meet and passions will be stirred , but not even the Sand Diviner knows if they will find happiness or sorrow , here , in THE GARDEN OF ALLAH . The plot is pure hokum , but the film is still great fun & beautiful to look at . Marlene Dietrich & Charles Boyer are a superb screen couple . She is , to put it simply , gorgeous , and Boyer gives a most effective , understated performance , letting his sensitive face do much of the acting for him . ( Dietrich had wanted her lover , John Gilbert , to have the leading male role , and he had gone so far as to have color tests made , but he died unexpectedly before shooting could begin . ) The supporting cast is excellent : Basil Rathbone , in a sympathetic role as a Count who loves the desert ; Joseph Schildkraut as a friendly , talkative guide ( all the " Arabic " he & others speak in the film is pure gibberish ) ; Lucile Watson as a gentle Mother Superior ; Alan Marshal as an honorable young French officer ; Tilly Losch as a dangerous dancer ; Henry Brandon as a comic porter ; John Carradine as the mysterious Sand Diviner ; and magnificent Sir C . Aubrey Smith as a wise old priest . Movie mavens will recognize Helen Jerome Eddy as a nun ; Marcia Mae Jones & Bonita Granville ( peeking over the nun's shoulder ) as convent girls ; gaunt Nigel De Brulier as a monastery lector ; and Ferdinand Gottschalk as a hotel clerk , all uncredited . Color films of the 1930's are both rare & lovely to look at , and this movie is no exception - the cinematography is as colorful as the desert itself . THE GARDEN OF ALLAH was the first Technicolor film to be shot on location . Yuma , Arizona gave the film makers all the sand dunes they could desire , but contaminated drinking water & 135 degree heat soon had the company in revolt . When the daily rushes showed Boyer's face had burned a bright tomato red , producer David O . Selznick finally gave in . The remainder of the film was shot on a Hollywood sound stage .
Excellent Retelling Of Classic Tale	Two small creatures have separate , but equally exciting , adventures - one on a lily pond , the other in a farmer's vegetable garden . Paired together on one video , Beatrix Potter's classic stories THE TALE OF MR . JEREMY FISHER & THE TALE OF PETER RABBIT make for excellent viewing . The quiet , faithful retelling by the folks at Rabbit Ears is sure to delight children of all ages . Meryl Streep's calm , elegant narration , along with David Jorgensen's pastel drawings & Lyle Mays friendly music , do much to enhance the success of this little film .
Oscar Wilde Fairy Tale Comes To Animated Life	THE SELFISH GIANT who owns a beautiful garden surrounds it with a wall so the local children cannot play there . He is to be taught lessons of humility & kindness in a most poignant fashion . Oscar Wilde's lovely fable is given an excellent animated interpretation in this little film . The story comes through clearly , while the rendering of the drawings resembles medieval artwork . Notice how even the choice of background music gives the opening credits a monastic feel . To their credit , the producers do not shy away from the Christian symbolism of the original story's ending . Christianity was in high favor as a romantic ideal in the late Victorian era . Even such a notorious cynic as Wilde admired the ideals of Christian purity & holiness , even as he seemed incapable of incorporating these same values into his private life . With a fine narration by Paul Hecht & vocals from The King Singers , this is a video gem of high quality .
Peaceful Retelling Of Lovely Old Story	THE VELVETEEN RABBIT , the beloved plaything of a little boy , wants nothing more than for the child's love to help him become a real rabbit . From the folks at Rabbit Ears comes this gentle version of the classic Margery Williams story . Its dreamy atmosphere should be appreciated by viewers young & old . Meryl Streep gives an excellent narration , quietly telling the tale with her soothing voice . George Winston's tinkling music & David Jorgensen's beautiful drawings complement the production perfectly .
Delightful Fairy Tale Retold	Through a series of adventures with various creatures , tiny THUMBELINA continues to search for true love & happiness . This is a fine entry in the series of classic tales from the folks at Rabbit Ears . Hans Christian Andersen's diminutive heroine comes alive in a thoughtful , sometimes humorous production . The narration by Kelly McGillis , drawings by David Johnson , and Mark Isham's music are all first-rate . This little film should please all those who love fairy stories .
Fiddledeedee	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It's EARLY TO BED for a very tired Donald - too bad his alarm clock & fold-up bed are determined to keep him awake . Here is a very funny little film which should have any insomniac viewer sympathizing with the Duck . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers on this project . Donald's muttered asides , as voiced by the inimitable Clarence Nash , are hilarious . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Meets Mother Goose	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . An invitation is sent by OLD KING COLE to a party at his royal castle . The storybooks open and soon the denizens from many a Nursery Rhyme & Fairy Tale are hurrying to attend . The Three Little Kittens , Humpty Dumpty , & Goosey Gander are among those that entertain the crowd , but when the Ten Little Indian Boys start to dance things really get raucous . Joined first by the King , and then by the audience , wild reveling extends right up to midnight , when all of the guests scurry home . This is a pleasant little film , which allows the quick-eyed viewer the chance to play ' Name That Character ' . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Rambunctious Retelling Of Tall Tale	It was the Winter of the Blue Snow when mighty PAUL BUNYAN first showed up at the logging camp . In next to no time , this giant of a man had set about revolutionizing the whole timber business . This old American tall tale has been given a lively presentation by the Rabbit Ears folks . A somewhat surprising , but not inappropriate , environmental deference has been added to the conclusion . Teaming Jonathan Winters ' rollicking narration with the lyrical guitar of Leo Kottke was nothing short of inspired . The cartoon-like illustrations of Rick Meyerowitz add to the good humor .
A Lively Two-Reeler	A Vitaphone Broadway Brevity . When her American husband neglects her , a French wife remembers that DU BARRY DID ALL RIGHT financially after acquiring a powerful lover . . . Corsican stage star Irene Boldoni ( 1895-1953 ) , in a rare film appearance , is pert & spunky in the leading role in this fast-moving short subject . Novelty dancers Eddie Noll & Marian Nolan prove they are limber to an amazing degree . Waiter Charles Carrer does some eye-popping juggling tricks with wine glasses & bottles . Movie mavens should spot an uncredited Percy Helton as a hotel desk clerk . After appearing in a handful of silent films - he's best remembered as Abraham Lincoln in D . W . Griffith's THE BIRTH OF A NATION ( 1915 ) - Joseph Henabery ( 1888-1976 ) moved behind the camera . During the next 25 years he would direct 83 films , of which this was one . Operettas were idea subject matter for early talky two-reelers . They were swiftly paced , colorful ( even in black & white ) and rather cheap to produce , utilizing as they did the sets & costumes of feature films . Their brief length negated any need for character exposition and the stories were easy to follow , even when sung by heavily accented voices . Best of all , they were full of Sound , and that was still enough of a novelty to keep most audiences from becoming overly critical or expectant of anything smacking of real art .
Fine Film Of Brothers Grimm Folk Tale	THE FISHERMAN AND HIS WIFE who are given magical wishes from an enchanted flounder learn a valuable lesson about pride & greed . This wonderful old tale from the Brothers Grimm is given a spirited interpretation by the folks at Rabbit Ears . Their faithful retellings of many classic stories has been a real gift to lovers of children's literature . Jodie Foster's narration , the music by Van Dyke Parks , and Diana Bryan's humorous silhouette drawings all add to the success of this little film .
Gentle , Evocative Telling Of Classic Tale	THE STEADFAST TIN SOLDIER - with only one leg - adores the beautiful papier-mch ballerina . And through all the trials & tribulations about to beset him , he remains true to his duty & to his love . From the splendid Rabbit Ears series of videos , this is a very lovely adaptation of the Hans Christian Andersen classic which is sure to charm any thoughtful or romantic viewer . The story , which like all truly great children's literature is best understood by adults , can be enjoyed on more than one level . David Jorgensen's misty drawings & Mark Isham's martial music complement the narrative exactly . Jeremy Irons is the perfect choice for narrator . His calm , rich voice tells the tale in all its beautiful simplicity , from beginning to heartbreaking end .
Vivid Acting Brings Royal Drama To Life	From the confines of the gloomy TOWER OF London , Richard , the treacherous Duke of Gloucester , murders his way to the throne of England . This lively & enjoyable pseudo-historical drama presents some surprisingly good performances which do much to elevate the film and make it quite enjoyable . Basil Rathbone is excellent as Richard , leering & smirking , dangerous as a poisonous serpent , he takes what could be a rather hammy part and gives it a certain malevolent stature . Here was a villain able to charm , coddle or kill his own brothers with equal skill . Rathbone makes him quite believable . ( Oddly , while carrying Richard's humpback , Rathbone ignores the King's withered left arm . ) Although this is not a horror film , Boris Karloff's Mord the Executioner is a very horrific character . Bald headed & club-footed , he stalks about the Tower carrying out Richard's foul orders . Karloff makes an indelible mark in his very first scene , inflicting more torments on the denizens of the torture chamber . With such a striking performance , as well as his status as one of Universal's most celebrated actors , it is strange that Karloff doesn't receive equal billing with Rathbone here . Vincent Price does very well in the role of the nervous , jealous , doomed Duke of Clarence , holding up nicely to the over-the-top performances of Rathbone & Karloff . ( It is fascinating to see this early teaming of the three frightmeisters ; the next time they would all appear in the same film would be in 1963's THE COMEDY OF TERRORS . ) Special mention should be made of Ian Hunter as Edward IV . While acquiescing to all of Rathbone's bloody schemes , Hunter nonetheless injects an element of sardonic humor into the role , making it very entertaining . Barbara O'Neil as stately Queen Elizabeth , Nan Grey as spunky Lady Alice & Rose Hobart as lovely Anne Neville each do good work in roles which demand little from any of the actresses . The supporting cast is sprinkled with familiar faces - Leo G . Carroll , Miles Mander , Lionel Belmore , Ernest Cossart - each excellent in small roles . Far down the cast list is Ralph Forbes as Henry Tudor . This splendid actor was on the very cusp of becoming a major star at the end of the silent era ; although gifted with a fine speaking voice , he was never able to achieve his full potential in talking films . Movie mavens will recognize uncredited appearances by both Robert Greig as a friendly priest & Nigel de Brulier as the archbishop who marries little Edward V . Universal gives the film a fine gloss , with good atmospherics . The exterior London scenes look impressive on the screen . The film presupposes a certain amount of intelligent knowledge to already be in the hands of the audience . Indeed , a working acquaintance with the facts surrounding the Wars of the Roses & the English Line of Succession could only be of help to the viewer in unraveling the intricate plot . TOWER OF London should be enjoyed as entertainment , not accepted as historical fact . Modern research is slowly overturning many of the old beliefs concerning Richard of Gloucester . As a result , he is emerging as a far less bloody individual and one who may have been pilloried for centuries by an unfriendly press . Shakespeare , it should be remembered , was writing for the Tudors - who may have had their own dark ancestral deeds to hide . Indeed , there is much creditable speculation that it was actually Henry Tudor who had the young Tower Princes murdered .
Mr . Mouse & His Performing Frankfurters	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey , THE KARNIVAL KID , woos Minnie the Shimmy Dancer . Full of the quirky humor of artist Ub Iwerks , this very enjoyable black & white film is a delight . Despite its age , the animation has an unexpected panache , with Mickey's hot dogs stealing the show . Look for an early cameo by Clarabelle Cow as the bovine attached to the balloon . Mickey's voice does not sound like Walt Disney this time . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Don't Miss It ! !	Old-time movie buffs - and anyone interested in the Bible - should not miss this film if they have the chance to see it . It tells the stories of the Old Testament , with an all African American cast , with the gloss typical of 1930's Warner Brothers . Highlights include the first scenes in Heaven and just about anything with Rex Ingram . He gives The Almighty great weight & serenity ; he also plays Adam . Acting is good throughout and some of the special effects are still fun to watch .
Kipling Tale Well Told	Just listen , oh best beloved , and learn HOW THE LEOPARD GOT HIS SPOTS . Another tale from the Just So Stories , Rudyard Kipling's sly spoof of evolutionary theory , is brought to vibrant life by the folks at Rabbit Ears . Danny Glover's performance as the narrator is the essential companion to Lori Lohstoeter's colorful drawings and the elemental music of Ladysmith Black Mambazo .
Mickey's Musical Menagerie	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey shows true JUNGLE RHYTHM in the wilds , making merry music using the bodies of various & sundry creatures . This early black & white Mouse film is almost completely plotless , its action entirely driven by the soundtrack . Music mavens will recognize ' The Blue Danube , ' ' Aloha Oe ' & ' Yankee Doodle ' among other tunes . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A High Seas Swashbuckler With Mickey	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey & Minnie must try to escape after being SHANGHAIED by evil ship's captain Pegleg Pete & his nefarious crew . With the Mice already captive when the cartoon begins , this rollicking little black & white film wastes no time in delivering plenty of exciting action . The influences of Buster Keaton's THE NAVIGATOR ( 1924 ) , Doug Fairbanks ' THE BLACK PIRATE ( 1926 ) & Harold Lloyd's THE KID BROTHER ( 1927 ) are fairly apparent . Pete has never been more vile than here , forcing his foul attentions upon helpless Miss Minnie . Good thing our Mickey has never been more heroic . . . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Visit To The International Exposition	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . PARIS ON PARADE takes us on a dazzling exterior tour of the pavilions built for the 1937 Paris Exposition . The film ends with the wonderful waterworks & pyrotechnic display on and over the River Seine . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
W . C . Fields ' Short Subject Is Long On Laughs	A MACK SENNETT Short Subject . Caught between his frightful female relations on the second floor & the rather odd customers down in the shop , THE PHARMACIST in a small town reacts with predictably irascible behavior . Initially conceived as a skit in 1925 for the Ziegfeld Follies by the inimitable W . C . Fields , THE PHARMACIST become one of a quartet of short subjects produced by Mack Sennett in the early 1930's . Fortunately , Fields was given full rein to control the film as he saw fit . The success of the shorts gave a new glow to Sennett's reputation , as many in Hollywood thought the old comedy master was washed-up with the end of the Silents . For Fields , this was the opportunity to paint large on a small canvas , going straight for the laughs ( based on his unique personality ) without any time wasted on character development or plot complexities . Elise Cavanna plays Fields ' ghastly wife & Babe Kane is his canary-munching daughter . ( Looking enough alike to be sisters , these two actresses were actually only seven years apart in age . ) Grady Sutton has a small role as the much-maligned Cuthbert .
Old Folk Tale Gets Serious Update	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Wily Foxy Loxey uses psychological chicanery to confuse dimwitted CHICKEN LITTLE - Step 1 in his plot to plunder the poultry yard . This unusual little film eschews a happy ending for a not-so-subtle warning against evil manipulators and gullible citizenry . Foxy Loxey could be the personification of either Hitler or Stalin and the quotes from his psychology book ( ' To influence the masses , aim first at the least intelligent , ' ' If you tell a lie , don't tell a little one - tell a big one , ' ' Undermine the faith of the masses in their leaders , ' ' By the use of flattery , insignificant people can be made to look upon themselves as born leaders ' ) are pure Marxism . As for Cocky Locky , Henny Penny , Goosey Poosey , Ducky Lucky & Turkey Lurkey - their human counterparts are only too easy to find everyday . Veteran Disney voice artists Florence Gill & Clarence Nash can be heard making various hen & duck noises . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Beasts Run Wild	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . It only takes a few moments for THE PET STORE to be turned into a complete shambles by its new employee - Mickey Mouse . This funny little black & white film has a plot that's largely driven by its music : Mickey , Minnie and the entire menagerie dance around frantically to the soundtrack until the climax , which has a nice spoof of that year's KING KONG ( 1933 ) . Tony , the store owner , seems a very decent fellow , but apparently one encounter with the Mouse was enough - he never appeared in another Disney cartoon . Walt Disney supplied Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Mouse Tale With Music	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey's Big Road Show arrives with THE JAZZ FOOL himself as the star attraction . This is an enjoyable early black & white film , with the plot driven entirely by the musical soundtrack , which features elements of ragtime & Dixieland jazz . Horace Horsecollar gets to showoff his solo instrumentalist talents . The animators threw in a heavy dose of their favorite posterior jokes - even Mickey's piano has its bare bottom smacked . The title is a salute to two recent Al Jolson film hits , THE JAZZ SINGER ( 1927 ) & THE SINGING FOOL ( 1928 ) . Walt Disney performs Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Duck , Nature Photographer	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S CAMERA gets him into trouble in the forest when he attempts photographing a stubborn woodpecker . This unremarkable little film features a routine story & animation , but the Duck is always enjoyable to watch . The climax , where Donald discards his ruined camera and gets a gun instead is sometimes censored . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Rousing Adventure From Another Era	A wicked Khan plans to use THE DRUM perched high up in his palace walls to signal the massacre of British soldiers invited to a banquet . Sir Alexander Korda's London Films was responsible for this lively Technicolor action film which boasted outdoor scenes shot near the North-West Frontier with the assistance of the Mehtar of Chitral . It blends excitement , humor & history - definitely from a British viewpoint - into an attractive package sure to entertain the viewer lucky enough to find it . Indian actor Sabu stars as the young Prince of Tokot who finds his life suddenly become very dangerous when he's forced to flee his usurping uncle and accept protection from the British Raj . Plummy-voiced Roger Livesey plays the Raj's stalwart envoy to Tokot who must find a way to stop the import of weapons to the evil new Khan , Raymond Massey , who is fomenting a rebellion . All three actors play their parts very well , with Massey especially attacking his villainous role with gusto . Also in the cast are Valerie Hobson as Livesey's courageous wife ; David Tree as a junior officer ; and corpulent Francis L . Sullivan as the local Governor in Peshawar . Alfred Goddard appears unbilled as the hapless private Kelly . Born Sabu Dastagir in 1924 , Sabu was employed in the Maharaja of Mysore's stables when he was discovered by Korda's company and set before the cameras . His first four films ( ELEPHANT BOY-1937 , THE DRUM-1938 , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD-1940 , JUNGLE BOOK-1942 ) were his best and he found himself working out of Hollywood when they were completed . After distinguished military service in World War II he resumed his film career , but he became endlessly confined for years playing ethnic roles in undistinguished minor films , BLACK NARCISSUS ( 1947 ) being the one great exception . His final movie , Walt Disney's A TIGER WALKS ( 1964 ) was an improvement , but it was too late . Sabu had died of a heart attack in late 1963 , only 39 years of age .
An Enjoyable Ride , But No Brass Ring	Warner Bros . trots out its Gold Diggers concept again in this amusing little musical which serves largely as a wistful reminder of the fun & vivacity of the original pre-Code feature . Perhaps Dick Powell's smarmy little mustache , seen immediately after the opening credits , should have been enough to signal that things were different now . The plot of every Gold Digger film is centered around its music . The songs here are pleasant , but unmemorable and the Busby Berkeley spectacle - - ' All's Fair In Love And War ' - - reveals the Master at his repose , his choreographed rocking chairs and banners not quite registering the requisite pizzazz one remembers from his earlier classics . Powell tries his hardest to ingratiate , but his preppy days appear to be passing and casting him as an insurance salesman is a bit of a ho-hum . Lots of fun , however , can be found with Warner's two sensational brassy blondes , Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell , in their final film together . Still wisecracking & sassy , they grab the movie's best dialogue and run off with it , giving some laughter to their comedy duo swan song . Comic Victor Moore shines as a cranky impresario with a bad case of hypochondria . Sharp-eyed movie mavens will spot Fred ? Snowflake ' Toones as a shoe shine attendant ; Jane Wyman as an excited chorus girl at the station ; and Frank Faylen as a man shaving on the train , all unbilled .
Early Musical Soaper	A sister act finds IT'S A GREAT LIFE in show business as long as they can stick together . MGM crafted this confection as a showcase for the talents of the Duncan Sisters , of Vaudeville & Broadway fame , and as such it's an interesting relic of its era . The sound quality is remarkably good , considering its age , one of the songs is quite good , and the antique color , which highlights a couple of stage sequences , is very pleasing to the eye . As a vehicle for screen stardom , however , the film proved a disappointment . The Sisters ' movie career was over almost before if could get started . Rosetta ( 1900-1959 ) and Vivian ( 1902-1986 ) do quite well as siblings who rise from performing in retail follies to the Vaudeville stage . Vivian , the pretty one , gets most of the film's few romantic moments , but Rosetta , who was an true clown able to do hilarious things with her face & body , steals the picture . When allowed to be silly she is enormous fun to watch . The script , unfortunately , keeps her character in a bad temper for much of the time , eventually wearying the viewer with her interminable fuming . She's so much more enjoyable when in a jolly mood , especially when teamed with sister Vivian . Their lovely duet , " I'm Following You , " is a genuine heartwarmer . Lawrence Gray , who had made a name for himself in comic Silent film roles , makes the most of his somewhat thankless part as the piano player who captures Vivian's heart . Jed Prouty , as the department store manager who quietly loves Rosetta , and Benny Rubin , playing a Vaudeville booking agent , both do well with their small roles . The opening scene , with the Sisters madly dashing down the street to work , hotly pursued by a cop and a mob of excited New Yorkers , is one of the movie's best and gets the proceedings off to a frenzied start .
Animated Charmer	Two little boys go for a secret nighttime adventure and have an encounter with a MOONBIRD . This absolutely charming little film is based on the ( apparently ) unscripted dialogue between two young brothers , Mark & Hampy Hubley . Created & designed by their parents , John & Faith Hubley , the effervescent quality of the conversation is matched by the limited-animation format which takes the simple story into flights of fancy . Winner of the 1959 Oscar for Best Animated Short .
A Big Night For The Little Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . The famed Grauman's Chinese Theater is the Hollywood location for MICKEY'S GALA PREMIERE , with a multitude of luminaries showing up for the occasion . This is a marvelous little black & white feast for movie mavens who get to try to spot & name as many of the caricatured celebrities as possible . With this film Walt Disney was signaling that both he & his little buddy had reached the big time with the rest of Hollywood , literally , at their feet . The film within a film , GALLOPING ROMANCE , is treated like an authentic , stand-alone Mouse cartoon ; featuring Mickey , Minnie & Peg-leg Pete , it is necessarily short , but fully up to Disney's standards . Walt supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Many of the stars whose likeness appears in MICKEY'S GALA PREMIERE are now quite obscure , therefore making their identification a difficult procedure . Here then , as much as possible , is a listing of the celebrities , noting when they make their first appearance in the cartoon ( many show up more than once ) : Out in front of the Theater : The Keystone Kops - Ben Turpin , Ford Sterling , Mack Swain , Harry Langdon & Chester Conklin . Emerging from limousines : Wallace Beery & Marie Dressler ( she was box office queen at the time ) ; Lionel , John & Ethel Barrymore ( all costumed for their roles in RASPUTIN AND THE EMPRESS , 1932 ) ; Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy ; Groucho , Chico , Zeppo & Harpo Marx . At the microphone : Maurice Chevalier ; Eddie Cantor ( costumed for his role in THE KID FROM SPAIN , 1932 ) ; Jimmy Durante ; Ginger Rogers , Joan Crawford ( costumed for her role in RAIN , 1932 ) & Bette Davis ; Harold Lloyd , Clark Gable , Edward G . Robinson & Adolphe Menjou . Entering the Theater : George Arliss , Sid Grauman , Joe E . Brown , Sir Charlie Chaplin ( costumed as The Little Tramp ) , Buster Keaton & Mae West ( costumed for her role in SHE DONE HIM WRONG , 1933 ) . Emerging from limousine : Mickey & Minnie Mouse , Pluto , Horace Horsecollar & Clarabelle Cow . Seated in the Theater : Chester Morris , Gloria Swanson & William Powell ; Will Hays ( dressed in regal robes and crown to spoof his position as Censorship Czar ) ; Greta Garbo ; Will Rogers ; Ed Wynn ; Bert Wheeler & Robert Woolsey ; Bela Lugosi ( costumed as Count Dracula ) , Fredric March ( costumed as Mr . Hyde ) & Boris Karloff ( costumed as Frankenstein's Monster ) . Rolling in the aisle : Douglas Fairbanks . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Scientific Western	A mining engineer , caught between a mighty gold syndicate and a group of stubborn ranchers , learns that GOLD IS WHERE YOU FIND IT when he meets the beautiful daughter of a powerful landowner . Warner Brothers had great hopes for this lavish Western , and the money that was spent certainly shows up on the screen . Unfortunately , the romantic attraction between stars George Brent & Olivia de Havilland never catches fire . This is largely the fault of the script , which seems strangely aloof from their involvement and makes their love scenes rather pedestrian . Alas , real life can be much the same way . . . In this case it is important to look at what strengths the film possesses . Chief among these is master actor Claude Rains , in a suave performance as Olivia's determined , courageous father . With his rich , silken voice , he could have simply read the script directly into the camera and made it compelling . Always a treat to watch & listen to , the movie is fortunate to have him . Good support is given by young Tim Holt as Rains ' amiable , tragic son ; Harry Davenport as a friendly old doctor ; Gabby Hayes & Willie Best as employees of Rains ; and Sidney Toler & Barton MacLane as the murderous syndicate president and mine foreman . The Technicolor photography - still rare & wonderful in 1938 - is pleasant on the eyes . The massed attack on the mine is well handled & exciting . Viewers of the film are likely to hear more about hydraulic gold mining than they ever knew before . Indeed , the environmental problems which the film depicts , with the immense runoff fouling the downstream waters & farmlands , are quite accurately depicted . The Golden Moon Mine in the movie could have easily been based , in part , on the great Cherokee Mine in Northern California's Butte County . Located at the base of Table Mountain , between the towns of Chico & Oroville , the Cherokee Mine attracted Argonauts from around the world ( as its cemetery still attests ) and became the largest hydraulic mining enterprise on earth . Nearby Butte Creek was dammed to provide a 300 acre supply of water for the Mine ( three smaller reservoirs were also created ) . Over 100 miles of conveyance were constructed to move the water to the Mine , where each day forty million gallons were needed for the eighteen immense monitors which directed their gush at the side of the Mountain . Sluices nine miles in length were ready to catch the particles of gold washed down from the bluff . In its few years of operation - 1880 until 1887 - two and a half million dollars worth of gold was found , as well as small amounts of platinum , topaz and even diamonds . Eventually the gold played out and the Mine was no longer cost effective to remain open . To this day , the scars still remain on the side of Table Mountain as mute witness to one of the engineering marvels of the 19th Century .
Looking For Crime With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Novice cops Stan & Ollie are THE MIDNIGHT PATROL , guardians of the night . Their complete incompetence dealing with crime , however , soon leaves a trail of chaos & destruction . A funny little film , although ending it with two murders is a bit much . Highlight : Ollie in the fishpond . That's Frank Brownlee as the Chief , Walter Plinge as the gentlemanly crook and Charlie Hall as one of the tire thieves .
Six Times The Fun	Three zany couples , all SIX OF A KIND , become entangled in a madcap search for stolen bank loot . This is a lively , hilarious comedy , with the six stars - Charlie Ruggles & Mary Boland , W . C . Fields & Alison Skipworth , George Burns & Gracie Allen - all heartily engaged in doing what they did best : getting laughs . Ruggles & Boland make another of their film appearances as husband & wife - this time rather more amorous than usual . They were a perfect team - she the strident lioness , he the nervous rabbit - and they dominate most of the screen time here . From beginning to end , they are a delight . Burns & Allen continue the patter they originated in Vaudeville , perfected on radio & would eventually take to television , with George the perpetual straight man & Gracie the eternal fool . At times in the film she tends to go a bit over the top , but it's difficult to dislike her . Her heart was obviously made of solid gold . While Skipworth is given rather short shrift - only fragments of her formidable personality flash through - Fields is in his element as the disreputable sheriff of Nuggetville , Nevada . Whether explaining how he got the nickname ? Honest John ' or skulking about at night looking for the missing moola , he is never less than wonderful . Best of all , he gets to perform his entire classic pool routine , preserving it forever for a grateful posterity . Finally , he executes the near miraculous - he gets Gracie to shut up . Paramount was so pleased with the success of SIX OF A KIND that they wanted to hurry the principle players into another comedy . Only Fields demurred . He felt he had now arrived at the point where he no longer needed to share a movie with other celebrity comics . The Studio finally agreed and began preparation of Fields ' first solo starring feature , YOU'RE TELLING ME ( 1934 ) .
Douglas Fairbanks ' Farewell To Days Of Silent Glory	With his head encased in THE IRON MASK that hides his identity , the true king of France waits for the elderly D'Artagnan & the Three Musketeers to come to his rescue . . . Douglas Fairbanks , silent cinema's greatest swashbuckling hero , bid farewell to the glory days of the silent screen with this joyous romp of a film . As a sequel to Fairbanks ' earlier THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( 1921 ) , it more than surpasses its predecessor in lavish production values , good acting & nonstop action . Now 46 , Fairbanks seems none the worse for wear and his muscular athleticism is still called upon to win the girl , beat the foe & thrill the audience . Fairbanks had a natural spontaneity & authentic joie de vivre , both in his private life and in his screen persona , which audiences of the 1920's found absolutely irresistible . He was unique - unforgettable - utterly irreplaceable . Fairbanks is supported once again by a fine cast : lovely Marguerite De La Motte as the faithful Constance ; Dorothy Revier as the treacherous Milady de Winter ; William Bakewell in the dual role of the two princes ; Lon Poff as the sinister Father Joseph . That's the excellent character actress Vera Lewis in the tiny role of the Royal Midwife . The Three Musketeers themselves are rather more finely delineated than in the previous film . Lon Bary as Athos , Tiny Sandford as Porthos & Gino Corrado as Aramis all give good account of themselves throughout the flurry & turmoil of the lively plot . Special mention must be made of British actor Nigel de Brulier , once again playing the rapacious Cardinal Richelieu . Even though the character disappears half way into the film , de Brulier still manages to invest the Churchman with more than just villainy . He helps the viewer to glimpse the real person behind the facade and to understand some of the reasons for his tyrannical behavior . One of the versions in which this film is available has all the title cards removed & a rousing narrative read by Douglas Fairbanks Jr . substituted in their place . The opening credits state that the film's narrative was based on the story by Elton Thomas ( a pseudonym for Fairbanks ) , which was in turn based on Alexander Dumas ' ? The Three Musketeers ' & ? Twenty Years After . ' This is true , but all of the Man in the Iron Mask elements actually came from Dumas ' novel ? Ten Years Later ; or , The Vicomte de Bragelonne , ' ( 1848-50 ) . Thus , the events in the latter half of THE IRON MASK take place 30 years after the events in THE THREE MUSKETEERS . The first film is set in 1625 ; the second film starts in 1638 . Since important plot elements are not handled in THE THREE MUSKETEERS - for instance , Milady's evil behavior towards Constance - they are somewhat incongruously left dangling for 13 years until the beginning of THE IRON MASK . And some of the most fascinating elements of the later books - such as the Musketeers ' clash with Milady's malevolent son & the machinations of Richelieu's successor , the wily Cardinal Mazarin - are completely ignored altogether . But this is a mere quibble and should not detract from the immense enjoyment of a very fine film . It might be helpful to note , in passing , a few historical dates which deal directly with the plot : Louis XIV born September 15 , 1638 . Cardinal Richelieu dies December 4 , 1642 . Louis XIII dies May 14 , 1643 . Louis XIV is crowned King in 1654 , after attaining maturity .
Disney Look At The Perils Of Buggy Romance	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It's showdown time for THE SPIDER AND THE FLY when the ugly arachnid attacks a pair of insect lovers . . . Good versus Evil in this early black & white cartoon . The Spider is one of the first Disney characters to show a hint of all the wonderfully wicked villains to come from the Studio in later years . Clever opening , with the swarm of flies frolicking on the upside down ceiling . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Fun With Pluto & Kittens	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY'S PAL PLUTO rescues several tiny kittens from drowning and then becomes jealous of the way they are welcomed into Mickey's home . This black & white cartoon is another enjoyable example of letting the Pup deal with small cuddly animals invading his turf . Mickey & Minnie have supporting roles only , letting most of the action be carried by Pluto and the furry felines . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Into The Woods With Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Huey , Dewey & Louie are all GOOD SCOUTS , but their Uncle Donald is about to reveal the full range of his incompetence as Scoutmaster while leading them on a camping trip . Donald's Nephews made their second cartoon appearance in this very humorous , finely animated little film . The Disney artists were beginning to see definite possibilities with the little fowls - their mischievous behavior being a good catalyst for Donald's volatility . The story was written by the legendary Carl Barks ; Clarence Nash provides the voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials anMouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovatordWhen a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . ' s screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Chipmunks Are At It Again	A Walt Disney CHIP ' N ' DALE Cartoon . Confusion abounds when Dale is mistaken for a newly hatched chick in the poultry yard . CHICKEN IN THE ROUGH is another typical Chipmunks cartoon - amusing , but unremarkable . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Big Trouble For A Little Bug	A Walt Disney Cartoon . A hapless bee becomes a BUMBLE BOOGIE when it's caught in a bizarre world of Daliesque proportions . Wild & wonderful , this little extract from MELODY TIME ( 1948 ) allowed the Disney animators free rein to go wherever their imaginations carried them . Very fast moving . The music is a swing version of " The Flight of the Bumblebee " by Nicolai Rimski-Korsakov . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Kitchen Magician	An MGM PETE SMITH Short Subject . A very silly housewife receives help with her dinner MENU - and a cure for her hubby's upset tummy - when a chef magically arrives in her kitchen . This fanciful little film is an enjoyable bit of early Technicolor fluff . The practical demonstrations , mixed up with the gentle humor , serve up a most pleasing result - almost as appetizing as the roast duck & baked apples . Movie mavens will recognize Franklin Pangborn as the dyspeptic husband , Una Merkel as his featherbrained wife , and Luis Alberni as the remarkable chef , all uncredited . Off-the-wall narrator Pete Smith would produce a reworked version of this story - with Oscar winning results - four years later in PENNY WISDOM ( 1937 ) . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Rubber Rationing For Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S TIRE TROUBLE starts when the speed demon gets a flat on a lonely mountain road . There's lots of fun in this little film in watching the Duck deal with inanimate objects which seem bent on destroying him . Younger viewers may not understand Donald's exasperation with retreads , or the significance of rubber patches , but this cartoon was produced during wartime and poked gentle fun at the rubber shortage caused by rationing . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
DeMille's Desert Saga	An English aristocrat becomes ' THE SQUAW MAN ' after leaving Britain under mysterious circumstances and marrying an Indian maiden in the American West . At the end of the Silent Era , famed director Cecil B . DeMille signed a deal with MGM to produce three pictures over three years . For the first two - - DYNAMITE ( 1929 ) and MADAM Satan ( 1930 ) - - he pulled out all the stops to present lavish photoplays of New York high society , with a mine cave-in and a dirigible disaster to liven things up . For his third film at MGM DeMille returned to his favorite story , which he'd already filmed twice before as a silent . For this talkie version he kept the story simple , without special effects or unnecessary melodrama . He also made outstanding use of filming on location in Arizona . The result is a well-made film with a poignant storyline and an emotionally gripping conclusion . While Warner Baxter's American accent makes him rather unbelievable as an Englishman , this can be easily overlooked because of his fine performance . Steadfast & strong , he makes a sturdy hero . But acting honors go to Lupe Velez , who strips away all unnecessary technique & mannerisms to deliver an uncomplicated , heartbreaking portrayal of a primitive woman wholly devoted to the man she adores and their son . Without even trying , she completely dominates the film . The rest of the cast also make their mark in much smaller roles : beautiful Eleanor Boardman as the titled Englishwoman Baxter loves ; owlish Roland Young as Baxter's best friend ; shifty Paul Cavanagh as the feckless Earl of Kerhill ; and Julia Faye as a fox hunting American widow . Out West , the cast includes angry Charles Bickford as a murderous rancher intent on grabbing Buzzards Pass from Baxter ; bullying DeWitt Jennings as the corrupt sheriff of Maverick ; J . Farrell MacDonald as Baxter's loyal ranch hand ; and little Dickie Moore , one of the OUR GANG kids , as the lively son of Baxter & Velez . Wizened old Luke Cosgrave gives a few humorous moments as the cantankerous driver of a desert jalopy . DeMille's sojourn at MGM was not a commercial success for the Studio . His contract wasn't extended and he returned to Paramount , where he would soon commence on some of the most popular films of his career .
Celebrity Soup	A dogged police inspector searches Hollywood for THE SLIPPERY PEARLS purloined from Norma Shearer . Several of Tinseltown's brightest talents donated their time to this fund-raiser for the National Variety Artists Tuberculosis Sanitarium located at Savanac Lake , New York . Funds would be solicited from theater patrons after viewing this 20 minute short , which was ironically sponsored by Chesterfield Cigarettes . Distributed by Paramount Studios , some of the stars are embarrassingly bad in their tiny roles . The comedy team of Wheeler & Woolsey come off by far the best , although one wishes one could see more of Maurice Chevalier , Laurel & Hardy and the Our Gang kids . This little film is sometimes shown under its alternate title of THE STOLEN JOOLS ( 1931 ) . The closing credits obligingly give a cast list , particularly helpful in identifying the celebrities of yesteryear who've faded into obscurity : At The Police Station : Wallace Beery , Buster Keaton , Jack Hill , J . Farrell MacDonald , Edward G . Robinson & George E . Stone . The Law : Eddie Kane , Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy . At The Victim's House : Our Gang's Allen ' Farina ' Hoskins , Matthew ' Stymie ' Beard , Norman ' Chubby ' Chaney , Mary Ann Jackson , Shirley Jean Rickert , Dorothy ' Echo ' DeBorba , Bobby ' Wheezer ' Hutchins & Pete the Pup . Also Polly Moran , Norma Shearer & Hedda Hopper . Tte--Tte : Joan Crawford & William Haines . On The Porch Swing : Dorothy Lee . At Breakfast : Edmund Lowe , Victor McLaglen & El Brendel . In The Hotel : Charles Murray , George Sidney , Winnie Lightner , Fifi D'Orsay , Warner Baxter ( as the Cisco Kid ) & Irene Dunne . At Lunch : Bert Wheeler & Robert Woolsey . In The Movie Studio : Richard Dix , Lowell Sherman & Claudia Dell . The Newsmen : Eugene Palette , Stuart Erwin , ' Skeets ' Gallagher , Gary Cooper , Wynne Gibson & ' Buddy ' Rogers . The Detective : Maurice Chevalier . Under The Tree : Douglas Fairbanks Jr . & Loretta Young . At The Car : Richard Barthelmess . At The Gate : Charles Butterworth . Couples At Home : Bebe Daniels & Ben Lyon , Frank Fay & Barbara Stanwyck . In A Movie Scene : Jack Oakie & Fay Wray . In A Beard : Joe E . Brown ( unbilled ) . In The Projection Room : George ' Gabby ' Hayes & Little Billy Rhodes . Solving The Mystery : Mitzi Green . An interesting comparison with THE SLIPPERY PEARLS is MGM's THE Christmas PARTY , released the same year and with some of the same cast ( Norma Shearer , Polly Moran , Wallace Beery ) . In half the time and with much better production values , it presents a rapid succession of some of MGM's biggest stars playing themselves in a Christmas greeting to their fans .
The Old Dame Exposed !	A Walt Disney Cartoon . By learning the real stories behind some of her rhymes we are able to discover THE TRUTH ABOUT MOTHER GOOSE . Andrew Lang once described nursery rhymes as ' smooth stones from the brook of time , worn round by constant friction of tongues long silent . ' They can also , in some cases , be tiny intriguing glimpses into past history , as they often made satirical reference to real events . This excellent little film examines two Mother Goose rhymes , Little Jack Horner & Mary Mary Quite Contrary , and a favorite nursery song , London Bridge . This is a fine example of the medium of animation's ability to painlessly instruct . Celebrated children's author Bill Peet was the writer on this project . John Dehner narrates and the Page Cavanaugh Trio add their talents to the proceedings . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Some Sweet Romance	With their HEARTS DIVIDED by international politics , can a pretty American girl and the brother of the great Napoleon ever find true happiness ? This good-natured romance film has been rather harshly criticized as being bad history , which it is , instead of being appreciated for its simple aim to provide some escapist amusement in the form of a lavish movie starring Marion Davies . In this it succeeds . William Randolph Hearst , Davies ' powerful lover , saw to that , and what Hearst wanted he generally got . Although the plot is exceedingly silly at times , the film is still a pleasant entertainment . At 39 , Davies was too old for the part ( and older than her costar by seven years ) , but Hearst liked seeing her in the crinoline & lace roles , and she had little control of the matter . However , as was her custom , Marion charms the viewer with her buoyant spirits , willingness to please and genuine acting skills . She's more than able to hold her own with a talented supporting cast and appears quite happy to be in the arms of young Dick Powell . For his part , Powell needs do little more than exude boyish charm and sing a few times to cover his acting requirements quite nicely . As Napoleon , the great Claude Rains steals every scene he's in by very quietly underplaying his acting and only hinting at the tremendous power his character wields . Fascinating to watch even under heavy makeup , Rains makes a quality contribution to the film . The movie's humor is largely handled by a trio of excellent character actors . Droll Arthur Treacher , suspicious Edward Everett Horton & grumpy Charles Ruggles play Marion's erstwhile suitors . Constantly trying to upstage each other , their dialogue provides plenty of chuckles . Even in minor casting the film excels . Dignified Henry Stephenson and sharp-tongued Clara Blandick play Marion's father and aunt . Walter Kingsford & diminutive Etienne Girardot play the French officials assigned to keep an eye on Mr . Powell . Halliwell Hobbes lends gravity to his small role as Napoleon's Second Consul . Beulah Bondi brightens her single scene as the Bonaparte boys ' kindhearted mother . And the magnificent Hall Johnson Choir appears to lift its voice in song for a few moments . Time has not dealt kindly with Marion Davies . Almost forgotten today , when remembered at all it is usually as a sort of footnote to history or object of scandal . Her life certainly was colorful , and as chatelaine of America's most amazing private estate she did circulate amidst powerful circles . But to remember her as the bimbo blonde mistress of the country's mightiest media baron is patently unfair . While much of the blame can go to Orson Welles ' spoof of Davies in CITIZEN KANE ( which he was to admit he regretted towards the end of his life ) it must be stated emphatically that Marion was not a no-talent actress with few friends & even fewer brains , whose career was destroyed by her stammer leaving her to spend lonely years in great , hulking empty castles . In reality , Davies was a bright , vivacious lady who charmed & captivated such diverse guests as George Bernard Shaw & Winston Churchill throughout her 33-year liaison with Hearst . Adored by her friends and a fierce cadre of fans , Davies was renowned for her tireless generosity and charitable good works . Her speech impediment never affected her screen acting and her undeniable talent was evident to any who were willing to assess her performances honesty and look past the scandal . Davies had to have been embarrassed by the Hearst empire's relentless pushing of her career . She knew this left her open to ridicule & mockery , doubtless contributing to her scarcely concealed alcoholism . But she eventually relinquished her film pursuits in order to care for the aging Hearst , and after his death in 1951 she showed herself to be an astute businesswoman during the remaining ten years of her life . It is only now , with the passage of much time & the restoration of her old movies , that it is becoming easier to acknowledge the contributions & cinematic expertise of Marion Davies . Jrme Bonaparte ( 1784-1860 ) was only 16 when he entered the service of Napoleon as a member of the Consular Guard . After being wounded in a duel he transferred to the French Navy . Leaving his ship in the West Indies , he entered the United States , ( Jrme was not involved in the sale of the Louisiana Purchase to America ) where he fell in love with Elizabeth Patterson of Baltimore , Maryland . They were married on Christmas Eve , 1803 . After returning to Europe with his wife in 1805 , it was discovered that Napoleon had annulled the marriage and forbade Elizabeth to enter any of his domains . This decision was absolutely determinate . Elizabeth was returned to America and Jrme was married to Princess Catherine of Wrttemberg and subsequently proclaimed King of Westphalia in 1807 , which included a wide territory east of the Rhine in addition to the former province of Westphalia . He abdicated in 1813 when Napoleon's powers began to decline , but he continued to serve as a loyal officer fighting for his brother until the Battle of Waterloo brought total defeat in 1815 . Jrme then retired into self-exile and did not return to France until 1847 , when he entered the service of his nephew Napoleon III , the son of his brother Louis . Jrme would eventually serve as Governor of the Invalides , Marshal of France & President of the Senate .
Domestic Drama Well Acted	A SMART WOMAN uses duplicitous ingenuity to attempt to win back her adulterous husband . Mary Astor shines in this sophisticated - - and unfortunately obscure - - little soap opera , which rewards its viewers with an intelligent script and fine acting . Crisp , cool & calculatingly composed , Astor uses her intelligence to get exactly what she wants . Inviting her spouse's mistress to spend the weekend in their country mansion may not seem like the usual tack to follow , but for Astor it's all part of her game plan . Robert Ames plays Astor's erstwhile husband ; Ruth Weston is his outspoken sister . Noel Francis is the gold digger after his money & Gladys Gale is her ambitious mother . All four offer good support , but the best fun comes from John Halliday as an affable English knight agreeably in tune with Astor's schemes and snippy Edward Everett Horton as Ames ' brother-in-law . As usual , Horton effortlessly steals his every scene .
A Harried Mouse Tale	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . With Minnie already miffed by MICKEY'S DELAYED DATE to meet her , the Mouse scurries to get dressed & downtown , with assistance from Pluto . This little film has an amusing story and the animators have given Mickey a certain insouciant air ( when decked out in top hat & tails ) that quite suits the world's most respected rodent . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Comedy With A Touch Of Class	A FREE AND EASY father and son are dependent upon the largess of rich ladies to continue living comfortable lives . Running less than an hour , this bit of inconsequential fluff is dignified by its fine cast . Nigel Bruce and Robert Cummings ( using a British accent ) are the father and son constantly on the prowl for wealthy women . Cummings provides an honest , appealing performance , as was his wont , while Bruce's usual cuddly persona is not tarnished a bit by his somewhat rakish behavior . Lovely Ruth Hussey is the penniless girl upon which Cummings sets his affections ; fusty , fuming Reginald Owen is her lover who wants no rivals . Marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith appears as a horse-loving Duke who can't keep a secret . Best of all , Dame Judith Anderson plays Sir Aubrey's daughter , a plain-faced woman with an immense amount of money who dotes on Cummings . Portraying a female experiencing unexpected joy and terrible disappointment , Dame Judith gives the kind of beautiful performance one doesn't expect to find in a rather negligible comedy . Having displayed her formidable talent the year before in Hitchcock's REBECCA , and even though possessed of one of the Century's most remarkable speaking voices , it became quickly obvious that Hollywood really wasn't big enough to showcase her properly . Her greatest triumphs would be on the stage . This is a remake of MGM's BUT THE FLESH IS WEAK ( 1932 ) , which also starred Sir C . Aubrey Smith , along with Robert Montgomery , as the father / son duo . MGM had previously used the title FREE AND EASY in 1930 for a comedy starring Montgomery and Buster Keaton .
A Chilly Pup Tale	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Fred Stork , looking for a warm home for the rest of the freezing Winter , decides to appropriate Pluto's doghouse . In COLD STORAGE the Pup struggles to retain his possessions from an interloper , a basic plot used several times before by the Disney animators . However , the Stork proves to be a worthy adversary and the little film provides a quiet chuckle or two . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Why We Fought Then - Why We Fight Now	Gathered FROM THE FOUR CORNERS , military men arrive in London , prepared to fight against Hitler & the Axis . Produced in the United Kingdom before Pearl Harbor , this excellent , intelligent little film explores the real reasons why men from around the world should unite to fight , not for Mother England , but for the basic love of freedom & liberty they all hold dear . . By examining these values , the film focuses in on the commonality shared by all members of the English-speaking nations , including America . Pvt . R . Gilbert , a law student from Auckland , New Zealand , Cpl . W . Atkinson , owner of a bicycle shop in Sydney , Australia and Pvt . J . Johnston , a farmer near Vancouver , Canada , all do a very fine job playing themselves . They are joined by an uncredited Leslie Howard , who acts as the soul of the film - questioning , illuminating , tying it all together . Howard co-authored the script for what would be one of his final film appearances before his untimely death in June of 1943 .
Drumsticks For Two	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . All Pluto & Milton the cat can think about is the COLD TURKEY sitting unguarded in the refrigerator . Milton and Pluto make a fine partnership in this funny little film , rather like a silent movie comedy team . However , Milton only appeared in a tiny handful of Disney cartoons before disappearing from the screen . The spoof of old-time TV wrestling and food commercials is especially humorous . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
One of the best films of World War II	This is the story of an American woman who marries into a rich English family in the early part of the 20th Century . We become involved in her experiences during the World Wars and see how these conflicts affect her family . Produced while the Second World War was still being fought , this film was intended to be both a morale booster for American audiences and as a salute to our British allies . The film boasts a great cast , each perfect in their role . Irene Dunne is the American lady ; Alan Marshal the dashing knight she marries . Roddy McDowall & Peter Lawford portray their only son at different ages . Bumptious Frank Morgan is Dunne's irascible father ; Dame Gladys Cooper is Marshal's aristocratic mother . Dame May Witty is the sweet old nurse . Van Johnson is a young American friend headed for war . Norma Varden is the proprietress of a London boarding house . John Warburton , Jill Esmond & Brenda Forbes are various English relatives . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith is an opinionated retired Major . In the unbilled cast , film mavens should be able to spot George Davis , Tom Drake , Ethel Griffies , Lumsden Hare , Doris Lloyd , June Lockhart , Arthur Shields , a young Dame Elizabeth Taylor & Ian Wolfe . More than a MRS . MINIVER wannabe , THE WHITE CLIFFS OF DOVER has a charm all its own .
Goofy Goes South American	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Transported to the Argentine Pampas , our Texas cowboy becomes EL GAUCHO GOOFY as he learns the ways of the South American vaquero . In 1941 , with so many European markets cut off by the War , the United States Government felt it would be wise to strengthen the country's ties with the nations of Latin America - culturally as well as commercially . Among those invited to travel South on goodwill tours was Walt Disney . Walt was dealing with his own problems at home , including profit losses from his animated features and an acrimonious strike in the Studio . When the invitation arrived from the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs at the State Department , Walt agreed to go on condition that the Government would sponsor his making of a Latin American feature , using the trip to get background material . The artists who accompanied Walt received much inspiration for future animation and Walt himself took some valuable home movies which , incorporated with the animation , resulted in the short feature SALUDOS AMIGOS ( 1943 ) , of which EL GAUCHO GOOFY was an extract and eventual stand alone cartoon short . SALUDOS AMIGOS ( which also had a nice role for Donald Duck ) was quite popular with audiences and the GOOFY short was responsible for part of that success . The animation is very good , the comic situations are humorous and there is still a good deal of authentic information to be gleaned amidst the chuckles . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Livin ' In A Boardin ' School With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy ShortIt's just MUSH AND MILK for the Rascals to eat at the Bleak Hill Boarding School , which is run by a wicked old crone . Her elderly brother , Cap , loves the kids and has promised them a good life if ever his back pension arrives . Spanky , Stymie & the Gang wonder if that day will ever come . . . This is a very funny little film . Highlights include Stymie & Dickie trying to milk a cow , Spanky's recitation of Mary Had A Little Lamb & Butch's crooning ' Just Friends ' . That's Cap Leonard as Cap , Louise Emmons as his dreadful wife and - hilariously - James Finlayson as the banker . This was to be the last OUR GANG appearance by Dickie or Wheezer . Richard ' Dickie ' Moore had been with the Gang for two years and was featured in 7 of their films . He appeared in several other movies before leaving the business in the 1950's . He's now married to actress Jane Powell . Bobby ' Wheezer ' Hutchins had become a Rascal at the tender age of two , and now , at the ripe old age of eight , had starred in 59 shorts . He made no more films . In 1945 he died in a military plane crash - he was only 19 years old .
We Speak ! We Sing ! And We Sometimes Act Badly !	THE Hollywood REVUE OF 1929 allows some important Silent stars to exercise their vocal chords . Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer , Hollywood's mightiest film studio , bowed to the inevitability of sound with this cinematic variety show which highlighted performances from most of their top talent . ( Conspicuous by their absence are Garbo , Chaney & Novarro , each of whom would make their talkie debut elsewhere . ) Like all the other studios , it was vitally important for box-office reasons that MGM establish the viability of their top performers in the new medium , even though some of those appearing here would find their film careers swept away almost immediately . This should be looked on as a representative of its time . Much of the humor is now flat and a few of the performances sag badly , but it should be remembered that this is a cinematic collection of scared individuals , desperate to make good in the frightening new world of talk . Naturally , MGM's own in-house composers are heavily relied upon in the film , with the tunes of Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed and Joe Goodwin & Gus Edwards much in evidence . Highlights include songs by Marie Dressler , a dance by Buster Keaton and Cliff Edwards ' " Singing in the Rain . "
Superior Little Shocker	A madman commits a series of MURDERS IN THE ZOO , hoping to punish his adulterous wife and her lovers . Sadly neglected , this dandy little thriller comes from a studio & director ( Paramount , Edward Sutherland ) more noted for their comedy films . It holds its own , however , and offers several visual shocks which should more than satisfy its audience . Especially noteworthy are the opening credits which humorously compares the human stars with various zoo beasts , and sweeps immediately into an initial scene of unusually fiendish ferocity . From this point on , the viewer is hooked . . . Lionel Atwill adds another portrait of evil to his gallery of grotesques , here playing a villain not only morally twisted but positively vile . The gentle , daffy humor of top-billed Charles Ruggles might seem out of place in other horror films , but here it is a welcome anodyne to Atwill's monstrosities . The rest of the cast - Randolph Scott , Gail Patrick , Kathleen Burke , Harry Beresford - do very well in roles that are really little more than supporting parts . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Jane Darwell as a society matron at the Zoo Supper .
An Intelligent Tale Of Adventure	THE SUN NEVER SETS on the British Empire , which now must confront the menace of a millionaire madman broadcasting vile invective from a secret radio station somewhere in Africa . Here is an adventure story which asks unusually serious questions about duty & devotion , both to one's family & to one's country . The moralizing & heart searching is never allowed to throw the film off target , however . It simply gives it some extra depth . Basil Rathbone & Douglas Fairbanks Jr are well cast as two brothers who must face tough inner stresses , while attempting to fulfill their duties for the Colonial Office in the British Gold Coast - given the task to stop the lying lunatic only adds to their tribulations . It is good to see Rathbone in a heroic role ; with his excellent voice & patrician profile he fills it quite nicely . As his younger sibling , Fairbanks displays conflicted motives for his behavior , but the plot helps him resolve the problems of where his duty lies . As Rathbone's wife , Barbara O'Neil has some good scenes as a diplomatic spouse who loathes Africa & longs for England . However Mary Forbes , as the boys ' mother , is largely wasted in a modest role that calls for little beyond looking noble . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith is terrific as the family patriarch who is the epitome of duty ; here is an actor who never disappointed and seemed incapable of giving a bad performance . Special mention should also be made of Lionel Atwill , adding yet another portrait to his gallery of grotesques , this time as an entomologist traveling about the African bush in a luxurious land yacht , studying ants & spouting the most frightful nonsense about disrupting human society . Because of the sort of roles he performed it is too easy to forget what an excellent & entertaining actor Atwill was . Melville Cooper , as a loyal Gold Coast functionary , & Cecil Kellaway , as the head of the Colonial Office - both very enjoyable actors - help to flesh out important smaller roles . Movie mavens should recognize an uncredited Lionel Belmore , hilarious as a Selection Board member questioning Fairbanks about mad dogs . The film's biggest debit is the lack of an explanation as to how Atwill's broadcasts could possibly spread riot & ruination around the world . But this is a small quibble . . .
The Legacy Of Bob Mitchell	A Warner Bros . Short Subject . The Robert Mitchell Choir School of Hollywood , California , provides a solid education for talented boys from ages 8 to 14 , giving them the chance to perform and excel academically & musically . Nominated for an Academy Award , FORTY BOYS AND A SONG is an informative & highly entertaining little film which spotlights a premiere American musical institution from years past . We watch the young fellows in the classroom , at play and at church . Always , music is being taught , performed & enjoyed and we get to hear the boys ' renditions of " Home On the Range , " " My Bonnie Lies Over The Ocean " & " Shortenin ' Bread . " Born October 12 , 1912 , Bob Mitchell showed an acute aptitude & appreciation of music at a very early age . In 1924 , when still only 12 , Bob started playing organ accompaniment to silent films , beginning a passion for silent cinema music that would last a lifetime . In the 1930's he started his Boys Choir , which gained much success ; the Mitchell Singing Boys would appear in scores of films , most notably GOING MY WAY ( 1944 ) with Bing Crosby . On his 90th birthday in 2002 , Bob Mitchell was still keeping very busy playing the organ for church and weddings , personal appearances and silent films - delighting new audiences with his gift of music . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
One Of The All-Time Classics	All silent movie buffs know about Chaplin's THE GOLD RUSH and Keaton's THE GENERAL . Strangely , THE KID BROTHER has been almost forgotten , which is a shame , as it is Harold Lloyd's masterpiece . Better known for the " human fly " sequence in SAFETY LAST , it is in THE KID BROTHER that Harold reaches the top level of silent comedy stardom , alongside Chaplin & Keaton . The story is a Western , set mostly on the ranch where Harold lives with his burly sheriff father and two older brothers . There's a dumb bully down the road , a very pretty young lady , a traveling medicine show and a nasty , bald bad guy . I don't want to give away any of the plot , but suffice it to say that Harold gets to showcase his famous athletic agility and there is a very complex & satisfying final showdown with Mr . Bad Guy at the climax . For pure romanticism , however , there are few scenes in any silent film that can beat the one where Harold climbs a tree , ever higher , for one more glimpse of the very pretty young lady . It's about as sweet as they come . . .
Enjoyable Movieland Murder Mystery	A studio stooge & the publicity girl who loves him become FUGITIVES FOR A NIGHT after he's accused of murdering an unpopular movie producer . One of the most interesting aspects of this minor mystery is the decidedly negative view it takes of the film business . Filmed at RKO ( here called Apollo Studios ) , Dalton Trumbo's screenplay portrays the entire organization to be populated by thoroughly unpleasant people . This probably explains the absence of cameo appearances by any big stars . The behind-the-scenes glimpses at the studio are very interesting , but the real reason to enjoy the film now is the energetic performance of Frank Albertson , as the resourceful , fast-talking stooge . Here is an actor who showed all the talent & charm early in the 1930's to have taken him straight to major stardom , but the breaks didn't fall his way . He continued working into the 1960's top-billing in B films or giving hardy support in secondary roles . He is best remembered as Jimmy Stewart's rich buddy Sam Wainwright in IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE ( 1946 ) . The rest of the cast also does well with their roles : Eleanor Lynn as the perky publicity gal ; Allan Lane & Adrienne Ames as conceited stars ; Bradley Page as an older actor on the way down ; Russell Hicks as the unfortunate producer ; Paul Guilfoyle as an obnoxious gossip ; and Jonathan Hale as the police captain . Movie mavens will recognize Ward Bond as a drunken gambler & Johnny Arthur as a suspicious service station owner .
Shirley Temple - A Star Is Born	With the country in the throes of the Great Depression , the President calls upon a celebrated Broadway impresario to become the first Secretary of Amusement , in the hopes that Americans can beat hard times by learning to smile , laugh , and , eventually , STAND UP AND CHEER ! It is always vital when examining old films to try to be sensitive to their context within their own time frames . Important movies of 70 years ago may look terribly trite now through absolutely no fault of their own . Judging by today's standards can often lead to pitfalls . That having been stated , however , it is difficult to appreciate this film without seeing it for what it is : undeniably silly . And racist . And even a bit bizarre at times . But it contains one great jewel . . . Earnest Warner Baxter & lovely Madge Evans certainly give the plot a try , but the script is dead set against them all the way , making him encourage hillbilly singers as the remedy for the nation's economic woes and having her mope about lovelorn & lonely . As Aunt Jemima , blackfaced singer Tess Gardella ( very popular at the time on Broadway's Show Boat ) and especially Stepin Fetchit are embarrassingly stereotyped . It should be noted , however , that this sort of racial belittlement was not unusual in the Hollywood of the 1930's . The physical , knockdown humor of Frank Mitchell & Jack Durant , playing a couple of zany U . S . Senators , is very odd & no longer funny . Odder still is the penguin that thinks he's Jimmy Durante . Familiar faces show up from time to time - Nigel Bruce , Ralph Morgan , little Our Gang kid Scotty Beckett , warbling John Boles - but they are quickly submerged by the plot . In the midst of all this clutter of mismatched parts , when all might be given up for lost , comes five-year-old Shirley Temple and she is an utter joy . Shirley had already appeared in a series of features & shorts . But it was here , singing & dancing - and completely obliterating poor James Dunn who played her father - that the situation was ripe for her to march straight into the nation's heart . In 1935 Shirley would begin to star in her string of classic family films , and , with the death of Marie Dressler in July of 1934 , the mighty moppet was to begin her reign as Hollywood's number one box office attraction . So , with the arrival of Shirley Temple , we do indeed have much for which to STAND UP AND CHEER !
Digging Ditches With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie have finally gotten themselves thrown into THE HOOSE-GOW . Having failed miserably in an escape attempt , they find themselves assigned to a road gang - digging ditches . Creating havoc all around them , the Boys even manage to assault the visiting State Governor , eventually involving prisoners , guards & VIP's in a frantic free-for-all with handfuls of boiled rice . This early talkie is rather unpolished in construction , but Stan & Ollie are always fun to watch . Slapstick humor abounds , especially in the finale . James Finlayson plays the Governor .
Hypnotic Hepburn	Will a young actress manage to become a lasting stage star or is she destined to be but a MORNING GLORY which will fade with the rising sun ? A youthful Kate Hepburn is mesmerizing in one of her first starring roles at RKO . She plays an aspiring and highly idealistic actress from Franklin , Vermont who will suffer anything , in all innocence , to reach her goal of celebrity in the New York theatre . Hepburn instantly grabs the viewer's attention and sympathy , as she gabbles earnestly about the letter from Bernard Shaw she keeps under her pillow or her resolve to commit suicide on stage at the height of her fame . The viewer understands that she is one of Nature's fragile flowers and needs protection from life's cruelties . At the end of the film , in what should be her moment of triumph , we are left uneasily troubled over what will happen to her next . Able support is given by a trio of fine male co-stars . Douglas Fairbanks Jr is the successful playwright who slowly comes to develop deep feelings for Hepburn . Adolphe Menjou plays the powerful and slightly caddish theatrical manager who takes advantage of Kate at a very vulnerable moment . Best of all , marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith plays Kate's first New York friend , a gentlemanly English actor , reduced to performing small roles , who is bemused by Hepburn's zeal . Mary Duncan scores as a selfish , manipulative stage star . Tyler Brooke , as an alcoholic author , and Richard Carle , as an important newspaper critic , have a couple of good scenes , especially when they get Kate drunk at Menjou's fancy party , thereby loosening her inhibitions and giving her the courage to very ably enact some lines by Hamlet & Juliet . Early on , when Ms . Duncan compares Menjou & Fairbanks to ' Wheeler & Woolsey ' she was referring to RKO's comedy team of Bert Wheeler and Robert Woolsey . Although from 1929 to 1937 they starred in a series of 22 often hilarious movies they are now , sadly , almost forgotten .
Mr . Keaton Brings Down The House	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . You can expect a lively night when the Buster Keaton Minstrels entertain at THE PLAYHOUSE . This hilarious little film is a tour de force for Keaton , who is often devastatingly funny . The amount of obvious effort that went in to making the special effects work is also impressive . Highlights : the opening minutes , with Buster playing absolutely everyone in the theater , from an old lady to a little boy , and , a little further on , Buster's peerless impersonation of a chimpanzee . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Along Germany's Romantic River	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . We begin our cinematic tour IN THE VALLEY OF THE RHINE with a stop in Cologne for a look at the mighty Cathedral . Then it is on to Bonn , where we are shown the birthplace of Beethoven . In Koblenz we are taken to a lively wine garden to watch the dancing & hear the orchestra . Finally , we arrive at the most famous & romantic stretch of the river - where the steep hills crowd in close to the water . We pass quaint villages & see the beautiful vineyards which extend right up the steep slopes . After seeing several castles , we end our short tour near the rock of the Lorelei , where Teutonic legend & the music of Richard Wagner hold sway . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Ruggles & Merkel Spark Mystery Thriller	An amateur crime ? deflector ' finds his skills put to the test aboard a transcontinental train when there's MURDER IN THE PRIVATE CAR . All of the much-loved elements of the Old Dark House spook films can be found in this regrettably obscure little thriller - - damsels in distress , mysterious legacies , strange disappearances , hairy clutching hands , sudden death , terrible menace ( and , for a few delicious moments , a rampaging gorilla ) - - except here it all takes place in the fancy carriage car of a swiftly moving train . The plot moves just as quickly , catapulting the viewer along , with the climax especially fast & furious . The delightfully quixotic humor of comic actor Charles Ruggles is highlighted as his offbeat character relentlessly pursues the solution of the mystery . His bemused encounter with the denizens of a smashed circus train - - camel , kangaroo and MGM's Leo the Lion - - is especially funny . The teaming of Ruggles with pert & perky Una Merkel is inspired . Her sarcastic wisecracks , uttered in that wonderful Southern drawl , are the perfect counterpoint to Ruggles ' wry utterances . The rest of the cast offers good support : Mary Carlisle as a terribly endangered rich girl ; Russell Hardie as her stalwart boyfriend ; Berton Churchill as a slightly stuffy millionaire who's about to face enormous peril ; Porter Hall as a protective lawyer ; and Fred ? Snowflake ' Toones as a terrified train porter . Movie mavens will recognize Sterling Holloway as a gossipy office boy and Walter Brennan as a train yard switchman , both uncredited .
The Last Of Disney's Very Special Series	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A gawky UGLY DUCKLING , only moments after birth , is hectored & harried from the family of ducks he was born into . Will he ever find happiness & learn his true destiny ? This is a pleasant cartoon , with the plucky personality of the protagonist firmly front & center ; the by-play between the duck parents is also amusing . Based on the Hans Christian Andersen classic , it is a remake of a 1931 black & white Symphony . The SILLY SYMPHONIES ended with this film , but they went out with a bang - like 6 of its predecessors , THE UGLY DUCKLING was awarded an Oscar for Best Animation . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Disney Animates Mr . Claus , Part Two	' Twas THE NIGHT BEFORE CHRISTMAS , and Santa arrives at a home with nine little children . Quickly he sets up a Christmas tree and takes a few moments to enjoy the toys ' tiny celebration upon the placing of the star . But now the noise has awakened the children . . . This follow-up to SANTA'S WORKSHOP ( 1932 ) is a very enjoyable cartoon . As in its predecessor , the March of the Toys is both colorful & fun to watch - although the playthings coming out of the bag are completely different from those we previously saw marching into it . ( Notice the Mickey Mouse toy which Disney cannily included . ) Query : do bad little kiddies live in all the many houses which Santa flies past & ignores ? The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Lively & Complicated	It will take FOUR MEN AND A PRAYER to save an old colonel's reputation from disgrace . Although its complicated plot is faintly ludicrous , this John Ford film offers plenty of action and some good acting to keep its viewers entertained . The production value is of a high order and there's a generous amount of heroics , which almost makes one forget that there's no really despicable villain to hiss . Barrister George Sanders , diplomat Richard Greene , military pilot David Niven , and Oxford student William Henry are the English brothers who unite to find their father's murderer and clear his good name . All do a fine job with what the script gives them , constantly dashing about and acting terribly energetic , with young Henry more than keeping up with his three better known costars . Greene actually has top billing , but Niven gets the best lines , getting to leaven a good deal of humor into his performance . Lovely Loretta Young does not fare so well . She's given the ridiculous role of a silly rich girl in love with Greene who follows him first from America to England , then on to Argentina and Egypt . Even witnessing a hideous massacre doesn't entirely sober her , as she begins to behave like a junior league Mata Hari to uncover information for the preternaturally patient Greene . One usually expects more than this from John Ford's heroines . The rest of the large cast offers able support , however . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith graces his brief role as the men's tragic father . Stalwart Reginald Denny plays a captain with too much information for his own good . Affable Alan Hale has fun with his role as a millionaire arms dealer . J . Edward Bromberg is a squalid little South American general and , in a tiny role , John Carradine plays his suave & dangerous enemy . Blustery Berton Churchill plays the powerful tycoon father of Miss Young's character , while bantam Barry Fitzgerald steals his few moments of screen time as a boisterous little Irishman ready for a good fight .
With Gun Through Darkest Africa	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy's AFRICAN DIARY tells of his misadventures with some of the continent's most dangerous game . This humorous little film provides several chuckles as Goofy tries to act like a Great White Hunter . The depiction of the safari as tiny dots racing over a landscaped map of Africa is especially amusing , as is the sophisticated narration which is completely at variance with the on-screen action . The story was written by Bill Peet , later to become a celebrated children's author . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Tallyho !	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK & GOOFY Cartoon . Hunter Goofy and Master of the Hounds Donald are determined to turn THE FOX HUNT into a splendid day of sport - whether the fox likes it or not . This very funny little film from Disney's Golden Age is filled with excellent animation and great good humor . Notice Donald's use of bloodhounds , rather than the more traditional foxhounds . The other hunters , making only the tiniest of appearances , are Mickey & Minnie Mouse , Horace Horsecollar & Clara Cluck . Once again , Clarence Nash gives a superb performance as the voice of the irascible Duck . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Colorful Horror Film	London after dark . A gallery of life-like wax figures . An argument , a fight & a fire . A man left to die in the flames . And as they melt , the figures seem to weep at their own destruction . So starts MYSTERY OF THE WAX MUSEUM , credited as the first horror film with a modern urban setting - New York City . Glenda Farrell is the brash , blonde reporter trying to help her pal Fay Wray discover the secrets of a new wax museum just about to open , and those of its director Lionel Atwill , who is confined to a wheelchair due to a past accident . Murder & mayhem & wax-covered flesh will all figure into the plot before the mystery is solved . This was one of Atwill's best roles , playing an artist driven to dementia by the destruction of the only things he ever really loved . His is a very special , nuanced performance . Like DOCTOR X the year before , MYSTERY OF THE WAX MUSEUM benefits from wonderful Anton Grot sets ( especially the wax bath ) and from having been filmed in early two-strip Technicolor , which makes all the ghastly figures seem to come alive . . .
Mickey's Frightful Adventure	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey takes refuge one night in a spooky HAUNTED HOUSE and soon finds himself captured by the skeletons that live there . This little black & white film has some genuinely creepy moments , especially when Mickey first enters the house . The second half of the cartoon bears a striking resemblance to the first Silly Symphony , THE SKELETON DANCE , both released in August of 1929 . Walt Disney , who was probably strongly influenced by silent horror films , also contributed Mickey's quavering voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Westward With Mr . DeMille & The Railroad	Moving across the American wilderness , east to west , the mighty UNION PACIFIC Railroad stretches to meet its rival - the Central Pacific - taming a continent with steel rails . Overcoming Nature's disasters , hostile natives & corrupt politicians , the engines bring with them the people whose hopes are inextricably tied into the railroad's success or failure . In 1939 , Hollywood's Golden Year , kingpin director Cecil B . DeMille presented his biggest , flashiest film yet . It was to be nothing less than the story of how the American West was conquered by the great railroads & her indomitable builders . To realize DeMille's vision on the screen , Paramount allocated hundreds of extras & large coffers of money to the project . Authentic rolling stock was acquired . The president of the contemporary Union Pacific enthusiastically sent his finest track layers to work in the film . The movie would boost train wrecks ( two of ? em ) , Indian attacks , assorted villainies & a compelling love triangle . DeMille demanded scrupulous attention to detail and his crowd scenes are very well conceived & produced . His early reels tend to be a bit preachy in touting the virtues of the railroad , but action scenes quickly follow which amply compensate for this . DeMille's subject matter & obvious patriotism help him to avoid the lapses of taste & vulgarities in which he tended to stray in many of his other film forays . Even with a fake Irish brogue , Barbara Stanwyck charms in her role as a railroad postmistress & engineer's daughter . Feisty & volatile , always great fun to watch , it's easy to see why she's loved by both Joel McCrea ( the hero ) & Robert Preston ( the antihero ) . Both gentlemen give good rousing performances in roles that might have strayed into the stereotypical , but never do . Brian Donlevy , as the villain , gives another vivid portrait in what is rather a small role , but very much like the one he would play that same year in DESTRY RIDES AGAIN . Akim Tamiroff & Lynne Overman are especially enjoyable as McCrea's scruffy , rather repulsive security enforcers ; with whip & guns , these are two hombres you wouldn't want to tangle with . Robert Barrat as a murdering bully & Regis Toomey as a sweet-natured Irish worker , give impressive cameos . Anthony Quinn appears for a couple of scenes as a gambler who unwisely pulls a gun on McCrea , and lovely Evelyn Keyes has a scant few screen moments as a telegrapher's wife . Sharp-eyed movie mavens may ( or may not ) be able to spot among the uncredited players Monte Blue , Ward Bond , Iron Eyes Cody , Will Geer , Noble Johnson , Elmo Lincoln & Mala playing various Indians , gamblers or railwaymen . It would be most intriguing to run UNION PACIFIC in a double bill with John Ford's 1924 epic THE IRON HORSE , which tells the same historical story , but with a different artistic tack & fictional characters .
A Visit To The Windy City	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . Our whirlwind trip into CHICAGO , THE BEAUTIFUL will take us along State Street & Lake Shore Drive . We'll travel the Chicago River & see vast Lake Michigan . The Wrigley Building , the Palmer House and the grand Merchandise Mart are just a few of the mighty edifices we pass on our way , before looking at some survivors from the Great Fire of 1871 . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Down Mexico Way	A WARNER BROTHERS VITAPHONE Short Subject . A Minnesota Swede finds himself in big trouble in Mexico when he is forced to capture a notorious bandito . Dialect comedian El Brendel , who enlivened several films in the 1930's , finds a good outlet for his talent in OKAY , JOS . The very silly plot - which includes Mexican music & dancing - allows him to give hilarious impersonations of a mustachioed outlaw and a flirtatious blonde seorita . The eye-pleasing Technicolor photography is still vivid and bright . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Effective World War Two Short Subject	An MGM Short Subject . In a phone conversation with Hitler five months after Pearl Harbor , a delighted Devil describes how INFLATION can win the War for the Axis as easily as bullets & bombs . This is an imaginative little film which effectively alerted the American public to the 5 ways in which inflation could be unleashed on the economy : ? ? ? ? ? Impulse or overbuying ? ? ? ? ? Buying on the Black Market ? ? ? ? ? Hoarding food & supplies ? ? ? ? ? Breaking the price ceilings ? ? ? ? ? Cashing in War BondsEdward Arnold is at his most sardonic as The Devil ; playing his role as if Lucifer were a corrupt businessman , Arnold gets to ham it up most deliciously . In her first film role , Esther Williams plays a typical young housewife who learns about the evils of inflation from an FDR radio broadcast . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighbor theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination .
William Haines Aims To Tease In His Debut Talkie Feature	A silly , irresponsible sailor gives his new girlfriend a bad case of the NAVY BLUES when he loves her & leaves her , instead of offering marriage . Carrying on the Silly Billy antics he perfected in silent pictures , William Haines made his talkie feature debut in this piece of cinematic fluff , released 5 days before Christmas , 1929 . He would play variations of this character throughout the rest of his screen career . Just as important , in NAVY BLUES he showed himself well capable of being a talkie star . Although he acts like a complete cad , he does so with a certain amount of boyish charm , and that's what made money for the studios . And the very next year , 1930 , Haines would be Hollywood's male box office champ . The plot doesn't stand up to much scrutiny . Haines ' wild & flamboyant behavior , quite frankly , would make him a good candidate for a ' don't ask - don't tell ' policy , and a frequent inhabitant of the brig . His eventual rehabilitation seems suspiciously superficial . Anita Page , as his disappointed sweetheart , seems a bit too easily pushed into prostitution . Karl Dane , as a hulking Swede seaman , is given little to do except act exceedingly simple-minded . Still , in the final accounting this is William Haines ' film , and although his character is slightly repellent , Haines is never less than amusing .
Forgotten Biblical Epic	A young American living in France suffers severe emotional trauma after joining the Army during the First World War . Eventually he gains enormous comfort after listening to a saintly old Minister relate the story of NOAH'S ARK & The Great Deluge , showing that the evils of the present day will also be washed away . This movie epic is a wonderful viewing experience , with plenty of romance & excitement . Warner Brothers lavished a great deal of money on the film - and it shows . Produced right at the very cusp of the talkie era , this is a mostly silent film with some talkie sequences - which makes it quite fascinating from a technological point of view . While perhaps it would be easy to laugh at the somewhat gauche vocal efforts of some of the cast , this would be to miss the point . Talking pictures were brand new & the entire society of movie actors were scrambling to learn how to perform in the perplexing new medium . NOAH'S ARK shows the best efforts of these particular actors at that time . Actually , Noah Beery , as the villain , uses his dramatic deep voice to good effect . It was a favorite convention in lavish film epics of the 1920's to tell two concurrent stories : one modern & moralistic , the other from some far distant - and decadent - past . ( DeMille tried this format more than once . ) This gave the filmmaker the opportunity to both preach & serve-up generous quantities of sin . It also gave the actors , as here , the chance to play dual roles - each used as a counterpoint to the other . Rugged George O'Brien & sweet Dolores Costello do fine work as the romantic leads in both stories . Guinn Williams is a stalwart support to O'Brien . Noah Beery is detestable as the wicked villain , and Paul McAllister is memorable as the Minister / Noah . Young Myrna Loy has a small part as a dancer . Scriptural purity is not entirely adhered to in the Noah scenes ; elements from the stories of Moses & Samson are interpolated and far more attention is given to the evil outside the Ark than what went on inside it . The thrilling Deluge scenes are truly epic , however , and were just as dangerous to the extras as they appear .
Forgotten Civil War Film	Two brothers , both members of the Union's SECRET SERVICE , make their way behind Confederate lines to assist in the capture of Richmond . Based on a play by the celebrated American stage actor William Gillette , this nearly forgotten Civil War film offers an interesting espionage plot and three actors worth watching . Sturdy leading man Richard Dix provides a fine performance as a conflicted hero who would probably have gotten shot by both sides if captured . Even when the dialogue given him was substandard , Dix could always be counted on to instill some life into his character . Gavin Gordon plays the Virginia official , consumed with jealousy , who engages Dix in a deadly war of wits . Wonderful Clarence Muse brings real heart to his portrayal of a friendly slave whose good nature gets him into terrible trouble . The film has definite drawbacks . The romance Dix has with a Southern belle ( Shirley Grey ) is neither convincing nor compelling . The spy plot , dealing greatly with multiple coded telegraph messages , is rather difficult to follow . And the film fairly cries out for a background score to push the action along ( Max Steiner , later one of the big names in cinematic music , provides the scant score ) .
Buggy Adventure A Pleasant Diversion	When HOPPITY GOES TO TOWN he discovers nothing but bad news for his little insect neighbors in the Lowlands . Can this honest , good-natured grasshopper save his sweetheart , Miss Honey Bee , from the machinations of the evil C . Bagley Beetle - and also lead his friends to a safe new home - before it's too late ? While not one of the great animated features ( a very new art at the time this film was created ) HOPPITY is an enjoyable film which should bring pleasure to uncritical viewers . Technically it is well made , with animation of a generally high quality . The movie's main drawback is that none of the characters really have any ' heart ' - they don't come ' alive ' on the screen in the way Jiminy Cricket did a year earlier in PINOCCHIO . However , it is ultimately unfair to compare the Fleischer Studio output with that of Disney . Max & Dave Fleischer had their own star to follow ; their contribution - and it would be a considerable one - would be in the realm of the one-reel cartoon . With their POPEYE and BETTY BOOP series they created alternate realities as viable as any produced by other cartoon studios . HOPPITY was their second experiment with feature length animation ( after GULLIVER'S TRAVELS in 1939 ) , and henceforth they would expend their energies again on the cartoon short subject . In fact , the first in the highly acclaimed SUPERMAN series was already in release . HOPPITY'S story owes a great deal to Frank Capra , with it's energetic , go get ? em hero up against powerful societal forces . Indeed , the film's original title was MR . BUG GOES TO TOWN , which immediately puts one in mind of Gary Cooper or Jimmy Stewart and their Capraesque adventures . Jack Mercer , famous as the voice of Popeye , here speaks for two very different characters , old Mr . Bumble & Swat the Fly . Movie mavens should be able to catch veteran voice actors Pinto Colvig & Mae Questel , both in uncredited roles . The film has some pleasant songs supplied by Hoagy Carmichael & Frank Loesser , of which ' Be My Little Baby Bumble Bee ' is the most familiar . ' We're The Couple In The Castle ' is a fine romantic tune which deserves to be rediscovered . It is unfortunate that the film's initial animation , with its sweep out of the heavens and past the in-depth New York skyline , is obscured behind the opening credits .
A Bug's Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Elderly Bootle Beetle recalls the time in his youth when he rashly ventured into THE GREENER YARD belonging to Donald Duck . This humorous little film marked the third and final appearance of the Bootle Beetle in a Disney cartoon , following BOOTLE BEETLE ( 1947 ) and SEA SALTS ( 1949 ) . Although cute & appealing , the wee bug never caught on with the public . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice , while Dink Trout does the honors for the Beetle . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney's Patriotic Message To Canadians	A Walt Disney Commercial Cartoon . Parading in front of Ottawa's Parliament Building , a collection of Disney characters show they are ALL TOGETHER for buying War Savings Certificates to help win the war against the Axis . Commissioned by The National Film Board of Canada , this very short little film pulled no punches in its direct message to viewers to support their country's war effort by putting their finances into the fight . For the record , in the parade by order of appearance are : Pinocchio , Geppetto , Figaro , Donald Duck , Huey , Dewey , Louie & Pluto . On a vehicle rides Mickey Mouse , conducting his BAND CONCERT ( 1935 ) buddies - including Clarabelle Cow , Horace Horsecollar & Goofy - in Bagley's National Emblem March . Bringing up the rear are the Seven Dwarves : Doc , Grumpy , Happy , Sleepy , Bashful , Sneezy & Dopey . Of them all , only Donald speaks and his voice is provided by Clarence ' Ducky ' Nash . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Triumph For Reginald Owen	The wretched life of a disagreeable old man is forever altered one haunted Christmas Eve . . . Charles Dickens ' wonderful Yuletide story , A CHRISTMAS CAROL , is given the full MGM deluxe treatment in this superior Holiday film . The production values & acting are both excellent , with just enough sentiment to appeal to the tenderhearted , and with liberal doses of horror & hilarity stirred into the mix , until , like a fine Christmas punch , the result appeals to all . The film's rather short running time keeps the action moving along briskly , with one famous & beloved episode after another coming alive before the viewer's eyes . Reginald Owen , in his best film role , is perfect as the grasping , clutching , tightfisted , covetous old sinner , Ebenezer Scrooge . Replacing the ailing - and highly respected - Lionel Barrymore , Owen makes the part his own , revealing the old miser's misery & heartache , making the part thoroughly human . When he rejoices in his spiritual regeneration at the climax , so do we . The roles of Bob Cratchit , Scrooge's amiable clerk & Fred , Scrooge's friendly nephew , are both fleshed out more fully than in other versions . The acting skills of Gene Lockhart & Barry MacKay turn them into something very memorable . Special mention should also be made of Leo G . Carroll as Marley's morose Ghost ; Lionel Braham as an impressively jolly Ghost of Christmas Present ; and Kathleen Lockhart & Terry Kilburn as Mrs . Cratchit & Tiny Tim . All add fine brushstrokes to the overall picture . Movie mavens will recognize Billy Bevan as an officer of the Watch ; Forrester Harvey as an ebullient Fezziwig ; Halliwell Hobbes as a jolly Vicar ; and young June Lockhart , in her film debut , as Belinda Cratchit - all uncredited .
An Early Peek At James Stewart	An MGM MINIATURE Short Subject . The editor of the Cole County Clarion must decide what is the real IMPORTANT NEWS for his readers : an impending frost which may spell disaster to their crops , or the sensational shooting-down of a notorious gangster on their small town main street . This is an enjoyable little one-reeler , featuring a good performance by comic Charles ' Chic ' Sale . Today's viewers will perhaps be more interested in the appearance of uncredited James Stewart , as Sale's nephew / assistant . Slow talking & somewhat goofy , Stewart shows many of the attributes which would make him a huge star in a very short time . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Three Lonely Hearts In Old China	Married to a distracted English scientist , a beautiful Austrian finds forbidden love beyond THE PAINTED VEIL in China . Based on a story by W . Somerset Maugham , this MGM film is soap opera of a high order , featuring excellent production values & acting . The dialogue is also refreshingly literate & thoughtful , something of a surprise in a film which might be pigeonholed as just an elaborate potboiler . Fascinating as always , Greta Garbo is at last showcased in a film whose backdrop & setting matches her for exoticism . Enervated by the overwhelming cultural saturation of pre-war China , she seems freed to be essentially herself - shorn of all needs to bewitch - and is able to give herself over to the seriousness & drama of her character's dilemma . What the viewer is left with is one of her best performances . The two men in Garbo's life are excellently portrayed by Herbert Marshall & George Brent . Neither characters are without faults , but the actors make them intimately human , revealing some of the loneliness in each man's heart . These actors had distinct similarities , making it something of a bold move for MGM to put them in the same film , but also enabling the viewer to understand why Garbo could love both . Excellent support is given by gentle Jean Hersholt as Garbo's kindly father ; Forrester Harvey as a happy-go-lucky embassy employee in China & Warner Oland as a sympathetic Chinese general . Movie mavens will recognize Keye Luke as a young doctor and Mary Forbes & Ethel Griffies as British ladies in Hong Kong - all uncredited . The Chinese scenes show MGM at what it did best - creating another world , utterly realistic , in its back lot .
Strutting Her Stuff	The glamorous hostess at a Gay Nineties Bowery saloon must face the realities of her protector's nefarious business dealings . Mae West , potent , vulgar & always fascinating , sashays through her best film , SHE DONE HIM WRONG , based on her hit stage play Diamond Lil ( 1928 ) . One of the great cinematic boundary pushers , West is obviously enjoying herself tremendously in this period piece , as she wins the heart of every male in the vicinity . The secret of her success was that she took her art ( sex ) very seriously , but never herself . She was quite willing to become a self-parody , if it made her ? modern ' ideas of sensuality more acceptable . She perhaps did not foresee the immediate results - the iron thumb of the newly enforced Production Code would descend heavily on her movie career in 1934 , making only her first few films true representations of her spirit . While West dominates the proceedings , it is important not to overlook the film's other players . Beefy Noah Beery gives one of his typically fine performances as the saloon owner & crime boss who is Mae's temporary lover ; Owen Moore , in a very small role , is excellent as a criminal driven crazy by his jealousy for Mae's affections . Italian character actress Rafaela Ottiano scores as a fierce Russian white slaver involved in Beery's nefarious plots . As Mae's maid , the wonderful Louise Beavers is able to steal a few scenes even from West . Pretty Rochelle Hudson appears as a desperate young woman betrayed by Ottiano & Beery . Dewey Robinson has one of his better roles as a big lug who is devoted to West . W . C . Fields ' frequent sidekick , Tammany Young , can be spotted as a saloon patron and that's Fuzzy Knight as the jaded piano player . Cary Grant , as a Salvation Army officer , and Gilbert Roland , as Ottiano's kept man , both have very little to do except act as handsome foils to some of Mae's best one-liners . Both do ? come up & see her sometime , ' but it should be noted that Roland is the only male in the supporting cast who elicits anything approaching true happy excitement from Mae , with his gift of diamonds . Grant's bestowal of a rather paltry ring in the film's final moments doesn't get nearly as much of a reaction . Movie mavens will recognize silent screen comic Heinie Conklin as a street sweeper , Arthur Housman as an inebriate & Mary Gordon as a cleaning lady , all uncredited . Mae West's attitude towards sexuality - forthright , unashamed and in control - could be perfectly summed up in her three solo songs : " I Wonder Where My Easy Rider's Gone , " " A Guy What Takes His Time " and " Frankie & Johnnie . " Coupled with her obvious talent , it is hardly a surprise that she became a Hollywood legend . What is not so often acknowledged is the high price she paid for her celebrity . Keeping up the facade of being the supreme Love Goddess for 60 years was not easy to do . Trapped by her fame , Mae was unable to live a normal life . She never experienced the wondrous joys of motherhood , true emotional contentment would not be found in an endless string of libidinous conquests and she had to increasingly fight back the relentless demands of Time on her body . In the end , ancient & enfeebled , even old age was not a comfort to her . The only release from her self-imposed imprisonment was death , which finally arrived in November of 1980 .
Disney Visits Penguin Island	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Peter & Polly , a couple of PECULIAR PENGUINS , share a romance of frigid delights on Antarctica's Penguin Island . Their happiness is soon threatened , however , by the arrival of a ferocious shark . . . A pleasant cartoon with cute characters , but no great significance . This was the type of animation which , by this time , the Disney artists could do in their sleep . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Things That Go Bump In The Night	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald learns the true meaning of TRICK OR TREAT when he infuriates a wee witch on Halloween . This funny little film is probably Donald's best cartoon of the 1950's . The animation , music & characterizations are all first rate . June Foray has a fine time voicing Witch Hazel , who unfortunately makes her only appearance in a Disney film here . Clarence Nash provides the unique voices for the Duck and his Nephews . For the record , Witch Hazel's recipe for the magic brew consists of eye of needle , tongue of shoe , hand of clock , neck of bottle , tail of pout ( a type of fish ) and whiskers from a billy goat . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Karloff & Daniell Haunt Old Edinburgh	THE BODY SNATCHER who supplies fresh corpses for an Edinburgh doctor in 1831 soon adds blackmail & murder to his iniquitous deeds . This was one of a short series of horror films in which Boris Karloff starred for producer Val Lewton , the others being ISLE OF THE DEAD ( 1945 ) & BEDLAM ( 1946 ) . Lewton had the knack of producing films full of atmosphere & menace on a very low budget and THE BODY SNATCHER is no exception , getting most of its chills from the wonderful acting and the literate , intelligent script - although the climax is genuinely terrifying . Karloff is chillingly perfection in the role of the sly coachman who augments his salary with a little grave robbing . A gentle man who is kind to crippled children , yet can murder without a second thought , Karloff paints the cunning portrait of a very human monster . Every step of the way , however , he is equaled by Henry Daniell , a wonderful British character actor who never received due recognition for his skills . Playing a brilliant anatomist who feels he must continue to use Karloff's gruesome deliveries for the light they shine on solving medical problems , Daniell delivers an elegant portrayal of a deeply conflicted man who is pulled ever nearer the center of the vortex . In a relatively small role - his last with Karloff - Bela Lugosi is memorable as a greedy servant who tries blackmail at the worst possible time . Russell Wade as a medical student and Rita Corday as a young patient's widowed mother help move the plot along , but wisely no romantic subplot is allowed to develop . Edith Atwater does very well as Daniell's housekeeper , a woman with many secrets . Movie mavens will recognize elderly Mary Gordon , unbilled as the pathetic mother at Greyfriars graveyard . At one time , the bodies of executed prisoners supplied the medical schools of Britain with all the corpses they could use for the purposes of dissecting & lecturing . But judicial reform nearly dried up the flow of bodies from that source , while the proliferation of new schools and anatomy theatres made the shortage acute . The medieval laws still on the books made the legal acquirement of bodies almost impossible . The ghastly vocation of body snatching thus arose to fill this void . Body Snatchers - also referred to as grave robbers , resurrectionists , or Sack ' Em Up Boys - would haunt cemeteries by night , looking for the recently deceased to disinter . Often the caretakers in the graveyards would be in financial league with these hooligans , as well as the doctors at the medical schools . Prices paid for the bodies could be quite exorbitant , considering the risks that were taken . Leaving dogs or spring-loaded guns at the graveside were just some of the elaborate precautions taken by the friends of the deceased , who often kept vigil by the graves until enough time had passed to make the corpse no longer desirable . Eventually , it became quite difficult to count on the graveyards to furnish enough fodder for the grisly trade . ' The ruffian dogs , the hellish pair , The villain Burke , the meager Hare . . . Nor did they handle ax or knife To take away their victim's life . . . No sooner done than in the chest They crammed their lately welcome guest . . . ' Arriving in Edinburgh in 1827 , William Burke met fellow Irishman William Hare , who was keeper of a low lodging house . Scurrilous rascals both , when an old pensioner died there in November of that year , Burke & Hare sold the body to a surgeon for 7 , 10 shillings . Delighted with this easy money , the nefarious pair soon took to hastening the deaths of their ' subjects . ' At least 15 hapless victims were lured into the lodging house and smothered ( so as to leave no sign of violence on their flesh ) , the bodies then sold to respected surgeon Robert Knox . On Halloween in 1828 , suspicious neighbors summoned police and enough evidence was found to immediately arrest Burke & Hare . At the trial , Hare turned King's evidence and admitted to the murders . He was released and promptly disappeared . In his confession , Burke completely exonerated Knox of any knowledge of the killings , but the doctor was hounded by the press & public and quickly relocated to London , where he carried on a successful career . Burke was hanged on January 28 , 1829 . His corpse was eviscerated and his skeleton is still on display in Edinburgh . A year after the events in the movie , the Anatomy Act of 1832 made it legal for the bodies of those dying friendless in poorhouses and hospitals to be given to local medical facilities for study and dissection . The film incorporates the story of Greyfriars Bobby ( called Robby in the movie ) but makes a muddle of the facts . In reality , Bobby was a Skye terrier that refused to leave the graveside of his master , an elderly , indigent shepherd , in the graveyard at Greyfriars Church in Edinburgh . Bobby stayed faithfully at his post for years and became a tremendous sentimental favorite of the city folk , before dying of old age . Today a statue near the church commemorates his memory .
Fairbanks Brings Classic Adventure To Life	In 1625 an ambitious youth joins forces with THE THREE MUSKETEERS to save the French Queen's honor from the machinations of the cruel Cardinal Richelieu . Douglas Fairbanks had one of his most popular roles as the swashbuckling hero of Alexander Dumas ' 1844 novel . Exulting in his sheer physical vitality , he never walks when he can run , never runs when he can leap . While a bit melodramatic & stagy , Fairbanks is obviously having a wonderful time and he wants his audience to enjoy themselves , too . As producer , as well as star , Fairbanks ensured fine production values & large sets to backdrop his stunts . Notice particularly the Parisian street scenes , how detailed & exact they are , with the crowds of extras looking as if they had real purpose in what they were doing . Also be mindful of the architectural staging , whether it be walls , rooftops or monumental staircases ; they were all built with Fairbanks ' physical dimensions in mind , so that he could run , creep or climb along them effortlessly . To such a degree does Doug dominate the drama , that the characters of the three Musketeers themselves remain largely undeliniated . Lon Bavy as Athos , George Siegmann as Porthos & Eugene Pallette as a most unlikely Aramis are mere window-dressing to showcase Fairbanks ' exuberance . Coming off rather better are British actor Nigel de Brulier as the rapacious Richelieu , beautiful Barbara La Marr as the Cardinal's evil agent Milady de Winter & Lon Poff as the sepulchral Father Joseph . Here are three villains worth watching . Lovely Marguerite De La Motte supplies Doug's love interest . Adolphe Menjou does well as the cold-hearted , vain Louis XIII . Not surprisingly , the original story has been streamlined & altered in various ways and at least a couple of notable deaths have been omitted so as to provide a happier fadeout . Fairbanks would continue the tale - and reprise the role of D'Artagnan - eight years later in THE IRON MASK ( 1929 ) . What were the facts surrounding the historical Richelieu & Buckingham ? Since the novel & films make much of their rivalry , a closer examination is in order . Both men rose from semi-obscurity to positions of enormous power & influence in their respective kingdoms . Each found it necessary to dominate the weak sovereigns whose patronage they enjoyed . Both endured the utter contempt & hatred of powerful domestic factions allied against them . And were there ever a flirtation between the French Queen Anne of Austria and Buckingham , it was of a very mild nature . There certainly was nothing resembling The Adventure of the Queen's Diamonds and all the derring-do associated with it . Armand-Jean du Plessis , Cardinal and Duke de Richelieu ( 1585-1642 ) , came from a minor gentry family which was saddled with enormous financial debt upon the death of his father . However , blessed with a very good brain & a manipulative mother , Richelieu used his intellectual charm to advance his ascent through the Byzantine levels of Church hierarchy . Once having caught the attention of Louis XIII Richelieu never looked back . Eventually wielding absolute authority , the Red Eminence took as his life's mission to thwart Spanish Habsburg hegemony in Europe and to crush all outbreaks of French Protestantism as they arose throughout the kingdom . For his part , George Villiers , 1st Duke of Buckingham ( 1592-1628 ) , had his extreme physical attractiveness to thank for grabbing the eye of James I - who liked to dance both ends of the ballroom - and later became the favourite of Charles I as well . The son of a knight , Buckingham soon rose to a lofty pinnacle of power and angered the English nobles by his monopoly of the king's affections and his arrogant accruement of great wealth . As a diplomat & military strategist , Buckingham was hopelessly inept and he needed the king's protection to save him from trial in the Star Chamber . Having failed disastrously in an attempt to succor the Huguenot of La Rochelle , France , he returned to England where he was quickly assassinated by a disgruntled naval officer . When news of Buckingham's death reached London the people rejoiced in the streets .
How Rodents Won The West	A Walt Disney CHIP ' N ' DALE Cartoon . When Western bank robber Pete escapes with his loot , it is up to THE LONE CHIPMUNKS to capture and bring him to justice . This is a funny little film , with the tiny rodents almost meeting their match in the burly Pete - an enemy much more dangerous than their usual antagonists Donald Duck or Pluto ; casting them together was an inspired idea . Both the title and the film's conclusion are spoofs of the very popular media hero , The Lone Ranger . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Message On Auto Sanity From Walt Disney	A Walt Disney Cartoon . A modern metropolis puts automobiles on trial for highway homicide . THE STORY OF ANYBURG U . S . A . is Disney's humorous reminder that it is the human behind the wheel who is to blame for motor mayhem . Hans Conried steals the show with his ripe performance as the voice of the Prosecutor . Movie mavens should also recognize Bill Thompson as the voice of the Defense Attorney & Thurl Ravenscroft performing the voice of Cyrus P . Sliderule , the auto safety expert . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Cheap Amusements For Donald	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Looking to have A GOOD TIME FOR A DIME , Donald wanders into a penny arcade and quickly begins having trouble with the machinery . Lots of humor can be found in this enjoyable little film . Daisy makes a most unusual cameo appearance as the artiste pictured in the Dance of the Seven Veils peep show . The iron claw & mechanical plane segments are also very funny . For the record , Donald only spends 8 in the arcade , not the dime suggested by the title . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Donald , THE VILLAGE SMITHY , has enough trouble just dealing with inanimate objects without the additional difficulty of trying to shoe Jenny , a most reluctant donkey . This humorous little film is a spoof of the classic poem by Longfellow . Jenny is very reminiscent of the tragic donkeys in the Pleasure Island sequence of PINOCCHIO ( 1940 ) . Clarence ' Ducky ' Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Song Of The Open Road	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The Goof is looking forward to nothing but rest & relaxation during his TWO WEEKS VACATION - if he doesn't become road kill first . Hapless Goofy encounters all the hazards of the two-lane highway - road hogs , flat tires , dishonest mechanics and rundown auto courts - in this humorous little film . The short sequence with the finicky hobo is quite funny . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Much Joy From A Wee Boat	A Walt Disney Cartoon . The tiny tugboat , LITTLE TOOT , just can't seem to get serious about the important work to be done with the big ships in the harbor . In fact , he's become quite a pest . . . Hardie Gramatky's classic children's book comes beautifully to life in this little cartoon . The humorous animation is excellent and completely appropriate to the original illustrations . The Andrews Sisters were the perfect choice to be the singing narrators . LITTLE TOOT was originally one segment in the musical compilation film MELODY TIME ( 1948 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Miniscule Men Gambol In Early Disney Cartoon	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It is a lovely day and THE MERRY DWARFS are frolicking in their woodland home , playing with the tiny insects & getting very drunk , indeed . . . There's no plot in this very early series entry ; basically it's pleasant action / reaction animation . A comparison of the little fellows in this cartoon with Snow White's 7 companions eight years later reveals just how greatly Disney's artists improved during that time . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
My Hero !	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Without even trying , silly TWO GUN GOOFY is more than a match for evil Pistol Pete . This funny little film is a fine spoof of Western movies & stories . Pete once again proves his adaptability , a quality which kept him as the top villain in the Disney shorts for decades . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mickey Rides The Rails	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY'S CHOO-CHOO takes Minnie on a dangerous ride on the roof into the countryside . This little black & white film has a plot entirely controlled by the soundtrack . Energetic & fast moving , it is still quite humorous to watch . Walt supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Scrambled Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald looks for a fast profit selling the GOLDEN EGGS his hens have produced . Here is another ' Donald gets greedy ' film , but it's still fun just to watch The Duck get ever deeper into trouble . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies the voice of Donald ; the incomparable Florence Gill voiced the hens . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Dog's Life	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . The antics of PLAYFUL PLUTO causes trouble for Mickey in the yard , down in the cellar and around the house . This excellent black & white cartoon provides lots of sturdy laughs at the Pup's expense , who runs afoul of a whirlwind , a water hose , a flashlight , flypaper & a window shade . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice . It is excerpts from PLAYFUL PLUTO that Joel McCrea and the Hall Johnson Choir are watching during the emotional climax to Preston Sturges ' classic film , SULLIVAN'S TRAVELS ( 1941 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Duck Tale With Bugs	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . UNCLE DONALD'S ANTS arrive in force to filch a cake and a jug of maple syrup from his kitchen . This is an amusing little film , with watching temperamental Donald deal with the buggy depredation the main attraction . The decision to depict the wee insects as a foraging tribe of African natives adds a bit more interest to the story . Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Musical Mice	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY'S FOLLIES take place in the barnyard , with Mickey at the piano and the eager participation of many of the farm animals . Very little plot in this early black & white film . The Mouse gets to sing his theme song - " Minnie's Yoo Hoo ! " - but not with Walt's voice . That looks like Clarabelle Cow as one of the spectators . Disney's animators have included a full quota of the udder-posterior-underwear gags they loved so well . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Quick , Vivid Glimpse Of Royal Indian Pageantry	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . In this little film , produced years before Indian independence & the dissolution of the princely states , we are given a fascinating look at INDIA ON PARADE . After a quick glimpse of Agra , we are whisked away to view the private army of the Maharajah of Baroda . Unimaginable wealth is on display , as the sacred oxen & mighty elephants lumber by , covered with golden blankets & jewel-encrusted trappings . We are then permitted a peek at the Maharajah's favorite performing elephant & a troop of frisky monkeys . Finally , its back to Agra for a closer look at the wondrous Taj Mahal . The song heard at the end of the film is ' Pale Hands Beside The Shalimar ' - once upon a time reputed to be the favorite of silent screen idol Rudolph Valentino . His recording of it ( not heard here ) is the only sample of his voice in existence . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Classic Poem Comes To Animated Life	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Hamelin Town is beset with an infestation of rats and the harried Mayor is only too glad to offer THE PIED PIPER a bag of gold to rid them of the plague . But once the rodents are removed , the Mayor reneges on his promise , leaving the Piper to take a most effective revenge . . . This cartoon offers a good interpretation of the story from the famous Robert Browning poem . Notice how some of the elements of the original have been altered by Disney : the rats no longer drown , they are simply made to vanish into thin air ; and the Hamelin children are shown to be used almost as slave labor by their parents , making their removal by the Piper more like a rescue . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Pup Tale At The Pound	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto the CANINE CASANOVA follows his heartthrob Dinah everywhere - even into the dog pound . . . While the animation in this little film is routine , the story & characters are quite enjoyable , especially the ending with its exciting escape from the shotgun wielding dogcatcher . Pluto's perennial nemesis Butch appears as one of the incarcerated canines . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Musical Soupon	A VITAPHONE Short Subject . The daughter of a French general falls in love with THE RED SHADOW , the mysterious masked man who leads his Muslim tribesmen against colonial injustice in Morocco . This two-reeler showcases the musical highlights from Hammerstein & Romberg's 1926 operetta , The Desert Song , which had already been given the full screen treatment by Warner Bros . in 1929 . The plot is tremendously truncated , but the singing by Alexander Gray & Bernice Claire - - especially of the famous tune , ? One Alone ' - - is nicely done . Operettas were ideal subject matter for early talky two-reelers . They were swiftly paced , colorful ( even in black & white ) and rather cheap to produce , utilizing as they did the sets & costumes of the feature films . Their brief length negated any need for character exposition and the stories were easy to follow , even when sung by heavily accented voices . Best of all , they were full of Sound , and that was still enough of a novelty to keep most audiences from becoming overly critical or expectant of anything smacking of real art . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Pup Tale With Turtle	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . A friendly newborn turtle tries to cross a forbidden beach much to the annoyance of Pluto , who is on CANINE PATROL for the United States Coast Guard . The formula plot of Pluto confronting a cute little critter has certainly been used by Disney before , but that doesn't stop this film from being enjoyable . Walt Disney had these words placed just below the title : " Dedicated to the dogs of the U . S . Coast Guard . " Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Marie Dressler & Polly Moran Team-Up For Top Comedy	A Midwestern housewife comes to New York City to help her social-climbing sister run a fancy beauty salon & REDUCING parlor . Marie Dressler shines in this movie vehicle tailored especially for her . With simple dignity & genuineness - and a crazy sense of humor - she captures the viewer's attention from her very first scene . Whether intimidating a ticket seller , attempting to climb into an upper berth , creating havoc in the salon , or prying an egg out of her little boy's mouth , she amply provides illustration why she was Hollywood's greatest & most beloved star in the early 1930's . There's never been another like her ; she was completely unique & irreplaceable . Receiving equal billing with Dressler is her frequent partner in mirth , the ubiquitous Polly Moran . This short , shrill , buxom comedienne could hold her own with the inimitable Dressler in the field of slapstick . Whether wallowing in a mud bath or trapped in a steam room , Moran is great fun as Marie's foil . Anita Page & Lucien Littlefield have some good moments as Dressler's daughter & husband ; but with Dressler & Moran on the loose , they're up against severe screen competition . Movie mavens will recognize the unbilled Roscoe Ates as the stuttering railway ticket agent who has the misfortune to find Marie in his line . It is important to note that the large glass swastika in the salon , which Marie inadvertently smashes , has nothing whatsoever to do with the Nazis . Rather it was an ancient symbol , even used by some Native American tribes , and was not infrequently seen as a trendy design or decoration .
Good Old Golden Rule Days	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy strives to remind the viewer that TEACHERS ARE PEOPLE just like everyone else . Although humorous , many educators may not be too amused by this little film as it hits too close to the mark . Imagine a classroom with 4 or 5 kids just like young George . The animation & storyline are enjoyable , but routine . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Good & Evil & Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S BETTER SELF has quite a chore : to keep the young Duck from listening to Temptation and playing hooky . This is a very good cartoon , featuring excellent animation & acting . But why is Donald back in school ? It must be a flashback to his youth . Highlight - our hero's first encounter with a corncob pipe . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Here We Go Gathering Nuts In May . . .	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S GOLF GAME might be just about perfect - were it not for the impertinent interference of his three nephews . There are several solid laughs in this little film , although the basic premise - the Duck versus Huey , Dewey & Louie - offers nothing new . Once again , Clarence Nash does yeoman service , giving hilarious voice to the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
For Auld Lang Syne	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . Our trip to the Scottish Highlands includes quick looks at Inverness & Loch Ness , but lingers longest at the ancient capital of Perth , the Culloden Battlefield and St . Andrews Golf Club . Sir Walter Scott , the skirl of bagpipes and a sentimental visit to a golfers ' cemetery are all part of the tour . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick and featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary .
Undying Friendship	Even after passing BEYOND TOMORROW , three old gentlemen continue to guard their two young friends . Unfortunately rather obscure , this charming little film , bursting with the joy of life , brings a whimsicality as unexpected as finding a ten dollar bill on a snowy sidewalk . Texas rodeo cowboy Richard Carlson and children's clinic worker Jean Parker are the two lonely people brought together on a cold New York City Christmas Eve by their new benefactors . They make a perfect couple , young & eager to embrace love - and each other - with open arms . Their enthusiasm at finding relief from their loneliness is genuine and imparts a special glow to the viewer . The generous trio , who look after their new companions like benevolent uncles , are the very heart of the film . Cheery Irishman Charles Winninger , stalwart English major Sir C . Aubrey Smith , and melancholy Oklahoman Harry Carey , although dealing with their own secret sorrows , share their largess with complete strangers ( whom they meet by a most curious stratagem ) in order to share the Christmas Spirit . Elderly Maria Ouspenskaya gives a sweetly poignant performance as their beloved housekeeper ; this tiny , wizened actress positively radiates joy as she steals her every scene . Helen Vinson , as a singing temptress trying to corrupt Carlson , is the serpent in this garden . Silent Screen star Rod La Rocque , in one of his final films , gives support as Vinson's theatrical manager . This would make wonderful Holiday viewing . In fact , one of the most delightful scenes in the film features a spirited singing of Jingle Bells in English , Russian , German & Italian .
Marvelous Marie	A stubborn widow creates quite a stir when she enters local city POLITICS to run for mayor . MGM fashioned this pleasant little comedy / drama to showcase their surprisingly popular actress , Marie Dressler . She was beginning her meteoric rise to commence her reign as Hollywood's most popular star , a supremacy that was only cut short by her untimely death in 1934 . Massive & shapeless , with a face that could stop a bus , Dressler embodied pure grandmotherly affection and the country gladly took her to their heart . She was also an excellent actress , equally adept at eliciting laughter or tears from her audiences , sometimes almost simultaneously . In the end , when cancer took her , the Mighty Marie proved utterly irreplaceable - truly one of Cinema's Grandest Ladies . Receiving equal billing is Dressler's frequent comedy partner , Polly Moran . Diminutive & buxom , Polly was a fine comedienne in her own right , and MGM kept her very busy in the early 1930's . Acid-tongued & brash , Moran was adept at slapstick and in every way was an enjoyable sidekick for Marie . Here , gentle Dressler plays Moran's benevolent landlady , uninterested in Polly's political enthusiasms until sudden violence prompts Marie into galvanizing the women of the community , with Polly giving her full encouragement . Each is rewarded , as can be seen in the movie's final moments . Stuttering Roscoe Ates appears as Polly's grumpy husband . Pretty Karen Morley is Marie's slightly duplicitous daughter , while William Bakewell is her wrong-side-of-the-law boyfriend ; each are kept in the background to let the old girls shine . Also effective in very small roles are John Miljan as the local crime boss , Tom McGuire as Lake Port's corrupt mayor and lovely Joan Marsh as the tragic catalyst for the plot . Movie mavens will spot an unbilled DeWitt Jennings in the role of the Police Chief . They will also notice the movie poster Jean Marsh gazes at in her first scene . It is for THE STOLEN JOOLS ( 1931 - aka THE SLIPPERY PEARLS ) . This was a comedy charity two-reeler in which more than 50 Hollywood stars appeared , including Polly Moran . With a nod to Aristophanes ' Lysistrata , the film's undercurrent is its sly look at the battle for equality between the sexes , as it explains in its preamble : " This story is dedicated to women - who have been fighting for their rights ever since Adam and Eve started the loose-leaf system . "
Not The Girl From Neuchteau	French farm girl MARIANNE has constant difficulties with the American soldiers stationed in her barn after the Armistice . This film was the starring talkie debut for Marion Davies , one of the most charming and talented actresses of her day . As the mistress of William Randolph Hearst , one of America's most powerful men , Davies probably could have had her pick of roles . In some respects , MARIANNE is an odd choice . There is virtually no action , most of the scenes take place in a kitchen and a barn , and Davies speaks her entire dialogue , often in French , with a very thick accent . But she is so lively and full of joie de vivre , so infectiously good-natured even when angry , even mimicking Chevalier & Bernhardt , and impersonating a young male officer , that she becomes the main reason for watching the film today . It is indeed unfortunate that Marion Davies ' gifts have become obscured and her films nearly forgotten . Lawrence Gray , who had shown much skill as a comic actor during Silent days and had worked with Davies then , here plays the American doughboy who falls for Marion . The funny business is handled by two of MGM's newest acquisitions , Yiddish dialect comedian Benny Rubin and ukulele-playing Cliff Edwards . Marion's noble French boyfriend is enacted by George Baxter . As with many other early sound films , the movie suffers with too much talk . However , the recurring musical sequences are mostly quite welcome . The opening scene , with its idyllic look at Marion's village , shows the quality of art direction for which MGM was famous . And pity the poor pig Anatole !
A Romantic Ruckus	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . While Mickey & Minnie romance , Pluto finds time to engage in some PUPPY LOVE with Fifi . Fifi makes her first appearance as Pluto's paramour in this humorous black & white cartoon . The Mice nicely perform the film's title tune . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Wheels For Progress	A Walt Disney CartoonThe Spirits of Progress , father & son , fill us in on some important cultural history as they reveal the story of DONALD AND THE WHEEL . This Disney educational two-reeler short is an excellent way to get a somewhat complicated ( and potentially tedious ) idea across to an audience : the overwhelming importance of the wheel and its unavoidable presence in daily life . The story is told in humorous rhyme , the animation is varied & interesting and Donald Duck is the perfect subject to be taught the valuable lessons . Look for a very brief cameo from Daisy . Donald's unique voice is supplied by Clarence " Ducky " Nash ; Thurl Ravenscroft , with his basso profundo , does the honors for the Spirit of Progress , Senior . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Donald Wraps It All Up	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . As the unappreciated gift wrapper for a large department store , Donald can hardly wait for five o'clock to roll around so he can go home . While the animation is routine , THE CLOCK WATCHER is still an enjoyable little film , with the focus on Donald's growing frustration . His interaction with his peppy manager's speaking tube is very humorous . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Excellent Adaptation of Childhood Classic	The Earl of Dorincourt , lonely in his great castle , has grown old . Now , with the death of both of his sons , he sends for his only grandchild to be with him . This is an innocent boy living in New York City with his American mother . Sweet-tempered and beloved , the earnest young child knows nothing of the crusty , fierce old lord in England , or of the wonderful changes about to happen in his own life , now that he is LITTLE LORD FAUNTLEROY . This is David O . Selznick's wonderful & lavish retelling of the classic children's story by Frances Hodgson Burnett . Much effort was put into getting the details just right . Sentimental ? Yes , but honest sentiment , with emotions straight from the heart . Freddie Bartholomew & marvelous Sir C . Aubrey Smith are picture perfect in their roles as young Fauntleroy & his grandfather . There may never be a finer male child actor than Master Bartholomew and Sir C . was the epitome of the English aristocratic tradition . Two champion scene-stealers , they work together beautifully . The rest of the cast is both extensive & uniformly excellent : Dolores Costello Barrymore , Henry Stephenson , Guy Kibbee , Jessie Ralph , Una O'Connor , Constance Collier , E . E . Clive , Lionel Belmore , Eily Maylon & Mickey Rooney . Film mavens will spot uncredited appearances by Mary Gordon as a churchgoing villager & Leonard Kibrick as one of Fauntleroy's Brooklyn tormentors . Sir Hugh Walpole , the celebrated English novelist , wrote the screen adaptation .
Bits ' n ' Pieces Tell The Genesis Story	A Walt Disney Cartoon . After a musical voyage , the rather peculiar passengers on NOAH'S ARK find a safe refuge . This highly imaginative cartoon is told almost entirely using stop-motion animation . What makes it especially unusual & fun is that the characters , human and animal , are constructed out of odds ' n ' ends : corks , pipe cleaners , pencils , forks , hair pins , etc . giving the well known Biblical tale a sense of whimsy . Then , there's the female hippo that sings the blues . . . Jerome Courtland is the narrator ; among the other voices can be heard those of Paul Frees ( as Noah ) and Thurl Ravenscroft . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Ship Of Fools	A Hal Roach CHARLEY CHASE Comedy Short . It's ROUGH SEAS ahead for Charley when he tries to sneak both his French girlfriend and pet monkey aboard the troop transport heading home . The script writers let poor Charley down in this rather unfunny and very silly little film ; his personal brand of humor has not weathered well here , but fortunately he gets to sing a few songs ( including ' Asleep In The Deep ' ) and that he does quite nicely . The lovely & vivacious Miss Thelma Todd , as Charley's sweetheart , fares even worse - she is given virtually no chance to wield her considerable talents . Movie mavens should recognize an uncredited Charlie Hall as a doughboy on ship .
Out On A Limb With Mister Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Ornithologist Donald arrives in the Andes to do some egg collecting , but the giant CONTRARY CONDOR he encounters has other thoughts on her birdbrain . Produced at a time when both the U . S . Government and Walt Disney were hopeful to expand their influence south of the border , this funny little 1944 cartoon is right in line with the Duck's other Latin American films of the period : SALUDOS AMIGOS ( 1943 ) & THE THREE CABALLEROS ( 1945 ) . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice ; Florence Gill does the honors for the condor mother & child . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Outside Of This Horse Is Good For Man's Funny Bone	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy attempts to demonstrate HOW TO RIDE A HORSE - with predictable results . The first of Goofy's HOW TO . . . cartoons remains one of the best , with good gags and feature quality animation ( the short was originally a segment of 1941's THE RELUCTANT DRAGON , before being extrapolated by Walt and sent out on its own ) . The hilarious narration spoken by John McLeish perfectly complements the zany antics on the screen . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pedal To The Metal	A Walt Disney Short Subject . A young man's love affair with cars is examined from infancy to marriage . Ward Kimball , Walt Disney's master animator & eccentric genius , brings his own brand of wacky humor as producer and director to DAD . . . CAN I BORROW THE CAR ? This mostly live action short is full of animated bits , crazy montages , offbeat humor & rock ? n ' roll music and contains a wonderfully weird spoof of a TV used car commercial . Everything from the DMV to drive-thru car washes are grist for the mill . The message here is not auto safety or good sense in car purchasing . The aim is simply entertainment and the acknowledgment of the automobile's domination of our culture . Kurt Russell narrates ; listen for Jesse White as the voice of his father . And that's the bottom half of Ward Kimball's face early in the film , munching on a tiny toy car .
Putting Down Insurrection With Mr . Lloyd	A rich , young hypochondriac figures WHY WORRY ? As long as he's got his nurse & valet to look after him absolutely nothing could happen , right ? Harold Lloyd , one of America's preeminent comedians of the Silent Era , uses his remarkable comic skills and tremendous athletic abilities to score another solid hit in this tale full of adventurous hilarity . With remarkable nonchalance , he calmly proceeds to thwart a Latin American revolution which threatens to shatter the tranquility of his restful vacation . But once his temper is aroused - - at the sight of a distraught female - - he really becomes a two-fisted hero eager to take on any number of bad guys . Special mention should be made of Minnesota-born Norwegian-American John Aasen ( 1887-1938 ) , who in his film debut plays Harold's gigantic companion . Nearly nine feet tall & rather fearsome , he nonetheless almost immediately grabs the viewer's complete sympathy while suffering mightily from a raging toothache . Gentle with Harold , he becomes an unstoppable one-man army in dealing with their enemies . This film marked a milestone of sorts for Harold . It was his last produced in collaboration with Hal Roach ; their friendly parting allowed Harold to gain virtually complete control over his films . WHY WORRY ? was also his first movie to feature his new costar , beautiful Jobyna Ralston , who delivers a feisty , compelling performance as Harold's nurse ; his previous leading lady , Mildred Davis , was now very busy in her new life as Mrs . Harold Lloyd . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Decent Character Study	A beautiful young woman influences a callous lawyer into regaining THE RIGHT OF WAY to moral decency . Conrad Nagel dominates this little soap opera , based on Sir Gilbert Parker's novel , with his highly melodramatic performance as a hardhearted Quebecois lawyer who exhibits an enormous distaste for nearly every other human being . His behavior would repulse the viewer , were it not that his acting is so over the top that it becomes quite a bit of fun to watch . Beautiful Loretta Young appears rather late in the story and ushers in the best scenes of the film , when Nagel is suffering from amnesia . Their moments together , as she cares for him , are touchingly tender . A small group of character actors add much to their supporting roles : Olive Tell as Nagel's distraught wife ; William Janney as her pathetic brother ; Fred Kohler as the backwoodsman who saves Nagel's life ; Halliwell Hobbes as a benevolent seigneur who loves Miss Young ; little Snitz Edwards as a village tailor ; and George C . Pearce as a kindly priest .
A Stinging Rebuke For Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . The BEE ON GUARD at the entry to a castellated honey depository becomes suddenly aware of a certain Duck with a mighty big sweet tooth . This was one of a small number of films to feature the competition between Donald Duck and Buzz-Buzz the Bee and is fairly typical of the entire lot . For some reason , the Disney animators altered the Bee's persona here , making him more rotund & silly , rather like a tiny Oliver Hardy . And why does his hive have a King Bee , rather than a Queen ? As always , Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Auto Soap Opera	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Sweet & stylish , SUSIE THE LITTLE BLUE COUPE lives a happy life with her owner until wear & tear makes him trade her in for a younger model . This is a very agreeable little film , with plenty of good humor & fine animation and once again illustrates Disney's adeptness at giving sympathetic life to an inanimate object . Susie's story was written by Disney animator Bill Peet and is very similar to those he would later author as a celebrated children's author . As always , Sterling Holloway makes the perfect narrator . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Fuss ' n ' Feathers	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK CartoonDaisy demands that Donald become a CURED DUCK - cured of his ungovernable temper if he wishes to keep seeing her . Any cartoon which has Donald's rages as its main theme has got to be funny , and this one certainly is . The Insult Machine ( from the Tootsberry Institute of Temperism ) is an inspired creation and worth of inclusion in the Duck's classic MODERN INVENTIONS ( 1937 ) . Big Roy Williams , later one of the adult members of The Mickey Mouse Club on TV , scripted this film . Clarence Nash gives Donald his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Tale Well Told	A Russian baron evades the violent SCARLET DAWN of the Revolution by escaping Moscow with his faithful serving maid . Here is an excellent little film , from Warner Bros . and director William Dieterle , full of excitement , drama and pre-Code libidinousness . The production values - - sets , costumes , score - - are all first rate and the acting is of a high quality . The picture's only major drawback is its too-brief conclusion , perhaps necessitated by its short overall running time of under an hour , but this does not explain why the film should be so unjustly obscure today . It is a small gem awaiting discovery by viewers appreciative of quality cinema . Douglas Fairbanks Jr is properly dashing as the young nobleman whose life is suddenly tilted upside down by the political upheaval . The actor revels in giving a full-bodied portrayal , presenting a character both wantonly licentious and daringly brave . The sequence in which he dashes into the streets of Constantinople in search of Christian witnesses to his impromptu wedding is delightful in its unexpected sense of frolic & fun . Fairbanks is ably matched by Nancy Carroll , deftly underplaying her role as his adoring servant . The sweetness of her character's simple nature shines through , as well as a steely resolve , as she endures dangers and hardships to be with the man she loves . Lovely Lilyan Tashman , in one of her final roles before her early death , plays the scheming Russian courtesan who hopes to use Fairbanks as her ticket to the good life in Paris . Guy Kibbee , a very popular character actor at Warner's , appears for only a few moments at the end of the movie as a wealthy American visiting the Levant . Movie mavens will recognize Mischa Auer as a Russian cavalry officer ; beefy Dewey Robinson as a Bolshevik thug ; nervous Frank Reicher as a duplicitous pawnbroker ; as well as Mae Busch & Lee Kohlmar as the wedding witnesses - - all uncredited .
Wheeler & Woolsey - Together Again For The First Time	Like a river in the parched desert , so the lovely seorita known as RIO RITA brings joy to all who know her . But with her brother being chased as a bandit , unwelcome attentions from a brutal Russian general & a new lover who refuses to divulge his true identity , pretty Rita has plenty of problems to distract her . Florenz Ziegfeld's smash Broadway hit was brought to the screen in this very early movie musical . At times it wheezes quite badly and shows its age . The transitions into the songs look very stagy & artificial . Many of the lyrics , especially sung by the female cast , are completely indecipherable . But it should be remembered that movie musicals were still in their cradle and the studios only had stage traditions to draw upon at first . So the few innovations showcased here are welcome . Some of the dance numbers are pleasingly elaborate , even including a primitive overhead shot . Occasional outdoor photography helps open up the screenplay , and the early Technicolor featured in the last half hour is a big bonus . Bebe Daniels & John Boles play the romantic leads . She is saddled with a thick accent & ludicrous script . He appears somewhat awkward & ill at ease . Much better film roles would await them both in years to come . The real highlight of RIO RITA is the film debut of the wonderful comedy team of Wheeler & Woolsey , who had appeared in the Broadway version . Here , although somewhat gynandroid , they cement what will be their screen personas through 26 films together . Bert Wheeler ( 1895-1968 ) plays a young , naive romantic . Robert Woolsey ( 1888-1938 ) portrays a shiftless , cigar-puffing conniver . Together , they would make a hilarious comedy team , their partnership only being sundered by Woolsey's untimely death . Today they are all but forgotten . It is only fitting that pert little Dorothy Lee ( 1911-1999 ) , Wheeler's perennial love interest , should make the first of her 14 film appearances with the Boys here . This Kewpie-doll-cute actress would become an integral part of the Boys ' cinematic success , as well as a constant delight for viewers .
The Duck's Very Bad Night	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It's DUCK PIMPLES for Donald and his overactive imagination when he falls asleep while listening to a suspenseful radio program . The Duck gets swept up into the search for purloined pearls in this very funny & bizarre little film . The cartoon's backhanded salute to the power of old-time radio drama is more than justified . Clarence Nash provided Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Tough Stanwyck Drama	The young NIGHT NURSE watching two sick little girls finds herself pitted against a gang of heartless criminals . Barbara Stanwyck is a standout in this taut little film . Independent , resourceful and tough as nails , she pits herself against the bullying authority she encounters in the hospital and the absolute evil she must confront at the bizarre private home where she is sent to work . An intelligent & spirited actress , it was roles such as this which would hasten Stanwyck into becoming one of the biggest film stars of the 1930's . A fine cast gives Stanwyck ample support . Ben Lyon plays the free spirited bootlegger who takes a shine to Barbara . Brassy Joan Blondell portrays her worldly wise roommate . Charles Winninger brightens his few scenes as a cherubic doctor , as does Edward Nugent as a flirtatious intern . Vera Lewis is properly implacable as the stern head nurse and Blanche Frederici adds a note of strangeness as a distraught housekeeper . Not yet a star , Clark Gable is very effective as a menacing chauffeur . Movie mavens will recognize Willie Fung as a Chinese patient & Marcia Mae Jones as the sick child who needs the milk bath - - both uncredited . The Pre-Code status of the film is readily apparent . Stanwyck & Blondell are viewed in their lingerie as often as possible and Stanwyck must suffer some mighty rough handling from various villains in the movie . Capping it all off , Barbara exits the film with her new boyfriend , an unrepentant & unpunished crook involved in everything from thievery to murder , a situation certainly not allowed just a few years later .
Classic Mouse & Pup	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey goes quail hunting , using an enthusiastic Pluto as THE POINTER to find the quarry . Bad idea . . . This excellent little film , which was nominated for an Oscar , is hilarious , with first rate animation and plenty of action . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his unique voice ; this was the first Mouse cartoon in which the Disney artists drew Mickey with pupils in his eyes . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Duck Tale With Donkey	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald , THE VILLAGE SMITHY , has enough trouble just dealing with inanimate objects without the additional difficulty of trying to shoe Jenny , a most reluctant donkey . This humorous little film is a spoof of the classic poem by Longfellow . Jenny is very reminiscent of the tragic donkeys in the Pleasure Island sequence of PINOCCHIO ( 1940 ) . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Small Triumph For Mister Hugh Herbert	A gently eccentric fellow finds his life complicated by a bullying wife , an acidulous boss , a quickie marriage & a bank robbery . LOVE BEGINS AT TWENTY is a fine example of the comedies which Warner Brothers Studio produced almost endlessly during the 1930's - fast , frugal & fun . Throw in a little crime for dramatic effect and the services of the Studio's array of character actors - the formula rarely failed to produce some good entertainment at the bottom of a double bill . Here , an added attraction for today's audience is knowing that the script was co-written by a young Dalton Trumbo . A whimsical Hugh Herbert sparks the story as the harried hero . The comic relief in many a film , here he is hilarious as the main star . He receives solid support from another worthy character actor , vinegar visaged Clarence Wilson playing his caustic employer . Together these two - sweet & sour - keep the laughs coming . Plump Dorothy Vaughan as Herbert's Xanthippe , Mary Treen as their tart-tempered daughter , Hobart Cavanaugh as a bumbling friend and Arthur Aylesworth as a comically deaf judge all add to the merriment . Patricia Ellis & Warren Hull handle the romantic angle of the film , but wisely it is never allowed to intrude too much . Movie mavens will recognize Tommy Bupp & Dickie Jones as the youngsters Herbert regales on the train with his wrestling yarns .
You Dirty Rat !	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto is on DOG WATCH , guarding a ship for the Navy , when he encounters a roughneck wharf rat attempting to sneak aboard . There is nothing cute or cuddly about Pluto's adversary in this humorous little film - he is pure vermin and his eventual comeuppance is just and well deserved . The two silhouetted profiles Pluto sees near his stash of bones are those of Hitler & Mussolini . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
More Great Moments With Mr . Lloyd	Here's another chance to enjoy HAROLD LLOYD'S FUNNY SIDE OF LIFE . With the success of his first compilation film , HAROLD LLOYD'S WORLD OF COMEDY ( 1962 ) , it was only natural that a sequel would soon follow . It is important to remember that for decades these two films were the only way in which to enjoy Harold's classics , as he was adamant that they would not be butchered by television . We are shown Harold's shipboard confrontation with the villain and a romantic interlude in the woods from THE KID BROTHER ( 1927 ) . Harold's desperate dash to his own wedding while in charge of a group of drunken bums is shown from FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE ( 1926 ) and his taxi troubles in SPEEDY ( 1928 ) are included . As a grand conclusion , we are treated to Harold's THE FRESHMAN ( 1925 ) in its entirety . This wonderfully funny look at a determined young fellow's drive to succeed on his college football team is still touchingly poignant . The inclusion of the song ? There Was a Boy , There Was A Girl ' by Ned Washington & Walter Scharf lends a gentle , evocative touch to the movie .
Helping An Old Lady With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Believing ONE GOOD TURN deserves another , Stan & Ollie try to raise money for a sweet old lady who's been kind to them , in the mistaken belief she's about to be turned out of her home by a nasty creditor . A very funny little film . Highlight : Stan's attempts to put out the campfire . That's Mary Carr as the old lady , James Finlayson as the Community Player & Billy Gilbert as a drunk .
The Cinematic Birth Of Donald Duck	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Worried about having enough food to feed her family come Wintertime , THE WISE LITTLE HEN decides to plant a field of corn . Her idle friends , Peter Pig & Donald Duck , decline to help with the planting or the harvesting - leaving the little chicken to plan her sweet revenge . . . This is a very fine adaptation of the childhood story , with a strong , self-reliant title character ( voiced by Florence Gill ) . But the reason this is a landmark cartoon is because it was the debut of the irascible , anti-social , temperamental , infuriating & utterly lovable Duck , a character so strong he would soon eclipse Mickey Mouse himself . With voice courtesy of the inimitable Clarence Nash , Donald would become one of the world's most popular personalities & a source of never-ending fascination for those who study anti-social behavior and its consequences . Fate would not be so kind to Peter Pig . Although his debut was just as conspicuous as the Duck's , he lacked that certain intangible quality which would set him apart from the common swine . Hollywood can be a cruel place & Peter's attempts to build a movie career - he worked for a while as Porky Pig's stunt double - proved a failure . When last heard of , Peter Pig was living in a small apartment over a garage in Pomona , California . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
The Duck Triumphant	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Some highly experimental invisible paint allows Donald to wreck revenge upon bullying Sergeant Pete . THE VANISHING PRIVATE is a fine example of a wartime Duck cartoon - fast and very funny . With both Donald & Pete as members of the U . S . Army it is amazing that the Allies managed to win the War . Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Somnambulist Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Daisy has a busy night trying to keep a sleepwalking Donald from imminent accident and disaster . SLEEPY TIME DONALD is a very funny little film as it keeps finding humorous ways to put Donald in danger . Daisy , who usually played second fiddle to The Duck , has an unusually good role this time around . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Planning An Elopement With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy ShortWhen the ferocious father of Ollie's intended forbids a marriage , Hardy decides to elope . But with Stan helping out , can chaos be far behind ? A very funny little film , with lots of slapstick . Once again , marvel at the physical grace of Oliver Hardy . Highlight : the tiny getaway car . That's Babe London as Ollie's dimpled darling ; James Finlayson as her fierce father ; and silent film comic Ben Turpin as the cross-eyed justice of the peace .
Heartwarming Mary Pickford / Frances Marion Film	With her love off to war , a young woman operates the lighthouse near her home on the coast of Italy . One day , finding an American seaman washed up on the shore , she takes him home & nurses him . Romance blossoms and they marry . But little does she know that THE LOVE LIGHT she beams to him from atop her tower every midnight will have tragic consequences she cannot begin to imagine . . . While traveling in Italy with her husband , Frances Marion met a woman whose story during The Great War was so compelling that she knew at once it would make a great movie . Marion was a screenwriter on the ascendant and her best friend was motion picture star Mary Pickford . Little Mary , who liked the idea , not only had Frances write it , but direct the film as well . It turned out beautifully , with Pickford - in a daring departure from her little girl roles - giving one of her best performances . Her emotional display at the multitude of troubles thrown her way never wallows into histrionics . One need only look at this film to be assured , if there was ever any doubt , that America's Sweetheart was an excellent artist , as well as a huge celebrity . This movie is also testament to one of the industry's supremely talented women . The Silent Era was a time when women were given enormous freedom to display their gifts in Hollywood , not just as actresses , but also as directors & writers . Frances Marion would not direct many films , but she was the consummate screenwriter . For over two decades she was the world's highest paid individual in her profession , male or female . She was also the first person to receive two Academy Awards . She would eventually write the scenarios for over 150 motion pictures , a large number of which are still considered to be classics . This was the film debut for Fred Thomson , who plays the American seaman . A decathlon champion & Presbyterian minister , he had met Marion during the War . It was love at first sight for both of them & they double honeymooned in Europe with Pickford & Douglas Fairbanks . Not wanting to act , he'd eventually been persuaded to take the part in THE LOVE LIGHT by the two ladies . He proved to be a natural . A very moral man , he would find an outlet for expressing his ethics through Hollywood Westerns . With Thomson rapidly becoming one of the most popular cinema cowboys , he & Marion built a huge mansion in the Beverly Hills and began raising a family . Tragically , Fred Thomson would die on Christmas Day , 1928 , from tetanus caused by a scratch on his ankle from a rusty nail . He was only 38 years old . THE LOVE LIGHT enjoys excellent production values , sets & photography . It has been restored to a pristine condition and will be enjoyed & appreciated for many years to come .
Kudos For Miss Love & Miss Dressler	A troupe of musical comedy performers travel about the country , forever CHASING RAINBOWS of success & happiness . This early MGM musical , considering its age and the obvious limitations brought on by the new sound technology , does a fair job in entertaining its audience . Although the film features a song that would become a classic ( ' Happy Days Are Here Again ' by Milton Ager & Jack Yellen ) it is on the strength of a couple of its performances that its modest success is based . Pert & pretty Bessie Love is wonderful as a sweet young singer who adores her leading man . She is completely natural with the microphone and exhibits a tender talent which was never allowed to grow to its full potential in talking films . While good throughout , the scene in which she dissolves into hysterical laughter upon hearing some emotionally devastating news is absolutely frightening in its power . As her love interest , Charles King doesn't fare nearly so well . This is largely due to the fact that his romantic trials & tribulations - involving women other than Miss Love - are of no interest whatsoever and his reaction to them show his character to be both shallow & immature , critical character flaws in a film's hero . King was among MGM's very first musical stars , but his movie career would be very brief , lasting only from 1928 to 1930 , for a total of six films . Playing the stage manager , Jack Benny is the emotional calm point around which the activity swirls . He has very little to do besides move the plot along . His brotherly interest in Miss Love seems platonic and Jack is left out of the film's romantic action . While not given top billing , Canadian Marie Dressler steals the film as an aging comedienne with too much past . Using her large , homely face & shapeless body to great advantage , she grabs the viewers ' attention and never lets go . At this point in her career Dressler was right on the cusp of gaining enormous personal success and within a year she would become Hollywood's biggest star . Even in such a relatively routine role , such as she fills here , Dressler reveals the tremendous heart & common touch which would be the secret to her celebrity . ( For an extra chuckle , pay close attention during the opening long shot where the cast sings the last few bars of ' Happy Days ' - just to the right of center screen is the Marvelous Marie , swaying across the stage with elephantine grace . ) Appearing as a drunken wardrobe lady , the ubiquitous Polly Moran makes another appearance as Dressler's sidekick . Short , spunky & buxom , Polly was always fun to watch - but never more so than when teamed with Marie . In a small role , George K . Arthur plays Benny's gynandrous assistant ; an important silent comedy star for MGM , this Scottish-born actor would soon sink into talkie anonymity . It should be noted that the film's original Technicolor sequences - including several songs and the entire conclusion - are now completely missing .
Majestic Hepburn Takes The Throne	MARY OF SCOTLAND , caught up in intrigues over which she has no control , finds herself at the mercy of powerful forces that wish her ill . John Ford crafted this meticulous , thoughtful study into the life of the Scottish Queen and the trials & tribulations which buffeted her . With a complicated plot and a very large cast , the film presupposes a certain amount of intelligence on the part of its viewers , as well as an interest in the history of Great Britain . The film is not easy to watch - this is , after all , an historical drama , not a musical comedy - but the viewer's attention should be paid off in the end . Very fine production values also help greatly in the movie's appreciation . Katharine Hepburn is luminous & regal in the title role . Continuing in the tradition of formidable actresses of the 1930's who played queens on the screen ( Colbert , Garbo , Dietrich , Shearer , Robson , Davis ) Hepburn gives a strong portrayal of the stubborn , independently minded Scottish monarch . Kate makes the viewer at once feel an engaging interest in this poor lady , so beset by ? the slings & arrows of outrageous fortune . ' Wisely not speaking in a brogue - the real Mary probably didn't either - Hepburn uses her remarkable face & voice to make this long-dead historical figure come alive . As the Earl of Bothwell , Mary's 3rd husband , Fredric March provides a sturdy hero worth cheering . Here is a man willing to confront any danger for the sake of the woman he loves . If the real Bothwell was perhaps not quite so noble , no matter . March breathes vibrant , pulsing life into the character and embodies him with real strengths & virtues . A large & exceptional cast give fine support to the principals . Some deserve special mention : John Carradine as Mary's tragic Italian secretary , Rizzio ; Douglas Walton as Lord Darnley , Mary's repugnant 2nd husband ; Ian Keith as her unscrupulous half-brother , the Lord Moray . Florence Eldridge stands out in her portrayal of the conflicted Queen Elizabeth . Moroni Olsen as a fiery John Knox ; Donald Crisp as a loyal old laird ; Ralph Forbes & Alan Mowbray as Elizabeth's ambassadors ; and dear old Mary Gordon as a baby nurse - all have their brief moments to shine . Lionel Belmore & Doris Lloyd ( with an unbilled Bobs Watson as their son ) play poor fisher folk who give Mary much needed succor . Ivan Simpson & Nigel de Brulier play two of the wicked English judges who condemn Mary to death . But it is Hepburn the viewer remembers longest . Her shining eyes & majestic mien remain in the mind for a very long timeThe circumstances surrounding the murder of David Rizzio are so well documented that it is somewhat surprising that Ford did not stick more scrupulously to the facts . Darnley and his fellow conspirators entered the Queen's apartments via a private , narrow staircase , hidden in the wall , which communicated directly with Mary's rooms . There is no indication that her bodyguard troops were slain as well , as the film depicts . The script is at pains to keep the Earl of Bothwell a noble hero and uninvolved in Darnley's murder . However , there's little doubt of Bothwell's guilt in the affair . Darnley was not killed outright by the massive explosion - rather he was found , terribly hurt but still alive , lying in a nearby field . He was quickly strangled . The movie does not make clear that it was in Denmark where Bothwell died in prison in 1578 . Mary had divorced him in 1570 . Unlike the relatively short time depicted in the film , Mary was actually a captive of Elizabeth for 19 years , outliving Bothwell by nine years . Elizabeth & Mary never met - it makes good film drama , but it didn't happen .
Nostalgic Charmer	In a small American town , a young man from a good family faces some of the realities of maturity . Clarence Brown's fond recreation of Eugene O'Neill's popular stage play AH , WILDERNESS ! makes a wonderful celebration of basic American virtues . Attention to detail , coupled with excellent performances & MGM's best production values , results in a film full of quiet joys & sorrows . The story follows young Eric Linden ( in his best film role ) during the one month period from his 1906 high school graduation until the Fourth of July , as he deals with the pangs & confusions of puppy love . His yearnings for his pretty neighbor and his experimentation with an older , much rougher sort of female , perfectly underscore the angst so often found in young adults regardless of the era . This is brilliantly displayed in the film's most hilarious sequence , the graduation ceremony which Linden hopes to sabotage , which reveals the honest insecurities and mawkishness of the senior class . Wallace Beery , playing Linden's dyspeptic bachelor uncle receives top billing , and he is a scene stealer with much experience , but he acts alongside an equally good Lionel Barrymore , as Linden's father , who quietly underplays his role as head of the family . Each actor had a powerful screen persona , however neither attempt to dominate what is in effect a prime example of ensemble acting from the entire cast . As Barrymore's spinster sister , Aline MacMahon is especially fine , her romantic feelings for Beery barely canceled beneath her prim exterior . Spring Byington , as Barrymore's wife , shows a touching sensitivity in her sometimes flustered , nervous concern for her brood . Playing Linden's collegiate brother , Frank Albertson is good-natured and sturdy , and in a poignant moment gives a gentle parody of his own considerable musical talent by crooning ? When Other Lips ' from The Bohemian Girl . Bonita Granville & Mickey Rooney portray the youngest siblings in the family , with Rooney in particular having some very funny moments . In smaller roles , Cecilia Parker is all innocence as Linden's sweetheart , while crusty old Charley Grapewin almost spits vinegar as her cantankerous father . Helen Flint gives a forceful performance , considering Production Code restrictions , of the wanton woman who attempts seducing the much younger Linden . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Eily Malyon as the family's Irish maid . The title is an ironic reference to a line from The Rubiyt of Omar Khayym . Will Rogers was originally pegged to play the role which ultimately went to Barrymore , but he backed out in order to make his tragic plane flight to Alaska .
Comedy On The Lam	In & out of prison , Stan & Ollie just can't seem to stay out of trouble . " PARDON US " was the Boys ' first starring feature film . Rather disjointed and poorly edited , it plays more like a few of their short subjects strung together . However , the Boys never falter and they deliver a film whose parts are greater than its whole . The film was meant to be a spoof of MGM's popular THE BIG HOUSE ( 1930 ) and it helps to have seen that earlier movie to fully appreciate this one . Many of the standard conventions of the typical prison film are mocked here : the ? understanding ' warden , the dangerous convict cell mate , the confinement in Solitary , the escape chased by bloodhounds , the prison riot . A few comedy pieces in particular stand out : Stan's loose tooth ; Ollie in the dentist's chair ; the Boys trying to settle into the constricted confines of an upper bunk . James Finlayson , Stan & Ollie's old nemesis , makes the most of his one scene as the prison schoolteacher driven to despair by the Boys ' good-natured idiocy . Walter Long is lots of fun as the Tiger , the meanest convict in the prison ( Boris Karloff played the part for the French language version ) . Movie mavens will spot an uncredited Charlie Hall as the dental assistant . An added delight is Babe Hardy's rendition of ? Lazy Moon , ' one of the decade's finest film songs . Ollie had a warm , evocative voice , full of feeling and emotion . Here , backed by the magnificent Hall Johnson Choir , his song reaches out of the screen and down the decades to touch the hearts of the audience .
Josphine Baker Dazzles In French Romance	ZOUZOU , a young , vivacious Creole laundress impresses all around her with her talent & wit . Longing for the love of her handsome adopted brother , she instead finds the possibility of enormous success in the musical theater . . . The marvelous Josphine Baker is perfectly cast in the title role in this very enjoyable French film . With her enormous eyes & infectious smile , she connects with the viewer's heartstrings immediately . Her over-sized personality & obvious joy of performing make her a pure pleasure to watch . Here , Baker makes us care about what's happening to poor Zouzou , during her trials & triumphs . Gallic star Jean Gabin is effective as Zouzou's seaman brother , but this is really Baker's time to shine , and he nicely underplays his scenes . The film is well made , looking a little reminiscent of Busby Berkeley movies being produced at the same time in America - although unlike American films of this period , ZOUZOU hasn't any racism . It should be pointed out that there was no Hays Office or Production Code in France . Some of the dialogue & action is rather provocative , but it must be admitted that seeing Baker , strategically covered with tiny white feathers , sitting on a swing singing ' Haiti , ' is one of the cinema's more memorable moments . Josphine Baker was born in St . Louis in 1906 , into a very poor family . Her talent & driving ambition , however , soon pushed her into moving East and she was briefly a cast member of the Ziegfeld Follies . Realizing that America in the mid-1920's held great limitations for a gifted Black woman , she managed to get herself to Paris , where she eventually joined the Folis-Bergeres & Le Negre Revue . The French adored her and she became a huge celebrity . A short return to America in 1935 showed Baker that things had not changed for African-Americans . She returned to France , became a French citizen & worked for the Resistance during the early days of the War . Baker relocated to Morocco for the duration and entertained Allied troops stationed there . After the War , Baker's fortunes began to slide and she faced many financial & personal difficulties . For a while , she was even banned from returning to the United States . Finally , Baker accepted an offer from Princess Grace of Monaco to reside in the Principality . Josphine Baker was on the verge of a comeback when she died of a stroke in 1975 , at the age of 68 . Having appeared in only two decent films - ZOUZOU & PRINCESSE TAM TAM - Baker is in danger of becoming obscure . But she deserves her place alongside Chevalier , Dietrich & Robeson as one of her generation's truly legendary performers .
From The Heart Of Mark Twain , Into The Hearts Of The World	THE ADVENTURES OF TOM SAWYER keep the small town of St . Petersburg , Missouri in constant turmoil , circa 1850 . . . This is a splendid family film , one of producer David O . Selznick's very best . Presented in wonderful Technicolor , it is like looking through the pages of an illustrated copy of the classic novel . All the favorite episodes are here . All of the performers are perfect in their roles . It is difficult to imagine a better transition from book to screen . Elderly May Robson has one of her finest roles as harried , temperamental , lovable Aunt Polly . She easily steals every scene she's in & provides the sentimental heart of the movie . However , breaking out a bit , her last scene at the film's conclusion is hilarious . A small cluster of veteran character actors - Walter Brennan , Victor Jory , Donald Meek & Margaret Hamilton - are also exceptional in their roles . 12-year-old Tommy Kelly IS Tom Sawyer - he will instantly gain the respect & admiration of every prepubescent male in the audience . Beguiling & mischievous , with an infectious grin & sad eyes , he admirably fills the bare feet of America's most famous literary kid . The movie's other child actors - David Holt , Marcia Mae Jones , Ann Gillis & Jackie Moran - give excellent support . ( Legend has it that Selznick found young Master Kelly in an orphanage . True or not , this was his best role . Very soon he was playing only bit parts and eventually left films around the age of 25 . ) The cave sequence is especially noteworthy , thanks to the art design of William Cameron Menzies , the flickering camera work of James Wong Howe , and the moody music of Max Steiner . Spooky & claustrophobic , these scenes are the embodiment of every viewer's nightmares , and , thus , are tremendously entertaining . It should be noted that while the character of Jim is correctly depicted as a slave , the film itself is blessedly free of the racism that blights so many Hollywood films of the 1930's .
Grabbing The Bull By The Tail	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . A picnic with Minnie is destroyed by the arrival of MICKEY'S RIVAL , the thoroughly obnoxious Mortimer . This excellent little film features both terrific animation & lots of laughs . It is great fun to see the Mouse triumph over both his detested competition and the fierce bull which disrupts their outing . Mickey gets his squeaky voice from Walt Disney , who , it is interesting to remember , first planned on naming his wee buddy " Mortimer . " Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mickey Plays The Sport Of Kings	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY'S POLO TEAM ( Mickey , the Goof , the Big Bad Wolf & Donald Duck ) enter the field against some of Hollywood's funniest fellows - Stan Laurel , Oliver Hardy , Harpo Marx & Charlie Chaplin . This very enjoyable little film features excellent animation and lots of laughs . The Disney artists get to display their skill at caricature , with all of the movie stars being perfectly recognizable . Frenzied & flustered , Donald Duck ( voiced by Clarence Nash ) dominates the proceedings , leaving no doubt as to who was the top toon at the Disney Studio . It's humorous to watch the various Disney characters act with complete equality alongside their Hollywood counterparts - the unspoken , and very true , assertion being that their fame was as big as any flesh & blood inhabitant of Tinsel Town . Notice how all of the riders have a mount ( not always a horse ) which is a reflection of the player's personality - the Big Bad Wolf and his steed are both dastardly , Donald and his mule are both stubborn , Harpo's ostrich is as zany as his master . Babe Hardy's frustrations with his gigantic horse are very funny . The fun isn't confined to the field - there's plenty going on in the stands . Hollywood's biggest star , Shirley Temple , is there with her buddies the Three Little Pigs . Irritable W . C . Fields is seated with Greta Garbo , Harold Lloyd , Eddie Cantor & Charles Laughton - costumed , naturally , for his title role in THE PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY VIII ( 1933 ) . Meanwhile , Edna May Oliver is regretting her decision to sit alongside Max Hare , and , most hilariously of all , Clarabelle Cow is taking advantage of her close proximity to do a little sweet romancing with Clark Gable . Polo was very popular among the Movie Capital's male celebrities , including Walt Disney . It not only provided great exercise & excitement , but also a kind of elitism , as only the wealthy had both the leisure & the funds necessary to devote to the sport . Jack Holt , who serves as referee in the cartoon , was an avid real life polo player . It was originally planned to depict Will Rogers as part of the Hollywood team , but after his tragic death in Alaska on August 15 , 1935 , the Disney animators replaced him with Harpo . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
The Greatest Swashbuckler Of Them All	This is the film that sent generations of little boys into their backyards , swishing imaginary swords & pretending to ' rob from the rich , to give to the poor . ' There has never been a better adventure film . Errol Flynn is the perfect Robin Hood - legend's greatest outlaw . He swashes his buckle in a most authentic fashion . In every way he is a fitting successor to Douglas Fairbanks , who put his imprint on the role back in silent days . The rest of the cast is equally excellent . Olivia de Havilland is a beautiful Maid Marian ; Claude Rains a wily & sly Prince John ; Basil Rathbone as Guy of Gisbourne is the flip side to Robin , a picture of athletic evil ; Alan Hale & Eugene Pallette are just right as Little John & Friar Tuck ( their American accents are , surprisingly , no problem ) ; Ian Hunter , Melville Cooper , Patric Knowles & Una O'Connor all offer colorful support . Even the horse who would be Trigger shows up as Marian's golden mount . The Korngold score is justly famous , triumphant & majestic . All the Sherwood Forest scenes were filmed in magnificent Bidwell Park , located in Chico , California . Big Chico Creek is where Robin first meets Little John & Tuck . Local University kids loiter there now ; legends walked there once . . .
Busting A Marriage With Mr . Wheeler & Mr . Woolsey	A pair of shady Nevada lawyers become involved in the uproarious divorce proceedings of a strident PEACH-O-RENO . Comics Bert Wheeler & Robert Woolsey , who starred in a string of popular comedies from 1929 to 1937 , return with a funny look at the peculiar goings on - - divorces & casinos - - in the Nevada city of Reno . The Boys ( Wheeler is the little fellow with curly hair ; Woolsey is the skinny guy with cigar and glasses ) toss out one wisecrack after another in this Pre-Code concoction . The film's hilarity reaches its zenith ( or nadir , depending on the viewer's sensibilities ) during Wheeler's extended drag sequence , which includes an uproarious dance number with Woolsey . Disguised as a very merry widow , Wheeler challenges Charles Ruggles in CHARLEY'S AUNT ( 1930 ) as the best female impersonator of the early talkies . Young Dorothy Lee , Wheeler's very frequent cinematic love interest , is Kewpie Doll cute as always , but she's really given very little to do until quite late in the film when she perches on a grand piano for her requisite song with Bert . Getting better lines is Zelma O'Neal as Lee's blunt talking sister . The girls ' divorce-seeking parents are nicely played by Joseph Cawthorn & Cora Witherspoon . Other performances of note are given by Arthur Hoyt as the Boys ' nervous Nellie secretary ; Mitchell Harris as a gun-happy gambler intent on plugging Wheeler ; and Sam Hardy as the conniving judge who presides over the chaotic courtroom scene which ends the film . Movie mavens will recognize corpulent Harry Holman in an uncredited role as Witherspoon's outmaneuvered divorce lawyer .
A Gentle Little Love Story	Two desperately unhappy people , both trapped in loveless marriages , meet one night by chance in Paris . . . IF I WERE FREE is a fine example of what could be done with a soap opera plot when given the advantages of excellent acting & good production values . In less expert hands the film could have easily become awkward & mawkish ; instead , the viewer is given slightly over an hour of solid entertainment . Irene Dunne & Clive Brook are first rate as the sensible lovers who enter a relationship with their eyes wide open . Some clever scenes with sophisticated dialogue - going through her childhood books , visiting his favorite old church - makes their interaction a delight . Considerable contributions are also given by the supporting performers : Henry Stephenson as Brook's jolly legal friend and Vivian Tobin as his pixilated wife are very amusing . Laura Hope Crews as Brook's free spirited mother & Tempe Pigott as Dunne's Cockney housekeeper add their own style of drollery to the proceedings . Silent film star Nils Asther scores in the small role of Dunne's caddish husband . His celebrity had considerably dimmed with the arrival of talking pictures , but given a decent role this actor could still deliver the goods . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Halliwell Hobbes as Brook's butler .
The Duck & The Cluck	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mme . Clara Cluck & Donald Duck are performing Rigoletto - very badly - as a part of MICKEY'S GRAND OPERA . The duet with the Duck & the Cluck in this wonderful little film is absolutely hilarious . The subplot , in which poor Pluto tries to capture a magic hat busy disgorging scores of white rabbits , doves & mice , is the perfect counterpoint . Watch the orchestra carefully to spot flautist Clarabelle Cow and violinist Goofy . Florence Gill does the clucking for Clara , Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice , Walt Disney does the honors for Mickey . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Brink Desires A Few Moments With You	Mr . Brink ( Death ) arrives to claim the soul of infirm , elderly Gramps Northrup . A magic trick , however , traps Mr . Brink in an apple tree and he is not able to descend . With all dying ceased around the world , old Gramps truly finds himself living ON BORROWED TIME . This charming , albeit neglected , film holds many pleasures for the viewer . Aside from philosophical considerations - for instance , why is Mr . Brink intent on wiping out the Northrup clan ? - the acting is particularly enjoyable . Lionel Barrymore , cantankerous & crotchety as Gramps , is a veritable volcano of emotions , barely contained in the wheelchair made necessary by the actor's crippling arthritis . Equally excellent , in an elegantly underplayed performance , is Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Mr . Brink . Suave , sophisticated & utterly urbane , he leaves an unforgettable impression . The rest of the cast is also first rate : Una Merkel , Henry Travers , Nat Pendleton , Ian Wolfe , Grant Mitchell , little Bobs Watson , and especially wonderful Beulah Bondi as Granny & Eily Maylon , in arguably her finest role , as dreadful Aunt Demetria . Movie mavens will spot Hans Conried as the first motorist to pull over for Mr . Brink . ' Pismire , ' by the way , is an Archaic Scandinavian word which means ' ant urine . '
Fictional History	THE ADVENTURES OF MARCO POLO take him from his home in Venice , across the wide expanse of Asia , to the palace of the great Kublai Khan . Lavish and at times exciting , this adventure film never rises far above the level of a comic book and should not be relied on for much historical accuracy . Even so , it is nonetheless entertaining , with a sturdy hero and a villain worthy of scorn & hisses . To his credit , Gary Cooper plays the title role with good grace and a straight face , doubtless well aware that a fat paycheck would be his reward for spending so much time running about in 13th century garments . His Marco is a perpetual student , always excited about finding something new and interesting . His romance with princess Sigrid Gurie is refreshingly low-key and charming , even if wholly implausible . Basil Rathbone is the evil Saracen who controls the Khan's court , his lust for ultimate power having made him as rapacious as the vultures & lions he keeps in his private apartments to feed upon his enemies . Suave & sophisticated , Rathbone's soothing voice and sinister good looks made him the perfect intelligent villain . A bevy of fine character actors keeps the fast paced story moving : little Ernest Truex as Marco's bookkeeper with bad feet - he spends much of the film perched on Cooper's back ; H . B . Warner as the soft-spoken Chinese inventor who befriends Marco ; chubby , dithering George Barbier as a less-than-awesome Khan ; rotund Robert Greig , sporting enormous fingernails , as the Khan's majordomo , and diminutive Ferdinand Gottschalk as a most unfortunate emissary from the Khan of Persia . Jolly Alan Hale appears as a rebel leader who blithely sends his prisoners off to be boiled in oil , but secretly lives in fear of his termagant wife , Binnie Barnes , while he secretly ogles slave girl Lana Turner . Some of the true facts concerning Marco Polo ( 1254-1324 ) and omitted by the film should perhaps be relayed . Marco's father Niccol and uncle Maffeo had already made the long trip to China and met the great Kublai Khan . They left Venice in 1260 and returned in 1269 with the Khan's request that they come back with Christian missionaries and teachers . The Polo brothers took 21-year old Marco when they began their return trip in 1271 , with the blessings of the Doge , who secretly hoped for Venice's power to expand , and the new Pope , who assigned two priests to travel with them . Afraid of what might lie ahead , the priests abandoned the Polos in Muslim territory . The Polos would not reach the Khan's court until 1275 . Marco immediately became a tremendous favorite of the monarch , who used and trusted him during his entire stay in China . Marco was able to travel and record many strange & wonderful sights , and for awhile was even made governor of the important city of Yangchow . Finally , in 1292 , Marco was able to get the Khan's permission to return his elderly relatives to Venice , after escorting a Chinese princess and her immense entourage to the Persian Khan . ( There was no romance between Marco and the princess ; to attempt one would have been more than his life was worth . ) Eventually , after seemingly endless travel , the three Polos arrived home in Venice , having been gone for 24 years . In 1298 , while captaining a Venetian ship , Marco was captured and placed for a short time in a Genoese prison . While there , he dictated the story of his marvelous travels to a fellow inmate . When eventually published , it became one of the most famous books of the millennium .
Another Triumph For W . C .	An eccentric family man is beset by seemingly insurmountable personal problems until he has a fortuitous encounter with a royal lady aboard a train . YOU'RE TELLING ME ! features the inimitable W . C . Fields in a hilarious fairy tale disguised as a domestic comedy . While there is neither magic or fantasy , there is a beautiful princess who arrives on the scene in good time to solve all of the poor hero's problems . Never mind the outlandishness of the plot , this unjustifiably obscure film gives Fields an excellent opportunity to show off some of his best routines . Whether shooting the tires on a police car , trying to control an obstreperous ostrich , or getting conked on the skull by his own wacky invention , he is never anything less than brilliant . During his initial conversation with the princess Fields portrays a surprisingly tender side to his nature completely at variance with his usual misogynistic self . These moments with a kinder , gentler W . C . are rare & very special . The romance between Joan Marsh & Buster Crabbe is mercifully brief and does not intrude too much on the story . Adrienne Ames makes a lovely princess and plays her scenes with Fields quite nicely . Fields ' films were often populated with she-dragons , formidable females against whom he could bounce off his humor . Here he has a small gaggle to contend with : Louise Carter as his domineering wife , Kathleen Howard as an insufferably snooty society doyen and Nora Cecil & Elise Cavanna as the town gossips . The film climaxes with Fields ' wonderful golf routine , in which he must deal with manmade hazards of all sorts . Tammany Young plays his infuriatingly inept caddie .
Under Mickey's Big Top	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Multitudes of naughty orphan mice nearly demolish poor MICKEY'S CIRCUS during a very chaotic performance . There are lots of laughs in this very well-animated little film . Temperamental Donald Duck is the center of attention as he attempts to control his ill-trained sea lions . Walt Disney & Clarence Nash supplied the unique voices for the Mouse & the Duck , respectively . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Decent John Gilbert Talkie	Cheri-Bibi is the most celebrated magician & escape artist in France . Young & debonair , he enjoys the attentions of society & the love of one young woman in particular . But when her wealthy father is found murdered & all evidence points to Bibi , he must put all his considerable talents into evading the law long enough to clear his name - while being forced into living a life in the twilight & shadows as THE PHANTOM OF Paris . According to cinematic legend , all the talkie MGM films starring John Gilbert were dreadful - the result of a bitter hatred between Gilbert ( the highest paid star in Hollywood , with a $1 . 5 million contract ) & studio boss Louis B . Mayer . A determination on Gilbert's part to fulfill the contract , and a campaign instituted by Mayer to destroy Gilbert's career - including spreading the rumor that Gilbert's voice was ' high & feminine ' , culminated in several unwatchable movies . Not entirely true . The Studio had a huge financial investment in Jack Gilbert and was not going to completely cut its own throat by showcasing him in nothing but dreck . Of the 8 talkies in which he appeared as solo star ( 1929 - HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT ; 1930 - REDEMPTION ; WAY FOR A SAILOR ; 1931 - GENTLEMAN'S FATE ; THE PHANTOM OF Paris ; WEST OF Broadway ; 1932 - DOWNSTAIRS ; 1933 - FAST WORKERS ) most were certainly rather ghastly . THE PHANTOM OF Paris , however , was quite decent , and , indeed , fully representative of the material the studio was producing in 1931 . Gilbert does a fine job through much of the film and has one standout scene - hiding in a cellar - which is excellent and shows what he was really capable of . MGM gives him 3 top drawer co-stars ( Lewis Stone , Jean Hersholt & marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith ) with which to work . The other featured players ( Leila Hyams , Ian Keith & Natalie Moorhead ) do creditable work . Movie mavens will spot Fletcher Norton in an unbilled role as a society twit . Ian Keith was undoubtedly cast as the villain due to his slight resemblance to Gilbert , which is important to the plot , although he is noticeably taller . However , having Gilbert impersonate Keith and fool Hyams , Moorhead or Stone for even a moment is ludicrous and the weakest point in the story . Finally , about The Voice . There was nothing at all strange or unnaturally high about Gilbert's voice . As a matter of fact , it was of medium range & rather cultured & refined . Which was the crux of the problem , of course . While it is possible that no voice could have ever matched the perfect one viewers heard in their minds while watching his strong , virile silent roles , the reality was very different from what they wanted to hear ( imagine Robert Montgomery's voice coming out of Clark Gable's mouth . ) Gilbert was doomed from his first scene in his debut talkie ; his war with Mayer only intensified the agony . He would die in 1936 , forgotten by most of his former fans , at the age of only 36 .
An Arresting Performance From Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . OFFICER DUCK must disguise himself as a baby in order to capture the notorious criminal , Tiny Tom . This is a wonderful little film , hilarious & with excellent animation . Released in 1939 , it more than compensated for Disney's not having a feature length animated picture during Hollywood's Golden Year . Clarence " Ducky " Nash , supplying Donald's voice , once again demonstrates his valuable contribution to The Duck's success . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Off On A Picnic With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . It is a PERFECT DAY for the Laurels & the Hardys to go on a picnic , taking gouty old Uncle Ed with them . In typical fashion , the Boys proceed to demolish first the sandwiches & then the car , with Uncle's foot coming in for several good whacks along the way . Pure slapstick from start to finish . Those who like painful physical humor will get lots of laughs here . Stan & Ollie seem much more violent towards each other than usual . Edgar Kennedy plays the much-battered Uncle Ed .
Cutting Capers	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY CUTS UP while mowing the lawn , playing with Miss Minnie and enjoying the day until a black cat upsets Pluto . . . This humorous little black & white film has its minimal plot pushed largely by the musical score , which includes ' Shine ' and ' Ain't We Got Fun . ' Mickey may be the only one in the world who can flirt with his girl while riding on top of a lawnmower pulled by a dog . Walt Disney gives the Mouse his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Mouse Tale	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY STEPS OUT to spend the evening with Minnie , heedless of the havoc possible if Pluto follows him . . . There's not much plot in this black & white film , which doesn't detract from the enjoyment of watching it . That's ' Sweet Georgia Brown ' Mickey hoofs it to while Minnie tickles the ivories . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mister Laurel & Mister Hardy Arrive In A State Of Confusion	Two War buddies - BLOCK-HEADS both - create complete chaos in & around a fancy apartment building . Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy are once again up to their usual high jinks , dealing with frightful wives , dangerous neighbors and the homicidal tendencies of nearly every inanimate object with which they come into contact . At this point in their partnership the Boys ' were firmly established as screen legends ; they worked together like well-oiled machinery , producing one laugh after another . Billy Gilbert & James Finlayson - the Boys ' greatest nemesis - are on hand and in very fine form as Ollie's highly belligerent neighbors . Gilbert's Great White Hunter ( ' I don't bring ? em back alive . I bring ? em back dead . I come back alive . ' ) is especially funny . Patricia Ellis as Mrs . Gilbert & Minna Gombell as Mrs . Hardy add to the merriment . Movie mavens will recognize OUR GANGer Tommy Bond as the mean kid with the football . The film's opening sequence , with newsreel footage of World War One battles , is unexpectedly grim for a comedy . Fortunately , the laughs start quickly . Best bit - Ollie , thinking Stan has lost his right leg , insists on carrying him everywhere . Stan lets him .
Disney's Christmas Mice	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Minnie & MICKEY'S ORPHANS are a vast number of unwanted , mischievous kittens left on their doorstep one stormy Christmas Eve . Nominated for an Academy Award , this lively little black & white film derives much of its enjoyment from watching the tiny felines torment poor Pluto and nearly demolish the Mouse House . The performance of ' Silent Night ' by the Mice is charming . One of the kittens does a quick spoof of Charlie Chaplin . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Misses Blondell & Farrell Go Cuban For Comedy	Two hard-luck but crafty ladies decide to act like HAVANA WIDOWS by sailing to Cuba to meet & blackmail rich gentlemen . . . This was the sort of ephemeral comic frippery which the studios produced quite effortlessly during the 1930's . Well made & highly enjoyable , Depression audiences couldn't seem to get enough of these popular , funny photo dramas . Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell are perfectly cast as the frantic , fast-talking females who will go to great lengths to make a little dishonest dough . Although Joan gets both top billing and the romantic scenes , both gals are as talented & watchable as they are gorgeous . Handsome Lyle Talbot plays Joan's persistent suitor , but he's given relatively little to do . Chubby , cherubic Guy Kibbee appears as the girls ' intended target . Whether awakening to find himself in the wrong bed or being chased across the roof of a Cuban hacienda in his long johns , he is equally hilarious . Behind him comes a rank of character actors - Allen Jenkins , Frank McHugh , Ruth Donnelly , Hobart Cavanaugh , Maude Eburne , Dewey Robinson - all equally adept at pleasing the toughest crowd . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited James Murray as the suspicious bank teller with the forged check . This very talented actor was pulled out of complete obscurity to star in King Vidor's THE CROWD ( 1928 ) , one of the silent era's most prestigious films . Hopes were high for a great career , but his celebrity faded quickly with sound pictures . After a long string of tiny roles & bit parts , broke & destitute , his life ended in the waters of a New York river in 1936 . He was only 35 years old . While never stars of the first rank , Joan Blondell ( 1906-1979 ) & Glenda Farrell ( 1904-1971 ) enlivened scores of films at Warner Bros . throughout the 1930's , especially the eight in which they appeared together . Whether playing gold diggers or working girls , reporters or secretaries , these blonde & brassy ladies were very nearly always a match for whatever leading man was lucky enough to share equal billing alongside them . With a wisecrack or a glance , their characters showed they were ready to take on the world - and any man in it . Never as wickedly brazen as Paramount's Mae West , you always had the feeling that , tough as they were , Blondell & Farrell used their toughness to defend vulnerable hearts ready to break over the right guy . While many performances from seven decades ago can look campy or contrived today , these two lovely ladies are still spirited & sassy .
Rooney Rampant	The old prep school is set on its ear when A YANK AT ETON tries to defy the established rules & regulations . Mickey Rooney , MGM's human dynamo , is in all his glory in this pleasant film obviously fashioned to his particular talents . Although a mite old to be playing a high school boy ( he turned 22 in 1942 ) , Rooney pulls out all the stops , and shows considerable athletic ability , as an American kid who's angry about having to attend Eton , rather than his beloved Notre Dame . It's hard to fault all of his behavior today , as some of the conventions he rebels against , especially the physical brutality inflicted upon the lower boys at Eton , needed to be changed . However , the film's purpose is not to deliver a social message . It's aim was to provide a money maker for MGM , as well as a salute to our British allies . The Second World War and our common enemies are never mentioned , but the affectionate comradeship between our two nations is certainly underlined . Mickey is given excellent support from a fine cast of costars . Puckish Edmund Gwenn plays Rooney's house master , his whimsicality marred somewhat by his casual allowance of the older boys beating of the younger . Earnest Ian Hunter gives a thoughtful performance as Mickey's new English stepfather . Gangling Freddie Bartholomew plays Hunter's well-bred son ; this tall , skinny youth bares scant resemblance to the small boy who charmed audiences in David COPPERFIELD and CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS back in the 1930's . Marta Linden & Juanita Quigley appear as Mickey's supportive Mom and badly behaved younger sister . Little Raymond Severn plays a tiny earl who becomes Rooney's best pal at school . Peter Lawford is convincingly nasty as a bullying upper boy . Genial Alan Mowbray enlivens his brief appearance as a befuddled old Etonian trying to remember a particular steeplechase race from decades past . Movie mavens will recognize several uncredited performers : Minna Phillips as a slightly silly Eton school matron ; Billy Bevan as a tour guide ; former child star Terry Kilburn as one of Bartholomew's student friends ; cheery Aubrey Mather as a butler who learns an important bit of American vernacular ; and Alan Napier as a restaurant club owner with a profound dislike for Eton boys in his establishment . The song sung over the opening credits is the first verse of the famous Eton Boating Song ( 1863 , William Johnson & Capt . Algernon Drummond ) ; the second verse is heard later on in the film . The words are as follows : Jolly boating weather , And a hay harvest breeze , Blade on the feather , Shade off the trees , Let us swing , swing together , With your bodies between your knees , Swing , swing together , With your bodies between your knees . Skirting past the rushes , Ruffling o'er the weeds , Where the lock stream gushes , Where the cygnet feeds , Let us see how the wine-glass flushes At Supper on Boveney meads , Let us see how the wine-glass flushes At Supper on Boveney meads . Interestingly , those are American , not British , voices singing . And the film never shows Rooney or the other boys doing any boating whatsoever . Eton College , the largest of England's great public ( independent secondary ) schools , was founded by Henry VI in 1440-1441 , and is located across the River Thames from Windsor Castle . Its student body is made up of over a thousand Oppidans , generally drawn from Britain's wealthiest or aristocratic families and who live in boardinghouses under the care of house masters ; and the King's Scholars , of which 70 are named each year by means of a special examination , who dwell in elite quarters . Generally , lads attend Eton from age 13 until they are ready to enter university .
Disney Returns With Popular Cartoon Cats	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Mammy Twoshoes has MORE KITTENS underfoot than she can tolerate . She drives the three diminutive felines out into the yard where many adventures finally reveal an unlikely protector . . . A sequel to 1935's Oscar winning THREE ORPHAN KITTENS , this is a cute , enjoyable film but breaks no new ground technically . The perception of dimensional depth , so apparent in some of the previous film's backgrounds , are noticeably lacking here . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Barbara Stanwyck Scores In Fascinating Film	A blind man hopes , in all humility , to serve a famous female evangelist in her ministry , but soon he finds himself falling in love with THE MIRACLE WOMAN . Columbia Pictures , and young director Frank Capra , had to walk a fine line between the sacred and the profane in this topical feature , and ended up with a solid piece of entertainment . Good production values only serve to underscore the excellent acting in the two leading roles . A balance is maintained between sanctity , sanctimoniousness & sentiment . Contemporary viewers , whether churched or not , should find material here to interest them . It is a shame this fine film has become so obscure . Barbara Stanwyck dominates & fascinates in the title role , never slipping into caricature or allowing her character to become cardboard . She presents a well rounded portrait of a complicated , lonely female who experiences the pangs & joys of unexpected love . She is careful , though , to keep her portrayal sympathetic - realizing that her character was not entirely fictional - but she is never dull . In fact , watching Stanwyck give an impassioned exhortation from inside a lions ' cage has got to be one of the more unique scenes from any film of the 1930's . As the blind former aviator , David Manners gives one of the finest performances of his career , deftly underplaying his role , while letting just enough of the character's angst show through . He gives us the portrait of a man who doesn't need his eyesight to be a moral hero . Plump little Beryl Mercer scores as Manners ' cheery landlady . Sam Hardy is most convincing as Stanwyck's crooked manager . Charles Middleton portrays a hardhearted Deacon early in the film . Stanwyck's character in THE MIRACLE WOMAN is heavily based on the most famous & beloved female evangelist of all time , Aimee Semple McPherson . At the height of her popularity , there was not a movie star in Hollywood who could rival her celebrity . Born Aimee Elizabeth Kennedy on October 9 , 1890 in Ontario , Canada , Sister Aimee was the daughter of a Methodist farmer & a Salvation Army worker mother . Completely uninterested in spiritual things as a girl , this changed when she met & romanced dynamic young Pentecostal missionary Robert Semple . In 1908 she gave her life to both God & Robert and married and moved with him to the British Crown Colony of Hong Kong . They both became very ill in China and upon his death from malaria in 1910 , his widow relocated to New York City with their infant daughter , Roberta . In 1912 Sister Aimee married Rhode Island grocery salesman Harold McPherson , but she warned him that the call of God was on her life and if she felt the need to preach , she would have to leave him . Harold agreed , but the marriage didn't last her entry into the revival circuit ( a future third marriage also ended in divorce ) . News of her preaching spread from town to town , and soon Sister Aimee was in demand as an evangelistic speaker . With Roberta & baby son Rolf , she toured in her Gospel Car and became perhaps the first woman to solo drive from coast to coast . In 1918 Sister Aimee settled in Los Angeles , California , and it remained her headquarters city for the rest of her life . Physically striking as well as intelligent , Sister Aimee was a forceful , charismatic speaker and it did not take her long to gather a large & loyal body of adherents . She built the magnificent Angelus Temple in 1923 , and there in its 5 , 300 seat auditorium she would present her lavish illustrated sermons before the spellbound eyes of her congregation . In 1924 Sister Aimee became the first female to operate her own radio station , which she bought for $25 , 000 . Speaking or broadcasting 22 times a week , and never charging admission , Sister Aimee beat the movies at their own game with her highly entertaining & theatrical services . Stars such as Douglas Fairbanks & Charlie Chaplin regularly attended to marvel at her stage presence . It is hardly surprising that controversy and even scandal followed such a notable individual . Indeed , at one time she was the subject of 45 separate legal suits . But it is the mystery surrounding her disappearance in 1926 that continues to encourage speculation : while swimming in the Pacific Ocean on May 18 , Sister Aimee vanished . The nation mourned her apparent drowning . Thousands converged on the beach at Santa Monica ; one diver died & a female follower committed suicide , claiming she wanted to accompany Sister Aimee to Heaven . But then mysterious ransom notes began appearing at Angelus Temple and the complexion of the story began to change . Finally , on June 23 , Sister Aimee suddenly reappeared in Douglas , Arizona , telling a tale of kidnapping & miraculous escape . She said she had been approached on the beach by a distraught couple , desperately wanting her to come pray for their dying child . She was whisked away in a waiting car , but ended up across the border in Mexico , where she was kept tied in a shack and tortured with burning cigarettes . Biding her time , she waited until she was alone , rolled off her cot and cut her bonds on the edge of a metal can lid . Then she stumbled into the Mexican village of Agua Prieta , where she was able to get a taxi to Douglas . This was her story . 50 , 000 people met her train when it arrived from Arizona . The faithful adored her all the more , but her enemies whispered about a possible love tryst . The Los Angeles District Attorney charged her before the Grand Jury for corruption of morals by staging a hoax . However , her story could never be proven or disproved , and the perjury case was dismissed for lack of evidence . But who would want her kidnapped ? A possible solution is this : Born again bootleggers would broadcast their testimonies at Sister Aimee's radio station , naming the corrupt officials who helped them . This could prove disastrous to any number of men in high positions of authority , and giving Sister Aimee a solid scare might remedy their problem . What is known for sure is that the District Attorney who persecuted her was later imprisoned himself at San Quentin for bribery . Sister Aimee came and prayed for him . Rebounding stronger than ever , Sister Aimee incorporated the International Church of the Foursquare Gospel in 1927 , based on the tenets of belief of Jesus Christ as Savior , Baptizer , Healer , and Soon-Coming King . During the 1930's , Sister Aimee was at the height of her influence and fame . In addition to her church services , touring revival crusades and radio station , she operated a Bible school , edited a magazine , wrote books , composed stirring songs and oversaw her denomination of 200 churches . Her healing ministry came in for much scrutiny , but no one has ever proven that it was faked or phony . Sister Aimee , who spent as long as eight hours after services praying for the sick , was quick to give all the glory to God . And there were undeniable positive results : folks who arrived in ambulances returned home on streetcars . Sister Aimee's death in Oakland , California , on September 27 , 1944 , was the tragic result of an accidental overdose of sleeping pills . After the funeral in the Angelus Temple , 35 , 000 mourners passed by her grave in Forest Lawn Cemetery . Her son , Rolf McPherson , assumed leadership of The Foursquare Denomination , which is still strong & vibrant today . While her lavish lifestyle and oversized personality made Sister Aimee an easy mark for ridicule and even spoofery , it should not be forgotten that she provided hope & comfort to millions of desperate Americans during the darkest days of the Great Depression . That's not a bad legacy .
Enter The Ring With Mr . Lloyd	A mild-mannered milkman finds himself swept into the world of dishonest professional boxing . Although forever famous for his silent classics , THE MILKY WAY once again illustrated Harold Lloyd's complete ease with the sound medium . Indeed , Paramount Studios and director Leo McCarey gave him the opportunity to entertain his fans with some very enjoyable gags & comedy routines . Whether frantically trying to find help for his sick horse , teaching stuffy society matron Marjorie Gateson how to duck punches , or sneaking a colt into the back of a taxi , Harold provides ample evidence that he hasn't lost the talent to amuse . A very talented cast of costars lend able support . Gum-chewing Adolphe Menjou scores as an unscrupulous fight promoter . As his long-suffering girlfriend , beautiful Verree Teasdale gets the film's best dialogue with her sarcastic one-liners . Hot-tempered William Gargan as the erstwhile middleweight champ & gravely-voiced Lionel Stander as a fight trainer complete the disreputable quartet . Helen Mack as Harold's sister , and Dorothy Wilson as his sweetheart , both offer perky performances ; indeed , they are so much alike that some viewers may have a little difficulty in telling the two ladies apart . Dyspeptic George Barbier plays the blustery owner of Sunflower Dairies . Charles Lane once again reprises his role as a nosy reporter .
Money Mess With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Spanky's Pop has ANNIVERSARY TROUBLE . Having first forgotten that important date , he now thinks Spanky has taken the money left for his wife . Spanky has problems of his own : the Gang wants the money back he was to guard as treasurer of their Ancient and Honery Order of Wood Chucks Club , Inc . Only Spanky's quick thinking is going to solve these problems . . . Some funny moments in this little film . Highlight : Spanky disguised as Buckwheat . That's marvelous Hattie McDaniel as Mandy the Maid ; Johnny Arthur appears as Spanky's Dad .
Down To The Sea With Mickey & Friends	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Folding-kit BOAT BUILDERS Mickey , Goofy & Donald attempt to put together their small ship with predictably disastrous results . Featuring first rate animation & a very funny plot , this classic little film reunites the three buddies in another cartoon not dissimilar to CLOCK CLEANERS ( 1937 ) , their hit of the year before . Goofy & the Duck carry most of the show , with their voice artists - Pinto Colvig & Clarence Nash - giving topnotch performances . Voiced by Walt Disney , Mickey easily steps into the position of good guy & regular fellow . Miss Minnie has a quick cameo and sharp-eyed movie mavens will spot Horace Horsecollar & Clarabelle Cow among the crowd at the launching . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Beware What You Seek	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE MOOSE HUNT upon which Mickey & Pluto have embarked just might get them more than they bargained for . . . The Mouse & the Pup were still in the early days of their association in this jaunty , slightly bizarre little film . Pluto actually speaks a few human words and talks to his master - an experiment the folks at Disney were quick to discontinue . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Sneaking About With Mickey Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . With their rent six months overdue , it's a hasty MOVING DAY for Mickey and Donald before Sheriff Pete can sell their furniture . Donald & friendly iceman Goofy handle most of the action in this very funny little Depression-era film , with the Goof dealing with a distressingly anthropomorphic piano and the Duck harassed by a plumber's helper and fishbowl which are determined to stick to his anatomy . Pete once again makes the perfect villain , literally spitting out nails and hammering them in with his fist . Walt Disney gives Mickey his squeaky voice ; Clarence Nash does the honors for Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Splendid Disney Documentary	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE . In this film we study the life of the OLYMPIC ELK , of Washington State's spectacular Olympic Peninsula . We see their remarkable trek from the winter lowlands , up to the high lush meadows for their summer feeding & breeding . The gathering & defending of harems by the bull elk is also portrayed . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . These films are photographed in their natural settings and are completely authentic , unstaged and unrehearsed . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
Up On The Mound With Mr . Brown	Known as ALIBI IKE for his never-ending excuses , the brash new pitcher for the Chicago Cubs becomes involved with nasty crooks and a very pretty young lady . Comic Joe E . Brown has a grand time clowning about in this sporting comedy based on a Ring Lardner story . Although many of the jokes & situations are very similar to his previous films , Brown is always worth watching , his huge mouth & rubbery face perfectly fashioned for eliciting laughs . Whether careening about the infield in a runaway jalopy , attempting an escape from kidnappers or commandeering a huge truck to get to the ball field , Brown consistently delivers the comedic goods . Lovely Olivia de Havilland scores a home run , playing Joe's girlfriend in one of her earliest film roles . Gruff William Frawley does a fine job as the Cub's stern coach . Ruth Donnelly plays Olivia's older sister , but unfortunately this wonderfully talented comedienne is given little to do . Roscoe Karns is fun as the team's sarcastic catcher . This was the last of Joe E . Brown's Baseball Trilogy , following FIREMAN , SAVE MY CHILD ( 1932 ) & ELMER , THE GREAT ( 1933 ) .
The Mouse Achieves Greatness	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . A BRAVE LITTLE TAILOR , mistakenly acclaimed as a great champion , is sent to stop the depredations of a fearsome giant who is terrifying a tiny kingdom . This is one of the truly classic color Mouse films , featuring excellent animation , sly humor & some genuine thrills . This vivid , fast-moving reinterpretation of the Brothers Grimm tale gave Mickey one of his grandest adventures and he obviously relishes his return , albeit briefly , to the top of the Disney heap . Without Donald , Goofy or Pluto to steal the limelight , Mickey proves to be a most dashing hero . Miss Minnie's involvement in the cartoon is mainly to add encouragement to Mickey's resolve and provide a reward for his heroics . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Hearts Are Trumps	A brilliant Russian migr devises the ? Stanislavsky ' system for winning at contract bridge - which makes him and his beautiful wife the GRAND SLAM Sweethearts of America . What could have been just another silly soap opera is elevated by fine production values & excellent acting to the status of a very enjoyable little comedy . A few unexpected touches are thrown in to keep the viewer's attention engaged - the way in which the principle cast is introduced as faces on a deck of cards ; the introduction of a zany acrobat into the plot for no other reason than to enjoy a bit of lunacy ; and the way in which a wide variety of different kinds of Americans are shown to be transfixed by listening to the broadcast of the concluding game . Paul Lukas & Loretta Young do very well as the Bridge Sweethearts - Lukas suave & sophisticated and Miss Young passionately loving and beautiful ( even if the script keeps her puffing on a cigarette a bit too much ) . They are fun to watch , even when their behavior is not always the most believable or compelling . Frank McHugh gives another good performance as a relentlessly cheerful ghost writer who adores Miss Young . The delightful Glenda Farrell eschews her customary wisecracking persona in a small role as McHugh's ditsy gal pal . Roscoe Karns handles the fast-talking dialogue as a brash radio announcer . Diminutive Ferdinand Gottschalk is wonderful as a snobbish bridge expert . Movie mavens will recognize Dewey Robinson as a belligerent nightclub patron ; Emma Dunn as a sob sister reporter ; Paul Porcasi as the owner of the Russian nightclub ; Charles Lane as a Russian waiter ; and Jimmy Conlin as a kibitzer at the final bridge game - all uncredited . The film takes advantage of the fad for contract bridge which had swept across the country since its development in the 1920's . It expects the viewer to have a basic knowledge of the intricacies of the game and makes no attempt to explain anything to the uninformed .
Tribute To A Remarkable Man & Place	Father Flanagan courageously fights against all odds to see his dream of BOYS TOWN become a reality . Pulsing with real life , here is a family film which not only entertains but informs - bringing back to our attention one of the most vibrant personalities of the 20th Century , Father Edward Flanagan . Excellent production values - with outdoor filming that actually appears to have taken place on location at the authentic Boys Town - help tremendously with the viewer's enjoyment . Earning his second Oscar in two years , Spencer Tracy is magnificent as the good Father . He gives us a hero of patience & grace , one who values prayer & faith , but one who is also quite ready to land a few powerful punches for a good cause . Tracy's own private life was anything but tranquil , which only makes his performance here all the more impressive . Admirably cast as a nasty little punk , young Mickey Rooney breezes through an important role which would help propel him into becoming Hollywood's top star within a couple of years . Like a junior version of Tracy himself , the two are wonderful together , striking several dramatic sparks off their characters ' personalities . While Tracy plays his role with quiet humor & dignity , Rooney hams it up magnificently . Henry Hull offers good support as Tracy's pawnbroker friend who nervously gets to worry about all of Boys Town's financial woes . Little Bobs Watson as Pee Wee , the Town's youngest resident , is cute without being too cloying . After an education in Rome , Irish-born Edward Joseph Flanagan ( 1886-1948 ) came to America in 1904 . Ordained a priest in 1912 , Father Flanagan was sent to Omaha , Nebraska , where he established the Workingmen's Hotel for derelict men in 1914 . Soon , however , his great calling and the purpose for his life's ministry became clear - the work with abandoned & abused boys . In 1917 Father Flanagan opened the Home for Homeless Boys in a large old house . Outgrowing their facilities , in 1921 Father Flanagan moved his young charges to a farm site 10 miles from Omaha , capable of housing hundreds of youths . Quickly becoming more of a living community than just a school , the boys voted in 1926 to rename the place Boys Town . Eventually covering some 1300 acres of farmland , dormitories , workshops , classrooms & playing fields , Boys Town incorporated itself as a sovereign township in 1936 . Largely governed by the young men themselves , the institution is open to boys of all religions , colors & creeds and strives to provide healing for all manner of emotional & physical abuses . Girls were first brought into the program in 1979 .
A Triumph For Kate & Company	Vibrant , young ALICE ADAMS keeps looking for love & happiness , no matter what tough knocks the world throws at her . Booth Tarkington's novel comes alive in this splendid film from RKO , which , aside from its first rate production values , features a luminescent Kate Hepburn in the title role . Brave & spunky , yet tenderhearted & true , she immediately engages the viewer's interest & compassion . Belittled by her local high society's casual cruelty , her shining eyes & courageous little smile ( nearly ) always come through . It is wonderful to watch Hepburn work through the film's emotional centerpiece , a disastrous dinner served for the rich young man who's taken a shine to her , inadvertently given on the hottest evening in a decade . ( Deftly playing her suitor , Fred MacMurray deserves his share of the applause . ) The intrinsic honesty of the actress makes her performance a triumph . Hepburn is abetted by a very fine supporting cast . Fred Stone as her invalid father , and Ann Shoemaker as her fretful mother are almost uncomfortably realistic - one naturally feels sorry for their trials & tribulations . Frank Albertson plays her loudmouthed brother ; a few short years before this actor showed tremendous promise as a musical comedy star , but the breaks didn't come and he was to play mostly supporting roles . Hedda Hopper irritates nicely as a snobbish society matron . Charley Grapewin gives a good handful of scenes as Stone's gruff , kind-hearted employer . Grady Sutton deserves special mention , playing a lonely young man whose plain face & chubby body have distanced him from the vast majority of society girls . Usually relegated to playing simpering sissies , Sutton's wistful sadness here in his few short scenes makes one instantly sympathetic for the poor fellowHattie MacDaniel is hilarious as the clumsy job cook who arrives to prepare and serve Hepburn's dinner party . Movie mavens will recognize Zeffie Tilbury as an elderly lady at the society party . But it is Hepburn who stays in the mind long after the movie ends . . .
Mr . Crosby Steals Film From Miss Davies	When she discovers that the crooner she adores is GOING HOLLYWOOD , a liberated school teacher dogs his steps all the way to the Studio sound stages . Marion Davies tries her hardest to entertain in this tinsel town spoof , but neither the script ( based on a story by the celebrated Frances Marion ) nor the direction give her much leeway . Raoul Walsh seems a curious choice to direct this kind of film , but he must have had William Randolph Hearst's approval or he never would have been given the assignment . The trouble is that Marion has little chance to be anything other than sweet & pleasant - when finally given the opportunity to do a wicked spoof of co-star Fifi D'Orsay , she's terrific . Unfortunately , moments like that come all too rarely . Leading man Bing Crosby comes off rather better , showing the casual charm that would make him a huge star . And he gets to sing some fine tunes by Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed , including the classic ? Temptation ' and the fun ? We'll Make Hay While The Sun Shines . ' Although his character is a bit of a cad , Bing never fails to deliver the goods to the audience . A troika of character performers add sparkle to the proceedings : earnest Stuart Erwin as a film producer ; caustic Ned Sparks as a dictatorial director ; and tomboy Patsy Kelly as a plain-talking gal trying to break into the movies . Movie mavens will spot Clara Blandick & Nora Cecil as two of the ossified instructors at the girls ' school , and Sterling Holloway as a recording mike technician - all uncredited . Oddly , this film about the Hollywood movie business takes time out to poke fun at contemporary radio stars . Mimic singers & impressionists , The Radio Rogues will provide a smile to viewers with very long memories . Time has not dealt kindly with Marion Davies . Almost forgotten today , when remembered at all it is usually as a sort of footnote to history or object of scandal . Her life certainly was colorful , and as chatelaine of America's most amazing private estate she did circulate amidst powerful circles . But to remember her as only the bimbo blonde mistress of the country's mightiest media baron is patently unfair . While much of the blame can go to Orson Welles ' spoof of Davies in CITIZEN KANE ( which he was to admit he regretted towards the end of his life ) it must be stated emphatically that Marion was not a no-talent actress with few friends & even fewer brains , whose career was destroyed by her stammer , leaving her to spend lonely years in great , hulking empty castles . In reality , Davies was a bright , vivacious lady who charmed & captivated such diverse guests as George Bernard Shaw & Winston Churchill throughout her 33-year liaison with Hearst . Adored by her friends and a fierce cadre of fans , Davies was renowned for her tireless generosity and charitable good works . Her speech impediment never affected her screen acting and her undeniable talent was evident to any who were willing to assess her performances honesty and look past the scandal . Davies had to have been embarrassed by the Hearst empire's relentless pushing of her career . She knew this left her open to ridicule & mockery , doubtless contributing to her scarcely concealed alcoholism . But she eventually relinquished her film pursuits in order to care for the aging Hearst , and after his death in 1951 she showed herself to be an astute businesswoman during the remaining ten years of her life . It is only now , with the passage of much time & the restoration of her old movies , that it is becoming easier to acknowledge the contributions & cinematic expertise of Miss Marion Davies .
Classic Depression Era Musical	New York City - the height of the Great Depression . Four showgirls , starving , scheming for that next role in a Broadway musical comedy . Looking for the Big Break . Auditioning for every part . Often down , but never downhearted . Using men , loving men , cheating men . These are the GOLD DIGGERS OF 1933 . This is a wonderful comedy - funny , tuneful & easy on the intellect . Plus , the magic of Busby Berkeley's musical numbers . It's the kind of entertainment that kept audiences happy for a few hours during the dark days of economic despair in the early 1930's . The cast is first-rate : brassy Joan Blondell ; cynical Aline MacMahon ; innocent Ruby Keeler & on-the-make Ginger Rogers . Keeler lands handsome & mysterious Dick Powell , ( who gets to croon some attractive Harry Warren tunes ) ; and acerbic but loyal producer Ned Sparks . Warren William & Guy Kibbee turn up late in the proceedings , playing priggish bluenoses who are nonetheless highly susceptible to alcohol & feminine wiles . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Lane as a society reporter ; Ferdinand Gottschalk as a disgruntled club member ; and Sterling Holloway as a messenger boy . Some years back , in an introduction to a book about THE WIZARD OF OZ's Munchkins , dwarf Billy Barty stated that he was ' too young ' to appear in that 1939 movie . This , of course , is nonsense , and he can easily be spotted in the ' Pettin ' In The Park ' number here . As he would in FOOTLIGHT PARADE , he rather disturbingly portrays a lecherous tot , a sure indication , if nothing else , that this is a pre-Production Code film . Mr . Berkeley does get to have some fun . The film starts with ' We're In The Money ' featuring Ginger Rogers & girls clad in coins large & small ; Rogers even gets to sing one chorus in pig Latin . ' Pettin ' In The Dark ' extols the joys of bucolic lovemaking , segues to simulated , silhouetted female nudity and rather bizarrely ends with the chorus all metal-corseted ( Powell is given a can opener to use on Keeler ) . ' The Shadow Waltz ' is Berkeley at his most romantic , with its helix-skirted ladies pretending to play fluorescent , fake violins , all moving in a multitude of weaving patterns staged for the famous overhead camera shots . The film's emotional punch comes at the end , with Blondell's tempestuous rendition of ' Remember My Forgotten Man ' - with its endless marching men , a blues wail for the doughboys of the Great War , ruined by the Depression . The movie ends on this somber note . ( Powell also gets to warble ' I've Got To Sing A Torch Song ' ) . And just who are those hilarious , Yiddish Kentucky Hillbillies , anyway ?
Down On The Farm With Mr . Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE PLOWBOY who should be attending more to his chores and less to trying to lip lock with his girlfriend is none other than Mickey Mouse . This very early black & white Mouse cartoon has virtually no plot , but is driven almost entirely by the soundtrack . In his first screen appearance , Horace Horsecollar pulls the plow , but also displays a rather unhealthy interest in Miss Minnie . Artist Ub Iwerks makes poor Clarabelle Cow and her vast udder the subject of more of his favorite appendage jokes . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Pluto's Fowl Problem	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Mickey's pal finds himself becoming MOTHER PLUTO when he attracts the affections of a brood of neglected chicks . Pluto is in very sophisticated surroundings indeed with his starring role in a SILLY SYMPHONY short , an accomplishment even The Mouse never achieved . The film is fun to watch and the animation is excellent . No dialogue is needed , as the plot is driven along by the visuals & the soundtrack ( music mavens will recognize ' Oh Where , Oh Where Has My Little Dog Gone ? ' and ' John Brown's Body ' ) . Florence Gill , hilarious as always , vocalizes the hen's clucks . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mayday !	An MGM PETE SMITH SPECIALITY Short Subject . RADIO HAMS do more than play with their machines - - they are also invaluable in relaying vital information during times of tragedy & disaster . This little film , rather more serious than many of Pete Smith's presentations , takes a look at how ham radios can become priceless aids during emergencies . The two stories shown , one dealing with sickness - - the other with a missing plane , are bookended by a humorous look at a typical three-generation family's fascination with their ham radio . Clayton Moore , later famous as the Lone Ranger , appears uncredited as a ship radio operator . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Powerful Special Effects & Good Acting Give Film A Lift	Imperial India , 1938 . The beautiful , bored wife of a bullying English lord arrives in the princely state of Ranchipur , during the Heat . There she is surprised to find a former lover living as an expatriate , but it is his friend , a handsome , high caste Hindu doctor , that catches her eye . Her plans for seduction begin to proceed , when , suddenly , THE RAINS CAME . . . Myrna Loy , Tyrone Power & George Brent star in this slick soap opera , which boasts a fine supporting cast & spectacular special effects . They all do a superior job with sometimes sudsy material and are never less than intriguing . Standing out in smaller roles are : Jane Darwell & Henry Travers as loving missionary teachers ; Nigel Bruce as the foul-tempered lord ; H . B . Warner as the noble , aged Maharajah ; Marjorie Rambeau as the petty , social climbing missionary wife ; Harry Hayden as her ineffectual husband ; Joseph Schildkraut as an Anglo Indian ; Mary Nash as a suspicious head nurse ; and Laura Hope Crews as a silly Englishwoman . Kudos should go to ancient , wizened Maria Ouspenskaya , nothing less than magnificent as the Maharani . Every inch a queen , she effortlessly steals her every scene & provides the calm center around which the film revolves . The subplot with amorous young Brenda Joyce is ludicrous & utterly negligible . The special effects are , indeed , wonderful - well worthy of the Oscar they earned . Monsoon , followed by earthquake , followed by flood explode across the screen , showing that 20th Century Fox spent its pennies well . Queries : Why does Tyrone Power neither look , sound or act Indian ? And how does Myrna Loy come through the worst extremes of weather always looking like she just stepped out of a Hollywood make-up artist's chair ? In films like this you aren't supposed to ask questions like that . . .
No Golden Gloves For Goofy	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy aptly demonstrates THE ART OF SELF DEFENSE throughout the Ages . Pugilism comes in for a gentle ribbing in this amusing little film . Goofy proves to be as adept at fisticuffs as he is at most everything else in his befuddled life . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Hitting The Slopes With The Goof	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The viewer is instructed in THE ART OF SKIING on snow - with the Goof giving the perfect examples of what not to do . This humorous little film was one of several made by Disney between 1940 & 1956 in which Goofy receives instruction in some task or pastime - with inevitably chaotic results . If one ventures beyond the chuckles there is plenty of pertinent information to be gleaned concerning ski clothing & equipment ; we even get the terms schuss & slalom explained to us . John McLeish provides the narration in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Antiquated Musical	Desperate for Broadway , the traveling troupe of The Phantom Sweetheart must always go ON WITH THE SHOW ! Here is another very early talkie musical , full of excitement for the new medium , but bloated by too much talk , unexciting songs sung by the chorus with mostly unintelligible lyrics and an overlong running time . The plot deals with the usual frustrations & jealousies that most backstage musicals seem to find requisite . The cast includes William Bakewell as the head usher eager to get his sweetheart , box-office girl Sally O'Neill , her chance at the Great White Way . Betty Compson plays the temperamental star and Arthur Lake the whiny young male lead . Louise Fazenda is the company's eccentric comedienne , who is given little to do but laugh at inappropriate moments . The film does have some compensations . Rubber faced Joe E . Brown is cast as the company's brash comic and , as always , he is funny simply to look at . Best of all , the incomparable Ethel Waters is brought in to sing a couple of songs , including ' Am I Blue ? ' Miss Waters has no connection with the rest of the story whatsoever , but just enjoying her for a few minutes is pure pleasure .
Just The Facts From Disney	A Walt Disney THE HUMAN ANIMAL Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket gives us just the facts concerning YOU AND YOUR FIVE SENSES : hearing , smelling , taste , sight & touch . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . Did you know that only man has a nose that projects out of the face ? Jiminy , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Talent Contest Troubles With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . To his embarrassment , Spanky's mom enters him in a talent contest . He immediately gets the Gang's help in a plan to lose . Once on stage , however , Spanky meets a sweet little girl & his plans change . Now he'll need real BEGINNER'S LUCK to have a chance of winning . . . A very funny little film , with Spanky in rare form . Highlight : Spanky's performance on stage . This was the film debut for Alfalfa ( he sings ' She'll Be Comin ' ' Round The Mountain ' ) .
Domestic Difficulties With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD film . When he says ' I DO ' at his nuptials , a young man has no idea the travail his wife's family will put him through . Harold Lloyd had another winner with this domestic comedy in which he must deal with his wife's nephews , the elder a dreadful little brat and the younger a crying baby , during a long & frightful night . As so often happened , Harold's superb athletic abilities enhance his role , even with half of his mutilated right hand hidden by a special glove . Lloyd's hilarious HOT WATER , which came three years later , doubtless drew some of its inspiration from this film . I DO originally ran longer , but when the preview audience didn't respond with enough laughs to the opening scenes Harold removed the entire first reel , tightening the picture down to a tad under 25 minutes . The animated sequence depicting the wedding is a nice touch . Mildred Davis appropriately plays Harold's wife - they would soon be married in real life . Noah Young , who acted many a tough guy in Lloyd's films , lends his menacing presence to the end of the movie . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Learning With Mr . Cricket	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket delivers pertinent facts about YOU AND YOUR SENSES OF SMELL AND TASTE . This was one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . Did you know butterflies taste their food with their feet ? Jiminy is voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Fun Physical Facts From Disney	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Jiminy Cricket delivers pertinent facts about YOU THE HUMAN ANIMAL . This was one of a short series of little films in which Disney educated his young viewers about the workings of their remarkable bodies , with comparisons & examples drawn from the world of nature . Did you know that Humans are the only living beings with chins & flexible thumbs ? Or that our abilities to think , reason & speak make us absolutely unique ? Jiminy is voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Goofy Tale With Magic	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . The unexpected contents of a magician's trunk cause complications for train station baggage handler Goofy . BAGGAGE BUSTER is an amusing little film , with the magical trunk , top hat & cape disgorging a veritable Noah's Ark of creatures to bewilder the hapless Goof . The Bull is oddly reminiscent of Ferdinand , star of Disney's 1938 Oscar winning cartoon . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Superman Battles The Forces Of Nature	A SUPERMAN CartoonAfter slumbering for 300 years , the volcanic isle of Monokoa erupts in molten fury . The world watches anxiously as scientists race to protect the lovely town at the mountain's foot from imminent destruction . When intrepid reporter Lois Lane finds herself in danger of being immolated , it's time for Superman to get involved . But can even the Man of Steel fight the awakened fury of the VOLCANO ? This was another in the series of excellent cartoons Max Fleischer produced for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
Ramon Novarro's Final Silent Film	Henry Shoesmith is THE PAGAN , a happy , handsome half-caste , perfectly attune with his South Seas home . Henry is also the owner of the largest cocoanut plantation on the island , which arouses the greed of an unscrupulous white trader with a beautiful native ' ward ' . . . Ramon Novarro is charming in this , his final silent film . Once again , MGM has their Mexican star playing another in his wide range of ethnic roles . Here he is a Polynesian , but he plays his part so well , and is obviously having such a good time , that he gives one of his most entertaining of performances . He is served well by his excellent supporting cast . Dorothy Janis is Novarro's beautiful love interest - innocent , vulnerable & passionately in love . Donald Crisp is superb as the villainous white trader , consumed with lust for the girl he calls his ' Christian duty ' and embittered with hatred for Novarro . His final fate is most proper & welcome . Rene Adore scores as the island harlot , a staunch friend to both Novarro & Janis . Directed by peripatetic W . S . Van Dyke , the location filming in & around Papeete , Tahiti enhances the story greatly . Coming as it did at the very cusp of the new talkie era , this is essentially a silent film with an effective soundtrack that includes musical interludes & background dialogue . Novarro croons ' Pagan Love Song ' ( by Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed ) to good effect - giving Hollywood one of its first hit tunes - and his fine singing voice would be heard again in forthcoming films .
East Is East And West Is West	A young San Francisco shipping magnate learns that NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET when he falls in love with a passionate South Seas maiden . Celebrated MGM director W . S . Van Dyke took his love of foreign locales , mixed it with some stock footage of the Pacific Islands and created this obscure little pre-Code film which features fine performances embedded into a somewhat silly plot . There is more than a faint whiff of snobbish racism in the story which may interest modern viewers . British actor Leslie Howard gets an emotional workout as the man jarringly confronted with his lover's unfamiliar culture ; his slow dissipation is convincingly portrayed . Spanish teenager Conchita Montenegro gives an energetic & lively performance as the uninhibited child of nature who entices him to leave his wealth & position behind . Together they make a most interesting movie couple . Marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith steals his scenes as Howard's concerned father . Lovely Karen Morley plays Howard's emotionally aloof girlfriend ; hearty Hale Hamilton is their arch reporter friend . Bearded Mitchell Lewis is most memorable in his one scene as a leprous sea captain ; Clyde Cook adds some color as an English derelict on Miss Montenegro's island . The phonograph which Miss Montenegro plays in her bamboo shack is a recording of ' Pagan Love Song ' ( by Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed ) which became a big hit when sung by Ramon Novarro a couple of years earlier in another film directed by Van Dyke , MGM's THE PAGAN ( 1929 ) . Freed also composed the melody ' Islands of Love ' which is heard throughout NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL MEET .
Old Lion - New Jungle	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Looking for a little fame , a particularly SOCIAL LION gets transferred from Africa to the wilds of New York City . Undeservedly obscure , this little film is packed with sly wit and good humor . Produced in the limited animation style , its depiction of the Lion's encounters with unimpressed New Yorkers , their traffic and the subway is very funny . The very brief look at the native bearers in the African safari at the beginning of the film is a little bit racist . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Toons For Supper ?	A Walt Disney Cartoon . With his younger brothers in danger of becoming a pork pie , THE PRACTICAL PIG must have a final showdown with the Big Bad Wolf . This amusing & lively little film was the last theatrical cartoon to feature the Three Pigs & the Wolf , following THREE LITTLE PIGS ( 1933 ) , THE BIG BAD WOLF ( 1934 ) & THREE LITTLE WOLVES ( 1936 ) . The Wolf's sons return for this outing and prove themselves to be every bit as rapacious as their father . The tune which the ' mermaid ' is strumming on the harp is ' Frankie and Johnny . ' Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Sensual , Exotic German Silent Epic Begins	A jealous & vindictive Rajah sends a powerful Yogi to entice a famous English architect into constructing a marvelous mausoleum in which to inter the prince's faithless wife . THE Indian TOMB : THE MISSION OF THE YOGI is a perfect example of the grand German cinema epics created during the silent era . Berlin film mogul Joe May turned the full resources of his modern Maytown studio over to the production , using 300 workmen to create the lavish sets necessary to tell such an exotic tale . May contracted with authoress Thea von Harbou to write the script for THE Indian TOMB , based on her 1917 novella . May assigned young Fritz Lang as her co-writer . Lang , who married von Harbou after starting the writing project , desired to direct the films , but he was deemed too inexperienced for such an important project by the financiers and May enthusiastically became the director himself . Furious , Lang left May's employ ; it would be more than 35 years before he was able to direct his own Indian TOMB films . THE Indian TOMB : THE MISSION OF THE YOGI was an artistic triumph , presenting wonderful vistas & sequences to delight the viewer's imagination . Right from the eerie prolog , when an Indian holy man is literally disinterred from his living grave , the film grips the audience with a promise of high adventure & mysticism . Further scenes , including those set in the Tiger Arena adjoining the Maharajah's Palace , or the Cave of the Penitents situated below it , add intricate strokes to the broad canvas which is THE Indian TOMB . Conrad Veidt is mesmerizing as the troubled Rajah . With large , hypnotic eyes set in a bony face , he seems forever contemplating terrible memories . Veidt gives a measured , stylized performance , moving very slowly and deliberately , almost somnambulistic in his actions . The one short scene where he lets his longing & heartbreak push through to the surface is startling just from the sheer pent-up passion released for a few seconds - as if a mighty dam is breached and almost immediately sealed again . Today , Conrad Veidt is remembered in America almost entirely for his villainous Major Strasser in CASABLANCA . This is a shame , as there was so much more to his life . Cultured & sophisticated , Veidt was considered to be one of the best ( and one of the most handsome ) actors in Germany , and he was a tremendous matine idol in the 1920's . Later , he became courageously outspoken in his anti-Nazi sentiments and he found it safer to relocate to England and eventually to America . In Hollywood , Veidt continued to denounce the evils of the Third Reich . Tragically , he was not to live long enough to see the inevitable defeat of Hitler . Completing only one further film after CASABLANCA , Conrad Veidt died of a heart attack while playing golf on April 3 , 1943 . He was 50 years old . Equally intriguing is Bernhard Goetzke as the mysterious , implacable Yogi . Imparting menace in every movement , he is a worthy henchman to the Rajah . Olaf Fnss as the architect & Mia May ( the director's wife ) as his courageous fiance , present a refreshingly middle-aged view of romantic love . The story was originally presented as a filmed diptych . THE Indian TOMB : THE MISSION OF THE YOGI ( 1921 ) was followed by THE Indian TOMB : THE TIGER OF BENGAL ( 1921 ) . A box office disappointment in Germany & a failure in America , the films quickly passed into obscurity . However , down through the decades their reputations scored a renaissance . After much painstaking effort both films were archivally restored to their original luster . They have been released together on home video & DVD . If only for the striking performance of Conrad Veidt the films would be significant . But their epic proportions & high adventure set in a remarkable culture are a window into the very best which German cinema had to offer in the 1920's .
Sensual , Exotic German Silent Epic Concludes	The jealous & vindictive Rajah of Bengal continues to manipulate the fates of his three English captives in his mad scheme to punish his faithless wife . THE Indian TOMB : THE TIGER OF BENGAL is a perfect example of the grand German cinema epics created during the silent era . Berlin film mogul Joe May turned the full resources of his modern 50-acre Maytown studio near Berlin over to the production , using 300 workmen to create the lavish sets necessary to tell such an exotic tale . May contracted with authoress Thea von Harbou to write the script for THE Indian TOMB , based on her 1917 novella , assigning young Fritz Lang as her co-writer . Lang , who married von Harbou after starting the writing project , desired to direct the films himself , but he was deemed too inexperienced for such an important project by the financiers and May enthusiastically became the director . Furious , Lang left May's employ ; it would be more than 35 years before he was able to direct his own Indian TOMB films . ( After their divorce , von Harbou became Nazi Germany's official screenwriter ; because of his Jewish ancestry , Lang felt it wisest to settle in Los Angeles . ) THE Indian TOMB : THE TIGER OF BENGAL was an artistic triumph , presenting wonderful vistas & sequences to delight the viewer's imagination . The eerie Yard of the Lepers , for instance , with extras sporting real deformities , offers moments of terror & suspense as chilling as anything Hollywood had to offer . Further scenes - the Tiger Arena , the Suspension Bridge - add intricate strokes to the broad canvas which is THE Indian TOMB . Conrad Veidt is mesmerizing as the troubled Rajah . With large , hypnotic eyes set in a bony face , he seems forever contemplating terrible memories . Veidt gives a measured , stylized performance , moving very slowly and deliberately , almost somnambulistic in his actions . The scene where he suddenly appears masquerading as an androgynous temple deity underscores the subtle sexual ambiguity of his nuanced portrayal . Today , Conrad Veidt is remembered in America almost entirely for his villainous Major Strasser in CASABLANCA . This is a shame , as there was so much more to his life . Cultured & sophisticated , Veidt was considered to be one of the best ( and one of the most handsome ) actors in Germany , and he was a tremendous matine idol in the 1920's . Later , he became courageously outspoken in his anti-Nazi sentiments and he found it safer to relocate to England and eventually to America . In Hollywood , Veidt continued to denounce the evils of the Third Reich . Tragically , he was not to live long enough to see the inevitable defeat of Hitler . Completing only one further film after CASABLANCA , Conrad Veidt died of a heart attack while playing golf on April 3 , 1943 . He was 50 years old . Equally intriguing is Bernhard Goetzke in the tiny role of the mysterious , implacable Yogi . Although his role is unfortunately much smaller than in Part One , he is still a worthy henchman to the Rajah . Olaf Fnss as the architect & Mia May ( the director's wife ) as his courageous fiance , present a refreshingly middle-aged view of romantic love . Their defiance of the Rajah & desperate flight to escape gives the film its most exciting sequences . ( Joe & Mia May would also flee to Hollywood , where , after the end of his directing career , they would eventually operate a popular German restaurant . ) The story was originally presented as a filmed diptych . THE Indian TOMB : THE MISSION OF THE YOGI ( 1921 ) precedes THE Indian TOMB : THE TIGER OF BENGAL ( 1921 ) . A box office disappointment in Germany & a failure in America , the films quickly passed into obscurity . However , down through the decades their reputations scored a renaissance . After much painstaking effort both films were archivally restored to their original luster . They have been released together on home video & DVD . If only for the striking performance of Conrad Veidt the films would be significant . But their epic proportions & high adventure set in a remarkable culture are a window into the very best which German cinema had to offer in the 1920's .
Excellent Disney Nature Fantasy	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE FANTASY . This is the story of PERRI , a female forest squirrel . We follow her life through the seasons of one year , learning the incredible struggles her kind must make to survive . We watch her deal with fierce predators & a devastating wildfire , before eventually finding a mate . This is a splendid family film , based on the book by Felix Salten , the author of ' Bambi ' . ( In fact , Bambi makes a live-action appearance ) . Using great nature photography - and a little bit of Disney special effects magic - it is a heart warmer that is sure to stay in the viewers ' memory . Highlight : Perri's wintertime dream . The story , told entirely in verse , is narrated by Winston Hibler .
A Disney Gem	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE BAND CONCERT which Mickey is conducting in the City Park becomes a titanic contest of wills & determination as the Mouse lets absolutely nothing stop his little group from completing their performance . Mickey Mouse made his Technicolor debut & Donald Duck became a full-fledged cinematic star in this truly classic cartoon . It is easy to read so many things into this little film - Mickey as the standard bearer for stubborn authority & Donald as the leader of the coming revolution , for example - but perhaps it's safer to leave the philosophizing to the greybeards . Walt Disney and his animators wanted nothing more than to entertain an audience for a few minutes before the main picture began . What we now recognize as one of animation's seminal moments didn't even earn an Oscar nomination at the time . It is with hindsight that true appreciation grows . Perfection can be found in the details : Mickey's look of fierce resolve as he struggles to conduct in his oversized uniform jacket ; Donald's insouciant legerdemain as he produces an endless supply of fifes ; the naughty little bee which causes musical mayhem ; the absorption with which Clarabelle Cow ( flute ) , Horace Horsecollar ( percussion ) & Goofy ( clarinet ) relentlessly continue their performances ; the tornado , perfectly cued to the band's music , frightening away not only the audience , but their park benches as well ; Mickey , perched on his box , being swept through the storm's debris ( including the detritus of a destructed home's living room ) without ever missing a measure of the music . Any of these moments would have been the pride of a lesser film ; here , they are simply individual gems strung together to create a stunning whole . It is worth noting that Donald was originally slated to appear as the band's saxophonist , but Walt wanted his part expanded . The rest is history and the Duck ( his unique voice supplied by Clarence Nash ) never looked back . For the record , the music heard during the opening credits is from the 1831 opera Zampa , by the Frenchman Louis-Joseph-Ferdinand Herold ( 1791-1833 ) . Mickey's main offering , of course , is the Overture to the 1829 opera William Tell , by the Italian Gioacchino Antonio Rossini ( 1792-1868 ) . ' Turkey In The Straw ' is the triumphant tune played by the Duck . THE BAND CONCERT is the perfect short subject to watch before viewing either FANTASIA ( 1940 ) or FANTASIA 2000 ( 1999 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
More Music From The Little Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Although rundown and practically decrepit , you can still expect an evening of lively entertainment at Mickey's OPRY HOUSE . This is an energetic little film , without dialogue , the very minimal plot being driven by the visuals & soundtrack ( music mavens will recognize " Yankee Doodle , " " Pony Boy " and snatches from Bizet's Carmen ) . Although a poster on the building's exterior promises Minnie as part of the Yankee Doodle Girls , she never appears . Instead , the belly dancer doing the vigorous hootchy-kootch turns out to be Mickey , who ends his performance with an unfortunate Jewish caricature . Mickey then closes the film with a forceful impersonation of Polish pianist Ignace Jan Paderewski . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Exceptional Undersea Drama	The crew of an American submarine discover it's HELL BELOW while fighting in the Adriatic in 1918 . Although nearly forgotten , this excellent war film still delivers solid entertainment , thanks to a literate script , superior performances and highly believable action scenes . Robert Montgomery & Walter Huston play submarine officers under the stress of war who quickly are at odds with each other , with dramatic and tragic results . Since Montgomery is in love with Huston's daughter , Madge Evans in a well-played role , the situation becomes even more complicated , both on shore and beneath the waves . The viewer is torn between the two strong characters , one of whom is governed by his heart and the other by the rules . Robert Young makes an effective appearance as Montgomery's buddy . Sterling Holloway creates a brief , vivid , portrait of a doomed seaman . Eugene Pallette as the torpedo master & Jimmy Durante as the sub's cook make for a very funny comedy team and provide the story with plenty of laughs . Durante's nose comes in for lots of ribbing and his obsession with amateur dentistry leads to some chaotic encounters with British tars . Movie mavens will recognize Babe London as an obese Italian miss ; Maude Eburne as the wife of a British admiral & Paul Porcasi as an Italian admiral - all uncredited . MGM has given the film absolutely first-class production values , with the undersea sequences especially well produced . Both the claustrophobic compactness of the ship and the inevitable tension associated with submarine warfare are accurately portrayed . Other moments of unexpected drama ( Montgomery & Miss Evans caught on top of a stalled Ferris wheel during an air raid ) and hilarity ( Durante boxing a kangaroo ) are expertly threaded into the fabric of the movie to provide a totally satisfying viewing experience .
Discovering God's Alphabet	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . While looking for true adventure , DONALD IN MATHMAGIC LAND learns a great deal about the vital importance of mathematics in the Universe . Loosely based on Lewis Carroll's ALICE books , this short film uses fun & fancy to teach some pertinent facts about the wonder of mathematics . Some of the ideas of Pythagoras are examined , the mysteries of the ' Golden Rectangle ' are explored and the mathematical principles of the games of chess & billiards are exposed . The voice of Paul Frees as the Spirit of Adventure makes a fine counterpoint to Clarence Nash's vocalization of the Duck . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Animates A Baby's Dreams	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A tiny dreaming tot finds he & his toy dog in LULLABY LAND , where powder puffs & rattles grow on the vegetation and potty seats march over the quilted hills . Then there's the small matter of the bogeymen . . . This is an utterly charming little film , which entices the eye of the viewer to pick out all the baby motifs . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Gettin ' Mushy With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Jackie & Chubby have LOVE BUSINESS on their mind : they both are infatuated with their teacher , Miss Crabtree . When they each try to declare their passion on the same evening , things get a bit complicated . . . A very funny little film . Highlights : Chubby & Dorothy's dialogue ; eating the moth ball soup . The inimitable Stymie also has some choice moments . That's June Marlowe as pretty Miss Crabtree . This is the film that provides the famous shot of Chubby kissing ' Garbo ' . Sharp-eyed movie mavens will recognize Charley Chase & Thelma Todd in the large movie poster behind Chubby .
Not Many Laughs For Joe	A LOCAL BOY MAKES GOOD when a shy botany student joins the University of Ohio's track team to impress the beauty queen he idolizes . Comic Joe E . Brown does the best he can in this not-very-funny collegiate comedy , going over the same ground Harold Lloyd plowed to greater effect during silent days . It is not Brown's fault , the script is almost unrelenting in denying him any significant laughs . Not until the final sequence , when Brown must prove himself at the big track meet or forever live in ignominy , does he come into his element - with the help of a pretty girl's kiss and a strong shot of alcohol . Even the intensely annoying rear screen projection cannot destroy the fun of watching Joe ham it up . Dorothy Lee , temporarily escaped from Wheeler & Woolsey , plays the girl of Joe's dreams . As ever , she is kewpie-doll cute and it is great to see her , but her role as a psychology student desperate to engage with Joe's emerging libido is rather bizarre and a bit risqu . Easier to swallow is lovely Ruth Hall , the coed who admires Brown in silence . Edward Woods is Miss Lee's bullying boyfriend who can't wait to dig his spikes into Brown's flesh . Edward J . Nugent plays the team captain who befriends Joe after witnessing his remarkable sprinting ability . Movie mavens will recognize Maude Eburne as a sympathetic maid .
Mickey's Horrible Adventure	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Brave Mickey tracks THE MAD DOCTOR who has kidnapped Pluto to a spooky old castle of horrors . This fascinating little black & white film was considered so frightful and inconsistent with other Mouse cartoons , it was hidden away for decades in the Disney vaults . Heavily influenced by the horror films of the early 1930's , there are some truly eerie moments as stalwart Mickey searches the castle and must deal with the dangerous skeletons that follow him , while poor Pluto is strapped down in the laboratory and threatened with a hideous fate by the deranged Doctor . Besides the plot , the animation is excellent , with the artists getting to entertain the viewers with intriguing experiments in light & shadow . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Horton's Hoo	The strange connection between a passionate lawyer and a vaudeville impersonator leads to romantic complications for their LONELY WIVES . Edward Everett Horton , that nervous fuss-budget who enlivened so many films as a top character actor during Hollywood's Golden Age , here gets a rare starring role and a chance to really flex his comedic muscles . Although it's a little difficult to think of Horton as a romantic idol - - even a funny one - - he certainly has the lovely ladies adoring him in this lively Pre-Code farce . Providing double trouble , Horton plays the dual roles of a stern lawyer who ? blooms ' into a Don Juan every evening at 8 PM and the talented mimic who wishes to impersonate the lawyer on the stage . Add the lonely wives - - Esther Ralston & Laura La Plante - - and you're likely to get a merry marital mix-up . Patsy Ruth Miller plays the lawyer's too flirtatious new secretary . Spencer Charters staggers through the role of the household's increasingly inebriated butler . Best of all is elderly Maude Eburne , an underappreciated actress with considerable comic skills , who tackles the role of Ms . Ralston's boisterous mother . Chubby Ms . Eburne easily holds her own with either Hortons and gets to utter the film's final , funniest line .
All Aboard The Comedy Train With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD 3-Reeler . A young fellow must suddenly care for an infant on a very eventful overnight train trip . Harold Lloyd has a field day in this wonderful short silent film , NOW OR NEVER . His athletic prowess was never in more demand than here where - with half his right hand missing and disguised by a glove - he jumps , crawls , runs , leaps and squirms his way all over , under and through a passenger train . Along the way he must contend with thieving hobos , belligerent passengers , unfriendly bullies , suspicious conductors and the demands of a precocious tiny tot , charmingly played by little Anna Mae Bilson . Through all perplexities & befuddlements , and a lot of real physical danger , Harold is never less than astoundingly funny . Pretty Mildred Davis plays the infant's nursemaid ; Miss Davis ' association with Harold Lloyd was at this time turning to romance and would soon culminate in marriage . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Off In A Trailer With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Poor Ollie is suffering painfully from gout . His doctor advises rest , country air & lots of fresh water . So the Boys rent a trailer and head up into THEM THAR HILLS . Picking a quiet spot , they are unaware that the well has been tainted with many barrels of bootleg liquor . Drinking the water while fixing their dinner , they quickly become inebriated . They are suddenly visited by a bickering couple who've run out of gas . Playing host to the wife , Stan & Ollie share their water with her and she is roisteringly drunk by the time her husband returns . . . This is a very funny little film & should be seen in conjunction with its follow-up , TIT FOR TAT . The slapstick fight between the Boys & Charley Hall , as the furious husband , is hilarious . Mae Busch is the wife ; film mavens will recognize Billy Gilbert as the doctor .
The Debut Of A Christmas Legend	A JAM HANDY PICTURE Cartoon Short . On a particularly foggy Christmas Eve , RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER turns his humiliating birth defect into a beneficial asset . . . Two decades before Rudolph came to the small screen , Robert L . May's enduring creation was given the Max Fleischer special touch in this nostalgic cartoon . Johnny Marks ' infectious song leads into the well-known story of Santa's Winter weather troubles & how the bullied little deer saved the day / night . A few of the graphics are reminiscent of Fleischer's splendid SUPERMAN series . The cartoon adds some new details to the story - Mama Rudolph in a dress & apron is a rather strange sight - but basically this version , narrated by Paul Wing , laid the groundwork for later adaptations . While rather obscure , if uncovered this would make a fine addition to a family's Christmas Eve viewing .
Goofy On Ice	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . It's HOCKEY HOMICIDE as the Loose Leafs battle the Ant Eaters for the championship . Here is another Goofy Sports film ; the animation is routine , but the story is humorous as it skewers the popular icecapade . Doodles Weaver is the highly excitable narrator . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Not Your Ordinary Western	A Warner Brothers Short Subject . An American cowboy tries to foil the abduction of the young king of Avania during THE ROYAL RODEO he's presenting at the castle . This pleasant Technicolor diversion , a sort of Grustark Goes West , mixes the elements of court intrigue and rodeo performers with a couple of songs and a little action . John Payne plays the cowboy hero , Cliff Edwards ( sans ukulele ) is his sidekick , and Scotty Becket is the boy monarch . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Pluto Hits The High Notes	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Spring is here and Pluto is just full of inner music which he can't seem to express - until inspiration strikes . . . Nominated for an Oscar , PLUTO'S BLUE NOTE is an enjoyable cartoon with very little plot . That's Frank Sinatra being spoofed at the end of the film . Sharp eyes will spot Fifi , who was Pluto's doggie girlfriend during the 1930's , among the enthusiastic canine females at the conclusion . This was her final cartoon appearance . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Keats Said It Best . . .	An MGM COLORTONE MUSICAL Short . Once upon a time , there was a kindly old man who was THE SPECTACLE MAKER for his village . He is challenged to create a marvelous Glass , through which only Beauty can be seen . Reading the Bible shows him the meaning of true Beauty and , so , he creates the Glass . Instant fame is his , but then he's challenged concerning Truth . . . Not much as far as musicals go , and uneven dramatically , but as a morality tale it has charm . The Technicolor is very pleasing to the eye , as well .
Isn't It Delicious ?	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Home kitchen CHEF DONALD is trying to mix up a batch of mouthwatering waffles . Too bad he doesn't know his batter is full of rubber cement . . . This is a very funny little film , with watching Donald's expectations of a wonderful breakfast turn to extreme exasperation at the strange behavior of the unruly batter a real joy . Old Mother Mallard is a hilarious spoof of the cooks who broadcast during radio's Golden Age . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers on this project ; Clarence Nash once again does yeoman service in supplying the voice of the Duck . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Keaton Brings Home The Wampum	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . Cheated of their land grant by unscrupulous white men , the members of an Indian tribe vow to murder THE PALEFACE who next enters their village - and here comes butterfly collecting Buster . . . Keaton delivers more elaborate chase sequences in this slightly racist , but still very funny , little film . Once again , some of Buster's stunts make the viewer wonder what kept him from busting his neck . Big Joe Roberts plays the beefy Indian Chief . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Duck Tales At Sea	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Young SEA SCOUTS Huey , Dewey & Louie must try to save their Uncle Donald when the officious Duck has a dangerous encounter with a hungry shark . This is a very fine little film , with excellent animation and a humorous storyline . The Disney artists were able to make use of several of their favorite posterior gags . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies the voice for Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Sonja Skates , Tyrone Schemes , Rudy Sings , But Edna May Steals The Show	A publicity agent finds himself playing SECOND FIDDLE when he fabricates a phony romance for a lovely new movie star he secretly adores . Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . After going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 with her American film debut , ONE IN A MILLION . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her own special niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Miss Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . In this regard , some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . As her career progressed , it became increasingly difficult for Fox to find decent stories for Miss Henie and the excuses for the lavish ice dancing numbers were often implausible . No matter . Audiences did not flock to her films to watch Sonja recite Shakespeare . The movies were meant to be pure escapist fantasy , plain & simple . SECOND FIDDLE is no exception and its story is often quite silly . Also , Sonja is not given nearly enough skating time to really satisfy her fans . However , Sonja's costars do offer some compensation . Although the role was certainly not one of his best , Tyrone Power is a lot of fun as the agent who must sublimate his own desires for the good of the Studio . Consequently , he has almost no romantic time with Sonja whatsoever , so instead he makes his somewhat unappealing role as charming as possible . His best moments are with marvelous character actress Edna May Oliver , playing Henie's sharp-tongued aunt , watching rather helplessly as she steals her every scene . Rudy Vallee is onboard mostly to sing a few songs , but he deftly underplays what could have been a boring good guy character and makes him standout well in contrast to the much more manic Power . Lyle Talbot has the small role of Sonja's Minnesota suitor . Movie mavens will recognize the voice of Charles Lane as that of the Studio Chief . Irving Berlin composed the songs , all of which are pleasant , but none of them come close to being counted among his best . Notice the sly script reference to ' Ferdinand . ' This would be an allusion to Ferdinand the Bull , the somewhat less than masculine hero of Munro Leaf's 1936 story ( and made into an Academy Award winning cartoon by Walt Disney in 1938 ) . Since the line is spoken to Power , it could be that the scriptwriter had more than one inference in mind . . . Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides effortlessly into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of silver , suspended over frozen water .
History As Told By A Mouse	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Amos the Philadelphia church mouse greatly influences Ben Franklin and the founding of the American Republic . Robert Lawson's classic 1939 story BEN AND ME comes to life in this delightful short film . Celebrated children's author Bill Peet penned the script and left in the original's sense of whimsy and good fun , featuring a slightly bumbling Ben and a remarkably astute Amos - whose ideas become some of Franklin's most famous inventions . The voice cast is perfect , with Sterling Holloway as Amos , Charles Ruggles as Ben & Hans Conried as Tom Jefferson . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Silent Spectacle	Two ORPHANS OF THE STORM caused by the French Revolution desperately search for each other in the violent chaos of Paris . History's sweeping drama comes alive in this powerful epic film from legendary silent movie genius D . W . Griffith . Although much happens on a broad canvas , the director never loses sight of the intimate details of the heroines ' pitiful plight . In denouncing tyranny , Griffith always manages to keep the viewer engrossed in how the State's insidious evil affects the individual . Much of the film's success is due to the remarkable acting of the Gish Sisters , Lillian & Dorothy . Acclaimed for her comedic talents , Dorothy here gives an almost completely serious performance , portraying a blind girl cruelly separated from her beloved sister and forced to beg in the streets . Lillian , her classic face mirroring a myriad of emotions , plays the sibling persecuted by both lecherous aristocrats and rapacious revolutionaries . The scene in which Lillian , in an upper chamber , hears Dorothy singing in the alley below but is unable to reach her , is almost unbearable in its emotional intensity . A young Joseph Schildkraut plays Lillian's blue-blooded suitor , giving the viewer an intimation of the very fine character actor he would become with the advent of talking pictures . Lucille LaVerne steals more than a few scenes as the filthy harridan who enslaves and terrorizes Dorothy . Frank Puglia makes a poignant mark as Miss LaVerne's pathetic , downtrodden son . Comic actor Creighton Hale gives a lively performance in a small role as a mischievous , periwiged servant . A fascinating aspect of the film is its vivid rendering of two historical characters of great significance in the history of France . Georges Danton was probably not as noble as he is portrayed by Monte Blue , nor was Maximilien Robespierre necessarily as evil as Sidney Herbert depicts him . What is certain is that both men were responsible for the deaths of thousands of individuals during the Reign of Terror . Fittingly , each man had his own rendezvous with Madame Le Guillotine in 1794 . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Louis Wolheim as the executioner awaiting Miss Lillian on the scaffold . Griffith handles the sequences involving surging masses of extras with admirable dexterity . He also freely borrows a few plot elements from Dickens ' A Tale of Two Cities . In fact Miss LaVerne , with scarcely a costume change , would play the role of The Vengeance in MGM's 1935 version of that classic , violent novel .
Sonja Henie Glides Into Her American Movie Debut	A pretty ice skating Swiss Miss has a ONE IN A MILLION chance to become a road show star , but she will jeopardize her chances for competing in the 1936 Winter Olympics . Will a young American reporter help woo her into making the right decision ? Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . Quickly going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 . ONE IN A MILLION was her American film debut . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . Some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . The Studio surrounded 24-year old Miss Henie with an experienced supporting cast : Jean Hersholt as her gentle father ; Adolphe Menjou as a penniless , brash road show impresario & Arline Judge as his plain spoken wife ; Don Ameche as the American reporter who falls for Henie ; acerbic Ned Sparks as a cantankerous photographer ; and Montague Love as a mysterious stranger . Fans of the Ritz Brothers will appreciate their routines ; Russian Borrah Minevitch and His Harmonica Gang are zany enough to almost make you forget how talented they were . Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of steel over frozen water .
Shirley Temple in Rudyard Kipling Tale of British India	India - the 1890's - the North-West Frontier . Precocious young Priscilla arrives with her widowed mother to live with the grandfather they've never met , a stern old Army Colonel . Gaining the nickname of Private WEE WILLIE WINKIE , the little girl quickly charms nearly everyone around her , including a tough Scots Sergeant . But it is her influence with the local bandit chief that portends the greatest impact on all their lives . This was arguably Shirley Temple's finest film . It is certainly her most lavish . Fox & director John Ford fashioned a mini-epic with great atmosphere and much to please family viewers . The detailed sets & huge cast of extras do the picture proud . Shirley is wonderful , as usual , in her own unique way , but this time she has a couple of co-stars that can hold their own with her . Victor McLaglen is every inch the embodiment of a bluff British sergeant - and well he should , given his real-life background as a boxing champion and Provost Marshal of Baghdad . Gruff & tender by turns , he gives an unforgettable performance . As Shirley's grandfather , marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith gives another sterling portrayal as the archetype of the colonial officer class - crusty & domineering . The rest of the cast is equally enjoyable : Cesar Romero as the chieftain ; June Lang & Michael Whalen as Shirley's mother and her new lieutenant friend ( fortunately their romance is unobtrusive ) ; Willie Fung as the giggling , treacherous house boy ; and Constance Collier as the waspish wife of a brigade officer .
The Return Of A Silent Swashbuckler	Fleeing from the wrath of the vengeful Nobility , a young Frenchman joins a troupe of actors . Winning fame as the clown SCARAMOUCHE , the stalwart fellow finds himself drawn into the events surrounding the start of the Revolution . Following his big movie hit of the previous year - 1922's THE PRISONER OF ZENDA - director Rex Ingram discovered that cinematic lightning could indeed strike twice with this very fine adaptation of Rafael Sabatini's swashbuckling novel , " Scaramouche . " Metro gave the production a high gloss , with excellent atmospherics , richly detailed exteriors & rousing mob scenes . It is always refreshing , in any epic film , to see every penny the studio invested represented on the screen . Ingram reunited his principal cast from ZENDA - Ramon Novarro , Lewis Stone & Alice Terry - as stars for SCARAMOUCHE . Novarro , taking the hero role this time , proved he was no flash in the pan . Equally adept as sensitive lover or dueling revolutionary , with this performance Novarro was catapulted to Hollywood's upper ranks . Stone gives a finely nuanced performance as the villain of the story , slowly revealing layers to the man's personality not readily apparent at first . Miss Terry , who was Ingram's wife , is lovely , but the plot gives her little to do except look distressed or frightened . In the supporting cast , special note should be given to George Siegmann , striking in the historical role of Danton . Edward Connelly , as the King's Minister , makes a marvelous grotesque . It is interesting to note that Italian-born British author Rafael Sabatini ( 1875-1950 ) had been a novelist for many years before striking gold with " Scaramouche . " Its popularity with the public , to say nothing of this acclaimed movie adaptation , pushed it permanently onto that small shelf of fiction ( and films ) - " A Tale of Two Cities , " " The Scarlet Pimpernel " & ORPHANS OF THE STORM - forever associated with the French Revolution . Sabatini also wrote the swashbuckler adventure novels " The Sea Hawk " & " Captain Blood . "
First Rate Disney Nature Documentary	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE Short Subject . This excellent nature documentary examines a year in the life of the residents of BEAR COUNTRY . While we see that most of the creatures must work hard to find food and avoid being eaten , it is shown that the lordly bear has a wild bounty spread before him . The relationship between mother bears & their cubs is also examined . Highlight : bears & their itches . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . In the making of these films , nature is the dramatist . There are no fictitious situations or characters . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
Way Out West With Stan & Ollie	Would you send Mister Laurel & Mister Hardy off to the wilds of the Old West to deliver an important inheritance document to a young lady they've never seen ? Probably not . But that is the hinge upon which this whole wonderfully goofy movie swings . As always , the Boys are a pure joy to watch , whether they are trying to bust into a saloon in the dead of night , scuffling with the bad guys for a valuable scrap of paper or breaking into a delightful soft-shoe dance . James Finlayson is very funny once again as the Boys ' nemesis . Sharon Lynn , in a hilarious scene , gets to tickle Stan silly . At one point Ollie begins to sing ' On The Trail Of The Lonesome Pine ' in his clear high tenor . He had a beautiful voice , warm & nostalgic . Just like the rest of this film , one of Laurel & Hardy's best .
Don't Close The Iron Door On This Classic	Down but not quite out , a megalomaniacal theatrical producer schemes to get his former star & lover back under contract during a wild ride on the TWENTIETH CENTURY Limited racing from Chicago to New York City . Directed by Howard Hawks from an inspired script by Ben Hecht & Charles MacArthur , this is one of the seminal screwball comedies which would set the high-water mark for years to come - zany characters , living at a frenetic pace , throwing outrageous lines at each other . While the situations are completely unrealistic it makes no matter . Films like this were calculated to lift Depression audiences out of their troubles for an hour or so ; today , we long for them to work that old magic again . In a large & spirited cast there is one eminence , one name above the title , one peak ascending over the smaller hills . John Barrymore , a lifetime of theatrical history and private dissolution etched on his remarkable face , is a grade A ham as the unspeakable Oscar Jaffe , willing to break any convention , law or dogma to get what he wants . Cajoling , pleading , threatening , cooing like a dove , screeching like a banshee , Barrymore is utterly mad , unspeakably obnoxious & thoroughly delightful . He doesn't just dominate the film , he overwhelms it like a thick wave of brimstone & honey . Watching him infuriate his players by chalking their movements on the floor , disguise himself as an elderly Southern gentleman in order to sneak aboard the train , or arranging his own fake death scene to serve his egotistical ends , is to watch a master of the acting art play a comedic role worthy of him . Carole Lombard is lovely , but completely overshadowed by Barrymore . Her character , while that of a great star , is pitched at a more normal tilt and exists to react to his enormities . While she's wonderful to watch , it's impossible to forget to whom the film really belongs . The rest of the cast is first rate . Barrymore's two faithful factotums are played by dyspeptic Walter Connolly and sardonic , boozy Roscoe Karns , both of whom have learned to deal with The Master's dictums in different ways . Hatchet-faced Charles Lane plays a director who becomes Barrymore's theatrical blood rival . Edgar Kennedy burnishes his few scenes as a private eye who's no match for an enraged Lombard . Handsome Englishman Ralph Forbes plays against type as a spoiled society boy who thinks he's in love with Lombard . And for sheer looniness there's chittering little Etienne Girardot , playing a benignly mad gentleman wandering about the train plastering large REPENT stickers on every available surface . Movie mavens will recognize Herman Bing & Lee Kohlmar as the uncredited & hilarious Passion Players from Oberammergau .
Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy Invite You To Join Them In Double Trouble	A couple of ordinary fellows find that life can get very complicated when they are mistaken for their long lost identical twins . Laurel & Hardy are a delight once more in OUR RELATIONS , an enjoyable film which lets the Boys simply do what they did best - just act silly . Looking very much like an expanded short subject , the fast moving plot rushes from one absurdity to another , pulling the happy viewer along with it . Highlight : in the tiny phone booth . Stan & Ollie are given great assistance from a supporting cast of old pros : Daphne Pollard & Betty Healy as their long-suffering wives ; Arthur Housman in his familiar role of a hilarious drunk ; Sidney Toler as a ferocious ship's captain ; and no-nonsense Alan Hale , very humorous as a burly waiter encountered by the Boys at a local beer garden . Funny James Finlayson , the Boys ' frequent foil , has a meatier role than usual as a parsimonious Scots .
Too Many Mice	A Walt Disney Mickey Mouse Cartoon . The ORPHANS ' PICNIC hosted by Mickey & Donald quickly becomes a complete shambles - thanks to the multitude of naughty little rodents . The Duck dominates this funny little film , with Mickey relegated to supporting player . The animators liked to use the Orphans ' rare appearances almost like a force of nature - relentless , uncontrollable & completely undisciplined . Walt Disney provides the voice for the Mouse ; Clarence Nash does the same for Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Rudyard Kipling Classic Come To Life	RIKKI-TIKKI-TAVI , the Indian mongoose , takes on the responsibility for keeping the big bungalow belonging to an English family safe . But with the deadly great cobras Nag & Nagaina on the prowl , how long will Rikki be safe himself ? This is a very fine adaptation of one of Rudyard Kipling's non-Mowgli tales from The Jungle Books . Directed , produced & written for the screen by master animator Chuck Jones , the story sticks quite faithfully to the original and keeps the requisite cartoon silliness to a minimum . Much credit should go to Orson Welles , who narrates as well as voicing Nag & the nervous muskrat ; also to June Foray who gives voice to all three female roles . Together , these two old pros add a great deal to the success of the film . In order to maintain the ' cuteness quotient ' Rikki is not drawn exactly to scale . Any mongoose who could fit effortlessly in a child's breakfast spoon would certainly be no match for an enraged , adult cobra . The Indian gray mongoose , or Herpestes edwardsi , can commonly live more than 20 years in captivity , with a head & body up to 26 inches long . They are indeed renowned for attacking large poisonous snakes , and they usually win these battles due to their great agility & speed , as well as their very thick coats , through which the snakes ' fangs have trouble penetrating . There are many species of mongoose - among them the African meerkat . Children enraptured by Rikki should know that mongoose importation into America as pets is prohibited , due to these little carnivores predilection for hunting & destroying useful animals & birds .
Hanging Around With Harold Lloyd	The " human fly " antics which ends this movie is undoubtly the most famous sequence in all of silent cinema . It is also the most hilarious . Breathtaking , heart-stopping & very funny , it is the element that you remember the longest . While THE KID BROTHER was Harold Lloyd's masterpiece , SAFETY LAST was & is his most famous movie . But don't overlook the rest of the film in which he plays a lowly store clerk ( dealing with frantic female shoppers and an imperious floorwalker ) who tries to convince his rather gullible girlfriend - played by real-life wife Mildred Davis - that he's actually the store manager . Throughout , Harold Lloyd is beyond praise . His comic genius makes it all look so easy . And his athletic daredeviltry is even more amazing when you realize that 2 of the fingers on his right hand are fake - he lost the real digits in a freak studio accident .
Getting To The Church On Time With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Ollie is marrying the boss's daughter this morning and he has no time for any nonsense . Then Stan shows up with an absolutely irresistible jigsaw puzzle . . . Although a one-note comedy , ME AND MY PAL is still very funny . Highlight : Ollie's face as he listens to the radio announcement . That's James Finlayson as Peter Cucumber & Charlie Hall as the flower delivery boy .
Wallace Beery Waves The Jolly Roger	The most famous pirate in English literature sets sail across the High Seas of Adventure - bound for TREASURE ISLAND . Robert Louis Stevenson's wonderful 1883 tale of devious deeds , derring-do & hidden doubloons is given a first rate production by MGM in this swaggering , boisterous film . Although many of the lead actors are American and make no pretense of hiding their Yankee accents , this in no way hinders the enjoyment or appreciation of the film's many qualities . The story has been necessarily streamlined a bit , but the excisions are judicious and the robust flavour of the original novel remains . Bulbous & bulgy , with a gimlet eye & a baby's grin , Wallace Beery makes a unique Long John Silver . As willful as an infant and as ruthless as a Mafia don , he completely manages to steal every scene he's in . Acting as innocent as any cherub , he gleefully commits murderous mayhem at every turn , while hobbling about on his crutch in feverish pursuit of Flint's buried treasure . Beery had the rare - and enviable - ability to take a wretched sinner like Silver and transform him into a lovable old rogue . He makes this role his own and is unforgettable in it . OUR GANG star Jackie Cooper makes a sturdy Jim Hawkins . His screen chemistry with Beery , so important to the plot , is still as good as it was previously in THE CHAMP ( 1931 ) . Cooper was a talented child actor and could easily go from excited high jinks to blubbery tears with ease . Here , he gets to personify every lad's dreams of fabulous exploits & personal glory . A trio of accomplished performers portray young Cooper's three friends : Otto Kruger as noble Doctor Livesey ; Nigel Bruce as blustery , big-hearted Squire Trelawney ; and Lewis Stone as sternly courageous Captain Smollett . All three acquit themselves very well . Consummate character actor Lionel Barrymore adds another portrait to his gallery - that of the bullying , rumsoaked Billy Bones , whose possession of the treasure map is the instigation of the film's problems . Although the role is really quite brief , Barrymore makes the most of it , slashing wildly about with his cutlass and singing ? Fifteen Men On A Dead Man's Chest ' with passionate fury . It is a shame the plot gave him no scenes with Beery - they would have been memorable together . Stevenson's story creates a few small , choice cameo roles which are here delightfully delineated - Charles McNaughton as the scurvy Black Dog ; William V . Mong as the fearsome Blind Pew ; and a terrific Charles ? Chic ' Sale as canny old Ben Gunn , all jerks and fidgets and ridden with fleas . Dorothy Peterson , a fine actress , plays Mrs . Hawkins . The seafaring scenes on board the Hispaniola , filmed along the coast of California , are particularly well produced .
Faithful , Antique Look At An American Classic	Mark Twain's immortal TOM SAWYER flirts with Becky Thatcher , goes rafting with Huckleberry Finn on the Mississippi River & generally makes life a sore tribulation for the law-abiding citizens of St . Petersburg , Missouri . Produced only seven years after the death of Mark Twain , this rousing , action packed silent film remains faithful to the original classic novel . The fine production values lavished upon it give it the feel of an old photo album . Many of the favorite episodes from the first half of the book are included and filmed with much charm . Jack Pickford gives a hardy , robust portrayal of Tom , the eternal companion of millions of American boys . Although a bit tall & old ( he was 21 ) to be an authentic portrait of the real Tom , he comes close enough . Tattered , begrimed Robert Gordon as Huckleberry Finn also scores in his small role . The film concludes with the boys interrupting their own funeral , after being assumed drowned while river rafting . Director William Desmond Taylor decided to film the rest of the book and release it as a sequel , which he did the following year as HUCK AND TOM ( 1918 ) . Four years later , in 1922 , Taylor's still unsolved murder would give Hollywood one of its most sensational scandals . Almost forgotten today , Jack Pickford , Mary's younger brother , was a movie star in his own right , appearing in 106 films between 1909 & 1928 . Lacking his sister's intense dedication & drive , he gave his life over to riotous living - to the detriment of his career . Personal tragedy & dissipation would haunt him until his death in 1933 at the age of 36 .
Into The Wild Blue Yonder With Private Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Assigned to peeling potatoes at Mallard Field , Donald wants more than anything to take to the air as a SKY TROOPER . Maybe Sergeant Pete can change his mind . . . Here is one of Donald's wartime cartoons , with lots of laughs and physical comedy . Pete has finally found his niche as a military noncommissioned officer . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers involved in this little film ; Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
When Pluto Met Dinah	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Who is THE SLEEPWALKER that's taking all of Pluto's best bones to the pretty new female dog next door ? This enjoyable little film is notable chiefly as the debut of Dinah the dainty dachshund , who would appear as Pluto's heartthrob in 5 cartoons from 1942 until her retirement in 1950 . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Plea For Tolerance	An RKO Short Subject . A group of rowdy little bullies are given a lesson in tolerance by crooner Frank Sinatra , who compares America to THE HOUSE I LIVE IN . This little film delivers a pertinent message about the evils of prejudice & bias . Sinatra is an absolute natural in front of the camera ; intense & sincere , he is the perfect spokesperson for the values espoused here . Sinatra sings ? The House I Live In , ' by Lewis Allan & Earl Robinson . This fine tune , with a solid , pro-American message , is being given something of a comeback since the horrendous events of September 11 , 2001 . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighborhood theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination .
Another Spooky House For Holmes & Watson	Gathered in THE HOUSE OF FEAR , the members of a strange tontine begin to meet violent & mysterious deaths . Once again , Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated consulting detective , Sherlock Holmes , tackles the problems pervading an Old Dark House . This time it's the Good Comrades Club and their rapidly dwindling membership , and Universal Studios supplies all the proper atmospherics to provide plenty of chills & suspense . Basil Rathbone , as the cerebral sleuth , and Nigel Bruce , as his amiable sidekick , have already reached perfection in their roles . Rathbone , with his wonderful voice , always commands attention , and Bruce is especially good in the sequence where Watson finds himself alone in Drearcliff House , surrounded by unseen menace . Together , their film partnership has become screen legend . Dennis Hoey returns in the role of Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard , always several steps behind Holmes in his use of deductive reasoning . The seven Good Comrades are played by cherubic Aubrey Mather , gaunt Paul Cavanagh , Holmes Herbert , Harry Cording , and the unbilled Wilson Benge , Cyril Delevanti & Richard Alexander . Also appearing without credit is that most versatile of British character actresses , Doris Lloyd , playing a Scots innkeeper . This film , which was very loosely based on Conan Doyle's The Adventure of the Five Orange Pips , followed THE PEARL OF DEATH ( 1944 ) and preceded THE WOMAN IN GREEN ( 1945 ) .
The Men Who Made The Music	An MGM Short Subject . Melody masters get to briefly shine in front of the cameras for THE SONG WRITERS ' REVUE . Jack Benny - - his humor definitely a matter of taste - - introduces eight of the famous composers working for mighty MGM Studios at the dawn of the talkie age . Some of their tunes are presented to give an extra punch to the proceedings : Fred Fisher ( ' Peg ' O My Heart ' ) performs his ' Dardanella . ' Ray Egan ( ' Till We Meet Again , ' ' Ain't We Got Fun , ' ' Sleepy Time Gal ' ) plays his hit ' Japanese Sandman . ' Gus Edwards ( ' By The Light Of The Silvery Moon , ' ' In My Merry Oldsmobile ' ) sings his ' School Days . ' Russian immigrant Dave Dreyer ( ' Back In Your Own Backyard , ' ' There's A Rainbow Round My Shoulder ' ) plays his ' Me And My Shadow . ' Fred Ahlert & Roy Turk ( ' I'll Get By ' ) present their ' Mean To Me . ' Nacio Herb Brown & Arthur Freed ( ' Broadway Melody , ' ' You Were Meant For Me , ' ' The Pagan Love Song ' ) perform their ' Wedding Of The Painted Doll . ' Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Tale From Old Indochina	NIOK , the little forest elephant , is befriended by a young village boy . They will enjoy their delightful camaraderie , until the day a wily Chinese merchant takes the small pachyderm away . . . This French short subject is a fine family film . Children should love Niok , a most charming creature . The sparse narration is a bit stiff , but does not encumber the story . The ambiance is helped considerably by location filming at Cambodia's massive monastery complex at Angkor Wat .
The Pup's Gummed Up	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto and a persistent bee engage in a vigorous struggle over the control of some purloined bubble gum balls . While breaking no new ground , BUBBLE BEE is still an enjoyable little film . This was the second of seven cartoons , produced by Disney between 1948 & 1952 , to feature Buzz-Buzz the bee , usually as an antagonist for Donald Duck . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney's Salute To The Seasons , Opus One	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . It is SPRINGTIME at the marsh , and the joy of the season is causing the various birds & bugs to dance about rapturously and eat each other up . . . This black & white cartoon is basically an exercise in action / reaction animation . The Disney artists seem to have an unending supply of posterior gags , often rather vulgar . The tuneful soundtrack with its familiar themes pushes the action along - most notably Ponchielli's ' Dance of the Hours , ' which would be showcased to great effect eleven years later in the Studio's FANTASIA . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Out On A Girder With Mr . Lloyd	A HAROLD LLOYD Short Subject . A lovesick young man must NEVER WEAKEN when he unexpectedly finds himself in a most precarious & dangerous situation . Here is one of Harold Lloyd's thrill pictures , which offers quick-moving comedy and genuine suspense . The first half of the film has Harold trying to roundup patients for his girlfriend's boss . The second half puts Harold up on the framework of a building under construction - clutching , crawling & careening out over empty space . His obvious athletic ability is made even more remarkable by the fact that he was using only half of his right hand , his disfigurement , caused by a studio accident , hidden by a glove . Pretty Mildred Davis , who would soon become Mrs . Harold Lloyd , plays the object of his affections .
A Pure Joy	It's a shame that so few people have seen this gem of a movie during the last half century , as it is a little masterpiece , perfectly honed and crafted , without an unnecessary scene or line of dialogue . This is the kind of neglected film you dream about discovering , but so rarely do . Of all the celebrated productions given the world by the multi-talented team of Michael Powell & Emeric Pressburger , this is the one that should stand as their monument . The story , in its very bare bones is this : a stubborn & headstrong young woman of Manchester travels to Scotland's Inner Hebrides to marry her very rich fianc on the remote island he's rented . Foul weather strands her on the Isle of Mull where she meets a rather dashing , if somewhat penniless , laird . Then . . . you'll have to see the rest for yourself . Suffice it to say that the plot includes a ruined castle , an ancient curse , and the terrifying whirlpool of Corryvreckan . . . Dame Wendy Hiller & Roger Livesey are perfect as the main characters . The excellent supporting cast includes Walter Hudd as a highly efficient private secretary , Finlay Currie as a craggy old fisherman , Capt . C . W . R . Knight , F . Z . S . as an eccentric English colonel with a passion for raptors , Pamela Brown as a no-nonsense Islander , gentle Jean Cadell as the Tobermory postmistress , Catherine Lacey & Valentine Dyall as a slightly boorish English couple tenanting a large castle , young Petula Clark as their serious little daughter , Nancy Price as an elderly aristocratic Scotswoman with wonderful memories & John Laurie as a boisterous soldier celebrating his parents ' Diamond Anniversary . The splendid Glasgow Orpheus Choir appears as performers at the Campbell Cilidh . The production is greatly enhanced by location filming on Mull , and Erwin Hiller's special photographic effects .
Our Gang Fractures Shakespeare	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . When Spanky & the Gang put on a presentation of ' Romyo and Jullet ' out in the barn for the neighborhood kids , the audience is told they can ' PAY AS YOU EXIT ' if they like the show . But chaos ensues - especially after Alfalfa's onion-munching drives away leading lady Darla . A fine little film , short and to the point . Spanky's strongman routine is cute and if you ever wondered how Buckwheat would play Juliet's Balcony Scene , this is the place to look . That's Fat Joe Cobb as the big kid in the audience .
George Brent Romances Kay Francis In Old Havana	Peeping through THE KEYHOLE we find an unhappy wife who sails to Cuba to shake off a blackmailing former lover , not knowing that her millionaire husband has sent a handsome detective to compromise her . . . This elaborately plotted little picture is a very fine example of the kind of film Warner Bros . produced so effortlessly in the 1930's . Frothy , a bit silly & fun , it boasts entertaining performances and good production values . Depression audiences sat through scores of movies just like this , generally well made , but with interchangeable plots & stars . Kay Francis & George Brent handle the romantic situations very nicely . Sophisticated & charming , they keep their stock characters from ever becoming dull . The humor is supplied by brassy blonde Glenda Farrell as a gold digging shill & dumb-as-dirt detective Allen Jenkins . Henry Kolker as the suspicious husband , Helen Ware as his elderly , sympathetic sister , and Monroe Owsley as the oily Lothario , all add to the fun in their supporting roles . Especially enjoyable is little Ferdinand Gottschalk , appearing in only one scene as a comically flirtatious old banker . Movie mavens will recognize sour-faced Clarence Wilson as the head of the detective agency .
Frightful Fun With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Uncle George comes to town , bringing the Wild Man he's brought with him from Borneo . When the Gang goes to visit , Stymie's candy awakens the savage within him ( ' Yum-Yum ! Eat ? em up ! ' ) and he chases them all back to and through Spanky's house . A very funny film - lots of wild slapstick here - but the sight of the drunken fellow pursuing little kids with a big knife is a bit unsettling . Highlight : Spanky feeding the Wild Man . Query : why does the film treat Spanky's Mom so harshly at the end ? That's John Lester Johnson as the Wild Man .
Singing On The Radio With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . The Kids are interested in winning the $50 offered by a local radio station for the best amateur children ? s performance . Holding an audition amongst themselves - which Alfalfa tries to rig - Darla is selected for her Baby Rose Marie-like rendition of ? I ? m In The Mood For Love . ? When she doesn ? t make it in time to the station , however , it gives Alfalfa the perfect opportunity to become celebrated as THE PINCH SINGER . . . A funny little film . Spanky runs the audition like a pint-size Major Bowes . Buckwheat ? s ? whistling ? is hilarious - as is Alfalfa ? s attempts at vocalizing . . .
Walt Disney's Delightful Big Band Satire	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . This cartoon portrays a typical evening at the WOODLAND CAF , that popular insect hot spot . A wide assortment of ugly bugs are kept entertained by apache dancers ( a spider & a fly ) and dancing to Big Band music . A delightful little cartoon . The Disney animators show their versatility once again in their depiction of all things buggy . The film is also a spoof of Swing in general & Cab Calloway in particular . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Another Shirley Temple Crowd Pleaser	A young girl , the only survivor of an Indian attack , becomes involved in the life of the Canadian Mounted Police officer who rescued her . An aging Shirley Temple ( she was 12 ) brings her special charm to this pleasant , if predictable , programmer . Although her glory days were behind her as Hollywood's top box office star , the mighty moppet still had the power to delight audiences with her appealing personality . If at times it seemed as though she was straying a little too near the hammy or histrionic , who can blame her ? For years she had been one of the industry's hardest working troopers , tirelessly promoting her movies , Fox Studios and the many efforts to raise the American people's spirits during the Depression . And she did it all with that marvelous , megawatt smile . By the time she appeared in SUSANNAH OF THE MOUNTIES , one of her last ? little girl ' roles , her spot in cinematic history was secure & unassailable . Stalwart Randolph Scott & pretty Margaret Lockwood deal with the romantic subplot , which fortunately is not allowed to intrude too much . Victor Jory , as usual , plays his villainous role well . Splendid character actor J . Farrell MacDonald , as an old Irish Mountie , shares some tender moments with Shirley . The film's action scenes are well done , with lots of shooting & excitement . While an attempt is made to show some of the conflict from the viewpoint of the Indians , having them all speak in pidgin English , even to each other , is a bit wearying . Members of the Blackfeet Nation appear throughout the film , adding greatly to its authenticity .
A Classic Mouse Tale	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE WORM TURNS as Mickey's magic potion helps smaller creatures gain the aggressive advantage over their tormentors . Lots of fun in this very well made little film , which begins as a spoof of the old mad scientist movies . The excellent animation bounces the swift moving story right along to its crescendo - a confrontation between Pluto and dogcatcher Pete . For the record , the ingredients necessary for the Courage Builder formula are Tigerus Marrow , Spiritu Bravado , Stimuli Valorus & Lionus Tonicio . Walt Disney provided Mickey with his voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
A Triumph For Three Actresses	Letitia ? TISH ' Carberry enjoys nothing more than controlling the lives & romances of all around her , aided and abetted by her two dearest friends - Lizzie Wilkins and Aggie Pilkington . The popular characters from the stories by Mary Roberts Rinehart come alive in this funny , nostalgic ( and nearly forgotten ) film . Helping immeasurably in the movie's success is the casting of a trio of Hollywood's finest comedic character actresses . Bossy & down-to-earth , Marjorie Main tackles the title role and wrestles it into submission , her ever-present Swear Box ready to accept the coins she must deposit whenever she unlooses one of her colorful , G-rated oaths . As sensible Lizzie , Aline MacMahon brings a patrician respectability to her part , although that doesn't keep her from sitting on a rowboat's leak at a crucial moment . ZaSu Pitts becomes vague , fluttery Aggie , who still writes a hilarious memorial poem on the anniversary of her sweetheart's death . Guy Kibbee is very droll as the judge whose life is made a misery by the feminine triumvirate . Among the young persons in whose lives they interfere are pretty Susan Peters & Virginia Grey . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Nora Cecil as one of the old ladies at the boarding house . The film benefits from MGM's typically fine production values . The story becomes unexpectedly serious near the end , but by the closing moments hilarity reigns again as Tish once more starts to meddle .
Music Mania	A VITAPHONE VARIETY Short Subject . A highly energetic bandleader excites the crowd with his SWING CAT'S JAMBOREE . Tooting on his trumpet , popular musician Louis Prima leads his 5-man combo while presenting three popular tunes . First up , songstress Shirley Lloyd warbles ' I Can't Give You Anything But Love . ' Next , Mitzi Dahl and the awesomely limber Ted Gary dance to ' You're An Education In Yourself . ' Finally , the whole room starts to jive during Prima's rendition of ' Loch Lomand . ' Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Hot Time In The Old Town	A dastardly Chinese criminal in OLD SAN FRANCISCO schemes to possess a lovely seorita and her Spanish land-grant rancho . Although replete with racial stereotyping , it must be admitted that this vintage Silent film is an awful lot of fun . Produced just before the onset of Talkies , the movie represents the high degree of expertise the Studios had attained in telling a story through the medium of filmed pantomime . Excellent production values , an exciting story and very good acting are all part of the mix in the film's success , while the climaxing special effects depicting the great 1906 San Francisco earthquake & fire are satisfying both visually and as plot development . Beautiful Dolores Costello is exceptional as the privileged young lady who must survive a terrible adventure into San Francisco's criminal depths , her lovely face & eyes conveying every emotion her character experiences . Joseph Swickard gives a noble performance as her proud , patrician grandfather . High-spirited Charles Emmett Mack ably fills the requisite hero's role as the courageous young Irish lawyer who loves Miss Costello . Looking like evil incarnate , Swedish actor Warner Oland steals a few scenes as the malicious malefactor who plots Miss Costello's undoing . Exotic Anna May Wong appears briefly as an Underworld minx . Tiny Angelo Rossitto is memorable as Oland's dwarf brother . Movie mavens will recognize Sojin as a Chinatown elder , John Miljan as a slightly craven Spanish-Californian , and Willie Fung as a smiling servant , all uncredited .
Splendid Historical Narrative	A brash young newspaper reporter is sent into the unexplored regions of Central Africa to find a highly revered missionary-explorer who has seemingly disappeared . This is the account of their meeting - a fateful encounter which would not only transform the young man , but would profoundly change the history of Africa itself . This is the story of STANLEY AND LIVINGSTONE . Here is one of the excellent adventure films from the golden year of 1939 & it is a very enjoyable evening's entertainment . More than just that , though . It is rare for Hollywood movies of the period to show actual spiritual epiphanies in the lives of their protagonists . That STANLEY AND LIVINGSTONE makes that significant attempt only adds to its prestige . Spencer Tracy does an admirable job as Stanley , who - in the movie , at least - is basically moved or motivated by the whims of others . The two men who control his destiny , his publisher and Livingstone , could not be more different ; yet each help prepare him for a profound spiritual turnabout in his life . Stanley's infatuation with a pretty English woman he meets in Zanzibar is also destined to lead only to inspiration , not love . Tracy's great skill as an actor helps make all these changes in Stanley's life clear to the audience . His delivery of one of the most famous greetings in history - ' Dr . Livingstone , I presume ? ' - is perfect , spoken with just the right mixture of relief , awe & absolute weariness . Walter Brennan has great fun with the role of an old Indian scout sent along to protect Stanley . Brennan - like Tracy , already a double Oscar winner - effortlessly walks away with several of his scenes . His colorful performance is a good counterpoint to Tracy's more mannered interpretation . Best of all is the quiet , understated performance of Sir Cedric Hardwicke as the saintly Livingstone . With his comely , calm voice , Sir Cedric , who does not appear until late in the film , easily captures the attention of the viewer . He makes his character come alive and helps us understand why Livingstone was so important and revered a figure in the 19th Century . He is the very picture of vital , vibrant , muscular Christianity . Leading his native converts in a spirited rendition of ' Onward ! Christian Soldiers , ' Sir Cedric gives the film its most delightful moments . ( This rousing hymn , with words by the Reverend Sabine Baring-Gould , was not set to music by Sir Arthur Sullivan until 1872 , so it's not possible Livingstone could have sung it in 1871 . A small quibble - it's still a great scene . ) The rest of the fine cast - Richard Greene , Charles Coburn , Henry Hull & especially Henry Travers - offer splendid support in small roles . To their great credit , 20th Century Fox actually sent a crew to British East Africa to film authentic safari footage which was then interspersed with shots of the actors . These on-location scenes , under the supervision of chief white hunter Captain A . J . Klein , add a great deal of veracity to the movie , providing views of natives , wildlife & scenery not possible to replicate in a Hollywood studio . ( Some of the resulting rear projection shots , with Tracy or Brennan superimposed over the real African film , are rather annoying in their fakery , but this is a very small irritation . ) As STANLEY AND LIVINGSTONE deals with the lives of two men who had a profound impact upon the Victorian world , a little check of the actual historical facts is in order . David Livingstone was born to a poor Scots family in 1813 . One of seven children , Livingston's family lived in a single room atop a tenement for laborers . Although working 14-hour days in a cotton mill , he eked out the time to educate himself . Becoming a committed Christian early in life , by the age of 20 he had determined to become a medical missionary . After studying in Glasglow , he was sent by the London Missionary Society , at the age of 27 , to South Africa in 1841 . Upon arriving , Livingstone walked the 600 miles to his mission station on the edge of the Kalahari Desert . He spent the next eight years very hard at work there and at his new mission at the headwaters of the Limpopo River , marrying a missionary's daughter and beginning to raise a young family . Then , feeling God wanted a change in his life , Livingstone began to explore the interior of the continent . If proper maps could be made of this vast unknown territory , he reasoned , Africa could be opened to missionaries , educators , scientists & geographers - all enhancing civilization , spreading Christianity & bringing about an end to the hideous Arab slave trade . Thus began a life of trekking that would take Livingstone over 29 , 000 miles . In 1849 & again in 1851 ( this time with his family ) Livingstone crossed the Kalahari , making contact with the natives of the Zambezi region . Sending his family back to Britain in 1852 , Livingstone spent the next four years trying to find a connection between the Zambezi and either African coast , in the hopes of opening up the interior to civilizing commerce . Although he failed in his quest , Livingstone became the first European to traverse the entire width of the Southern continent and to see the tremendous falls on the Zambezi , which he named Victoria Falls . Returning to England in 1856 to much laud & acclaim , he was given an audience with the Queen and met with enthusiastic crowds wherever he appeared . His book , Missionary Travels and Researches in South Africa , was a bestseller . Back to Africa in 1858 , ( with an official appointment as Her Majesty's Consul for the East Coast of Africa ) Livingstone's next expedition - up the Zambezi by steamboat - was met with tragedy . Members of the party , including Mrs . Livingstone in 1862 , died of malaria and the river proved ultimately unnavigable . Livingstone was ordered home to London in 1864 . Livingstone remained a hero to the public and the publication of his new book , Narrative of an Expedition to the Zambezi and Its Tributaries , only enhanced his reputation . In 1866 , under the auspices of the Royal Geographic Society and with the new appointment as British Consul for Central Africa , Livingstone began his last great quest - the search for the true source of the Nile . Spending the next seven years in fruitless wandering , and appalled by the sufferings of the slaves he encountered , Livingstone was broken in health and out of communication with England for nearly five years . There was enormous public interest as to his fate . It was at this point that Stanley tracked him down , in the village of Ujiji on Lake Tanganyika , in the Autumn of 1871 . After exploring near the Lake together , Stanley left in March of 1872 . Livingstone stayed behind , but continued his search , although in very ill health . He died while kneeling at prayer , on May 1 , 1873 , at the age of only 60 . As per his request , his heart was reverently buried in Africa . His porters carried his mummified body nearly a thousand miles to the sea , where it was returned to London . On April 18 , 1874 , Dr . David Livingstone was buried in Westminster Abbey . His epitaph , which includes a verse from St . John's Gospel , reads ' Brought by faithful hands over land and sea , here rests David Livingstone , missionary , traveller , philanthropist , born March 19 , 1813 , at Blantyre , Lanarkshire , died May 1 , 1873 , at Chitambo's village , Ulala . Other sheep have I which are not of this fold ; them also I must bring . ' Stanley was not , as many believe , American . Neither was he English , as the movie oddly insists . In fact he was Welsh and he was born John Rowlands in 1841 , to unmarried parents . After a wretchedly humiliating youth spent in a workhouse , he sailed as a cabin boy in 1859 to New Orleans . Taking the name of an early benefactor , Henry Stanley managed to fight on both sides of the American Civil War before being discharged for dysentery . After spending some time on Atlantic merchant ships , Stanley cultivated his flair for writing and became a newspaper correspondent in 1866 , traveling with the U . S . Cavalry in its conflicts with Midwest Indians . In 1867 Stanley joined the New York Herald and soon accompanied the British in their successful excursion against the self-proclaimed Emperor Theodore II of Ethiopia . From 1869 to 1871 , Stanley journeyed for the Herald to Suez , the Crimea , Persia & India before undertaking the assignment to find Livingstone . ( It was on this expedition that Stanley began the harsh , often cruel punishment of African resistance which would stain his reputation . ) The film is correct in depicting the British geographical hierarchy's disinclination to initially believe his claims as to finding the old doctor . Stanley's 1872 book , How I Found Livingstone became a bestseller and answered his critics . After reporting on the 1873 British assault against the Ashanti Kingdom on the Gold Coast , Stanley began his most ambitious & dangerous expedition yet : to fill in the blank spaces left by Livingstone's death in the knowledge of Central African topography . From 1874 until 1877 , Stanley traveled across the entire width of the continent from East to West , beginning in Zanzibar and finishing up at the mouth of the Congo . In betwixt , he circumnavigated & explored Lakes Victoria & Tanganyika , and traveled the lengths of the Lualaba & Congo Rivers . He survived a horrendous cannibal attack , virulent disease and the drowning & desertion of many of his native bearers . He once again showed his ruthlessness in dealing with defiance , at one point shooting dozens of villagers that showed hostility . Of the 359 individuals that started the trip with Stanley , only 108 finished it . His 1878 book , Through The Dark Continent , answered many questions in European minds about African geography . The major colonizing powers were not slow to take notice . In 1879 , Stanley undertook the interests of Belgian King Leopold II and spent 5 years helping to open the Congo region to commerce , as described in his 1885 book , The Congo And The Founding Of The Free State . Working for the British Crown , Stanley undertook the dangerous mission in 1888-89 to resupply & rescue the British Pasha of the Egyptian Sudan , who was surrounded & threatened by the fundamentalist Islamic forces of the mad Khalifa . This assignment , although with great loss of life , proved successful , as Stanley described in yet another book , In Darkest Africa , 1890 . Having lived through enough thrills for ten men , Stanley married in 1890 and began a series of lecture tours . In 1895 he entered Parliament and made his last tour of Africa in 1897 , which resulted in his final book , Through South Africa , 1898 . Henry Morton Stanley was knighted by Queen Victoria in 1899 for his services to Britain . Sir Henry died in 1904 & was also buried in Westminster Abbey . Together , Livingstone & Stanley hold the greatest responsibility for the exploration of Central Africa . The knowledge they gave to the world promoted Christianity in the region and helped to crush the slave trade . They also initiated the Scramble for Africa , in which the major European powers all took a chunk of the continent for themselves . This huge colonial land grab was completed by the time of Stanley's death . However , Livingstone's beneficent treatment of the Africans and his championing of their rights in no small measure helped directly influence their eventual nationalistic drives for self-determination & independence .
Shirley Shines in Soap Suds Musical	The precocious & incredibly talented little daughter of a widowed soap merchant dreams of living like a normal child . On her way to boarding school , she loses herself in New York City , changes her name and ends up living with a couple of ex-vaudeville performers . With spunk & vitality , the child makes them all stars of a radio show sponsored by her father's greatest business rival . Will she continue to enjoy her new freedom , or will her identity be revealed so that she once again becomes a POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL ? Shirley Temple is in top form in this winning film which gives her ample opportunity to display her many charms . She lights up the screen with her youthful joy . It's no wonder she was Hollywood's biggest star for several years . Shirley is given fine support from Jack Haley & Alice Faye as her musical partners , and Michael Whalen & Gloria Stuart as her father & his new lady love . Claude Gillingwater is very good as the crotchety business rival who is melted by Shirley's affection . That's Jane Darwell as Shirley's nanny & Henry Armetta scores as an Italian organ grinder . Film mavens should keep an eye out for Billy Gilbert , in a tiny bit as a hilarious waiter . Shirley sings ' Oh , My Goodness ' , ' When I'm With You ' & ' But Definitely ' and joins with Faye & Haley in ' You Gotta Eat Your Spinach , Baby ' & " Military Man " .
Oops ! Again	A Walt Disney Cartoon with DONALD DUCKDonald demonstrates HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT AT WORK . This informative little film cautions against wearing loose clothing near dangerous machinery , unsafe behavior around flames and the need for constant concentration . A follow-up to HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT IN THE HOME ( 1956 ) . Daisy has a cameo as Donald's blas spouse ; Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Little Sailor Man Still Enthralls	A POPEYE Cartoon . POPEYE THE SAILOR MEETS SINDBAD THE SAILOR when our spinach-munching hero pilots his ship too near the isle of the bearded braggart . After being attacked by Sindbad's foul pets , and with Olive Oyl in the clutches of the villain , it's time for Popeye to go into action . . . This was the first in a series of 3 excellent two-reel cartoons , created by Max Fleischer , in which Popeye & his friends are interpolated into the classic stories of The Arabian Nights . They feature great animation - notice the fascinating 3-D backgrounds - and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Jack Mercer is the voice of Popeye ; Mae Questel does the honors for Olive Oyl .
Another W . C . Fields Comedy Classic	It's 1883 and Professor Eustace P . McGargle , charlatan extraordinaire , arrives in the bucolic berg of Green Meadow . There he will attempt to deceive the local rubes into believing his beautiful daughter POPPY is heiress to an unclaimed fortune . Once again , the inimitable W . C . Fields manages to merge the lovable & the larcenous into a highly amusing package designed to delight even the most jaded audience . Watching him perform his classic routines - the temperance lecture , the croquet game , the instrumental solo - is to be in the hands of a comic master . And has cinema produced funnier frauds than The Talking Dog or Purple Bart's Sarsaparilla ? Probably not . Fields had played the flimflamming professor before - on Broadway in 1923 and in D . W . Griffith's silent SALLY OF THE SAWDUST and he had made the role his own . But Fields ' health was now at a low ebb after years of alcoholic overindulgence and he needed 10 months of rehabilitation and a sojourn in a sanitarium before beginning POPPY . And the filming itself was not without incident : his scene on the ? ordinary ' bicycle - which could have been handled by a stunt man - resulted in a fall that broke a vertebrae , leaving him in much pain . This is not apparent in his performance , however . ( Another accident after filming ended sent him back for a further stint in the hospital . ) Fields ' co-stars also do much to add to the high entertainment level of the film : Catherine Doucet & Lynne Overman play a conniving countess & shyster lawyer who have their own plans for getting their greedy hands on the envied greenbacks ; Maude Eburne is a fiercely protective old lady who befriends Poppy ; and skeletal Bill Wolfe is very droll as a gardener who refuses to be cheated by one of Fields ' scams . Movie mavens will recognize Dewey Robinson as the calliope driver who is one of Fields ' early victims . As the young lovers , you could scarcely have done any better than Rochelle Hudson & Richard Cromwell . Having both lit-up many a film during the 1930's , they bring a great deal of charm to their roles , even in scenes which spread on the sticky sentiment a bit too thick . And Miss Hudson supplies the film with its loveliest moment when she sings ? A Rendezvous With A Dream , ' a tune which definitely deserves to be revived . Fields , of course , dominates everything . Which is as it should be . However it is sad that the contributing factor to his eventual death - dipsomania - was already starting to destroy his body when he made this very funny film .
A Serious Snow Plight	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . RESCUE DOG Pluto is not at all amused when his precious keg of brandy is turned into a plaything by a friendly seal . Here is another in a long list of cartoons in which Pluto encounters a much smaller creature and is typical of all the rest - ordinary animation & a few good laughs . Although undeniably cute & frisky , this was to be Salty the Seal's only appearance in a Disney cartoon . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Garbo Sins	A young woman defies THE SINGLE STANDARD of morality which allows males freedom while restricting the behavior of females . Greta Garbo stars in this late silent trifle from MGM . Her flawless beauty is thawed somewhat by a script that allows her a sly sense of humor and a more approachable demeanor . Playing a character torn between the duties of a wife and the passions of a lover , she is always entertaining , even if the film isn't terribly significant . Nils Asther , who could almost match Garbo's exoticism , gives a fine performance as the celebrity artist whose adventurous lifestyle & romantic allure prove such a temptation to Garbo . Handsome Johnny Mack Brown gives a touch of nobility to his rather small role as the dull husband willing to sacrifice everything for Garbo's happiness . Elderly character actress Zeffie Tilbury scores as an observant society matron who speaks her mind . In unbilled roles , Robert Castle grabs the viewers ' attention as Garbo's tragic chauffeur and Wade Boteler provides a few chuckles as the merry masher who confronts Garbo in the rain . Movie mavens will recognize a young Joel McCrea as one of the trio of philandering husbands whose antics amuse Garbo in the film's opening moments .
In The Shadow Of Sugar Loaf	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . Sailing in under striking Sugar Loaf Mountain , this film introduces us to RIO DE JANEIRO , CITY OF SPLENDOUR . We visit some of the beautiful parks & gorgeous beaches , as well as view the intriguingly intricate patterned sidewalks . Finally , we are shown examples of the butterfly industry , in which tiny bits of the luminescent wings are glued together on glass to form pictures - the perfect souvenir of Rio . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise narration . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Donald Goes Nuts	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald's latest business enterprise - a roadside shop to make & sell his homemade walnut butter - attracts the hungry attentions of Chip ' n ' Dale . ALL IN A NUTSHELL is a humorous little film , but no different from the many others that pit the temperamental Duck against the feisty chipmunks . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice ; Chip ' n ' Dale are largely unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Mickey Tames The Wild West	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . When Miss Minnie is menaced by Bandit Pete , it's TWO-GUN MICKEY who comes riding to her rescue . Exciting & funny , as well as being a wonderful Western spoof , this was one of the best of the Mouse's black & white films . Sharp-eyed viewers will notice that the animators couldn't remember which leg Pete had pegged - it keeps switching from side to side . Walt Disney supplied Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
The First Silly Symphony Cartoon	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The powers of darkness are abroad one dark & stormy night . In a lonely churchyard , graves are opened and THE SKELETON DANCE is performed by four bony fellows who exhibit terpsichorean skills of the most sepulchral sort . The crowing of a cock signals the approach of daybreak and the ghastly hoofers hie themselves back into their grave . Carl W . Stalling , Disney's music director in the early days , arranged Grieg's ' March Of The Dwarfs ' as musical accompaniment to this first entry in the Symphonies series . With Ub Iwerks ' masterful drawing , this black & white cartoon still packs a punch today . In 1929 it proved to be completely different from the Studio's Mickey Mouse productions . Indeed , some theater owners found it to be too macabre and refused to show it . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
The Story Behind The Prize	An MGM John Nesbitt's PASSING PARADE Short Subject . The life of the celebrated inventor dynamite , and his attempt to stop warfare and influence the nations for peace , is portrayed in this moving short film . Paul Guilfoyle has the title role ; the Soldier's Mother is portrayed by Eleanor Wesselhoeft . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Cautionary Tale	An MGM CRIME DOES NOT PAY Short SubjectA crooked car dealer sells COFFINS ON WHEELS , used cars which are dangerously unfit to be on the road . This little film served as an admonition to car buyers to only purchase vehicles from reputable dealers . It is well made and fast moving , getting its message across effectively . Darryl Hickman plays the tragic young Billy . Allan Lane is the determined police lieutenant . The vile car dealer is performed by Cy Kendall and his sleazy salesman by an uncredited John Gallaudet . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Puppy Love With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie are sharing a room in a boarding house with their cute canine , LAUGHING GRAVY . Trouble is , mutts aren't allowed on the premises and what the Boys go through to keep theirs hidden shouldn't happen to a dog . . . A hilarious little film , one of the best , although ending with a suicide is a bit much . Highlight : Stan & Ollie on the roof . That's Charlie Hall as the ferocious landlord .
Miss Oliver & Mr . Herbert Aim To Please	The no-nonsense wife of a whimsical , unemployed inventor knows it's impossible to LAUGH AND GET RICH . This mildly amusing little movie is blessed with the talents of two of Hollywood's finest character actors - Miss Edna May Oliver & Mr . Hugh Herbert . As usual , they both give their full effort , wringing all they can out of their lines . Alas , the script gives them scant support , indecisive as to whether it wants to be a domestic comedy or a drama . Much of the time is spent dealing with the characters ' financial woes and it is difficult to get many laughs from penury . But the two leads are worth watching , irregardless , if only for their one wonderful scene , in which an inebriated Oliver & compliant Herbert joyously compel an entire party of stuffy society types to unbend and romp about the room to the music of ' Pop ! Goes The Weasel . ' Kewpie doll-cute Dorothy Lee ( doubtless on parole from Wheeler & Woolsey ) plays their daughter , a young lady replete with all the requisite romantic difficulties . Oliver's boarding house tenants include elderly , deaf Charles Sellon & Italian immigrant George Davis , an artist handicapped by his inability to paint anything but cows . Movie mavens will recognize teenager Rochelle Hudson at the country club dance and Ivan Lebedeff as the oily Count at the party , both uncredited .
Frank Capra's Cinderella Story	An old apple seller on Broadway panics when she learns her daughter is returning to New York City with her European fianc . What will happen when the girl discovers her mother is not a high society matron , as she supposes her to be ? Only a notorious racketeer can help her become a LADY FOR A DAY . May Robson is superb in this early Frank Capra film . She steals every scene she's in as Apple Annie , the harridan sidewalk vendor . This was a plum role & Miss Robson knew how to exploit it to the limit . Glenda Farrell & Guy Kibbee are both excellent in supporting roles - she as a nightclub owner and he as an eccentric judge . Walter Connolly is fun as a suspicious Spanish Count . Warren William is good as Dave the Dude , the criminal boss who comes to Annie's aid because her apples are good luck for him . Halliwell Hobbes is all proper British decorum as Annie's borrowed butler . Acerbic Ned Sparks & dense Nat Pendleton are both enjoyable as the Dude's henchmen . That's an uncredited Ward Bond as the mounted policeman at the very beginning of the film . This film is bursting with charm .
Elopers , Take Warning !	The Dover Road takes two pairs of adulterous lovers to the eccentric mansion WHERE SINNERS MEET . Based on a play by A . A . Milne ( the creator of Winnie-the-Pooh ) , this forgotten little film will come as a surprise & delight for discriminating viewers who enjoy sophisticated repartee & witty dialogue . Virtually no action occurs , but there is almost endless talk on a rather high intellectual level . Except for the opening & closing scenes , the entire plot takes place at the house and grounds of a rather splendid residence in the South of England . While this only heightens the feeling of watching a filmed play , all is forgiven amid the pleasure of enjoying what the characters are saying . Clive Brook stars as the mysterious Mr . Latimer , who enforces a gentle morality upon his indiscreet house guests . Brook was an elegant actor , excellent with dialogue , who could communicate his feelings with the bare minimum of inflection or movement . Here he's given a wonderful opportunity to show his skills to advantage , starting with his eccentric entrance heralded by marching , regimented servants . Diana Wynyard , cool & crisp , adds her no-nonsense presence as a charming young woman literally halted on her road towards making a big romantic mistake . Blustery , bellowing Reginald Owen & fluttery , smothering Billie Burke portray a noble couple who each attempt to escape from their stultifying marriage . They are vastly entertaining . Alan Mowbray plays a decent yet boring chap who still has a few lessons to learn in the game of love . Gilbert Emery is properly droll as a butler with unusual skills .
Superman Saves The Circus	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . The Circus has come to town and girl reporter Lois Lane has been assigned to cover it . It's all pretty routine , until Gigantic , the huge & terrifying ape , escapes and spreads TERROR ON THE MIDWAY . With the enraged simian menacing Lois , it looks like a job for Superman . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons Max Fleischer produced for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane . And isn't that the voice of Jack ? Popeye ' Mercer as the first sideshow barker ?
Happy Fingers	A small boy plots to upset the grand performance by THE 5 , 000 FINGERS OF DR . T . to be held in the sinister Terwilliker Institute . The whimsical world of Dr . Seuss first saw expression in a Hollywood feature film in this fast-paced fantasy which examines a child's musical nightmare . Although it was a financial & critical disappointment when initially released , it has established itself comfortably as a nostalgic favorite for Baby Boomers who first discovered it decades ago . Dr . Seuss ( Theodor Seuss Geisel , 1904-1991 ) wrote the original story , co-authored the script and penned the lyrics in his own inimitable style . The action plays itself out over vast , curvaceous sets which will immediately seem familiar to readers of his books , while the brightly colored costumes make the players look like characters from the good Doctor's stories come to life . Completely dominating the movie in the title role is the marvelous character actor Hans Conried ( 1917-1982 ) , gleefully breathing life into the part of the mad piano teacher who schemes to force 500 little lads into performing his compositions at a gigantic keyboard . Conried is wonderfully funny , striding about , leering , snorting & chortling as he plots his nefarious plans . He attacks the role with relish , nasally enunciating every syllable with his unique diction , softening his villainy with a thin veneer of unctuous civility . This was Conried's finest on-camera performance , but 1953 would also present him in the part for which he is perhaps best remembered , voicing Captain Hook in Disney's animated PETER PAN . The other three performers in the movie : Tommy Rettig as the much beleaguered boy attempting to thwart the evil Terwilliker ; Mary Healy as his lovely , albeit mesmerized , Mom ; and Peter Lind Hayes as a friendly , deadpanned plumber , all do very well with their roles , but their ordinariness , like that of Dorothy in Oz , make them pale in comparison beside Conried . The film , which delivers perhaps an unnecessarily nasty knock to piano teachers , does come across with some fine songs , ranging from Rettig's plaintive ' Because We're Kids ' to Conried's hilarious ' Dressing Song . ' Also on view is the bizarre Dungeon Dance , in which kidnapped male orchestra members present one of the most unusual terpsichorean displays ever seen in a kiddie film .
Tribute To The Lost Generation	Four former flying aces , scarred both physically & emotionally , make THE LAST FLIGHT through the bars of Paris & Lisbon with an eccentric American girl . Well-crafted & poignant , this film tells the sad tale of American World War One buddies whose lives are essentially over with the cessation of the conflict . Aimless & drifting , but seemingly very well financed , they stagger from bar to bar , looking for the forgetfulness that comes with drunken oblivion . If not for the noble loyalty they feel for each other their story , and the sundering of their quartet , would be almost unremittingly lugubrious . Director William Dieterle was given fine service by his cast : silent screen star Richard Barthelmess , leader of the band , as a pilot sensitive about his burned hands ; gunner David Manners dealing with a nervous tic in his left eye ; country boy Johnny Mack Brown letting high jinks and alcohol define his new existence ; and sharpshooter Elliott Nugent , shell-shocked into extreme lethargy . Helen Chandler is remarkable as the highly unusual young woman who is allowed to become an essential part of the fliers ' lives . Her kooky vagueness and affection for pet turtles is most endearing . Walter Byron gives an effective performance as a caustic reporter who tags along with the others for his own motives . At one point in the story Mr . Barthelmess & Miss Chandler visit the cemetery of Pre-Lachaise in Paris , where he tells her something of the history of the tragic lovers Pierre Ablard ( 1079-1142 ) and Hlose ( 1098-1164 ) , who lie interred there . Barthelmess mentions the terrible revenge visited upon Ablard by the Canon Fulbert , the uncle of Hlose , without actually saying what it was . Even with Pre-Code liberality , forced castration was not a subject to be broached lightly .
A Duck Tale With Chipmunks	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald's TRAILER HORN alerts Chip ' n ' Dale to his attempts to enjoy a quiet vacation camping under their tree . Here is another routine Duck versus Chipmunks film . The animation is unremarkable , but the antagonists are always fun to watch . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice ; the Chipmunks are virtually unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
An American Travesty	Falsely imprisoned for a crime he didn't commit , THE PRISONER OF SHARK ISLAND tries to maintain his dignity under vile circumstances . This is director John Ford's exciting and passionate tale of real-life Dr . Samuel Mudd , who , having set John Wilkes Booth's broken leg after Lincoln's assassination , was swept up in the hysteria following the President's death . Convicted of conspiracy , Dr . Mudd was sentenced to incarceration at Fort Jefferson in the Dry Tortugas south of Florida , a hellish , mosquito-infested prison where savage brutality was commonplace and escape attempts futile . In one of his best roles , Warner Baxter gives a searing portrait as Dr . Mudd . While some of the plot situations are purely fanciful , Baxter never lets the viewer forget that this is the story of a real man unfolding before us . Whether vociferously proclaiming his innocence , vainly struggling to escape his hideous confinement or valiantly attempting to fight back an onslaught of yellow fever , Baxter is never anything less than completely compelling . Equally fascinating is John Carradine as the sadistic prison sergeant who torments Mudd ; with his gimlet eye and sadistic grin , Carradine sets the seal on the sinister persona he'd project for the rest of his career . The beloved silent Western cowboy star Harry Carey plays the warden of Fort Jefferson with realism & good grace . Gloria Stuart as Mudd's valiant wife and Claude Gillingwater as his fierce old father-in-law give firm support . Vivid character portrayals are given by O . P . Heggie as the prison's doomed doctor , Francis McDonald as Booth and Paul Fix as his accomplice David Herold . A cast standout is Ernest Whitman as Buck , Mudd's faithful field hand who attempts to rescue him . Movie mavens should recognize Jan Duggan & Dick Elliott as the performers on stage at Ford's Theatre and Our Gang's Matthew ? Stymie ' Beard as the lad come to fetch the Doctor to a birthing - all uncredited . Director Ford's love of American history is plainly manifest in this frequently factual film . His reconstructions of the death of Lincoln ( movingly played by Frank McGlynn Sr . ) and the execution of the conspirators all have the look of antique illustrations . The entire film has excellent production values , with the Fort Jefferson sets being particularly well conceived . The film depicts three of Booth's conspirators being executed for the murder . Actually , four individuals were hung on 7 July 1865 : Lewis Powell ( he stabbed & wounded an invalided Secretary of State Seward ) , George A . Atzerodt ( he was assigned to murder Vice President Johnson ) , David E . Herold ( who had accompanied Booth on his flight from Washington ) and Mrs . Mary Surratt ( she owned the boarding house where Booth met with his gang and may have been completely innocent ) . Two other men , along with Dr . Mudd , were given life sentences . The stagehand who held Booth's horse at the back of the theatre was given eight years . And what of the other three people in the presidential box at Ford's Theatre that fateful night ? Already emotionally fragile , Mrs . Mary Lincoln would eventually go mad and have to be placed in an asylum by her son . The Lincolns ' guests were Miss Clara Harris and her fianc Major Henry R . Rathbone . They would marry , but Henry would also go insane and murder Clara in a fit of rage . Dr . Mudd's health was permanently affected by his time at Fort Jefferson , and , although released , he would die in 1883 , the year of his 50th birthday .
A Cinematic Vienna Torte	Beat until thick a highly libidinous young officer of the Guards . Sift together and stir in a pompous little king and his dowdy princess daughter . Whip in gradually a lovely female violinist . Gently fold in some beautiful music and a liberal amount of highly suggestive dialogue . Lightly bake in a mythical kingdom for 88 minutes . The results - THE SMILING LIEUTENANT . Director Ernst Lubitsch created a triumph in this scintillating pre-Code film which is as light and airy now as it was when first released . Replete with wonderful performances & an effervescent script , it is still sophisticated and remarkably frank . Lubitsch relied heavily on the intelligence of his audience . He knew that a delicate touch would be appreciated by those able to anticipate & understand the nuances of his humor . The fact that this worked so beautifully with both his dialogue and the film music - ( songs and background music , which serve to move the plot right along ) - only one year after Hollywood fully embraced sound pictures shows the genius of the director's craft . Oozing Gallic charm , Maurice Chevalier lets his musical skills and highly facile face telegraph to the audience exactly what kind of an amorous rogue his character is . Madly in love with the beautiful Claudette Colbert , but forced to wed the ( slightly ) frumpy Miriam Hopkins , he is highly amusing as he watches his romantic house of cards come crashing down . The ladies also add greatly to the fun , with sleek Colbert advising pouty Hopkins in song to jazz up her lingerie if she wants to win Chevalier's attentions . ( The idea that Hopkins must transform into a wanton woman to entice her husband to commence his connubial responsibilities is dubious at best . ) George Barbier plays the easily offended corpulent King of Flausenthurm . Wonderful character actor Charlie Ruggles is hilarious in the small role of the officer who wishes to woo Colbert first . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Elizabeth Patterson as the elderly baroness attending on the Princess .
A Yuletide Gift From Thomas Alva Edison	THE AVDENTURE OF THE WRONG SANTA CLAUS begins when two very different fellows - an amateur detective & a robber - both don Santa suits . . . This is an agreeable little film , with some pleasant romantic touches at the end . Notice how the items on the shelves of the toy shop are blowing around quite vigorously - a sure sign that the scene was filmed out of doors on one of Edison's primitive roofless one-wall sets . Al Kryszak provided the score for the video compilation A Christmas Past , in which this film appears .
Comin ' Clean With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Rich kid Waldo is supposed to be practicing his violin , but he's actually playing football with the Gang on the vacant lot next door . But chaos is assured when his friends ( and Pete the dog ) invade his mother's Ladies ' Club card party . A funny little film . Highlights : Spanky as a football referee ; Pete & the monkey . The title WASHEE IRONEE refers to the kid from the Chinese Laundry Spanky enlists to deal with Waldo's soiled ( and shrunken ) clothes . That's Tiny Sandford as the hapless traffic cop ; Billy Gilbert dubbed the Butler's sneeze .
Misses Oliver & Burke Spark Forgotten Screwball Comedy	A once affluent Santa Barbara family , hounded by persistent creditors , hope to rejoice ' WE'RE RICH AGAIN ' if they can marry their oldest daughter off to a very wealthy twit . Then a pretty little country cousin shows up to complicate everything . . . This sadly neglected screwball comedy from the 1930's offers manifold delights arising from its farcical plot & wonderful cast . Only a decade of over-abundant cinematic riches could afford to forget a perfectly fine film such as this . While not a great classic of its genre , such as BRING UP BABY or NOTHING SACRED , it still has much amusement to offer the lucky viewer . Edna May Oliver & Billie Burke , both unforgettable & utterly irreplaceable , are delightful as the two stars of the film . Wisecracking , polo-playing granny Oliver , frequently found in the company of her gaggle of young men , utters sardonic comments on the plot & the behavior of the other characters . Vague , fluttery Burke , perpetually in a state of mental abstraction , adds her own brand of kookiness to the story line . Olympic medalist Buster Crabbe is hilarious , spoofing himself as a champion swimmer who wears nothing but swimming trunks the entire film , even while attending a fancy garden wedding . Edgar Kennedy , as a process server unable to proceed past the driveway , gets to display his famous ' slow burn ' to great advantage . The other supporting players ( Reginald Denny , Grant Mitchell , Marian Nixon & Joan Marsh ) all ably assist with the general pandemonium .
Mangled Melody	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey and his pals are all set to make their orchestral debut on the Macaroni SYMPHONY HOUR - not knowing that Goofy has virtually destroyed their instruments . Many younger viewers may not realize that this very funny little film is set during the broadcast of an old-time live radio show . John McLeish is the program's announcer ; Mickey's musicians consist of Donald Duck , Goofy , Clarabelle Cow , Horace Horsecollar and the marvelous Madame Clara Cluck , who inexplicably is given only a few seconds of screen time and was about to disappear from Disney cartoons altogether for forty-one years . Pete is hilarious as Sylvester Macaroni , the program's sponsor . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Chaney's Double Triumph	The terrible trial of MR WU begins with his daughter's first love . Lon Chaney once again gives scope to his prodigious talent , this time portraying a wealthy Mandarin who is compelled to commit the ultimate crime to avenge his family honor . Chaney inhabits the role , making every glance & gesture perfect for his portrayal of the character . Even while performing despicable acts , Chaney makes the viewer experience his private pain in an almost visceral way . Chaney also portrays ancient Grandfather Wu in the film's opening scenes , exhibiting an astonishing make-up transformation that is practically preternatural . Much of the screen time is given over to Chaney's younger costars . French actress Rene Adore provides a beautifully poignant portrayal of Wu's lovely , tragic daughter . Englishman Ralph Forbes , one of the most under-appreciated actors of his generation , gives a stalwart performance as her handsome Western lover . The tender romance of their scenes provides the film with its softer , more sentimental moments . Louise Dresser plays Forbes ' patrician mother , a woman somewhat isolated by her social status who is suddenly , violently , brought into confrontation with Wu's implacable vengeance . Holmes Herbert does well with his short role as her bigoted husband . Delicate Anna May Wong portrays Miss Adore's faithful servant girl . The silent film is given excellent production values by MGM , with the beautiful sets being especially noteworthy .
Blue Ribbon Winner	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . A proud Mickey takes Pluto to the SOCIETY DOG SHOW , where romance , ridicule & high adventure all await . . . This is an excellent little film , made during Disney's Golden Age - the animation , gags , and exciting climax are all first rate . Fifi only appeared in a mere handful of cartoons as Pluto's heartthrob ; she gives her most playful performance here . Walt Disney supplied Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Pup Tale With Coyote	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . The tremendous battle between sheep dog Pluto & old Bent-Tail the varmint is part of THE LEGEND OF COYOTE ROCK . The animation & story are both fairly routine in this little film . This was the first of four cartoons to feature Bent-Tail as Pluto's desertland nemesis . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Sinning Stanwyck Sizzles	The hard-boiled dames locked up at San Quentin State Penitentiary are some of the LADIES THEY TALK ABOUT . Barbara Stanwyck stars in this very enjoyable pre-Code crime drama which takes a Hollywood look at women's lives behind bars . The acting is strictly of the ham variety , with a few histrionics , some heart-string tugging and a surprisingly large dollop of comedy thrown in . Some of the plot developments are absolutely ludicrous , but the viewer should never get bored . Stanwyck is terrific as the female member of a small-time gang of crooks . Prison gives her a chance to get really tough in order to deal with her situation , but the audience always knows that just a few moments with the right man will have her ( rather unconvincingly ) melting like butter . Whether brawling with a vicious inmate , assisting in an escape attempt , or going gunning for the guy she thinks betrayed her , Stanwyck is always right on the money for entertainment value . Three female costars give Stanwyck some great support in the prison scenes . Lillian Roth , as the lighthearted inmate who befriends Barbara , nearly steals the show with her perky personality ; she gives the movie one of its brightest moments when she croons ' If I Could Be With You ' to a fan photo of comic Joe E . Brown . Frowzy Maude Eburne is a hoot as a bawdy former madam who likes to reminisce about her old ' beauty parlor ' from the comfort of her rocking chair . Good-natured Ruth Donnelly is a nice addition , in a small role , as an Irish matron with a big white parrot . Preston Foster , as a reform revivalist who remembers Stanwyck from their childhood together in Benicia , California , gives an earnest performance , stalwart & steady . Lyle Talbot and Harold Huber appear as members of Stanwyck's gang . Elderly Robert McWade makes the most of his performance as Los Angeles ' wily District Attorney . Movie mavens will spot some fine character actors appearing unbilled : rotund DeWitt Jennings as a cagey police detective ; Helen Ware as the no-nonsense prison head matron ; Madame Sul-Te-Wan as Mustard , the sassy prisoner who's terrified of parrots ; Robert Warwick as San Quentin's stern warden . And that's dear Mary Gordon who appears for only a few scant seconds as a laughing white-haired inmate in the Visiting Room .
The End Of An Era For America's Sweetheart	A spunky stock girl in a large department store falls in love with the handsome son of the owner , who is working there incognito . Their ripening romance is threatened , however , by the antics of their two families . Wonderfully warm & witty , MY BEST GIRL was Mary Pickford's last silent film . In it she bids farewell to the flickering shadows which made her the world's most famous celebrity . Fortunately , as her silent swan song , it is a very good picture , with excellent production values and equal dollops of comedy & heartbreak . Mary's face , and especially her eyes , express her every mood . This was the face of the shrewd & powerful woman who in a significant measure had created the motion picture industry - and who so soon would be leaving it . Her co-star is young Charles ' Buddy ' Rogers , who would score a huge success this same year of 1927 as the star of the epic WINGS , winner of the first Oscar for Best Picture . Here he displays the charm for which he became famous . Although 12 years younger than Mary in real life , he was a good knight to her lady in distress , protecting & loving her through her final silent film . The rest of the cast is also very good : Lucian Littlefield as Pickford's tiny , ineffectual father ; Sunshine Hart as her massive , emotional mother , a woman whose greatest delight is going to strangers ' funerals ; and Carmelita Geraghty as her flapper sister . Hobart Bosworth gives dignity to the role of Rogers ' father . Comic Mack Swain appears as a harried judge . Movie mavens will recognize Nigel De Brulier in a poignant role as a crippled match seller . The film has been restored and given an evocative new score . It will delight fans of Pickford & the silent cinema for years to come . After MY BEST GIRL , Pickford made four talkies and even won an Academy Award , but she retired from the screen in 1933 , very wealthy , her legend intact , and involved herself in various good works . Her divorce from Douglas Fairbanks came in 1936 and she married ' Buddy ' Rogers in 1937 , becoming , in truth , his best girl . For the next 42 years he cared for her , as age and alcohol took their toll on Little Mary . Pickford became increasingly secluded in Pickfair , rarely leaving the upper floors of her fabled mansion in her last years . She did not want her fans to see the old woman she had become . Surprisingly , she did make a TV appearance for a few moments in 1976 when she accepted an Honorary Oscar . Then it was back into the shadows . America's Sweetheart died in May of 1979 at the age of 87 . Never a great movie star , but a very well-loved gentleman , ' Buddy ' Rogers involved himself with charities & various humanitarian causes . He died in 1999 , at the age of 94 .
A Silent Classic	Freed from the strictures of the Karlsburg royal palace to attend University , THE STUDENT PRINCE IN OLD HEIDELBERG experiences true love for the first time . This wonderful , exuberant , heartbreaking film - one of the last major movies of the Silent Era - is a scintillating example of the artistry of director Ernst Lubitsch . Filled with wry humor & aching pathos , Lubitsch tells a tale which is a persuasive paean to the power of the talkless film . MGM had great faith in this movie & gave it excellent production values , with crowds of extras and picture-perfect sets & costumes . Based in part on the Wilhelm Meyer-Frster novel & the operetta by Sigmund Romberg , the film revels in romanticism . Ramon Novarro , always eager to please his audience , brings great charm to the title role . Although about 10 years too old to be playing a typical university freshman , he nonetheless brings tremendous enthusiasm to the role . It was this essential boyishness which encouraged MGM to continue giving him roles which were too young for him ( in 1932's HUDDLE he would play a Yale freshman ) . The Studio also insisted on giving their Mexican star a wide range of ethnic parts , everything from Chinese to Arab . He played them all well , but none better than here in STUDENT PRINCE . It is a shame that Hollywood would not reciprocate by giving him topnotch assignments . Norma Shearer is radiant as Kathi , the vivacious & lovely barmaid who is beloved by the Prince . She gives a wonderful performance in what was considered a breakthrough role for her . She married MGM executive Irving Thalberg the same year STUDENT PRINCE was released and her stardom at the Studio was firmly established . She earned her celebrity through hard work and honest talent , however , not by noodling with the boss . Jean Hersholt , as the Prince's gentle tutor , puts his own stamp on the kind of sympathetic role with which he would become associated . Miles removed from his villainous portrayals in TESS OF THE STORM COUNTRY ( 1922 ) or GREED ( 1925 ) , Hersholt here is the very embodiment of benevolence . Gustav von Seyffertitz as the cold King , Edmund Connelly as the stern Prime Minister & Bobby Mack as an old rustic retainer all add very fine support . Movie mavens will recognize Lionel Belmore as a boisterous student & Charles K . Arthur as a drowsy inebriate , both unbilled . Carl Davis supplied one of his typically bravura scores for the home video reissue of the film . He conducts the English Chamber Orchestra . While Karlsburg is a fictitious Teutonic kingdom , Heidelberg is a very real city located in the German state of Baden-Wrttemberg . As ancient capital of the Rhenish Palatinate , its electoral counts - always a branch of the Wittelsbach royal family of Bavaria - played a significant role in the history of both the Holy Roman Empire and Central Europe . Although originally Roman Catholic , political vicissitudes brought about a change to Protestantism centuries ago . Heidelberg University was founded in 1386 by Count Rupert I & chartered the same year by Pope Urban VI . After a period of dissolution , it was revitalized in the 19th Century as a center of the sciences , law & philosophy . Town & gown are both overlooked by Heidelberg Castle , one of Europe's mightiest fortresses , where it sits on its hill 330 feet above the Neckar River . Its cellars contains the fabled Heidelberg Tun , a prodigious 18th Century wine cask capable of holding 49 , 000 gallons - surely a source of wonder to the Student Prince & his classmates . . .
Smooth Skating With Sonja Henie	The skating instructor at a luxury Swiss hotel finds herself on THIN ICE when she is linked romantically with a handsome foreign prince . Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . Quickly going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . Some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . The plot of THIN ICE is utterly ludicrous , but this was never meant to be anything but escapist fare . All that's required of Sonja is that she smile & skate , which she manages very nicely . Her routines based on themes inspired by Old Russia & ' The Tales of the Vienna Woods ' are particularly pleasing . Tyrone Power , 20th Century Fox's young prince , plays Sonja's love interest . He exhibits much of the boyish charm which was about to make him a major celebrity . Supporting the two stars is a flurry of wonderful character actors : stiff-upper-lipped Arthur Treacher , conniving Raymond Walburn , blustery Alan Hale , frantic Melville Cooper , Sig Rumann , George Givot & Greta Meyer . Slapstick comedienne Joan Davis surfaces long enough to sing a couple of wacky songs , most notably ' I'm Olga From The Volga . ' Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of silver over frozen water .
Masterly Crime Drama	A hideous crime rocks a Deep South community and those who exploited it know THEY WON'T FORGET the part they played in the shame & violence that ensued . Of all the hard-hitting dramas produced by Warner Brothers Studio in the 1930's , this was one of the most powerful . Absolutely no holds are barred in showing the aftermath of the murder of a pretty college girl and how events took on a life of their own - crushing the innocent lives who got in the way of the town's thirst for revenge . The film starts whimsically with six ancient Confederate veterans - among them Harry Davenport , Harry Beresford & Edward McWade - on a park bench , reminiscing upon the dim past & wondering if their contributions will be remembered . Poignantly , evil is about to reemerge and the old men will soon disappear , the dead ashes of the past engulfed by the passionate flames of the present . An urgent plea against sectarian hatred & mindless violence , the film sweeps the viewer along to its ultimate shattering climax . Claude Rains gives a knock-out performance as the local politician who sees the murder as a chance to sweep him into the State Senate . Using his considerable vocal talent - even with his somewhat bizarre idea of a Southern accent - Rains steamrollers over nearly everyone else in the cast , deftly showing his character's utter fixation on prosecuting the case . Kudos should also be extended to Edward Norris as the Northern teacher accused of the murder ; Lana Turner as the victim ; Elisha Cook Jr . as her strangely nervous boyfriend ; and especially Clinton Rosemond as the terrified black janitor who discovers the crime . Although Warners is at pains at the outset to deny any connection the story might have with an actual occurrence , the film is roughly based on the notorious 1913 murder of Atlanta factory worker Mary Phagan .
Hugh Herbert Sparks Comedy / Drama	An eccentric gentleman helps a pair of young lovers get started in life . The gentle , whimsical humor of Hugh Herbert highlights THAT MAN'S HERE AGAIN , a little tale of romantic difficulties . Always enjoyable to watch , particularly in a big film with seasoned costars with which to interact , here Herbert is not given quite enough to satisfy his fans . Not until the closing sequence is his zany quirkiness given fuller rein and he turns what has been essentially a drama into light comedy . It's worth the wait . Tom Brown & Mary Maguire play the elevator operator and maid whose happiness Herbert determines to ensure . Brown portrayed the stalwart juvenile lead in many movies during the 1930's and he always turned in a good performance . Miss Maguire , with her charming Australian accent , is radiant ; a real joy to watch . It is a shame major Hollywood stardom eluded her . The title obviously refers to Herbert , but otherwise is meaningless . Interestingly , the mystery surrounding Miss Maguire's past is never explained - - a surprising loose end considering the requirements of the Production Code .
Pluto & Dem Dry Bones	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Pluto discovers that the BONE BANDIT who's been stealing his snacks is a feisty garden gopher . This is another in a lengthy series of rather routine - but enjoyable - cartoons in which Pluto is confronted by a critter much smaller than himself , the difference here being that the gopher is quite bellicose and very willing to get tough with the Pup . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Beware The Full Moon & What It Brings !	A creepy laboratory where eccentric doctors engage in bizarre experiments . An intrepid reporter & a beautiful young woman involving themselves in terrible danger . And a fiendish strangler who only strikes during the full moon . . . DOCTOR X does have an absurd plot , but it is undeniably entertaining to watch . Much of the credit for this must go to the look of the film . Art Director Anton Grot designed some very spooky interior sets . The Max Factor make-up is striking . And both elements are enhanced because this was one of the first movies to be shot in two-strip Technicolor . Lee Tracy , one of the most enjoyable actors of the early 1930's , plays another in his long line of fast-talking wise-crackers - this time a newspaperman out to get a big story . Fay Wray is lovely as always & gets to use her famous scream ( a year before KING KONG ) . Lionel Atwill hams it up a bit as the instigator of many of the more unusual elements in the plot .
Tracking The Culprit	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Rookie police dog Pluto is on the trail of poor Ronnie , THE PURLOINED PUP , dognapped by the evil Butch . This funny little film features plenty of action as Pluto & Butch chase each other throughout a deserted mansion and an industrial pipe yard . This was only one of a tiny handful of cartoons in which Ronnie appeared . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Miss Blondell & Miss Farrell Are At It Again	Two smart dames must take it on the lam when a jealous hoodlum goes out of control . KANSAS CITY PRINCESS was the sort of ephemeral comic frippery which Warner Brothers Studio produced almost effortlessly during the 1930's . Well made & highly enjoyable , Depression audiences couldn't seem to get enough of these popular , funny photo dramas . Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell are perfectly cast as the sassy , fast-talking females who use their wiles to get them all the way to Paris . Unlike their other films , the gals have an even parity here , equally sharing the wisecracks and what little romantics the plot tosses their way . Robert Armstrong does very well as the somewhat dense petty gangster who precipitates the girls ' flight . Hugh Herbert , wacky & whimsical as ever , appears as a hapless millionaire who befriends Blondell & Farrell , making use of them in a hilariously inept plan to catch his faithless wife . Smaller roles are very nicely filled by T . Roy Barnes & Hobart Cavanaugh as two free spirited aldermen who happily assist the girls when they need it most ; and Ivan Lebedeff as the wily Russian doctor who is cuckolding Herbert . Movie mavens will recognize Arthur Houseman as a inebriate getting a manicure from Blondell ; and Lillian Harmer as the formidable Girls of America leader , both unbilled . While never stars of the first rank , Joan Blondell ( 1906-1979 ) & Glenda Farrell ( 1904-1971 ) enlivened scores of films at Warner Bros . throughout the 1930's , especially the eight in which they appeared together . Whether playing gold diggers or working girls , reporters or secretaries , these blonde & brassy ladies were very nearly always a match for whatever leading man was lucky enough to share equal billing alongside them . With a wisecrack or a glance , their characters showed they were ready to take on the world - and any man in it . Never as wickedly brazen as Paramount's Mae West , you always had the feeling that , tough as they were , Blondell & Farrell used their toughness to defend vulnerable hearts ready to break over the right guy . While many performances from seven decades ago can look campy or contrived today , these two lovely ladies are still spirited & sassy .
A Fine John Gilbert Talkie	Karl , the new chauffeur , is dissatisfied with his situation as a DOWNSTAIRS servant in the Baron's Austrian castle . Completely immoral , he uses sexual blackmail to get what he wants - which is mostly money & power . But when he forces his attentions on Anna the maid , the butler's bride , he sets the stage for a confrontation even he can't handle . According to cinematic legend , all the talkie MGM films starring John Gilbert were dreadful - the result of a bitter hatred between Gilbert ( the highest paid star in Hollywood , with a $1 . 5 million contract ) & studio boss Louis B . Mayer . A determination on Gilbert's part to fulfill the contract , and a campaign instituted by Mayer to destroy Gilbert's career - including spreading the rumor that Gilbert's voice was ' high & feminine ' , culminated in several unwatchable movies . Not entirely true . The Studio had a huge financial investment in Jack Gilbert and was not going to completely cut its own throat by showcasing him in nothing but dreck . Of the 8 talkies in which he appeared as solo star ( 1929 - HIS GLORIOUS NIGHT ; 1930 - REDEMPTION ; WAY FOR A SAILOR ; 1931 - GENTLEMAN'S FATE ; THE PHANTOM OF PARIS ; WEST OF BROADWAY ; 1932 - DOWNSTAIRS ; 1933 - FAST WORKERS ) most were certainly rather ghastly . DOWNSTAIRS , however , was quite decent , and , indeed , fully representative of the material the studio was producing in 1932 . It is even based on Gilbert's own original story , and features good atmosphere & fine camerawork . Gilbert is perfectly cast as the anti-hero of this pre-Production Code film . His smarmy charm is just right in a role which gives him very little sympathy from the audience . Paul Lukas , the fine Hungarian actor , is the real hero as Albert the butler . He effectively underplays his scenes & garners much of the attention from Gilbert . The rest of the cast offers excellent support : Virginia Bruce as Lukas ' innocent wife ; Reginald Owen as the oafish Baron ; Olga Baclanova as the stunning Baroness , one of Gilbert's victims ; Bodil Rosing , most effective as the plump , aging cook infatuated with Gilbert . Hedda Hopper has a tiny role as a Countess who has run into Gilbert before , to her cost . Movie mavens will recognize Karen Morley , uncredited at the very end , as Gilbert's new employer . Finally , about The Voice . There was nothing at all strange or unnaturally high about Gilbert's speaking voice . As a matter of fact , it was of medium range and rather cultured & refined . Which was the crux of the problem , of course . While it is possible that no voice could have ever matched the perfect one viewers heard in their minds while watching his strong , virile silent roles , the reality was very different from what they wanted to hear ( imagine Robert Montgomery's voice coming out of Clark Gable's mouth . ) Gilbert was doomed from his first scene in his debut talkie ; his war with Mayer only intensified the agony . He would die in 1936 , forgotten by most of his former fans , at the age of only 36 .
Hunting Up Trouble	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey finds THE DUCK HUNT he's taken Pluto on will become a most surprising experience . With a sparse plot and action driven almost completely by the soundtrack , this is an amusing black & white cartoon . Once again , the Disney animators indulge themselves with numerous underwear / posterior gags . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
One More Triumph For Our Shirley	A small child , affectionately known as THE LITTLE PRINCESS , must endure great hardship after her father is killed in the Boer War . Shirley Temple had her last great box-office triumph in this splendid Technicolor adaptation of the Frances Hodgson Burnett childhood classic . No longer a tiny tot - she turned eleven the year THE LITTLE PRINCESS was released - but still a little trooper , Shirley exhibits once again the tremendous charm & talent which made her Hollywood's top box office draw . With wrinkled brow & tremulous lip or bouncing curls & joyous smile , she adeptly displays just the right mood or mannerism to keep the focus of the audience's attention firmly grasped in her chubby fists . The supporting players ' roster is abundantly well cast : stalwart Ian Hunter appears as Shirley's soldier father - this very fine actor wisely uses his acting skills to keep from being completely upstaged by the mighty moppet ; handsome Richard Greene & lovely Anita Louise play the riding master & teacher who befriend Shirley - their roles aren't terribly significant , but they fill them quite well . Mary Nash is once again cast as Shirley's tormentor , this time playing the evil-spirited headmistress of an exclusive girls ' seminary . This accomplished actress did not appear in many films , but she could generally be counted on to provide a vivid performance - notice the relish with which she essays her small part in the medieval fantasy sequence ( ' I know my rights , I know the law and what I say I saw , I saw ! ' ) . Long-legged , adenoidal Arthur Treacher plays her henpecked brother ; he is a delight during his two romps with Shirley to the music hall ditty ? Knocked ? Em In The Old Kent Road . ' Cesar Romero quietly portrays an Indian servant in a small , but important , role ; Miles Mander & E . E . Clive both appear as hardhearted , crusty old gentlemen - only one is regenerated by film's end . Sweet Beryl Mercer makes the most of her few moments as a stately , kindhearted Queen Victoria - while Eily Malyon is a true fright as the school's slatternly cook . Marcia Mae Jones participates in one of the film's most memorable moments , when , as a particularly vile teenager , she receives a face full of fireplace ashes , courtesy of sweet Shirley . Special attention should be given to ten-year-old South African Sybil Jason , who plays the wistful waifish charmaid who idolizes Shirley . In her American film debut , Warner's LITTLE BIG SHOT ( 1935 ) , she proved wonderfully winsome & winning , but the storm of attention surrounding Miss Temple ( exactly 19 months older than Miss Jason ) tends , at this remove , to swamp the boats of the other female child stars of the period . However , delightful Sybil deserves to be remembered & appreciated for her own accomplishments . The Stolen Kiss , a lavish fantasy dream sequence , provides a welcome few minutes change of pace for Temple , Nash , Louise , Greene , Treacher & Romero .
Buster Keaton's Talkie Debut	A FREE AND EASY , hapless young man escorts Miss Gopher City , Kansas & her unspeakable mother out west to Hollywood , where they hope to make her a big time movie star . Fate , however , in the shape of a handsome movie actor , intervenes . . . With the end of the Silent Era , and Keaton no longer in control of his own career , FREE AND EASY was to be his first talking picture . While certainly not a classic , it has a certain small charm of its own and Keaton does a valiant job to provide both laughs & pathos . It is really not fair to compare Keaton's sound films with his silent masterpieces . They were two very different art forms . It is great fun to watch Buster stumble about the MGM lot , leaving chaos in his wake wherever he goes . Although there are awkward moments of staging , due largely to the restrictions of the microphone , Keaton's genius still shines through . He is given wonderful support from mammoth vaudeville veteran Trixie Friganza , as the ghastly stage mother . With her booming voice & facile face , she is able to steal scenes even from Keaton . They are hilarious together in their ' Oh King ! Oh Queen ! ' musical number . Lovely Anita Page , as Miss Gopher City , gets small chance to do anything here besides look lovely . But Robert Montgomery , as the movie actor , gets to show-off some of the charm that would very soon make him a major star . Verisimilitude is added to Keaton's chaotic adventures in Hollywood by peppering the scenes with real celebrities from the era appearing as themselves . Movie mavens should have fun spotting them : directors Cecil B . DeMille , Fred Niblo & Lionel Barrymore , as well as Jackie Coogan , Karl Dane , Dorothy Sebastian , John Miljan , Gwen Lee and 1930's top box office male , William Haines . That's Edward Brophy as the Stage Manager .
Will Rogers ' Dixie Drama	Will Rogers stars in this backward glance at life in a small town of the deep South at the end of the 19th century , with its pleasures & joys , bigotries & suspicions . Will is the local judge & champion of the social pariahs , not hesitant to stick his neck out to make a point or puncture a pompous ego . His unique brand of homespun humor is given ample scope to tickle our funny bone . This is one of three films Will made with director John Ford , a remarkable collaboration . Others in the cast include Henry B . Walthal , Hattie McDaniel , Tom Brown , Anita Louise , Stepin Fetchit , Berton Churchill , Charley Grapewin & Rochelle Hudson . There is some racial stereotyping in the film , not at all unusual for 1934 Hollywood .
Through The Land Of The Bluegrass	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . In this film we are treated to a few GLIMPSES OF KENTUCKY . Starting at the Cumberland River , we visit reconstructed Fort Harris , a reminder of the days of the Indian Wars . We are then taken to see the Henry Clay Monument and the grave of Daniel Boone . We also view the log cabin which was the inspiration for Stephen Foster's ' My Old Kentucky Home ' - as well as the gracious mansion which hosted the composer . Finally , during a visit to the Bluegrass Country , we are shown beautiful examples of Kentucky horseflesh , culminating with an appearance by Man O ' War , the greatest racehorse of them all . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Soap & Suds	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Dolores the elephant tries every means possible to get away from THE BIG WASH which circus handler Goofy has promised her . This enjoyable little film was the second of three in which the hefty Dolores appeared for Disney . Although eager to please , the pulchritudinous pachyderm would have only a very short movie career . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Medieval Menace	Deaf and half-blind , THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME , feared & rejected by the people of Paris , becomes the unlikely protector of a poor gypsy girl . Lon Chaney , master of disguise , solidified his celebrity with his portrayal of Quasimodo , the deformed bell-ringer , who is forever cut off from any semblance of a normal life . Although his makeup is certainly horrific , Chaney's role is not really monstrous : he is a lonely human desperately misused by Fate . Chaney's face speaks for him , communicating the tormenting anguish of his soul . While not quite as poignant as Charles Laughton's interpretation 16 years later , Chaney still makes of the role a Silent hallmark which has stood the test of time . There are fairly lengthy segments in which Chaney does not appear and plot elements not explored in the longer Laughton version . Here the story dwells on the gypsy dancer Esmeralda , played by Patsy Ruth Miller , and her burgeoning romance with the brave Phoebus , Captain of the Guard , played by Norman Kerry . Both performers do very well with their ' normal ' roles - - her innocence contrasting well with his initial lust - - even though the viewer is doubtless anxious for the return of the Hunchback . A handful of excellent character actors from the era add their assistance : gaunt Nigel de Brulier as the saintly Archdeacon , defender of the Hunchback ; beefy Ernest Torrence as Clopin , King of Thieves , ruling over the Court of Miracles ; prissy Raymond Hatton as the effete poet Gringoire ; and feeble Tully Marshall as a suspicious Louis XI . Special mention must be made of Universal's splendid attention to detail which they lavished on the film . Most especially commendable is the representation of Notre Dame's West Facade , the only real angle from which the Cathedral's exterior is depicted . To see Chaney clamber down , swinging from pinnacle to gargoyle to statue ; or , to watch Quasimodo defend Esmeralda from the crowd of beggars he thinks has come to kill her , dropping stones , beams and molten metal on their heads below from the Cathedral's ramparts , is to enjoy two of Silent Cinema's great visual moments .
A Duck Tale With Tree Nibblers	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . The protection of OLD SEQUOIA , a huge & venerable tree , becomes the primary concern of Forest Ranger Duck . In this humorous little film Donald is confronted by a pair of rapacious beavers , whose completely unintelligible dialogue makes them adequate temporary replacements for Chip ' n ' Dale . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's own unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
From Another Era	A rich young man woos THE FLORODORA GIRL of his dreams - - but is he sincere ? For nearly 20 years , no other actress in America was the recipient of so much effort to make her a big movie star than Marion Davies . As mistress of the powerful media mogul , William Randolph Hearst , Davies appeared in one lavish film production after another . Hearst's seemingly bottomless pockets spared no expense and Marion lived like a queen both on screen and off . ( Their huge California mansion , now called Hearst Castle , crowned a coastal estate of unstinted extravagance , while the saltwater sequence for FLORODORA GIRL was filmed in the waters in front of the enormous Santa Monica beach house Hearst built for her . ) Never one to put on airs , Davies won the hearts of her fans and the other Hollywood stars with her warm generosity and good spirits . On the screen Hearst preferred seeing her in heavy historical romances , but she much more enjoyed light comedy fare which better displayed her talents . Which is exactly what she does in FLORODORA GIRL , getting to sing & dance a little , playing a member of the famed sextet , looking for love with the right boy but not willing to compromise her morals in the search . Davies had been a Ziegfeld Follies Girl before being carried off by Hearst ; the film poses a few questions about love and success which must have given Marion something to ponder . Lawrence Gray , an important MGM musical comedy star at the beginning of the Sound Era , does well in his role as the vivacious society boy who learns a few things about maturity while wooing Davies . He had partnered with Marion before , in Silent & Sound pictures , and they have a good on-screen chemistry . The supporting cast provide a few laughs : Walter Catlett , Louis John Bartels & Claud Allister as well-heeled stage door Johnnies ; Ilka Chase & Vivian Oakland as aging , tough-as-nails Florodora Girls ; Jed Prouty as Marion's alcoholic father ; and George Chandler as her big-toothed cigar store boyfriend . That's Anita Louise who shows up very briefly as one of Gray's younger sisters . MGM gave the film a nice feeling of the 1890's with its horseless carriages , puffed sleeve fashions and frequent songs . The early Technicolor with which the film closes is most pleasing to the eye .
Puttin ' On The Ritz	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD 3-Reeler . AMONG THOSE PRESENT at a lavish country house weekend is a penniless young hat check attendant impersonating a British aristocrat . Harold has some very funny moments in this highly enjoyable film . Whether regaling the snobs with imaginary fox hunting exploits , attempting to ride the killer horse Dynamite , or madly scrambling about the estate in search of his missing pants , Harold is never anything less than hilarious . Aggie Herring & James Kelly are lots of fun as a grand society dame and her down-to-earth Irish husband . Lovely Mildred Davis plays their daughter , a sweet Girl unimpressed by her parents ' wealth . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Miss Blondell & Miss Farrell Request The Pleasure Of Your Company	A harried switchboard operator & a ditzy medium get involved with a couple of brash telephone repairmen & a dangerous gang of thieves . . . I'VE GOT YOUR NUMBER was the sort of ephemeral comic frippery which the Hollywood studios produced almost without effort during the 1930's . Well made & highly enjoyable , Depression audiences couldn't seem to get enough of these popular , funny photo dramas . Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell are perfectly cast as the fast - talking female leads . Although Joan gets both top billing and the romantic scenes , - and they share no screen time together in this early pairing - both gals are as talented & watchable as they are gorgeous . Pat O'Brien , obnoxiously cocky & self assured , appears as Blondell's persistent suitor . Whether tapping wires or tackling crooks , he is equally jaunty . Behind him comes a small parade of character actors - Allen Jenkins , Eugene Pallette , Henry O'Neill , Hobart Cavanaugh , Louise Beavers - all equally adept at delighting an audience . Much of the dialogue & plot development indicates this film made it just under the wire before the imposition of the Production Code . While never stars of the first rank , Joan Blondell ( 1906-1979 ) & Glenda Farrell ( 1904-1971 ) enlivened scores of films at Warner Bros . throughout the 1930's , especially the eight in which they appeared together . Whether playing gold diggers or working girls , reporters or secretaries , these blonde & brassy ladies were very nearly always a match for whatever leading man was lucky enough to share equal billing alongside them . With a wisecrack or a glance , their characters showed they were ready to take on the world - and any man in it . Never as wickedly brazen as Paramount's Mae West , you always had the feeling that , tough as they were , Blondell & Farrell used their toughness to defend vulnerable hearts ready to break over the right guy . While many performances from seven decades ago can look campy or contrived today , these two lovely ladies are still spirited & sassy .
Quick Glimpse At Depression Era Domestic Life	A VITAPHONE VARIETIES Short Subject . Living only FIVE MINUTES FROM THE STATION , a lowly clerk takes the Big Boss home for dinner . His determined wife sees this as an opportunity to campaign for her husband's promotion . Realistic & sensible , this little 3-character drama deals forthrightly with some of the pressures & dreams of an average young married couple in the early months of the Great Depression . Celebrated actress Sylvia Sidney makes one of her first screen appearances . Lynne Overman plays her husband ; and Berton Churchill as the boss presents the sort of character he would portray many times in the next ten years .
Mickey Enters The Hot Spot	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Chief Mickey & Horace Horsecollar are two of THE FIRE FIGHTERS who respond to save Miss Minnie from a blazing conflagration . A fun , rather frantic , little black & white film . Music mavens will recognize " There'll Be A Hot Time In The Old Town Tonight " as the engine speeds to the fire . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's voice ; look fast to spot Clarabelle Cow among the bystanders . The Disney artists deliver the requisite number of udder & bloomer gags . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Into The Shadows	SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH while stalking an egomaniacal murderer in an ancient English manor house . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce return again as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's beloved creations , Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson . This time they become involved in an Old Dark House murder mystery , investigating crimes at the decrepit stately home-turned-convalescent hospital where Watson is looking after four officer patients . The film is fun , including elements such as a hidden crypt , a bloodthirsty raven and an antique ritual of the beleaguered Musgrave family intertwined with an unusual chess game . There is perhaps a bit too much plot - - the old clock tower that strikes 13 is never explained - - but this never gets in the way of enjoying the picture . To say that Rathbone & Bruce remain perfect in their roles is but to state the obvious ; by this point in the series the old pros were working together like the gears in an antique clock . They are given fine support by elderly Halliwell Hobbes as the manor's eccentric butler and Minna Phillips in the role of the Musgrave's sinister housekeeper . Dennis Hoey is back as the dogged , but inept , Lestrade of Scotland Yard . Milburn Stone has a minor part as an American captain suspected of being the killer . Other small roles handled well are essayed by Frederick Worlock , Gavin Muir & Hillary Brooke as the unfortunate Musgraves ; Gerald Hamer , Vernon Downing & Olaf Hytten as the invalided officers ; and Arthur Margetson as Watson's hospital assistant . Movie mavens will recognize Norma Varden as the barmaid at The Rat and Raven ; seaman Peter Lawford as one of her clientele ; and dear Mary Gordon making her brief obligatory appearance as Mrs . Hudson , all uncredited . Based very loosely on Conan Doyle's short story The Musgrave Ritual , the film follows SHERLOCK HOLMES IN WASHINGTON ( 1943 ) and precedes SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SPIDER WOMAN ( 1944 ) .
Lon Chaney - Semper Fidelis	A tough-as-shoe-leather sergeant patiently molds a rambunctious , rowdy youth into a sturdy Marine . Available again after decades of obscurity , TELL IT TO THE MARINES is a wonderful , rousing paean to America's famous fighting force . Produced with the full cooperation of the Corps , it surges with heartfelt emotion & genuine excitement . It is the kind of film which should be shown to skeptics who doubt the power of silent cinema to satisfy a modern audience . Lon Chaney is beyond praise as the hard-boiled Sergeant O'Hara , who loves the Corps and all that is stands for , but still has a tender heart and a good soul hidden beneath his rough exterior . This was Chaney's favorite role and he plays it without any of the extravagant make-up for which he was so famous . A superb character actor , Chaney became the parts he played . Completely believable , he fascinates the viewer into forgetting that this is an actor they are watching . His early death robbed him from rightfully enjoying the accolades & acclaim which other actors , like Chaplin , reaped in old age . TELL IT TO THE MARINES provided the celebrity-making role for young William Haines and in it he practically revels in the silly billy antics that would dominate the rest of his movie career . In 1930 , only 4 years after the release of this film , Chaney would be dead at the age of 47 and Haines would be the industry's top box office male . Things move fast in Hollywood . Eleanor Boardman is perfect as the crisp Navy nurse who harbors tender feelings for both men . Carmel Myers is the exotic , albeit flea ridden , native girl who tempts Haines . Warner Oland has a small , flashy role as a despicable Chinese bandit . Movie mavens will recognize Willie Fung unbilled as a servant translating for Oland . And what was the Marines ' reaction to this film ? They loved it , and especially Chaney's performance in it and he became the first actor to be awarded an honorary membership in the Corps . The film's shipboard sequences were filmed on the mighty USS California , later to be sunk in the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor . Where was Lon Chaney when they needed him ? TELL IT TO THE MARINES has been restored to pristine condition & given a rousing new score by Robert Israel .
Holmes ' American Adventure	Searching for an invaluable microfilm , SHERLOCK HOLMES IN WASHINGTON encounters as much danger as ever he did in old London . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce return as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's beloved characters Sherlock Holmes and Dr . Watson in this unpretentious but enjoyable film . Although not based on any particular tale from the Canon , there is still enough mystery and intrigue to keep detective fans well satisfied . Of course , with Rathbone all cerebral intellect and Bruce ever the good-natured bumbler , the viewer knows that God's in His Heaven and all's right with the world . Henry Daniell & George Zucco , two of the series ' finest villains , appear in this entry . They both specialized in making menace delightfully subtle and sophisticated . This time they portray German agents intent on retrieving an enormously important British document . Others in the cast include the lovely Marjorie Lord ( who's quite grotesque with a cigarette dangling from her lips ) as a young socialite pulled into the nefarious scheme ; Holmes Herbert as a senior civil servant in London ; and Thurston Hall as a blustery United Stated senator . Movie mavens will spot several fine actors in uncredited roles : Gerald Hamer as a hapless British agent ; elderly Margaret Seddon as a train traveler with mice ; dear Mary Gordon as Holmes ' landlady , Mrs . Hudson ; Mary Forbes as a spy's loving mother ; and Ian Wolfe as a slightly sinister antiques store clerk . Especially notable is the always entertaining Clarence Muse , appearing as a club car porter , who does the almost impossible by stealing a scene from Rathbone . This film followed SHERLOCK HOLMES AND THE SECRET WEAPON ( 1942 ) and preceded SHERLOCK HOLMES FACES DEATH ( 1943 ) .
Hillbilly Humor	A VITAPHONE Edgar Bergen & Charlie McCarthy Short Subject . It's a PURE FEUD carried out between the McCarthys and the Jenkins into which city boy Edgar Appleby inadvertently stumbles . This was one of a series of short films highlighting the remarkable talent of ventriloquist Edgar Bergen . His wisecracking dummy , Charlie McCarthy , effortlessly steals the show . Movie mavens will recognize Shemp Howard as one of the McCarthy kin . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Aline MacMahon Shines In Murder Mystery Movie	WHILE THE PATIENT SLEPT in the creepy old house , his alert nurse looks for clues that will help catch a killer . . . Fast-moving & fun , this is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Brothers was so expert at producing . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Intricately plotted , the film boasts excellent production values & a finely sustained spooky atmosphere . Clutching hands , hidden passageways , resentful relatives , suspicious servants & sudden death all make this a prime entry into the Old Dark House genre of suspense films . However , there are enough solid laughs to help lighten the mood . Aline MacMahon , as a starched no-nonsense nurse , shows once again why she was one of the finest character actresses of Hollywood's Golden Age . Her facial expressions & body movements are perfectly controlled and constantly entertaining to watch . Arch & angular , she has the right riposte for any situation , but she is also warmhearted & fearlessly brave . From her very first scene , Miss MacMahon puts the picture in her pocket & walks off with it . Chubby Guy Kibbee & loudmouthed Allen Jenkins both add considerably to the entertainment as the cops assigned to the murder case . The suspects consist of a whole gaggle of cousins , including pretty Patricia Ellis , stalwart Lyle Talbot , prissy Hobart Cavanaugh & spiteful Dorothy Tree - as well as mysterious butler Brandon Hurst & the family lawyer , Henry O'Neill . The MacMahon & Kibbee characters reappear in THE PATIENT IN ROOM 18 ( 1938 ) and MYSTERY HOUSE ( 1938 ) , although portrayed by other performers .
Tragic Wallace Reid In DeMille Comedy	THE AFFAIRS OF ANATOL , which are really only his attempts to help unhappy or wayward women , has left his own marriage in a very precarious predicament . During the 1920's , director Cecil B . DeMille became famous for two types of film - the lavish historical spectacle & the elaborate , somewhat salacious , social comedy . ANATOL is an example of the latter . While its plot is insignificant ( and faintly ludicrous ) , it is still quite enjoyable to watch , and can boast of fine performances & superior production values . In the title role , Wallace Reid acquits himself very well as the hapless rich chump whose noble deeds always seem to backfire . Good-natured & affable , he is only too susceptible to damsels in distress . But even this worm can turn , and his violent scenes - laying waste the apartment of a mendacious maiden , crashing into his wife's locked boudoir - show the energy & passion of which this nearly forgotten star was capable . Gloria Swanson , as Reid's lively spouse ; Wanda Hawley as a millionaire's courtesan ; Agnes Ayres as a duplicitous country wife ; and diabolic Bebe Daniels as the ultimate vamp , all add greatly to the enjoyment of the proceedings , slinking about in fashions ( all except Miss Ayres ) only crazy movie folk of the 1920's could ever truly get by with . Movie mavens will have no trouble spotting the irrepressible Polly Moran as a zany nightclub orchestra leader . A Wallace Reid film is a rather rare & wonderful thing now , as most of them seem to have vanished long ago . Reid , immensely popular in his day , was the epitome of the American Hero . Tragically , his story became a living nightmare . Injuries received while on location in Oregon in 1919 left him seemingly unable to complete his role . The Paramount Studio doctor was dispatched to plug him full of morphine and put him back in front of the cameras . It worked , but already weakened by alcoholism , Reid now became a helpless morphine addict . His problem was an open secret in Hollywood , but instead of the real help he desperately needed , he was given more of the deadly drug . His box office returns were considered too valuable , and the Studio pushed him through an insufferable number of films - 7 in 1921 , 8 in 1922 . After ANATOL , in which it was becoming obvious that his good looks were beginning to decay , Reid made 11 more films in increasing agony . His death on January 18 , 1923 , was officially attributed to the influenza which finally overcame the body debilitated by alcohol & drug addiction . Wallace Reid was only 31 years old .
One More Climb Up The Building With Mr . Lloyd	A stock clerk falls FEET FIRST in love with a shoe tycoon's pretty secretary . Silent comedian Harold Lloyd made his second foray into talking films in this very enjoyable slapstick movie . Consisting in large part of a series of often hilarious sight gags , it proves Lloyd's mastery of the new medium . Quickly learning how to make sound work for him , Harold firmly embraced the technology which ruined the careers of many other stars . He also benefited from using the same writers , directors , gag men & character actors who had made his silent films such a success . Appreciating their skills & loyalty , Lloyd's production company kept these individuals on the payroll even when making only one picture every other year , a routine he would begin starting with FEET FIRST . Ever generous , Harold took his cast & crew to Hawaii , thus allowing for the filming of some very funny sequences on board the ship at sea . Interestingly , while the opening scenes of the film are presumably set in Honolulu , absolutely nothing is done to create an Hawaiian ambiance with the sets or characters in any way . The movie's climactic moments involve forcing Harold to dangle from the side of a very tall Los Angeles building . This will invite invariable comparisons with his classic human fly sequence in SAFETY LAST ( 1923 ) . This is somewhat unfair , as the scenes in FEET FIRST are wonderfully funny and vertiginous all on their own . Even with the assist in the long shots from master stuntman Harvey Parry , there was real danger involved for Lloyd ( notice that there's only a couple of seconds of rear projection used and that's during Harold's final fall ) who once again gets to display his remarkable athletic agility . Pretty Barbara Kent plays the object of Harold's affections . Robert McWade is her grumpy boss , with plump Lillian Leighton playing his suspicious wife . Noah Young , a welcome face from Lloyd's silent days , portrays a hapless sailor . Arthur Housman gets to play ( what else ? ) a humorous inebriate and slow-moving Willie Best is marvelously adept in hindering Harold's progress up the side of the building . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled James Finlayson , long the nemesis of Laurel & Hardy , as one of the painters on top of the skyscraper .
A Little Larceny Goes A Long Way	A proper Englishman & an American crook help THE WIDOW FROM MONTE CARLO retrieve her stolen love letter . Fast-moving & fun , this is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Brothers was so expert at producing in the 1930's . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results , and while this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . This very amusing little film - only an hour long - fits the mold perfectly ; it's slick plot quickly transporting the viewer from Monaco to Cannes , London and Margate . With a fine cast and plenty of lively humor , it's a shame that it is almost completely forgotten . Lovely Dolores Del Rio , in the title role , plays a woman straining under the constraints of nearly a year's mourning for her noble husband . She is at her most vulnerable when she is swept up by sophisticated Warren William , who sees what he likes and goes after it . The two stars , with their very different personas , work well together and give a definite sparkle to the story . For such a short film there is an unusually rich supporting cast . Louise Fazenda stirs up lots of laughs as a fiercely aggressive social climber ; as her marmalade manufacturing spouse , Herbert Mundin gives her unassuming , affable support . Together , they enjoy the movie's most hilarious scene when they attempt to follow Del Rio & William through Margate's Dreamland fun house . A fastidious Colin Clive plays Del Rio's stuffy fianc ; Warren Hymer is very amusing as the American tough guy who takes a shine to the two lovers ; E . E . Clive , Mary Forbes & Eily Malyon glow in their tiny roles as Del Rio's overly protective aristocratic in-laws ; Olin Howland sports a British accent as a gambling butler . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Billy Bevan as an English constable with a black eye .
Delightful Disney Whodunit	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A dapper young redbreast trilling his song to his lady love is shot with an arrow . WHO KILLED COCK ROBIN ? The judge at the murder trial gets a rather surprising answer . . . A very colorful and amusing cartoon , highlighted by caricatures of a few Hollywood stars : Bing Crosby , Harpo Marx , the Keystone Kops and , in the unedited version , Stepin Fetchit . The character of Jenny Wren is a splendid spoof of Mae West . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
" Fighting A Never Ending Battle For Truth & Justice "	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . A pretty , blonde SECRET AGENT has the paperwork to prove the guilt of an evil group of Nazi saboteurs . On the run , with her life in terrible danger , only Superman can help her now . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Lois Lane does not appear in this story .
Mickey & Judy Start Their Long Date	Left insolvent in America by the death of his grandfather , a young English lad learns that THOROUGHBREDS DON'T CRY . Now it's time for his new buddies , an irrepressible girl & an excitable jockey , to help him make his race horse a winner . This little film , with a horse race plot both contrived & convoluted , is mere entertainment fluff . Its real significance is that it was the first movie to co-star Mickey Rooney & Judy Garland . Rooney is hyper-energetic & Garland exhibits her wide-eyed exuberance ; together they hint at much better films to come in the future . Ronald Sinclair receives equal billing with them , and he does a good job with his role , but up against the Dynamic Duo he never really stood a chance . His celebrity would prove to be rather transitory . Forrester Harvey does fine in a small performance as a jolly horse trainer . Wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith lends a touch of class to his role as an English gentleman . But it is the inimitable Sophie Tucker who steals the film as Garland's mother , a big sharp-tongued woman you wouldn't want to trifle with . For some unfathomable reason , the script gives her no chance to sing . Unbelievable ! At the very least , a Tucker / Garland duet could have made the film truly memorable . Movie mavens will recognize Lionel Belmore as a butler & Elisha Cook , Jr . as a jockey , both unbilled . A ' pookah ' , by the way , is an Irish ghost horse .
A Return To The Thrills Of Yesteryear	Like TWO ARABIAN KNIGHTS , a couple of American soldiers attempt the daring rescue of a Middle Eastern princess from a loveless betrothal . Producer Howard Hughes became a Hollywood power with the very successful release of this , his third motion picture . Thought lost for decades , this wonderful silent comedy has recently been rediscovered & restored and given a splendid orchestral score by Robert Israel . Directed with verve by Lewis Milestone and greatly benefiting from William Cameron Menzies ' art direction , the high jinks & high adventure of this antique buddy film are once again ready to delight the viewing audience . Clean-cut private William Boyd and plug-ugly sergeant Louis Wolheim battle Germans , Arabs and each other across Europe , the Mediterranean and into Palestine . They make a terrific comedy duo , constantly involved in one-upmanship and dangerous exploits whether in a POW camp , on a prisoner train , aboard a tramp steamer , or in a Moslem souk and emir's palace . Wolheim , with his hilariously expressive face , has a slight advantage in the scene stealing category , while Boyd has the upper hand in the romantics department . Mary Astor , as the endangered princess , is the willing recipient of Boyd's attentions . Her role doesn't give her a great deal to do except look lovely & alarmed , but these she carries off admirably . In the supporting cast , Michael Visaroff is the black hearted ship's captain who comes into conflict with Boyd & Wolheim ; look fast for Boris Karloff as his purser . Dashing Ian Keith nicely plays the young Arab chieftain who will stop at nothing to make Astor his bride . At various points throughout the movie the viewer will notice the deterioration of the film stock , showing that TWO ARABIAN KNIGHTS was indeed rescued , like the princess , just in time .
No Catnap For Pluto	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Two mangy alley cats , Milton & Richard , decide to turn the estate Pluto is guarding into a PUSS CAFE . The animation is routine , but the story is humorous & lively in this little film . This was one of only two cartoons Milton the cat would appear in ; Richard disappeared immediately . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
On The Green With Mr . Jones	A Warner Bros . Vitaphone Short SubjectBobby Jones , the world's greatest amateur golfer , gives valuable advice on how to improve one's putting skills . This was the first in a series of short films in which Warner Bros . lured this all-American athletic hero in front of the cameras to reveal his playing secrets in an entertaining manner . Celebrities from the Studio's roster would be trotted out to interact with Jones ; in this initial endeavor we see silent screen star Richard Barthelmess , comic actor Joe E . Brown , and character actor / playwright Frank Craven ( best remembered as the Stage Manager in OUR TOWN , 1940 ) . The poor sound quality is an annoyance in this early talkie , but not an insurmountable one . Robert Tyre Jones , Jr ( 1902-1971 ) began playing golf at the age of six and was entering competitions at the age of fourteen . He triumphed in many of these during his short amateur career and became the only person in history to win golf's Grand Slam ( British & American open and amateur tournaments ) in one year , 1930 . Shortly afterwards he retired at the age of twenty-nine . He never went pro and played only a few championships thereafter , but worked as a lawyer in Atlanta , Georgia . Jones helped organize the first Masters Tournament in 1934 in Augusta , Georgia . In 1958 , Bobby Jones was created an honorary burgess and guild brother in Scotland's St . Andrews , the traditional birthplace of golf . Sadly , ill health and paralysis caused this remarkable sportsman to spend his last years confined to a wheelchair . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Spanish Rambles	An MGM TRAVELTALK Short Subject . With the assistance of this little film , the viewer will be SEEING SPAIN as it was in the 1950's . The brisk tour takes us to the cities of Granada , Seville , Toledo & Madrid , showing us parks , palaces & cathedrals . Some colorful Spanish dancing is also featured . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
Blondell & Farrell Are At It Again	Two lady process servers will stop at nothing to do their job - but then one falls in love with the man they are stalking . . . WE'RE IN THE MONEY was the sort of ephemeral comic frippery which the studios produced almost effortlessly during the 1930's . Well made & highly enjoyable , Depression audiences couldn't seem to get enough of these popular , funny photo dramas . Joan Blondell & Glenda Farrell are perfectly cast as the fearless , fast-talking females who will try anything to serve their subpoenas . Although Joan gets both top billing and the romantic scenes , both gals are as talented & watchable as they are gorgeous . Ross Alexander plays Blondell's love interest and he does a very nice job . Remembered now chiefly for his appearance in the classic A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM ( 1935 ) , this talented young man from Brooklyn was gifted with the good looks & acting skills which should have made him a major Hollywood star . Instead , Alexander ended up in mostly forgettable parts in obscure films . Tragically , Ross Alexander died a suicide in 1937 , at the age of only 29 . Hugh Herbert , whimsical & wacky as ever , appears as the girls ' boss . Whether driving a stolen car or piloting a speeding motorboat , he is equally hilarious . Behind him comes a rank of character actors - Henry O'Neill , E . E . Clive , Lionel Stander , Hobart Cavanaugh - all equally adept at wringing every smile out of any situation . Sharp-eyed movie mavens should spot an unbilled Walter Brennan as a witness at the wedding . While never stars of the first rank , Joan Blondell ( 1906-1979 ) & Glenda Farrell ( 1904-1971 ) enlivened scores of films at Warner Bros . throughout the 1930's , especially the eight in which they appeared together . Whether playing gold diggers or working girls , reporters or secretaries , these blonde & brassy ladies were very nearly always a match for whatever leading man was lucky enough to share equal billing alongside them . With a wisecrack or a glance , their characters showed they were ready to take on the world - and any man in it . Never as wickedly brazen as Paramount's Mae West , you always had the feeling that , tough as they were , Blondell & Farrell used their toughness to defend vulnerable hearts ready to break over the right guy . While many performances from seven decades ago can look campy or contrived today , these two lovely ladies are still spirited & sassy .
Showin ' Up The New Kid With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Although the Gang tries to be friendly with a snooty new rich kid - ' HI-NEIGHBOR ! ' - it's obvious he disdains them all . And when his spiffy fire engine impresses Jane , it's time for the Rascals to build their own competition vehicle . Some good laughs here . The building of the contraption , especially Spanky helping Stymie put on the wheels , is hilarious . Highlight : the race down the very steep hill .
Aerial Antics With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy ShortNo matter how Ollie pretends to be the master of his own home , ferocious Mrs . Hardy will put up with no more procrastination from him . She demands he attach the radio antenna to the roof - now ! Things turn HOG WILD when Ollie asks Stan to help him . . . Lots of slapstick in this funny little film . Highlight : Ollie & the runaway ladder . Never let these Boys up on your roof !
Rapid-Fire Newsroom Comedy	Forced to write the Heartthrobs column , the former managing editor of a big city paper finds himself exposing a story of murder & political corruption . Fast-moving & fun , HI , NELLIE ! is another example of the comedy crime picture that Warner Brothers was so expert at producing . Casts & plots could be shuffled endlessly , with very predictable results . While this assembly line approach created few classics , audience enjoyment could usually be assured . Here , the look & feel of the paper's busy newsroom is smack on the mark and the performances , even with a script that's too plot heavy , never fail to entertain . Consummate actor Paul Muni gets a rare chance at comedy here and pulls it off brilliantly , adding just the right amount of drama from time to time . Whether he's trashing his office in a fury , fighting with his boss or going nonchalantly into the headquarters of the enemy to collect information , Muni is never less than fascinating . He is teamed with the equally watchable Glenda Farrell , playing another one of her hard-boiled dames with a heart of gold . It is obvious from the script that their two characters were once lovers , but refreshingly no time is wasted with rekindling the flames - they are just chums , wary & respectful . Their unromantic chemistry adds much to the fun of the film . A fine cast of character actors helps move the story along . Ned Sparks plays his usual acerbic self as an investigative reporter loyal to Muni . Little Donald Meek is equally good as an aged office clerk who provides assistance on the hectic news floor for Muni & Farrell . Berton Churchill as the paper's publisher & Douglass Dumbrille as Muni's rival both score in their roles . Robert Barrat , Harold Huber & Edward Ellis all play dangerous bad guys who must be dealt with . Frank Reicher , fresh from his double stint as the captain in the KONG movies , here plays a none-to-savvy lawyer . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited John Qualen as a tenement custodian .
Suspense Movie Milestone	A famed British botanist , fearful he is becoming the WEREWOLF OF London , struggles to retain control of a rare Tibetan flower , reputed to be an antidote for lycanthropy . This succinct film , supposedly Hollywood's first to deal with werewolfery , is a tidy little thriller which deserves a wider reputation among those who enjoy the Universal movies of this genre . Good production values & a plot that moves right along are two of its chief values , but genuine moments of fright are also not lacking - although the story is admittedly ludicrous & the shocks are rather tame by today's standards . Henry Hull does a fine job as the wretched protagonist , in agony as to his cruel fate . Warner Oland is properly sinister & mysterious as the Eastern doctor with too much personal knowledge of the arcane sciences . Pretty Valerie Hobson is given little to do except look exasperated or frightened . Somewhat unexpectedly , four elderly character actresses grab much of the attention . Spring Byington is quite funny as a flighty , tart-tongued society hostess . Aged Charlotte Granville has a few good moments as a plain speaking dowager . Best of all , Ethel Griffies & Zeffie Tilbury are hilarious as a couple of drunken old crones who have an unexpected encounter with one of the ' children of the night . ' ( Miss Griffies would eventually live long enough to become the oldest working actress in the British theatre , dying in 1975 at age 97 . ) It would not be until the release of THE WOLF MAN in 1941 that werewolves and all their assorted esoterica of full moons , silver bullets & very hairy gentlemen with long canine teeth would really begin to become a Hollywood horror staple .
More Than A Mouthful	A small-town fireman and inventor with a whiz of a pitching arm suddenly finds himself signed to play for the St . Louis Cardinals . Rubber-faced comic Joe E . Brown dominates FIREMAN , SAVE MY CHILD , a very pleasant little film which examines the adventures of a small-town rube as he deals with the machinations of big city baseball & women . Brown's good-natured grin and physical comedy never fail to bring a laugh . Whether presiding over the immolation of a sauerkraut factory , calmly creating a conflagration in the office of a powerful business executive , or coolly surmounting the pitching mound in the final inning of a World Series game , Brown is always in firm control of the humor . Evalyn Knapp as Brown's hometown sweetheart & Lilian Bond as the gold digger out to ruin him both play their parts well . Popular character actor Guy Kibbee keeps his particular plot pot boiling as the Cardinals ' harried manager . Movie mavens will recognize OUR GANG's Dickie Moore , uncredited , as a young ball fan . The film was given fine production values , with the fire fighting & baseball sequences both entertaining & believable . The title is a Melodrama catch-phrase ; there are no children to be saved from fires in this movie . This was the first of Brown's ' Baseball Trilogy ' and was followed by ELMER , THE GREAT ( 1933 ) & ALIBI IKE ( 1935 ) .
AWOL With Private Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It becomes THE OLD ARMY GAME when Donald tries to sneak back onto base without Sergeant Pete catching him . . . Here is another of Donald's wartime cartoons , with lots of laughs and physical comedy . Pete has finally found his perfect niche as a military noncommissioned officer . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers involved in this little film ; Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mr . Wheeler & Mr . Woolsey Invite You To Join Them In A Little Light Entertainment	Two zany scam artists find it's all HIPS , HIPS , HOORAY ! when they meet the curvaceous owner of Maiden America Beauty Products and her lovely female employees . Wheeler & Woolsey ( Bert Wheeler is the short guy with curly hair ; Robert Woolsey is the bespectacled fellow with the cigar ) star in this often hilarious film . The Boys were a perfect comedy duo and their movies are always great fun to watch ( here they try to promote flavored lipsticks and get involved in a cross-country auto race , while keeping one jump ahead of the law ) . It is indeed a pity that these very talented comics are all but forgotten now . Cute little Dorothy Lee returns as Wheeler's perennial love interest . The beautiful & tragic Thelma Todd , a very gifted comedienne in her own right , puts the spark in Woolsey's eye . Movie mavens will spot an unbilled Bobby Watson , who gets one funny line as a Dance Director . Director Mark Sandrich keeps the plot moving at a frantic pace throughout . Some of the sights & situations push the borders of good taste in this pre-Production Code movie . The Boys , Miss Lee & Hot Toddy do a wild burlesque of Diaghilev during their performance of ' Just Keep On Doing What You're Doing ' . Singer Ruth Etting drops by long enough to trill ' Keep Romance Alive ' at a radio broadcast featuring ungarmented bathing models . And , yes , those really are frogs climbing out of the race car's radiator . . .
George Arliss in Another Bio Epic	Five brothers , born & raised in a Jewish ghetto at the end of the 18th Century . Taught by their parents in the ways of international finance & commerce , but above all in living a life of dignity as Jews . Five brothers who grew to establish banks wielding enormous power from the five great European capitals - Frankfurt , London , Paris , Vienna , Naples - yet who always worked together for the common goal of peace in Europe & the destruction of tyranny . Five brothers united as THE HOUSE OF ROTHSCHILD . In this lavish film , Mr . George Arliss gives yet another splendid history lesson and this time the old fellow gets to play two roles : Mayer Amschel Rothschild , the founder of the dynasty ; and eldest son Nathan Rothschild , who established the London branch of the family . As always , Arliss is fascinating to watch , his every twitch conveying significance & meaning . It is a shame he is almost forgotten today , as he was a marvelous actor . But he does not act alone here . Indeed , his co-stars are quite accomplished . As in so many of his films , his real-life wife Florence Arliss plays his ( Nathan's ) spouse and is charming , as usual . The somewhat obtrusive romantic subplot is handled by the two Youngs , Loretta & Robert , who look lovely & handsome respectively . Helen Westley is exceptional as Mayer's wife Gudula , the matriarch of the family . Also on hand are Reginald Owen , Alan Mowbray , Ivan Simpson , Ethel Griffies & wonderful old Sir C . Aubrey Smith as the Duke of Wellington - it is a particular treat to watch his scenes with Arliss . A rather subdued & urbane Boris Karloff is the villain of the film , playing a Prussian nobleman who delights in being anti-Semitic . Pains are taken to show the evils inflected upon Continental Jewry during the age of repression & pogroms and it is important to remember that this film was produced in 1934 , as Evil was once again raising its head in Central Europe . The ideas of men in the 19th Century , such as Karloff portrays here , would lead inexorably to the gas chambers & furnaces of Nazi Germany in the 20th . Forget Frankenstein's Monster . This was Karloff's most horrific role . In the last 4 minutes , the movie turns from black & white to beautiful early Technicolor , a delight to the eyes . There are a couple of glaring historical inaccuracies in the movie that must be pointed out . Nathan was not the elder of Mayer's sons - in fact he was the 3rd born . And it was not he , but his grandson , another Nathan , who was raised to the peerage to become Baron Rothschild in 1885 , 49 years after the death of his grandfather . Trifling , yet significant .
Romantic Rival For The Pup	A Walt Disney PLUTO Cartoon . Dinah , PLUTO'S HEART THROB , enjoys flirting with both the Pup & Butch the bully bulldog . While amusing , this little film is scarcely different from several other cartoons also depicting Pluto's romantic difficulties . Perhaps Disney was thinking this as well - this cartoon was nearly the end of the road for both Dinah & Butch's movie careers . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Disney's Very Colorful Tale	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . One beautiful Spring morning , the FLOWERS AND TREES awake to rise & shine . Two young trees , swept away by leafy bliss , carry on an arboreal romance which is threatened by the arrival of an evil-hearted old stump . . . This cartoon has a cute little story , but its significance lies in the fact that it was the first cartoon produced in Technicolor . Walt had cannily entered into an exclusive contract for the use of the procedure , only the latest of a string of risky innovations he would brave . Technicolor proved to be a sensation , and FLOWERS AND TREES pointed the way to the future . It would be three more years before Mickey Mouse took the Technicolor plunge - his films were so profitable he didn't need to abandon black & white just yet - but eventually virtually all cartoons would appear in one of a handful of competing color processes . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Tuneful Tale From The Old West	A Walt Disney Cartoon . The fanciful plans of a Yankee sea captain to sail the Kansas prairie in a highly modified Conestoga wagon are related in THE SAGA OF WINDWAGON SMITH . This is an enjoyable little film , which makes good use of the limited animation format . Rex Allen is a fine choice as both narrator and the voice of Smith . The Sons Of The Pioneers back him up with their own special singing talents . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Two Saps At Sea	A Walt Disney DONALD & GOOFY Cartoon . Donald Duck finds himself stranded in a tiny boat with NO SAIL , in shark-infested waters - and doltish Goofy as his companion . This humorous little film garners its laughs from the dichotomy between the two characters ' personalities - the blustery , temperamental Duck and the easygoing , simpleminded Goof . Place them in a perilous situation , surround them with danger and you've got the potential for a great little comedy . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Playin ' Rough With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Pampered rich kid Wally is delighted to find Stymie , Spanky & the Gang playing in an alley with their donkey Algebra . Bringing them all back to his home , they engage in rambunctious play . But when Algebra gets into the mansion , everyone is soon involved in playing HONKY-DONKEY to get rid of the recalcitrant creature . A funny little film , with some good moments watching the Rascals at play . Willie Mae Taylor portrays the part of ' Buckwheat ' .
Boisterous Brothers Behave Badly	A Ritz Bros . Short Subject . Hired as the new manager , house detective and bellhop , the Ritz Brothers pull out all the stops in an effort to ensure that no customer ever checks out of the HOTEL ANCHOVY . Fans of Al , David & Jimmy Ritz will particularly enjoy this little film , which abounds in slapstick humor . Seekers after sophistication will search elsewhere . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Affectionate Film Debut For Kathleen Freeman	An MGM JOHN NESBITT'S PASSING PARADE Short SubjectOur Swedish hired girl ANNIE WAS A WONDER in those long ago days before the First World War . This Oscar-nominated gem is a tribute to the European women who came to America looking for work - $15 a month , 84 hours a week , 14 hours a day - in the years preceding World War One . Warmhearted & utterly charming , it is also a showcase for character actress Kathleen Freeman ( 1919-2001 ) , starring as Annie Swenson . A talented performer of stage , screen and television , Miss Freeman continued to entertain audiences right up until her death at age 82 . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Disney Visits The Water Babies	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The WATER BABIES emerge from their flowery beds to spend another day frolicking with the pond creatures or romping in the forest . There's virtually no plot in this little cartoon , but its action / reaction animation is pleasant enough . Aside from the title , there's no connection with Charles Kingsley's classic book . The babies are all naked ( and apparently sexless ) , thus giving the Disney artists much scope for their favorite bare bottom gags . MERBABIES ( 1938 ) , a forthcoming Symphony , would bare a striking resemblance to this film . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Serious Entertainment From Cagney & Blondell	A young San Francisco woman , who's lived rough , is torn between the Portuguese fisherman she admires & the petty criminal she adores . HE WAS HER MAN is a particularly good example of the sort of crime drama which Warner Bros . did so well in the early 1930's . Intelligent romantic dialogue and gentle humor , in addition to some very fine performances , are all ingredients which make this film a solid success - even though it is nearly forgotten now . This picture was produced just before the implementation of the Production Code and the climax , while completely appropriate , will surprise some viewers . Jimmy Cagney is entirely irrepressible , strutting through each scene like a banty rooster , shouting attention to himself without ever having to raise his voice . As a fellow on the lam from vicious mobsters who want him dead , Cagney plays a character not in control of his own circumstances - a rarity for him , which makes him at once more vulnerable and more human . Joan Blondell nicely underplays her part as the tough luck lady he befriends , avoiding any of the sass & sizzle from her comedic films which would be out of place here . At the other end of the spectrum from the grim roles with which he would become associated , Victor Jory is excellent as the quiet , decent fisherman who deeply loves Blondell . His performance is one of the major assets of the film . Bradley Page , Russell Hopton , Harold Huber & Ralf Harolde play various Manhattan crooks & killers , with Frank Craven especially good as a genial , albeit sinister , shadow . Solid support is given by Sarah Padden as Jory's exuberant old-world mother & John Qualen as the local delivery man . Outdoor location shooting took place around Monterey , California . While the film's setting , the seaside village of Santa Avila , is completely fictional , the Monterey Bay area has long enjoyed a strong Portuguese contingent as part of its fishing industry .
Mr . Keaton Sees The Sea	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . THE BOAT which Buster's family builds and launches immediately tries to kill them . This funny little film is an unusual one for Buster , in that he's already quite domesticated - with wife & children - when the story commences . The viewer is supposed to read Buster's lips to get the film's final joke . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Another Sterling Performance From Marie Dressler	Watching after her rich employer's motherless brood , elderly housekeeper EMMA finds love in a very unexpected place . But an accusation of murder is only one of the burdens she'll have to bear on her weary old shoulders before she finds a way to be useful again . At the time she made this film , Marie Dressler was Hollywood's greatest star . An unlikely celebrity sensation , with her homely face & shapeless body , Dressler was nonetheless adored by the American public who could sense her basic decency & goodness . For a few brief years she became the nation's grandma , someone with whom the public could feel completely comfortable . Dressler seemed to typify the virtues of hard work & plainspoken honesty - attributes which counted for much in the Great Depression's darkest days . This in no way is meant to denigrate Dressler's talents as an actress ; she earned her accolades . She had complete command of her craft , mobilizing her pliable face & large body into capturing & holding first the audience's attention & then their admiration , followed quickly by their deep affection . Marie Dressler was a unique cinematic phenomenon ; she stands alone , never replicated , duplicated or effaced - except by the vagaries of fickle time . Today in this new millennium , when her special earthy benevolence is needed more than ever , she is virtually unknown to any but the oldest or most nostalgic of movie mavens . As sole star , and with a script penned by her dear friend Frances Marion , Dressler is given free rein to beguile in EMMA . Whether dealing with tragic death , or engaged in comedic high jinks ( Dressler in an airplane simulator run amuck or chasing her lingerie-disgorging suitcase across a crowded train station is nothing less than hilarious ) she is as completely unforgettable as she was to prove utterly irreplaceable . Firm support is given by gentle Jean Hersholt as Dressler's kindly employer . As his son , Richard Cromwell gives an energetic performance . Lovely Myrna Loy , not-quite-yet a star , is strangely awkward as Hersholt's spiteful daughter . John Miljan is effective in the role of a relentless District Attorney .
Helping Americans Understand The Nazi Mind Set	A MGM Short Subject . At the end of World War One , a Munich general turned professor begins to develop Germany's PLAN FOR DESTRUCTION for the next global conflict . This fascinating little film will serve as a primer to the Nazi theory of geopolitics , by which they hoped to control all the lands around them & bring about their eventual domination of the entire world . A very interesting sidelight shows how the Nazis went about gathering massive amounts of information about their potential enemies . MGM's fatherly Lewis Stone is the Host / Narrator ; Frank Reicher does a fine job playing Professor Karl Haushofer . After Pearl Harbor , Hollywood went to war totally against the Axis . Not only did many of the stars join up or do home front service , but the output of the Studios was largely turned to the war effort . The newsreels , of course , brought the latest war news into the neighborhood theater every week . The features showcased battle stories or war related themes . Even the short subjects & cartoons were used as a quick means of spreading Allied propaganda , the boosting of morale or information dissemination . Together , Uncle Sam , the American People & Hollywood proved to be an unbeatable combination .
Excellent adaptation of classic . . .	In this , the first live-action version of Orwell's classic , all the elements come together to make a first-rate TV film . The special effects are terrific & it's often hard to tell the real animals apart from the Jim Henson robotic creations . A few liberties with the novel have been taken , but more than enough of the original story has survived intact to give a robust flavor of Orwell's genius . It should be pointed out that Orwell wrote his satire after returning from a sojourn in the Soviet Union , much disillusioned by the evil & corruption he saw there . He wanted to express his views in the form of a fantasy and hence , ANIMAL FARM was born . So , Farmer Jones is a symbol of the Czar , Old Major is Marx , Napoleon is Lenin , Snowball is Trotsky & Squealer is Stalin . All the other animals are symbols of the Russian people . This version of the story has excellent production values & a fine group of players . Pete Postlethwaite is a great drunken Jones and the voice cast includes Patrick Stewart , Paul Scofield , Sir Ian Holm & Sir Peter Ustinov .
Wheeler & Woolsey Go AWOL For Laughs	Paris - 1918 . Two zany American doughboys are AWOL and on the run from the Army MP's . When one of them falls in love with the youngest daughter of a philandering colonel , lunacy really erupts . If they're not careful , the Boys may find themselves HALF SHOT AT SUNRISE . This was Wheeler & Woolsey's fourth film teaming , but actually the first in which they are the solo stars . ( Bert Wheeler is the short , curly-haired one ; Robert Woolsey is the skinny one with the glasses . ) They are always fun to watch and know how to give a gag its full worth . Dorothy Lee , their frequent co-star , is still kewpie doll cute . The inimitable Edna May Oliver , generally so excellent , is given little more to do here than give an occasional disapproving sniff . The Boys were unusually fortunate in having good musical numbers in their films - their songs & dances are always a highlight . This movie is no exception . Besides the Wheeler & Lee duet ( ' Whistling the Blues Away ' ) , Woolsey gets to spoof Nijinsky ( ' Nothing But Love ' ) , while dancing in his underwear . A bit bizarre , but effective .
More Safety Sense From Disney	A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL IN WATER when I follow the rules of only swimming when & where it is safe . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The interesting history of man's relationship to water & his learning the various swimming strokes is also discussed . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
More Safety Tips From Disney	A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . It's easy to prove that I'M NO FOOL AS A PEDESTRIAN if I pay close attention to Jiminy Cricket's admonitions . This is one of a short series of little television films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The story of man's locomotion since caveman days is discussed - did you know Paris had the first sidewalks built for walkers in 1781 ? Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Slow Waltz For Two	A crippled dancer and a brash ice cream man show they HAVE A HEART when they become the answer to the other's romantic dreams . This unfortunately obscure little film starts off as a lively comedy , but quickly takes a turn into very serious drama before finally settling into its final shape as a gentle love story - - with a bit of crime action thrown into the mix . The movie will be more than acceptable to those viewers looking for a soap opera with a bit of a punch . Jean Parker is terrific as the valiant young lady whose life is changed forever as the result of a terrible fall . Love finds her in the unexpected form of James Dunn , very good as the quick tempered but good natured fellow who woos her without knowing of her disability . They make a fine on-screen team , each character filling the void in the other's life . Pretty Una Merkel , the Southern belle whose prickly presence perked up many a film project in the 1930's , shines as Parker's tart-tongued friend . Laid-back Stuart Erwin is funny as her card-cheating boyfriend . Samuel S . Hinds plays Miss Parker's kindly doctor . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Edward Brophy as Dunn's pal at the ice cream factory .
A Safety Lesson From Disney	A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL WITH A BICYCLE shows in how I maintain my bike and follow the safety rules of the road . This is one of a short series of little films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The interesting history of self-propelled locomotion is also discussed . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Sneak Peek At Spencer Tracy	A Warner Brothers VITAPHONE Short Subject . Hit by the Depression , THE HARD GUY has to find any means to get food for his wife and tiny daughter . This very brief film is notable only for its look at a young Spencer Tracy , who manages to make something of even this almost evanescent role . Katherine Alexander plays his beleaguered spouse . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Very Fine George Arliss Performance	A small plane is forced down somewhere near the Himalayas . On board are an English major , his young wife and their doctor friend . The plane lands in the tiny Princedom of Rukh , ostensibly under the British Viceroy , but actually ruled by a curiously deranged old Raja . The three visitors find themselves at the mercy of the Raja and are caught up in his lustful plots & plans . This very early talkie is an interesting little curio and still fun to watch . George Arliss is a fascinatingly sardonic Raja . His every word & gesture entertain the imagination . Mr . Arliss was a very important & distinguished English actor working in Hollywood in the 1930's , although now he's sadly neglected . This was his first talkie - ( but was released after DISRAELI ) . All of his Warner Brothers movies are very entertaining , if you can find them . In the supporting cast are Ralph Forbes as the heroic doctor ; H . B . Warner & Alice Joyce as the callous Major & his estranged wife ; gaunt Nigel de Brulier as a suspicious temple priest ; and Ivan Simpson as the Raja's wicked butler .
Chaney Masterpiece	A circus performer ventures into THE UNKNOWN regions of fate when he allows love to be twisted by hatred . Master actor Lon Chaney and his friend , acclaimed director Tod Browning , took their love of the macabre and fashioned this weirdly entertaining & suspenseful little silent film , made wonderful by Chaney's powerful over-the-top performance . Playing the armless wonder in a gypsy circus , Chaney's face is a casebook of emotions as he longs for the chieftain's daughter . After making a tremendous , indeed , outrageous , sacrifice for her , he discovers it is all an utter waste . Chaney's agony is horribly apparent as he feels his life crumble around him . The actor uses his superb physical conditioning to great effect , his feet as facile as any hands - - the extreme punishment undergone to play the part enormously impressive . In an important early film role , Joan Crawford is both sultry & disarming as the object of Chaney's desires ; her intense neurotic phobia concerning men's hands certainly makes her character more interesting . Norman Kerry is affable & tender as the circus strong man who also loves Crawford . John George as Chaney's dwarf accomplice and Nick De Ruiz as the brutal circus chief are quite effective in their colorful roles . MGM gave the film fine production values , especially in the circus scenes - - a milieu dear to Chaney's heart .
One Trick Too Many	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . While pruning a large tree , Donald finds himself OUT ON A LIMB after his foolishness finally exasperates Chip ' n ' Dale . This is an amusing cartoon , but there's nothing new in the plot . Clarence Nash provides the Duck with his unique voice ; the Chipmunks are largely unintelligible . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pluto Meets His Match	A Walt Disney PLUTO CartoonPRIVATE PLUTO must guard a pillbox against saboteurs - but what he discovers instead are a couple of crafty chipmunks using it to hoard their nuts . This humorous little wartime cartoon is notable chiefly as the film debut of those mischievous wee rodents , Chip ' n ' Dale . ( Their appearances would significantly alter , but they would remain , as here , largely unintelligible . ) The pattern was immediately set , perhaps unknowingly , for all of their subsequent films in that no matter who their antagonist , Pluto or Donald Duck , the Chipmunks would always get the upper paw in the end . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
You're Invited To Eat Lamb Stew With The Girls At The Footlights Club Tonight	New York City . The Footlights Club is a theatrical boarding house where young women wait for the chance to make it big on Broadway . To deal with the disappointment & bitterness that can set in , they engage in wisecracks & gossip . Fiercely loyal to their friends , they can be wickedly spiteful to those that cross them . Always before them is their dream - to capture elusive success at the STAGE DOOR . A wonderful film , fresh & sparkling , with great dialogue infusing its wit & drama . The rapid-fire cross talk is still a real treat for viewers - as is the chance to see several fine young actresses early in their careers . The entire cast is excellent . Brash Katharine Hepburn is the new girl who quickly meets the ' regulars ' : feisty Ginger Rogers , cynical Lucille Ball , wisecracker Eve Arden , lively Ann Miller , snobbish Gail Patrick & sweet Andrea Leeds . While the young ladies certainly get most of the attention , be sure not to overlook Constance Collier , terrific as Miss Luther the has-been actress . Growing old on bittersweet memories , she is a constant reminder to the others what , even with success , they still might become . Adolphe Menjou gives his usual vivid performance as an immoral producer , while Samuel S . Hinds is good as Hepburn's father . Film mavens will enjoy spotting several familiar faces in uncredited roles : Jack Carson as a Seattle lumberman ; Grady Sutton as a butcher's helper ; Frank Reicher as a stage director ; Franklin Pangborn , hilarious as a butler ; and Ralph Forbes in the role of Hepburn's stage spouse .
Mr . Mouse Meets Kong's Little Brother	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . It's Mickey to the rescue when an escaped ape causes mayhem in poor Minnie's house . THE GORILLA MYSTERY is a very fine little black & white film , with plenty of chills and suspense . The frightful simian gives new emphasis to the intransitive verb ' slavering . ' Notice the particular care the animators took with Minnie's piano playing - every finger in exactly the right spot on the keyboard to produce the notes heard on the soundtrack ; it was tiny ( but perfect ) details like this which put the folks at Disney at the top of their professional tree . Walt Disney supplies Mickey with his trademark squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Check Into This Establishment	A world-weary prima ballerina , desperate for love . A noble cat thief , desperate for money . A dying clerk , out on a last fling . His industrialist boss , passionate & brutal . A pretty young stenographer , willing to do almost anything to get ahead . A hotel bell captain , anxious to hear about his pregnant wife . And a cynical , war-scarred doctor . Destiny awaits them all in one of Europe's most renowned establishments - Berlin's GRAND HOTEL . This is considered to be the first ' all star ' movie . It was certainly MGM's most opulent film up to that time . The studio loaded it with an A List of star performers : Greta Garbo , uttering her trademark phrase , ' I want to be alone . ' Radiant in love , one can only imagine the despair that awaits her after the film ends . John Barrymore , suave , sophisticated & ultimately tragic . Lionel Barrymore , in a performance that will stay in your memory , slowly dying . Wallace Beery in a heavy role , all bullying bluff & bluster . Joan Crawford , tough as nails & good as gold . Lewis Stone , Jean Hersholt , Rafaela Ottiano & Ferdinand Gottschalk all lend sterling support . There was concern that putting so much talent into one film , instead of spreading the stars out over 4 or 5 films , would lose the studio money . Not to worry . It was a great success , financially & critically . Watch how the plot weaves the threads of the characters ' lives into a finished tapestry . One of the great movies . Tremendously satisfying .
Disney Dallies With Greek Mythology	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Persephone , THE GODDESS OF SPRING , is kidnapped by Hades , the devilish god of the Underworld , leaving the earth in perpetual winter . Will the warmth & joy of Spring ever return ? A vivid , and somewhat bizarre , little film which retells the story from Greek Mythology , while incorporating both operatic & jazz traditions . The animators seem to have confused the character of Hades with that of the Biblical Satan . Years later , Walt would draw comparison between Persephone & Snow White , to illustrate how far his animators evolved in just three short years . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Some Magic Beans For Mr . Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Three zany farmers - Mickey , Donald & Goofy - attempt to rescue the stolen Singing Harp from a temperamental giant . While it technically does not match the quality of their classic cartoons from the 1930's , MICKEY AND THE BEANSTALK is a most enjoyable two-reeler and provides the trio with one of their liveliest adventures . The sequence of the growing beanstalk up lifting & breaking apart the farmhouse is pure magic . Comic veteran Billy Gilbert provides the voice for Willie the Giant ; Clarence Nash does the honors for Donald . Disney has produced at least three versions of this cartoon . Originally it was the concluding half of FUN AND FANCY FREE ( 1947 ) and was narrated by the marvelous Edgar Bergen with assistance from Charlie McCarthy & Mortimer Snerd . There is also a version narrated by Paul Frees in the character of Professor Ludwig von Drake . Finally , there is a version of the cartoon narrated by Sterling Holloway . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Heading Out Of Town With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie are GOING BYE-BYE ! Butch , a notoriously violent criminal has threatened them with great bodily harm for squealing on him . Wanting to get out of town fast , and not aware that Butch has escaped the police , the Boys arrange to travel with a shady lady to share expenses . Naturally , she turns out to be Butch's girlfriend and the hilarity begins when they all show up at her apartment . . . A very funny little film - the slapstick ' trunk sequence ' is wonderful . That's Mae Busch as the girlfriend and Walter Long as Butch .
Memories Of A Little Stinger	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . An elderly bee reminisces about the life he once lead partnered with a certain Duck . . . LET'S STICK TOGETHER marked the seventh & final film appearance by Buzz-Buzz the Bee ( here called Spike ) in a Disney cartoon since 1948 - always as an antagonist to Donald . Like the Bootle Beetle before him , his popularity never seemed to really catch fire and he was forced into early retirement at a hive in Rancho Cucamonga , California . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice ; June Foray does the honors for Spike's frightful wife . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Gypsy Adventure With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	Two gentle eccentrics raise THE BOHEMIAN GIRL kidnapped by gypsies , unaware of her noble birth . In evaluating this film it is important to understand that it is very different from the result first planned by Hal Roach . The mysterious and scandalous death ( murder ? suicide ? accident ? ) of the leading lady late in 1935 caused extensive reshooting & reediting by the nervous Studio . Although Thelma Todd is still given third place billing , her participation has been slashed down to virtual insignificance . What a waste . This was the lovely & talented Miss Todd's final film , she was a credit to herprofession and she deserved better treatment . This probably also accounts for the abrupt cuts & scene transitions which plague the production . As a result , Felix Knight's obvious role as romantic lead was also truncated and he is left with but one short appearance , singing a melodic ballad . This is also a shame , as he was a fine young actor and he never received another good chance to become a successful movie star . The main attractions , Stan Laurel & Oliver Hardy , never falter . They are hilarious even when sitting and doing nothing . Playing puckish pickpockets , they get to involve themselves in a fair amount of physical activity , which gives the viewer another opportunity to marvel at Stan's inventiveness and Ollie's remarkable grace & dexterity . Stan's latest finger trick and his attempt to siphon a barrel of wine into bottles , along with Ollie divesting a foppish nobleman of every last valuable accouterment , stand out , but only as gems among treasures . Two of the great character actors from the Boys ' films of the past appear with them again . Formidable Mae Busch , making her final appearance with Stan & Ollie , plays Hardy's spectacularly unfaithful wife and suspicious little James Finalyson comes in at the end as an officious captain of the guard . OUR GANG cutie Darla Hood is darling indeed as the purloined infant . She grows up to become pretty Jacqueline Wells ( an obvious replacement for Miss Todd ) . Former matine idol Antonio Moreno plays Miss Busch's paramour , while elderly English actress Zeffie Tilbury brings life to the small part of the Gypsy Queen . Irish prodigy Michael William Balfe ( 1808-1870 ) composed the 1843 operetta upon which the film is based . Many of the words of the songs , especially when performed by the Gypsy Chorus , are unintelligible . However , it is good to hear the wonderful old solo ballads " When Other Lips " & " I Dreamt That I Dwelt In Marble Halls " beautifully sung .
Disney Version Of Classic Children's Book	THE LITTLE HOUSE sits on a little hill , way out in the country . Even though filled with a loving family , she can't help but notice the relentless approach of the big city coming ever closer to her . . . This cartoon is a charming adaptation of Virginia Lee Burton's 1942 Caldecott Medal winner . For the few minutes of its duration , the viewer feels deep interest in , and sympathy for , the little house - a tribute to the skill of the Disney artists in giving life to an inanimate object . The film benefits greatly from the expressive narration of Sterling Holloway .
Mightier Than A Roaring Hurricane	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . ' He who disturbs the eternal peace of King Tush shall perish ! ' This ancient Egyptian curse comes true when THE MUMMY STRIKES , trapping Lois Lane & Clark Kent in a museum with Tush's reanimated giant guards . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
Disney Borrows From Aesop	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Winter is coming , but the GRASSHOPPER AND THE ANTS have very different ways of preparing for it . While the ants are diligently storing food , the Grasshopper is only dancing around & playing his fiddle . When the snows come , perhaps he'll play a different tune . . . Aesop's Fables provided the source for this very enjoyable cartoon . The intricate labors of the ants give lots of interest for the eye . ' Oh , The World Owes Us A Living ' , the Grasshopper's song , would eventually become , with a slight revision , the theme for Goofy ; Pinto Colvig voiced both characters . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mister Tracy & Miss Velez Paint The Town Red	A carnival barker crashes onto Broadway , hoping to keep THE HALF NAKED TRUTH secret that both he and his ? Turkish princess ' are as phony as a three dollar bill . . . RKO Studios produced this highly amusing , but rarely seen , comedy with flair , exuberance , and first-rate performances . Broadway is given a few lighthearted kicks in the shin by its cinematic cousin and a good time is had by all . In the kind of role he could almost play in his sleep , Lee Tracy plays an over-the-top promoter who engages in wild escapades to get his ladies noticed by the press & public . He is conniving , untruthful & underhanded ; he is also wonderfully funny . Tracy was the master at playing the anti-hero , the unromantic lover , the average-looking guy with the extra moxie it takes to get on top . Had his career not come crashing down around him due to a drunken indiscretion while filming in Mexico for MGM , he would probably today be remembered as one of Hollywood's top stars . As it is , he's lucky to be remembered at all . Lupe Velez is a terrific foil for Tracy . The Tamale , as he calls her , is pungent , peppery & red hot . As a temperamental hootchy-kootchy dancer who makes it from a carny midway to the Great White Way , she is perfectly cast in what remains one of her best roles . It is sad , however , watching this lively lady , to remember that she would die despondent & alone in 1944 , a suicide at 36 . Three top film comics help enliven the proceedings : gravely-voiced Eugene Pallette , who as Tracy's sidekick must impersonate eunuchs & nudists to further the scam ; unctuous Franklin Pangborn as an officious hotel clerk ; and blustery Frank Morgan as an imperious theatrical impresario who finds himself the target of Tracy's wild schemes . Movie mavens will recognize celebrated movie composer Max Steiner appearing unbilled as the orchestra leader during Lupe's Broadway rendition of ? Hey , Mr . Carpenter . '
The Pooch Parade	A COLOR PARADE Short Subject . A call goes out to cast two canines for a short scene in a feature film and FAMOUS MOVIE DOGS from around Hollywood arrive with their owners to audition . This very amusing little picture shows the care which goes into the selection & training of canis familiaris for the movies . Several veteran dogs appear , most notably Asta from the THIN MAN series . The film is dedicated to the memory of Rin-Tin-Tin ; John Deering is the commentator . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Fascist Fantasy	The fabulous exploits of Baron MNCHHAUSEN include several wars , numerous plots and beautiful women without number . At the height of World War Two , as the tide was beginning to turn against the Third Reich , Hitler's Minister of Propaganda , Joseph Goebbels commissioned this lavish motion picture as a commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Ufa , the government-run German film association . More importantly , it was also to be a rival of the great fantasy films which had come from the Allied nations , such as THE WIZARD OF OZ ( 1939 ) and THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1940 ) . In that it succeeds brilliantly and needs no comparison to any other film . The film is a great , lighthearted romp as it follows the adventures of the Baron from Prussia to St . Petersburg , Constantinople , Venice and even the Moon . It is fascinating to see the high quality which the Germans were still able to lavish on the picture , even as their Empire was beginning to crumble around them . The production values are of a very high order and the Technicolor photography is sumptuous to the eye . Remarkably , there is no National Socialist propaganda in the film and the War is never mentioned . In the title role , Hans Albers gives a surprisingly sensitive performance for such a robust production . He takes the legendary character and gives the viewer a portrait of a dashing , reflective , amorous , compassionate , resourceful man . Whether riding on a cannonball , ingratiating himself with the Ottoman Sultan , or examining the fantastic flora of the lunar planet , Albers always makes Mnchhausen totally believable . All the acting is of a high order , but especially worthy of mention are Ferdinand Marian as the mysterious Count Cagliostro , Brigitte Horney as a flirtatious Catherine the Great , and Gustav Waldau as an aging Casanova . It should be mentioned that this is not a movie for children . Given its European origins it should come as no surprise that MNCHHAUSEN is a good deal more libidinous than the standard Hollywood fare of the time . There was a real Baron Karl Friedrich Hieronymus von Mnchhausen ( 1720-1797 ) , a German adventurer and teller of tall tales , but he had nothing to do with the book of fictional exploits which borrowed his name , written by Rudolf Erich Raspe ( 1737-1794 ) , upon which this film was based .
Superman's First Cartoon Adventure	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . A mad scientist turns his death ray on Metropolis to begin destroying bridges & buildings . Intrepid reporter Lois Lane crashes her plane directly in the madman ? s front yard . With Lois a prisoner & the death ray once again in operation , it looks like a job for SUPERMAN ! This was the first in a series of excellent cartoons Max Fleischer produced for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts .
Shades Of Blue	A Walt Disney Cartoon . A pair of storks find tranquility in the moonlit sanctuary of the BLUE BAYOU . This tiny extract from Disney's MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) hasn't any dialogue and only the merest whisper of a plot . What it does have is a remarkable feeling of deep , otherworldly peace - a chance for a few moments to find a little rest within the confines of a hectic multi-episode animated film . It also is an excellent example of what Walt's animators were able to achieve with just one primary color . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Much Joy From A Small Bear	An inquisitive young bear wanders into the hills where he chances upon a splendid musical performance staged only once every couple of hundred years - by frogs . RUPERT AND THE FROG SONG is an utterly charming little film which should not fail to delight the most jaded viewer . Beginning subtly , it moves toward a dramatic climax during the Frog Song - exuberantly achieving its emotional apex with kaleidoscopic color & lilting sound . Rupert was created by artist Mary Tourtel in 1920 and he has won generations of fans who eagerly follow his continuing adventures in the Daily Express newspaper . Since his inception , Rupert has personified the gentle joys & sweet innocence of childhood . It is precisely these qualities which this film so perfectly grasps . Sir Paul McCartney took on the project of creating RUPERT AND THE FROG SONG as a true labor of love . Not only did he co-author the storyline and executive co-produce ( sharing both duties with wife Linda ) , Sir Paul also wrote & composed the very cheerful song ' We All Stand Together , ' performed several of the speaking voices and arranged the music with Sir George Martin . The result for this small gem was a much deserved British Academy Award . Singing voices for the frog chorus were supplied by The St . Paul's Choir & The King Singers .
Mr . Keaton Is All At Sea	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . Shanghaied at sea , Buster must keep clear of the skipper of THE LOVE NEST , a scurvy old ruffian who enjoys murder & mayhem . Keaton takes some very serious ideas and develops them into a hilarious little film full of wild sight gags . Sadly , this marked the final appearance by Joe Roberts , who died in October 1923 . Joe played memorable villains , huge & mustachioed , in many of Keaton's early films and was always great fun to watch . He was only 52 at the time of his death . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
The Sultan of Swing Meets The Ice Queen	A Norwegian refugee schemes to catch the man she loves - a swing band pianist . Maybe a little SUN VALLEY SERENADE will do the trick . . . Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . After going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 with her American film debut , ONE IN A MILLION . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her own special niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Miss Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . In this regard , some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . As her career progressed , it became increasingly difficult for Fox to find decent stories for Miss Henie and the excuses for the lavish ice dancing numbers were often implausible . No matter . Audiences did not flock to her films to watch Sonja recite Shakespeare . The movies were meant to be pure escapist fantasy , plain & simple . SUN VALLEY SERENADE is no exception and its story is often quite silly . Also , Sonja is not given nearly enough skating time to really satisfy her fans . However , Sonja's costars do offer some compensation . First among these should be the incomparable Glenn Miller , who appears with his band . Although his character is left pretty much a cipher , his marvelous music more than adequately speaks for itself . Gentle & soft-spoken , he nevertheless provides the strongest competition yet , in any of her films , to capturing the viewers ' attention away from Henie . The Miller Band performs ? In The Mood ' and the absolute definitive version of ? Chattanooga Choo Choo , ' which is further enhanced with performances by the fancy-jumping Nicholas Brothers ( Harold & Fayard ) and the beautiful Dorothy Dandridge . Fans of the Swing Era should recognize several of Glenn's band members , including saxophonist Tex Beneke , all of whom appear uncredited . John Payne plays Sonja's love interest , and she goes to great lengths to get him , including the willingness to compromise her moral character . Fortunately , the plot doesn't take her that far . Lovely Lynn Bari is the vocalist also interested in Payne , and the script does her something of a disservice , letting her appear sweet & charming until its time to clear the decks for Henie , at which point Miss Bari's character becomes a jealous virago . Perhaps in films such as this it isn't wise to delve too far into the nuances of characterization . . . Milton Berle plays the band's loudmouthed publicity agent . Comedienne Joan Davis , who had already enlivened a couple of Henie's films , makes three appearances so brief as to be little more than a cameo . Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides effortlessly into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of silver , suspended over frozen water .
Mickey Delivers The Goods	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey , THE GROCERY BOY , makes a delivery to Minnie - which is interrupted by Pluto's unfortunate interest in the baked turkey in Minnie's oven . . . This is an enjoyable little black & white film , with fine animation and a strong sense of fun . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Ghostly Encounters - - Act Three	Cosmo TOPPER RETURNS and this time he's involved with murder ! Hal Roach Studios presents one more look at the continued supernatural adventures of Cosmo Topper . The Old Dark House routine is trotted out as our hero finds himself in a spooky cliff-top mansion replete with strange disappearances , hidden passageways and a fiendish knife-wielding killer . Roland Young & Billie Burke are back one final time as the Toppers and they remain a delight - - Mr . Young owl-like & serious in the scariest of situations and Miss Burke forever sweetly vague and befuddled . They are joined by vivacious Joan Blondell ( who actually snags top billing ) as a ghostess intent on forcing poor Topper into discovering who's just murdered her . More new costars are on hand to help liven things up : lovely Carole Landis as a rich girl in much need of protection ; Dennis O'Keefe as a taxi driver willing to provide that protection ; gaunt H . B . Warner as Miss Landis ' invalid father ; menacing George Zucco as his sinister doctor ; Rafaela Ottiano as a frightened housekeeper ; Donald MacBride as a moronic cop ; and the delightful Patsy Kelly , underused as the Toppers ' tough maid . Best of all is Eddie ' Rochester ' Anderson , ' more or less playing himself ( he even makes a gag about returning to ' Mr . Benny ' ) who rivals Miss Burke in getting the best lines in the picture . Contemporary references to Orson Welles ' radio plays and the Alfred Hitchcock movie REBECCA ( 1940 ) should amuse cognoscenti . The serious viewer must not expect to have all the mysteries solved by film's end ; indeed , most of the loose ends remain resolutely untied . Just sit back and enjoy the comedic chills served-up by this group of very fine performers . This was the third of a 3-film series , coming after TOPPER ( 1937 ) and TOPPER TAKES A TRIP ( 1939 ) .
Come Sail The High Seas Of Adventure With Ramon Novarro	Two brothers dream of their love for the same girl back home , while aboard ship sailing ACROSS TO SINGAPORE . Based on the famous adventure story ? All The Brothers Were Valiant ' by Ben Ames Williams , this is a rousing silent film which features strong action & good acting . The production values are first-rate , as is to be expected from MGM . Although the plot becomes somewhat ludicrous - the hero kidnaps the heroine off to the Orient where they confront a dastardly mutiny - the film is certainly never dull . Ramon Novarro stars as the youngest son in a sea-faring family of hardy men . ( The Studio kept their Mexican star constantly roaming from one ethnic identity to another ; here he plays Anglo-Saxon . ) Giving a typically robust performance , Novarro is not lacking in the heroics necessary to beguile his audience . It is unfortunate that Novarro's films , silent & sound , with the exception of BEN-HUR ( 1925 ) , are all but forgotten today . Big , blustering Ernest Torrence steals more than a scene or two as Novarro's sea captain brother ; gruff & gentle by turns , he is indeed valiant . Joan Crawford , early in her film career , is the object of both brothers ' affections . Just when she seems a mite too demure , Joan's fire begins to spark ; she also proves to be a surprisingly good pistol shot during the mutiny . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Anna May Wong as a Celestial temptress .
Breakin ' Rocks With Mr . Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey Mouse attempts a daring escape from THE CHAIN GANG which holds him captive . This enjoyable little black & white cartoon is notable as the film debut for Pluto , who does double duty by playing both of the bloodhounds which chase Mickey into the swamp . Clarabelle Cow is one of the inmates on the chain & Pegleg Pete portrays one of the scurvy guards . That's the classic ' Prisoner Song ' which the Mouse and his buddies perform shortly before the escape attempt . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Ventures Into Bunny Land	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . The FUNNY LITTLE BUNNIES are energetically getting ready for Easter by making & decorating chocolate eggs , and , with the help of some friendly hens , hard-boiled Easter eggs . A lively and extremely visual cartoon , with lots of bright colors ( wonder if the animators got their paints from the rainbow , too , like the bunnies ? ) . What the film lacks in plot it makes up in the imaginative way in which the treats are produced . It sounds as though Florence Gill supplied the voice for the hens . Major complaint is the unnecessary use of blind , cross-eyed & elderly gags - Walt should have known better . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Disney's Safety Tips	A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . It's easy to prove that I'M NO FOOL WITH ELECTRICITY if I pay attention to Jiminy Cricket's admonitions . This is one of a short series of little television films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The story of man's involvement with electricity since caveman days is also discussed . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect teacher . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Safety Tips From Disney	A Walt Disney I'M NO FOOL Cartoon . I'M NO FOOL WITH FIRE , this strange & wonderful thing which can be my best friend or my worst enemy . This is one of a short series of little television films in which Disney helped to inform viewers about basic safety concerns and the foolish ways in which lackadaisical folks can hurt themselves . The story of man's use of fire since caveman days is discussed - as well as the consequences for not respecting its dangerous power . Jiminy Cricket , as voiced by the inimitable Cliff Edwards , is the perfect pedagogue . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Hilarity As Our Gang Hits The Highway	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Rich kid Dickie has a stiff neck and his mother insists on treating him like an invalid . After his pal Stymie hears the doctor say that Dickie needs to get out & have some excitement in his life , Stymie takes him for a ride in the Gang's new taxi , which is operated by mule power . But the ornery critter breaks loose - leaving the vehicle without breaks . With a steep hill & dangerous curves ahead , it looks like little Dickie is in for plenty of excitement - now that they're FREE WHEELING . This is a funny little film with a couple of very cute moments : Dickie & his nurse tricking each other into taking castor oil and Spanky's encounter with a monkey . The taxi itself is quite ingenious and should delight gadget-minded viewers .
Tall Trouble For A Hungry Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Caught stealing food , hobo Donald is forced to work in Pete's TIMBER camp . Donald gives another robust performance in this funny little film . For the sake of the plot , Pete goes by the name of ' Pierre ' and assumes a phony French accent . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers of the script ; Clarence Nash gives Donald his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Catching Crooks With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy ShortA wealthy matron is giving FREE EATS to the poor kiddies of the town at her mansion . A ' family ' of crooks thinks this would be an excellent opportunity for the ' babies ' - actually two midgets - to steal pocketbooks & jewelry . Fortunately Stymie and the Rascals are on hand . . . A funny film , with good performances from all the little people . Film mavens will recognize Billy Gilbert & Paul Fix as ' Papa ' & " Mama " crook ; that's Major Mite & Tiny Lawrence as the two ' fidgets ' . Incidentally , this was Spanky McFarland's film debut with the Gang . It was evident immediately that he had natural charm & enormous talent . Eventually he would be the most famous Rascal of them all .
Stanwyck Shines In Slick Soap	A high-minded GAMBLING LADY runs into trouble when she becomes connected with a society family . Breezy & entertaining , this was the sort of film which Warner Brothers created with such ease . Blessed with good acting & fine production values , these pictures were generally guaranteed to be crowd pleasers . As always , Barbara Stanwyck is utterly fascinating to watch . Not only talented & lovely , Stanwyck's great forte was her utter believability in any role she undertook . Here , she looks perfectly natural with a deck of cards in her hand , playing & dealing . Her authenticity is matched by the passion which she displayed with every performance . Her leading men are two of the best : rich boy Joel McCrea & genial crook Pat O'Brien - both do well by their roles . Given equal billing , the viewer is left guessing for quite a while which one will finish the film in Stanwyck's arms . Excellent support is given by marvelous old Sir C . Aubrey Smith as a kindly gentleman who befriends Stanwyck , Arthur Vinton as the head of a notorious Gambling Syndicate & eccentric little Ferdinand Gottschalk as Sir Aubrey's lawyer . Movie mavens will recognize Willie Fung as a member of the Syndicate , and Arthur Treacher & Louise Beavers as Sir Aubrey's butler & cook - all uncredited .
Visit This Sideshow at Your Peril	A forest glade somewhere in Europe . A warm , sunny day with children playing on the grass . But the camera moves closer and reveals that something is terribly wrong . For these are not children , but tragically misshapen human beings . Pinheads . Dwarfs . A young man with only half a body . A man without arms or legs . These are the Freaks . In 1932 , director Tod Browning , fresh from his success with DRACULA , was instructed by Irving Thalberg to top FRANKENSTEIN . He succeeded . The resulting film was considered so ghastly that it was banned in Britain for 30 years . It is the strangest film MGM ever released . Browning wanted to tell a tale of love , greed & revenge set in a circus , most particularly in the sideshow of human anomalies . He scoured Europe & America for the perfect cast . He got them : Violet & Daisy Hilton , the celebrated Siamese twins ; dwarf brother & sister Harry & Daisy Earles ; Johnny Eck the Half Boy ( a good actor , he will remain in your mind a long time ) ; the tragic Josephine Joseph , a hermaphrodite ; as well as a human skeleton , armless girls and the female pinheads , among others . While the plot is exploitive & the title tasteless , these people show us glimpses of their hearts , some of the agony of their condition and make us wonder , ' What if I'd been born as one of them ? ' The rest of the cast is made up of MGM stock players Leila Hyams , Wallace Ford , Edward Brophy , Olga Baclanova and the screen's champion stutterer Roscoe Ates . The plot is simple . A beautiful trapeze artist marries a dwarf for his money , then plots his murder with her lover , the circus strong man . The subsequent action is both horrifying & strangely satisfying . Various scenes - the Freaks ' Banquet , the chase through the storm - are among the most bizarre ever filmed . You won't soon forget the time you spend with the FREAKS .
Disney's Wild & Wooly Tale	Raised by sheep , LAMBERT THE SHEEPISH LION wants to live a life of gentle peace & quiet . Then one night , a wicked wolf carries off his foster mother . . . Winner of the 1952 Oscar for Best Animation , this is a very enjoyable little film . Bill Peet , eventually a popular children's author in his own right , was one of the writers here . The title tune is infectious , and Sterling Holloway is perfect as the Narrator .
Classic Harlow Performance Is Still A Dazzler	THE GIRL FROM MISSOURI arrives in New York City knowing exactly what she wants : to amount to something solid by marrying a millionaire - without losing her virginity . With her knockout good looks she quickly catches the eye of the playboy son of a tycoon , but by staying true to her virtue will she also discover true love ? Jean Harlow sizzles in this excellent little comedy . With her platinum hair & gorgeous accouterments , she is a dazzler . But her beauty should not obscure the fact that she was also a very good actress . She has rightfully earned her spot at the very top of the Hollywood pantheon . An excellent cast gives Harlow fine support : Lionel Barrymore as the wily old tycoon , wise to Harlow's ways ; handsome Franchot Tone as his son , smitten with love ; raucous Patsy Kelly , stealing her scenes as Harlow's sidekick ; debonair Alan Mowbray , as a well-mannered English Lord ; elderly Clara Blandick as Barrymore's feisty secretary ; hearty Hale Hamilton as a rich man with an eye for the ladies ; muscular Nat Pendleton as a lifeguard who catches Kelly's flirtatious eye ; and Lewis Stone , unforgettable in a small role as a bankrupted businessman . It should be noted that this film was produced soon after Hollywood's Production Code was instituted . A comparison with RED-HEADED WOMAN , made two years earlier , would be fascinating - in which Harlow's character goes after the same ends , but uses very different means .
Fun With Wheeler & Woolsey And The Gershwin Brothers	A rich , GIRL CRAZY young playboy decides to transform an old family ranch in Arizona into a fancy entertainment hot spot . He turns to a gambler buddy to come West & operate the games of chance . Together , they trick a witless cabby into running for sheriff in nearby Custerville , a town notorious for the low life expectancy of its lawmen . . . Wheeler & Woolsey ( Bert Wheeler is the little fellow with the curly hair ; Robert Woolsey has the glasses & cigar ) have fun in this transmogrified Gershwin musical . With their one-liners & physical comedy , they were always able to transcend their material , even in an excessively silly story such as this . It is a shame that the Boys are all but forgotten today . . . Eddie Quillan , as the playboy , provides his usual peppy puppy support ; Dorothy Lee , Wheeler's perpetual flame , appears but is given little to do , probably as she must share plot time with 3 other young ladies : Kitty Kelly , Mitzi Green & Arline Judge . Stanley Fields makes a fine buffonish bad guy . That's Nat Pendleton , unbilled , as the motorcycle cop . With songs by the Gershwin Brothers , the Boys are in very fine musical company . Kelly sings a rousing ' I Got Rhythm ' - while Quillan & Judge deliver ' But Not For Me ' . Wheeler & Lee get to warble ' You've Got What Gets Me ' . Movie mavens will want to pay attention to the very end of this song ; the female who gets throttled by Wheeler is none other than the monumental Margaret Dumont , apparently escaped from the Marx Bros . , appearing here in an uncredited cameo .
Never Say Die	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD Comedy Short Subject . Infatuated with the daughter of a bullying millionaire , Harold must first ASK FATHER for permission to marry the girl . The main attraction in this very short & funny little film is watching Harold attempt to sneak into the fierce old man's office . Movie mavens will notice that this film was made shortly before the studio accident which blew off half of Harold's right hand . Bebe Daniels plays a sympathetic switchboard operator ; Snub Pollard appears as an eccentric private secretary . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
A Snow Bird Tale	A Walt Disney CartoonPablo , THE COLD-BLOODED PENGUIN , yearns to escape from Antarctica's frigid climes to bask in the tropic zones of South America . This little extract from the feature film THE THREE CABALLEROS ( 1945 ) is humorous , with unhappy Pablo a slightly winsome character . Sterling Holloway is the perfect narrator for this material . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Tall Tale Well Told	Here's the true , unvarnished tale of how old PECOS BILL became the greatest cowboy of them all . The folks at Rabbit Ears have brought us this boisterous version of the seminal American legend from the Wild West . Its high spirits and sense of good natured fun are practically infectious . This Tale Tale is sure to tickle the funny bone of any ornery polecat willing to sit through half an hour of homespun hilarity . Robin Williams ' Texas cowpoke drawl narration is the perfect partner to Ry Cooder's tuneful Western guitar and Tim Raglin's colorful drawings , all adding up to a whole chili pot full of fun .
A Cinema Pioneer Remembered	Neglected for a century , the aged woman's cinema treasures , like THE LOST GARDEN in a fairy tale , await rediscovery by a new generation . This poignant & thoughtful documentary introduces the viewer to Alice Guy-Blach ( 1873-1968 ) , finally being acknowledged as the world's first - and for many years , only - female film director . Through the narration of her granddaughter , Adrienne Blach-Channing , the viewer is introduced to a charming old lady with a remarkable past . Present at the very birth of the cinema in Europe , Guy-Blach , through a series of fortunate circumstances , went on to direct hundreds of two-reelers in France & America from 1896 to 1920 . Long before talkies arrived in 1927 , she was pioneering the synchronization of motion pictures & sound . Today , tragically , she is virtually forgotten . Artistic flair is used in seemingly integrating interviewees directly into the ancient films . Using tantalizing selections from her surviving films - and a TV interview she granted before her death - the documentary gives a very good summary of Guy-Blach's importance to the history of the moving picture .
For Dog Lovers Everywhere	A magnificent British collie struggles to cover the hundreds of miles that separate her from the family she loves . LASSIE COME HOME is one of the truly great family films . Crafted with care by MGM and based on the classic novel by Eric Knight , it will strike a warm response in the heart of anyone who has ever loved a dog . The production values are first rate and the color photography is spectacular . While the scenery & filming locations are strictly Western North America , they nevertheless make evocative stand-ins for the settings in the book . It might be worth the viewer's time to check the relationship of the Yorkshire Moors with the Scottish Highlands on a map , so as to better appreciate the phenomenal journey which the dog undertakes . The casting is excellent throughout : Donald Crisp , Elsa Lanchester & Roddy McDowall as the poor , proud family which must sell their only treasure , Lassie ; Nigel Bruce as the gruffly tenderhearted Duke which buys the dog ; a young Dame Elizabeth Taylor plays his lively granddaughter . J . Pat O'Malley portrays the brutal dog handler employed by the Duke . Along her journey Lassie encounters old folks who need her companionship ( Dame May Whitty & real-life husband Ben Webster , in his last film role ) , a traveling tinker who values her protection ( Edmund Gwenn ) , and suspicious sheepmen on the watch for killer dogs ( Alan Napier & Arthur Shields ) . Lassie is played by Pal , a male dog trained by the celebrated Rudd Weatherwax ( 1907-1985 ) , who was responsible for generations of Lassies which appeared in movies & television . Pal gives a remarkable performance , providing the very heart & soul of the film . Eric Mowbray Knight was born in Yorkshire , England , on April 10 , 1897 . Moving to America in 1912 , he became a student in New York , but left to join the Canadian Armed Forces with the outbreak of World War One . In 1932 he published a collection of his wartime letters - Portrait Of A Flying Yorkshireman . Later came two novels which made good use of authentic Yorkshire dialect : Invitation To Life ( 1934 ) and Song On Your Bugles ( 1937 ) . He didn't think much of his 1940 children's book , Lassie Come-Home and was very surprised at its great success . His next novel , This Above All ( 1941 ) , a World War Two romance , was also popular . Knight joined the United States Army and rose to the rank of Major . Working with an Army film unit under the direction of Frank Capra , Eric Knight was tragically killed in a plane crash off the coast of Suriname on January 15 , 1943 . MGM dedicated LASSIE COME HOME , which was released later that year , to his memory . The snatch of ballad Edmund Gwenn is singing while shaving in his first scene is " I Dreamt That I Dwelt In Marble Halls " from the 1843 operetta The Bohemian Girl by Michael William Balfe ( 1808-1870 ) .
Take A Laugh-Packed Camp Out With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . When the older Rascals go on a camping trip , inspired by their Western heroes , they refuse to allow the little Kids to come along . Arriving footsore at their destination , Cherry Creek , they find they've brought no food . The big jar of jelly brought by the little Kids - who beat them there by hitchhiking - is the cause of a mad scramble . Strange noises , wild critters , glowing eyes , fleas & a terrific lightning storm ensure all the Rascals won't forget THE FIRST ROUND-UP . A typically hilarious entry in the Hal Roach series . Spanky & Stymie , as always , are first rate . This was one of the early films in which Buckwheat was played by a little girl , although Billie Thomas does make an appearance as an unnamed toddler .
A Sleepy Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Forced to sleep in the WIDE OPEN SPACES , the last thing a desperately tired Donald needs is trouble with his air mattress . . . This little film is routine in respect to animation & story , but it's always enjoyable to watch the Duck deal with inanimate objects . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Early Disney Milestone In Character Development	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . An adventurous little mouse daydreams of being able to fly like a bird . After saving a fairy from a nasty spider , he is given his wish . Soon , however , THE FLYING MOUSE discovers that sometimes dreams can become nightmares . This is considered to be a significant cartoon for the Disney Studios , in that it marked a big step forward in creating a real personality for an animated character . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
This Show's A Howl	An MGM DOGVILLE Comedy Short Subject . A couple of song & dance mutts try to make a hit on Dogway . One in a series of Dogville shorts , THE DOGWAY MELODY is a hilarious spoof of MGM's Academy Award winning hit THE BROADWAY MELODY ( 1929 ) , with costumed canines performing all the parts . The characters played by Charles King & Anita Page in the original film are given a doggie interpretation , as are two of Arthur Freed & Nacio Herb Brown's best tunes ( ? The Broadway Melody ' & ? ' You Were Meant For Me . ' ) Highlight : A Ziegfeld-style revue complete with tableau , leggy chorines and a Jolson impersonator . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Brightenin ' An Old Lady's Life With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . A rich & lonely lady begins her SECOND CHILDHOOD on her 65th birthday when Spanky , Alfalfa & the Gang show her how to loosen-up & enjoy life . A funny little film , with a spry & humorous performance by English actress Zeffie Tilbury as Grandma , who actually turned 73 the year this was produced . Highlight : Alfalfa , Spanky & Grandma singing ? Oh ! Susanna ' .
Yet Another Griffith / Gish Masterpiece	Like the BROKEN BLOSSOMS of a trampled rose , the pure affection between two unutterably lonely people is destroyed by evil & hatred . Turning his back temporarily on the Silent epics of his past , movie master David Wark Griffith turned the laser beam of his talent on the tragic story of three pathetic individuals living in the slums of London's Limehouse : a fragile waif , her vicious father , and the gentle Chinese shopkeeper living nearby . No huge casts rampaging through innumerable subplots , no tremendous production values spent to illustrate the sweep & flow of a historical period . Just three people living increasingly desperate lives , brought together by a tidal wave of pure emotion . Lillian Gish was right thinking she was too old to play the young girl , and she did so only at Griffith's insistence , but it is impossible to contemplate anyone else in the role . She is utterly luminous as the abused child who finds a few moments of glorious affection with the young foreigner from the East . Miss Gish's magically expressive face creates a classic cinema moment when she attempts to smile to save herself from a beating , pushing up the corners of her mouth with two fingers , while her tormented eyes reveal to the viewer her deep pain and fear . Later , in her celebrated closet scene , like a trapped animal she releases an explosion of frenzy which is still difficult to watch , as her attacker uses a hatchet to smash the barrier between them . Miss Lillian had started rehearsals while weakened from the Spanish Flu ; she created a movie portrait which caught her genius forever . Matching her in almost every particular is her costar Richard Barthelmess , who gives a most sensitive portrayal as the Chinese missionary who comes to England to proselytize for Buddha , but instead finds himself alone & friendless in the squalor of the great city . Barthelmess uses his eyes almost exclusively to express what's in his heart , bringing enormous dignity & repose to his role . It is too easy today to criticize a performer for playing an ethnic role , but once , to be able to do so convincingly , was considered the hallmark of a capable actor . Barthelmess does so with both conviction & distinction , bringing the film to a heartbreaking conclusion . Rounding out the threesome is Englishman Donald Crisp . Although in reality the most gentle and affable of men , he nonetheless made a career during the Silent Era of playing violent brutes , never more despicable than here . His character glories in the terrors he inflicts on Miss Lillian , the viewer loathes him , and his eventual fate is most welcome & well deserved . The film almost didn't get released . Paramount Pictures boss Adolph Zukor hated it ; he thought it too morbid . Griffith raised the operating costs of $91 , 000 and purchased the film , releasing it through United Artists . Receptive audiences helped it make millions . As Miss Lillian said decades later , " Griffith put tragic poetry on the screen for the first time . "
Seeking Love & Fortune With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD Comedy Short . An impoverished young fellow finds himself BUMPING INTO BROADWAY when he falls in love with a pretty showgirl . This fast-moving romp gave Harold Lloyd an early success for his Glasses Character . Antic chases and sight gags abound , and Harold gets to showoff his buoyant physical dexterity in this film made before a freak accident so badly damaged his right hand . Swiftly moving from boardinghouse to street , on to the theater , and finally to an elaborate speakeasy , the plot gives Harold plenty of opportunity to amuse . Bebe Daniels is his love interest . Helen Gilmore is the fierce landlady ; tough guy Noah Young is the boardinghouse bouncer . In a brief role , Gus Leonard , in drag , is hilarious as the man-crazy spinster who lives one floor below Harold . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Come Dally In Arden's Forest	Dressed as a boy , a banished noblewoman meets her equally unfortunate suitor in a forest and teases with his affections . In AS YOU LIKE IT , a young , virile Sir Laurence Olivier leaps & cavorts his way through his first appearance in a Shakespearean feature film , his magnificent voice cajoling every line . To those viewers only aware of his late career before his 1989 death , an elderly lion enfeebled by terrible long-standing diseases , his athletic performance here will be a wonderful revelation . Although the plot requires him to behave blindly inane at times , fancifully wooing the boy who is actually his disguised ladylove , the future Lord Olivier is never anything less than compelling . Still nearly a decade away from the first of his own filmed Shakespearean productions - HENRY V ( 1945 ) - Sir Laurence here shows he is already a complete master of the Bard's verse . As Rosalind , and earning top billing , Austrian actress Elisabeth Bergner more than holds her own against Olivier . Her strong Teutonic accent is at variance with everyone else in the cast and she probably would not have received the role had she not been married to the director / producer , but this in no way should disparage her skills as an actress . Fetching & lovely and with a thorough grasp of her lines , Miss Bergner is a constant delight to watch . The comedy keeps her in male costume most of the time and it is important to remember that she is not really supposed to be a convincing boy . Bowing to the plot's absurdities , she is to provide some laughs and moments of reflection at the expense of the other characters and this Miss Bergner accomplishes most handily . A very fine collection of British character actors supply their ample talents to the proceedings . Sir Felix Aylmer is wonderfully wicked as the usurping Duke . John Laurie oozes evil as Olivier's murderous elder brother . Lovely Sophie Stewart provides playful fun as Miss Bergner's faithful cousin . Beefy Lionel Braham scores as a braggadocio wrestler . Mackenzie Ward is properly impertinent as Touchstone the Fool . Peter Bull is hilarious in his only scene as an idiotic youth . As in the play , the sardonic Jacques ( well played by Leon Quartermaine ) is given one of Shakespeare's loveliest soliloquies , the famous Seven Ages of Man speech . The entire film is given a sumptuous production which is most pleasing to the eye . A glance down its credits reveals something of its fine pedigree : Sir James M . Barrie , author of Peter Pan , suggested the treatment - which meant he helped in the adaptation of Shakespeare's play to the screen ; Sir David Lean , later to be a director of great importance , was responsible for the film's editing .
Another Chaney Chiller	Vowing revenge on the world of ? normal ' people , a sideshow ventriloquist , strong man & dwarf band together as THE UNHOLY THREE . Following Lon Chaney's great film successes at Universal Studios , Irving Thalberg managed to entice the actor to come to MGM . Anxious to repeat the box office bonanzas of Chaney's recent past , Thalberg signed a one-picture deal with Chaney's favorite director , Tod Browning . The resulting film , THE UNHOLY THREE , was such a hit that Thalberg quickly signed Browning for a long-term contract . Based on a story by Tod Robbins ( who would also pen the inspiration for FREAKS ) , Browning would give the film an appropriately menacing atmosphere , with flashes of comedic wit at just the right intervals . A crime caper rather than a horror film , the chills are saved for right near the end with the rampages of a ferocious ape ( actually a chimpanzee , photographed out of proportion ) which no one seems surprised to find in a bird store . While ventriloquism may seem an odd pastime to depict in a silent movie , Chaney made it all seem so sensible . A consummate artist who only now is starting to receive the proper accolades , Chaney did not need to contort limb or face to portray a little old lady . All he needed was a wig & a dress . So well was he received in this role that it was chosen to be remade five years later as Chaney's talking debut . Muscular Victor McLaglen ( a British Army champion athlete ) and tiny Harry Earles ( one of the few adult actors who could disguise himself as a baby ) give very solid support as Chaney's wicked cronies ; much of the favorable outcome of the film is due to them . Pensive Mae Busch scores as the waifish pickpocket allied with Chaney ; this very talented actress would get to shine a few years later in a series of appearances with Laurel & Hardy . In his one scene as a stern judge , Edward Connelly lends his saturnine presence to the proceedings .
Fightin ' Fires With The Little Rascals	To help out their city during a shortage of fire fighters , the Rascals have developed their own HOOK AND LADDER company . Converting an old barn into a firehouse , and using a motley assortment of wagons & vehicles , they are vigilant and alert to respond instantly to an alarm - if ' Cheef ' Dickie can get the pants on little brother Spanky . But when a warehouse full of dynamite begins to burn , and the Gang are the first on the scene , things really begin to heat up . . . A very funny little film . The Rascals ' fire fighting amenities , in the best tradition of Rube Goldberg , are a delight - as is Spanky & his medicine oil tribulations .
An Ancient Christmas Short	It becomes SANTA CLAUS VS . CUPID when a rich girl's Christmas party is attended by two love-smitten young men , each costumed as the jolly old elf . . . This is an entertaining little film , containing elements of humor ( the jolly corpulent cook revels in the kitchen with her boyfriends ) and drama ( the wretched coachman forced to steal to provide medicine for his ill wife ) . These plot strands , plus the romantic dual Santas , are woven into a compact storyline . Al Kryszak provided the score for the video compilation A Christmas Past , in which this film appears .
A Holiday Gift From Thomas Alva Edison	When A CHRISTMAS ACCIDENT causes a mean old man to enter the wrong home , he is taught the true meaning of the Yuletide Spirit . . . This very old film , from the Edison Studios , is a charming surprise . Short and to the point , it is competently produced & effectively acted . Best of all , the Holiday sentiment is both tender & affecting . The awakening power of the movies is seen in embryo here . Al Kryszak provided the score for the video compilation A Christmas Past , in which this film appears .
Excellent Adaptation Of Oscar Wilde Fairy Tale	Standing on his column high above the great city , the statue of THE HAPPY PRINCE can see the misery & despair of the people below him . He persuades a friendly Swallow to become his messenger in valiant efforts to alleviate the suffering of the poor . This is a very fine animated version of Oscar Wilde's classic tale . The drawing is often imaginative , but never gets in the way of the story . Much of the credit for the success of this film must go to Christopher Plummer , who both narrates & gives voice to the Happy Prince ; and to Glynis Johns , who supplies exuberant life to the Swallow . Both performers are excellent . The producers , thankfully , do not shy away from the religious sentiment at the end of the story . To have done so would have robbed the film of much of its charm & authenticity . Wilde himself never shied away from piety in his writings when it could be used to good effect . Indeed , he had a great respect for Christian virtues , as long as they did not affect his private life .
Romantic Soap Opera	A vivacious and happily married young woman discovers that her husband has been unfaithful . Embittered , she embarks on a brief affair of her own . Her marriage soon over , THE DIVORCEE quickly enters a downward spiral of escalating sexual promiscuity . How can she ever regain her husband & the happiness they once knew ? Norma Shearer won the Best Actress Oscar for her performance in this well-acted soap opera . Running the range of emotions , she is ably backed up by Chester Morris , Conrad Nagel & Robert Montgomery as the three very different men in her life . ( Montgomery exhibits the sophisticated charm which quite shortly would make him one of the biggest stars at MGM . ) Zelda Sears , a top writer at the Studio , has the role of Hannah the maid - and she gets some of the best lines . The very elastic morality of the plot shows the pre-Production Code status of the film , while , oddly , the twin beds in the bedroom of Shearer & Morris point out that not all the restrictions of the initial Hays period had completely died away . In 1930 , talkies were still in their infancy in Hollywood & audio awkwardness was common in many studio's output . At MGM , Norma Shearer's brother Douglas was Recording Director and his department learned their new lessons quickly . Look at the opening scene in THE DIVORCEE , set in the large living room of a mountain lodge . Notice the action & dialogue going on at various levels - with the radio playing ' Singing In The Rain ' in the background - and it's easy to see that MGM had mastered the mysteries of the microphone .
Mister Mouse Should Have Stayed In His House	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey & Pete both vie for fickle Minnie's attentions at THE BARN DANCE . This humorous little black & white film is propelled largely by the soundtrack ; music mavens will recognize ' The Old Grey Mare , ' ' Mendelssohn's Spring Song ' & ' Pop ! Goes The Weasel ' among the tunes played . This very early Mouse cartoon shows one of the rare instances in which Mickey loses to Pete in the game of romance . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mickey & Donald's Very Swiss Adventure	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . ALPINE CLIMBERS Mickey & Donald get themselves into trouble by picking edelweiss & swiping eagle's eggs . This is a very funny little film , which provides fine scope for Donald to vent his famous temper . Incongruously , Pluto is also brought along , but has a humorous inebriated scene with a friendly St . Bernard . Mickey has some good moments , but plays definite second fiddle to Donald . They are voiced by Walt Disney & Clarence Nash , respectively . The snowy-white edelweiss , which cheers Donald's heart , is a woolly-leafed herb ( Leontopodium alpinum ) which grows in the higher regions of Europe & Asia . It is much beloved by the peoples of the Alps and is the floral emblem of Switzerland . During World War Two , it served as the secret symbol of the Austrian Underground which fought against the Nazis . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Medical Milestone	An MGM Pete Smith Specialty . This unusually sober Pete Smith Short , directed by Jacques Tourneur , gives the history behind the discovery of the marvelous substance , radium , and discusses a few of its potential applications , as understood in the 1930's . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
A Rootin ' Tootin ' Time	A HAROLD LLOYD Comedy One-Reeler . When the local outlaws in Peaceful Vale become too rambunctious , it's up to BILLY BLAZES , ESQ . to gallop into town and restore law & order . Harold gets to spoof William S . Hart in this very short & funny film . The various ways in which he subdues the bad guys & makes his getaway is the focus of attention here . The very tall Chinese waiter is also quite humorous . Bebe Daniels plays the Girl in the tavern ; Snub Pollard portrays the cowardly Sheriff . Movie mavens will note that this short film was produced shortly before Harold lost half of his right hand in a freak studio accident . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Crooks & Feathers	A genial racketeer and his assorted companions hope to become very rich by stealing the FASHIONS OF 1934 . Here is another example of the Pre-Code comedy crime caper film which Warner Bros . seemed to produce so effortlessly in the early 1930's . Featuring good production values , witty dialogue , slick acting & utterly inconsequential in actual value , these movies were sure to be crowd pleasers and theater fillers . Affably sophisticated , William Powell is a fine crook , a rogue the movie audience can feel comfortable rooting for . He makes his life of larceny seem almost casual . Playing his artistic associate , Bette Davis not only scores in the acting department ( admittedly not very demanding ) , but she also looks fabulous , an instant refutation to anyone who ever thought she never looked glamorous on the screen . Through all the fluff & feathers she drops a few hints to the talent she would eventually unleash . The supporting cast is very commendable . Whimsical Hugh Herbert , as the California Ostrich King , gets to showcase his quirky humor . Frank McHugh scores as Powell's haplessly lecherous gofer . Lovely Verree Teasdale stirs up the plot as a Russian noblewoman who is not all she seems . Blustery Reginald Owen is a French couturier who runs afoul of Powell ; Henry O'Neill and chittering little Etienne Girardot are New York fashion designers who also are confronted by the gang's duplicitous dealings . Handsome Philip Reed is the talented musician who is Powell's romantic rival for Bette's affections . Movie mavens will spot Arthur Treacher as Miss Teasdale's butler , Jane Darwell as an enthusiastic Parisian customer & Hobart Cavanaugh , hilarious in the film's final moments as a desperate worm breeder ; all appear uncredited . One of the film's greatest assets is a musical production number created by the legendary Busby Berkeley . Meant to showcase ostrich feathers , ' Spin A Little Web Of Dreams ' is a dazzler with Busby's trademark identical blonde showgirls whirling through complicated circular movements & patterns . It is one of his most charming successes . Mention should be made of Orry-Kelly's fashions , which really are quite special .
Come Walking In The Air With This Christmas Fantasy	THE SNOWMAN built by a lonely young boy comes to life at Midnight on Christmas Eve , propelling them both on a fanciful , unforgettable adventure . . . Raymond Briggs ' charming picture book comes to life in this delightful British cartoon . Here is a perfect excursion into realms of Imagination & Wonder . The Snowman's guided tour of the human child's home is a comic treat . Their flight over the frozen North Country & Polar Seas is exhilarating and full of white mystery . The serious themes of friendship's responsibility , and the inevitability of ultimate loss , are also hinted at . The ending is both beautiful & heartbreaking .
Entertainin ' The Alumni With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . ' The Adams Street Elementary School is having a REUNION IN RHYTHM and you are invited . Many Rascals , old & young , will be on hand for the banquet . After eating , the current crop of Rascals , led by Spanky , will entertain us with a little show . ' A fun little film , with lots of music . Darla sings ' Baby Face ' to Porky . Spanky performs ' Broadway Rhythm ' . Alfalfa croons ' I'm Through With Love ' & the entire group sings ' Auld Lang Syne ' . Highlight : Buckwheat's recitation of ? Little Jack Horner ' . Rosina Lawrence plays the teacher ; among the alumni can be spotted Mickey Daniels , Mary Kornman , Fat Joe Cobb & the inimitable Stymie .
A Brief Peek At American History	A Warner Brothers Short Subject . THE MONROE DOCTRINE asserts the rights of the Americas to be left alone from all European entanglements . This little film gives a good look at the reasons behind the Monroe Doctrine and how it was defined by succeeding American governments . It moves briskly and is well acted , especially by Grant Mitchell as John Quincey Adams and Sidney Blackmer as Teddy Roosevelt . Nanette Fabray & George Reeves very briefly portray young lovers caught up in history's flow . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Cleanin ' Up The House With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	Stan & Ollie are HELPMATES , always ready to assist the other out of a jam . So , with his house a wreck after a wild party and his shrew-of-a-wife returning from her Chicago trip in a few hours , Ollie asks Stan to help him clean-up . Perhaps that wasn't the wisest choice . . . A funny little film , with lots of slapstick humor . Once again , one can't help wondering how Ollie could take so many bonks on the head without it damaging him .
One More Whack At The Old Apple	A Walt Disney Cartoon . CASEY BATS AGAIN when it looks as though the Casyettes , his all-daughter team , may lose the big game . This lively & colorful little film was a sequel to CASEY AT THE BAT , one of the sequences in MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) , which itself was a spoof of the famous poem by Ernest Lawrence Thayer . What it's missing is the tremendous contribution the musical recitation by Jerry Colonna made to its predecessor . However , the good humor , fine animation and gentle nudge for women's rights more than compensate for any lack in presentation . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Simple Story Of Plain People	A young woman , after being lured into a false marriage , finds the chance for happiness on a friendly farm WAY DOWN EAST . David Wark Griffith , the Father of American Cinema , had his last great financial blockbuster with this highly sentimentalized silent melodrama . Always anxious to promote decency & morality with his epic films , Griffith here exposes & castigates male brutality against the weaker female , making this a stark portrayal of Good versus Evil as he follows the fortunes and misfortunes of his long-suffering heroine . Bird-like & fragile , Lillian Gish takes the brunt of the plot upon her young shoulders . To say that she performs magnificently is only to state the expected . The wealth of emotions stealing across her lovely face give expression to her every thought , as her character struggles to maintain her equilibrium against the onslaughts hurled against her . Richard Barthelmess portrays the quietly heroic farm lad who becomes paladin for Miss Gish during her tribulations while abiding in his home . His stalwart decency is in strong contrast to the villainy of Lowell Sherman , the rich rou whose misdeeds nearly destroy Lillian . Griffith's broad canvas allows for detailed portraits by a fine supporting cast : a pharisaical squire ( Burr McIntosh ) , his saintly wife ( Kate Bruce ) , a butterfly-chasing professor ( Creighton Hale ) , a dour landlady ( Emily Fitzroy ) , a lazy , good-natured constable ( George Neville ) , a jolly , oafish farmhand ( Edgar Nelson ) , and a gossiping spinster ( Vivia Ogden ) . The film climaxes with one of the most famous sequences in all of Silent Cinema : Barthelmess ' rescue of Miss Gish as she lies unconscious on an ice floe , speeding towards a tremendous waterfall . Filmed on Long Island in the dead of Winter , the performers were in real peril . These scenes still pack a punch and are worthy testimony to Griffith's genius . Special mention should be made of the cinematography of G . W . Bitzer , Griffith's invaluable cameraman . His beautiful photography softly illumines both the tender scenes and the bucolic vistas , giving them the quality of aged snapshots in a cherished family album .
" It's A Bird , It's A Plane , It's Superman ! "	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . Intrepid girl reporter Lois Lane uncovers a dastardly Nazi plot in Darkest Africa . But when she falls into the clutches of the villains & JUNGLE DRUMS pound out the revelry attending her imminent immolation , it begins to look like a job for Superman . . . This was another in the series of excellent cartoons initially created by Max Fleischer for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Bud Collyer is the voice of Superman ; Joan Alexander does the honors for Lois Lane .
Suspense In The Jungle	A small plane , flying over the untracked reaches of the Amazon , crash lands into the jungle . Twelve people are on board - eleven survive . Even if the plane can take-off again , which is far from certain , there is only fuel enough to carry five to safety . Who will leave and who will stay to face certain death from the watching headhunters ? Who would you choose ? Thus the premise of this fine little adventure thriller , in which we get to know the eleven very well . Some will rise to nobility & self-sacrifice , others will sink to cruel cowardice . In the cast : Lucille Ball , Chester Morris , Wendy Barrie , Patric Knowles , John Carradine , Allen Jenkins , Joseph Calleia & Sir C . Aubrey Smith . Time grows short . The tension mounts . Who will survive ?
From Disaster To Delight	An MGM PETE SMITH SPECIALITY Short Subject . When her cook walks out , an incompetent housewife receives PENNY WISDOM in the kitchen only minutes before her hubby's boss comes to dinner . Pete Smith serves up his special brand of narrative lunacy in this very enjoyable short film which features Prudence Penny , Culinary Columnist for the Los Angeles Examiner . She demonstrates her cooking expertise by producing a delicious ham meal , with baked Alaska for dessert , in a short time . The food looks great in Technicolor . This little movie , which won the Oscar for Best Short Film of 1937 , was a reworking of an earlier Pete Smith short subject , MENU ( 1933 ) . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Holmes Versus Moriarty , Round Three	Sherlock Holmes matches wits with THE WOMAN IN GREEN , a nefarious female who may possibly be involved in a string of ghastly London murders . Basil Rathbone & Nigel Bruce return once again to the roles for which they were most famous - - Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated detective Sherlock Holmes and his trusty companion Dr . Watson . Although the film is short on excitement and could definitely use a more satisfying climax , Rathbone & Bruce are never boring , perfectly portraying Holmes ' superior intelligence and Watson's amiable bumbling . One of the most enjoyable aspect of the Holmes films is the occasional vivid characterization provided by very fine supporting players . One of the very best was Henry Daniell , whose silky voice and air of sinister sophistication could be so valuable in a mystery drama . He had previously appeared in the series twice , but this was the first time he would play the Napoleon of Crime - - Professor Moriarty . Daniell's scenes with Rathbone approach something very special ; unfortunately the script does not let them go quite over the top . In the title role , lovely Hillary Brooke never loses her icy cool . Her best moment comes as she calmly utilizes her hypnotic prowess over Holmes . Also adding to the fun are Paul Cavanagh as a desperate knight , Sally Shepherd playing a baleful maid & Frederick Worlock portraying a mesmeric expert . Dear Mary Gordon returns as Mrs . Hudson . Matthew Boulton plays a sturdy but uninteresting Inspector Gregson . And that's an unbilled Percival Vivian enlivening his brief unbilled role as Moriarty's mad little doctor . This film , which included elements of Conan Doyle's ' The Final Problem ' and ' The Empty House , ' followed THE HOUSE OF FEAR ( 1945 ) and preceded PURSUIT TO ALGIERS ( 1945 ) .
The Essential Fields	The Great McGonigle , ham actor extraordinaire , cares for his troupe of performers in THE OLD FASHIONED WAY , thorough chicanery , larceny & skullduggery . . . Here is W . C . Fields in all of his pompous , vulgar glory : evasive , duplicitous , sneaky - utterly wonderful . Delivering dialogue in his unique buzz saw rasp , he gives out so many familiar lines that at times he almost seems to be performing a self-parody . This film brilliantly shows why Fields needed the sound cinema to let him be fully appreciated , and with Paramount giving him free rein to develop his material as he wished , it is not surprising that the film is a classic . Fans need look no further to find the essential Fields . The romance between Judith Allen & Joe Morrison is a rather dull affair , although the young man sings well . Tammany Young plays Fields ' loyal amanuensis . Movie mavens will recognize comedian Billy Bletcher as the tomato thrower & sour-visaged sheriff Clarence Wilson , both uncredited . Legend has it that Hollywood's first movie star , Florence Lawrence , derelict & forgotten , made one of her last unbilled appearances here before her 1938 suicide . Fields found it useful to populate his films with at least one she-dragon , a female of frightful aspect against whom he could bounce off some of his best humor . This film has two : rail-thin , Nora Cecil - prim & dour as the troupe's suspicious landlady ; and most especially silly Jan Duggan , horridly bejeweled & curled , as Field's wealthy target . Here was an actress , now nearly forgotten , who could easily equal in hilarity even Fields himself . It is generally overlooked how important her contribution is to the celebrated supper table scene with Fields & Baby LeRoy - one of the funniest sequences ever to appear in an American film . And her rendition of ' Gathering Up The Shells On The Seashore ' is a wonderful spoof of such sentimental songs as ' When You And I Were Young , Maggie , ' which were so popular in that era . Miss Duggan would return to briefly plague Fields in three additional films , including THE BANK DICK ( 1940 ) . ( She died in 1977 at the age of 95 . ) Fields has included the old melodrama The Drunkard into the plot and to his credit he plays it ? straight , ' letting its honest antique sentiment speak for itself . In his own private olio , Fields makes a curtain call to show off his astonishing talent of legerdemain . It is wonderful to have his routine captured on film as he really is quite amazing - it is easy to see how at one time he was considered the world's greatest juggler . Now he is remembered as one of cinema's supreme comics .
A Little Attempted Murder With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Ollie agrees to marry a wealthy widow - not realizing she's a homicidal maniac . She has a curious habit of finding men named " Oliver " and then slitting their throats the night before the wedding . She's killed seven times already ; now she plans on making OLIVER THE EIGHTH victim . Locked in her mansion of death , the Boys are in for a night of comic terror . . . This little film is somewhat of a change of pace for the Boys , but it's very funny and they lampoon its Gothic mood quite nicely . Mae Busch is lots of fun as the widow .
Shirley Temple Marches Away With Movie	Having earned her nickname due to her stubborn temper , THE LITTLE COLONEL courageously tries to reunite her splintered family . Shirley Temple smiles , pouts , tosses her curly locks and completely runs away with the movie . One of her early family classics , this is an excellent showcase for her tremendous charm & abundant talents . As box-office queen , the mighty moppet would dominate Hollywood during the second half of the 1930's . Never was a despot so welcomed or a tyrant so loved . As one of the industry's finest character actors , crusty Lionel Barrymore gives the little lady a run for her money . Always entertaining , he knows when to purr or when to roar to maximum effect , even if he doesn't quite eclipse Little Miss Personality . Hattie McDaniel adds her own unique gifts to the role of Shirley's faithful servant , never allowing her dignity to be demeaned . As always , she is a joy . The legendary Bill Robinson is also on hand , mostly , one suspects , so as to partner Shirley in a couple of dances and they are wonderful , especially in Robinson's signature Staircase Dance . They are perfectly matched - one ramrod straight & ebony , the other tiny & blonde - and their minutes together on the screen is the stuff of which movie magic is made . Evelyn Venable & John Lodge , as Shirley's parents ( it's rare for her to have both all the way through a film ) do nicely with the romantic angle , but it's kept to a minimum , as is usual in a Temple film , where the spotlight is kept firmly focused on her . Sidney Blackmer appears as a smooth swindler who makes the serious mistake of angering THE LITTLE COLONEL . Although the film is given good production values by 20th Century Fox , it is the interaction between little Shirley and the other performers which far and away is the most important aspect of the picture . It should be noted that there are elements of racism in the story line , a not uncommon occurrence in Hollywood films of the 1930's . The final scene segues into early Technicolor - a pleasant way to end the story .
The Goof Is On The Case	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Hired by a veiled female , the Goof illustrates the finer points of HOW TO BE A DETECTIVE while searching for the mysterious Al . While at first blush this may seem to be another in the long series of Goofy's ' educational ' shorts , this cartoon is actually a lively spoof of detective films and the happy nonsense with which they are filled . Goofy plays Johnny Eyeball , a Sam Spade wannabe ; Pete appears as Muldoon the cop . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
An enjoyable silent movie . . .	Although it might seem a bit bizarre to see a 32-year-old woman play the part of a 12-year-old , Mary Pickford soon makes you forget the incongruities and simply enjoy the fun . Mary is a street kid in New York City , with her own lovable gang of mischief makers , whose attentions are engaged by the older William Haines ( he was 25 at the time & just on the cusp of his own screen stardom . ) To give away too much of the plot would not be fair . Suffice it that Mary is great fun to watch & amply displays why she was Hollywood's first and most beloved super star . Production values are very good , with lots of extras making the NYC street scenes quite believable .
Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy Invite You To Join Them On A Little Adventure	Hoping to forget Ollie's blighted love life , the Boys join the French Foreign Legion . Quickly spreading chaos , they soon find themselves sentenced to be shot . Making their escape , they unwittingly become THE FLYING DEUCES when they find themselves in a runaway airplane . . . While not one of their classics , in their typical slapstick fashion Stan & Ollie make this a very enjoyable film to watch . By this point in their partnership , the Boys worked so well together that it was almost impossible to imagine one without the other . Highlights : Stan's Bedsprings Serenade , and a delightful little soft-shoe to ' Shine On , Harvest Moon ' ( Ollie does the vocalizing ) . Jean Parker & Reginald Gardiner supply the romantics , although they're given little to do . Old pros Charles Middleton as the Commandant , and James Finlayson as the Jailor are given a few moments to shine .
Sothern Sizzles	Our MAISIE WAS A LADY , or at least took care of one after going to work for two very wealthy siblings . In this , the fourth entry in the Maisie series ( 1939-1947 ) , lovable Ann Sothern continues to shine as the brassy showgirl who uses her innate decency and good old common sense to see her - and those around her - through life's rough patches . Although the film can boast of good production values and a fine supporting cast , Sothern remains the primary reason to watch . Lovelorn Maureen O'Sullivan and alcoholic Lew Ayres are the sister & brother in need of Maisie's not-so-gentle ministrations . Paul Cavanagh , as their too-often-absent father , does well with his few scenes . Ushering in some unexpectedly serious sequences , Edward Ashley as O'Sullivan's caddish boyfriend , and pretty Joan Perry as his jilted lover , give the film a raw edge often missing in most comedies . Best of all is wonderful Sir C . Aubrey Smith as the family's elderly , kindhearted butler . In a role which could have been rather insignificant in lesser hands , the old gentleman works a gentle magic with his lines and turns his part into one of the film's highlights . Movie mavens will recognize Billy Curtis & Jerry Maren as two of the carnival's Little People , and Hans Conried as one of the silly house guests .
Goin ' Camping With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Wanting to become BEAR SHOOTERS , the Gang goes camping . Unfortunately , they settle on a spot occupied by a criminal hideout . . . A very funny little film . Highlights : the ' gorilla ' ; Chubby's limburger cheese . How would you like to grease Wheezer ?
At The Podium With Maestro Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey attempts to lead THE BARNYARD CONCERT of the ever popular ' Poet & Peasant Overture . ' The musical soundtrack drives nearly all the action in this virtually plotless little black & white film . Clarabelle Cow & Horace Horsecollar get to showoff their instrumental virtuosity : she plays the flute while he attacks a drum . Mickey rather cruelly extracts music from almost anything , including a litter of nursing piglets . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Three Young Stars Make Film A Success	Three little tough guys learn the value of friendship & loyalty , during family crises and troubles with the law . While overlong & predictable , THE DEVIL IS A SISSY is the only chance to see all three of MGM's little 1930's princes in one film . Freddie Bartholomew , Jackie Cooper & Mickey Rooney ( 12 , 14 and 15 respectively when the film was released ) are a great deal of fun to watch & make a terrific cinematic trio . At this point , they were all at different stages in their careers . Jackie's heyday as a child star - including a stint with Hal Roach's celebrated OUR GANG - was in the past . Freddie was in the very midst of his intense , brief major stardom . And Mickey was exhibiting glimpses of the talent that in a few years would make him the biggest star in Hollywood . Although a ? youth picture ' in every way , there are several good performances from a small crowd of adults , most notably Englishman Ian Hunter , as Freddie's sincere , honest father . Also appearing to advantage in smaller parts are Kathleen Alexander as Freddie's emotional mother ; Gene & Kathleen Lockhart as Jackie's stern parents ; and Peggy Conklin as Mickey's free-spirited aunt . Little Etienne Girardot appears as a fierce school principal , as does Jonathan Hale playing a sympathetic judge and Grant Mitchell as a serious suitor to Mickey's mom . Harold Huber , Stanley Fields & Frank Puglia are a gang of brutal thugs who run afoul of the three youngsters , while Hattie McDaniel's older sister , Etta , makes the most of her one scene as Miss Conklin's maid . That's an unbilled Dorothy Peterson doing a fine job as Mickey's mother . Movie mavens should recognize Christian Rub as a funerary stone mason ; Ian Wolfe as a pawnbroker ; and George Davis as a French diner owner - all uncredited . The good production values bestowed by MGM are also a great asset to the film , particularly in the neighborhood scenes .
A Salute To The American Nurse	An RKO-Pathe Screenliner Short Subject . Throughout the history of medicine , in wartime & peace , it has been HER HONOR , THE NURSE who has been the indispensable backbone of the healing arts . This very interesting little film follows young Betty Hess , a very competent nurse trainee , as she studies the courses & procedures necessary to graduate and join the staff of a large hospital . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
The Lubitsch Touch Is Felt Again	The DESIRE for a fabulous string of pearls has unexpected results for the beautiful thief . Bearing the unmistakable impress of its legendary producer , Ernst Lubitsch , here is a stylish concoction of witty dialogue & sophisticated romance sure to please the most discriminating palate . It is a shame that the film is so badly neglected , as it is a joy from start to finish . With impeccable production values , the film is also a study in handsome sets & costumes . Gorgeous Marlene Dietrich ravishes the eye with her sheer physical presence , but her beauty should not detract from her acting ability , which is considerable . She presents us with a woman of mystery & slowly , deliberately , allows us to acquaint ourselves with her character . She imbues it all with a real sense of humor , which makes her first scenes , in which she pulls off a classic jewel robbery , all that more delightful . Rawboned & enthusiastic , there is very little mystery swirling about Gary Cooper , playing an American auto engineer working in Paris . Embracing all life might bring him in his first trip to Spain , he is wide open and ready for passionate romance when Dietrich blows into his life . Their screen time together is charged with sensual electricity which no Production Code could disguise . Deftly underplaying the menace of his role , John Halliday is dangerously suave as a thieving ? prince ' who manages to keep one step ahead of the law . Ernest Cossart & Alan Mowbray are wonderful as Parisian gentlemen who fall victim to Dietrich's schemes ( one has his pearls purloined , the other gets his dignity damaged ) . Elderly English actress Zeffie Tilbury is given an unusually choice role , playing the matriarch of the gang of thieves . Arriving late in the proceedings , with only a few scenes she is able to make us wish we knew a lot more about her character . In much smaller roles , William Frawley as Cooper's boss & Akim Tamiroff , as a Spanish police official blinded by Dietrich's beauty , do well with their few minutes on the screen .
Disney's Salute To The Seasons , Opus Three	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . AUTUMN has arrived and the leaves are falling furiously . The beavers are patching their dams & lodges , while skunks and porcupines , and especially the squirrels , are working feverishly to store food for the coming cold months . . . More action / reaction animation in this black & white cartoon . Also more posterior gags , in dubious taste , from the Disney animators . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Superman To The Rescue !	A SUPERMAN Cartoon . Another mad scientist has sent his creations to terrorize Metropolis . Giant flying robots are pulling off daring bank robberies & jewel heists . When intrepid reporter Lois Lane is carried off by one of the robots , it's Superman to the rescue . But can even he stand up to the pounding he's about to receive from THE MECHANICAL MONSTERS ? This was another in the series of excellent cartoons Max Fleischer produced for Paramount Studio . They feature great animation and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts .
Disney Meets Aesop	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Mouse Abner , THE COUNTRY COUSIN from Podunk , arrives in the big city to taste some of the high life enjoyed by his sophisticated cousin , Monty . Enjoying the viands of a banquet table - most especially the champagne - Abner is soon to encounter his first big city cat . . . With the delightful Abner the center of attention , this fun , fast-paced cartoon spoof of Aesop's Fable easily became the 1936 Academy Award recipient . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Too Many Puppies For Pluto	A Walt Disney PLUTO THE PUP Cartoon . With Mama Fifi gone looking for food , PLUTO'S QUIN-PUPLETS get into all sorts of mischief . This is a very fine cartoon , with excellent animation and a funny storyline . Although a success , Pluto's young family was not to appear in any subsequent film ; at least they were spared the indignities heaped upon the real life Dionne Quintuplets of Ontario , Canada ( born in 1934 ) , who are being somewhat spoofed here . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Popeye Saves The Day !	A POPEYE Cartoon . After crashing his plane in the Sahara , POPEYE THE SAILOR MEETS ALI BABA'S FORTY THIEVES when brigand Abu Hassan loots the desert village where the old spinach muncher has found respite . With Olive Oyl captured as a slave for the Thieves , it's time for our hero to come to the rescue . . . This was the second in a series of 3 excellent two-reel cartoons , created by Max Fleischer , in which Popeye & his friends are interpolated into the classic stories of The Arabian Nights . They feature great animation - notice the fascinating 3-D backgrounds - and taut , fast-moving plots . Meant to be shown in movie theaters , they are miles ahead of their Saturday Morning counterparts . Jack Mercer is the voice of Popeye ; Mae Questel does the honors for Olive Oyl .
Mr . Keaton Flies High	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . Intrepid Buster faces danger on land , on water & in the air - generally because of his disastrous attempts to impress lovely young women . THE BALLOONATIC - which actually gives very little screen time to the hot air balloon - is rather a jumble of disjointed ( but funny ) scenes which bare scant relation to each other . With any other star it would be easy to dismiss , but Keaton holds it all together ( barely ) by the sheer force of his undeniable talent and some very amusing moments . Highlight : the trajectory of a large lady sliding precipitately out of an amusement park's horror house causes some impact problems for Buster . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
A Bear Tale	A Walt Disney HUMPHREY BEAR Cartoon . Humphrey becomes a HOOKED BEAR by stealing as many tasty fish as possible , always trying to keep one step ahead of the Little Ranger . . . This short film has some very funny moments , centered around the personalities of dimwitted Humphrey & fusspot J . Audubon Woodlore - voiced by Jim Macdonald & Bill Thompson respectively . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
More Than A Tango	THE FOUR HORSEMEN OF THE APOCALYPSE bring the devastation of the Great War to two Argentine sisters , one married to a Frenchman , the other to a German . It is a shame that this wonderful film is remembered now almost solely for Rudolph Valentino's first scene , in which he dances a sensual tango . This sequence , which appears in the opening half hour , was enough to put Valentino on the movie map as an important young actor and paved the way for more libidinous roles in the future , but the film is about so much more than just a tango . World War One had only ended in 1918 , barely three years before FOUR HORSEMEN was released . The effects of the War - maimed men and fatherless children - were everywhere , and much devastation still remained in Europe . Director Rex Ingram took Vicente Blasco Ibez ' novel and turned it into a powerful & disturbing anti-war polemic . The imagery of the Four Horsemen , riding across the screen , becomes a compelling symbol of man's inhumanity . Although Valentino gets the attention now - and his performance is very fine , showing his character's maturity after encountering the War's harsh realities - he's not the actual star of the film . Equal kudos should also extend to Josef Swickard playing his French father , who dominates lengthy stretches of the story as he frantically reacts to his castle's desecration by the invading Germans , including his own brutal nephew . Alice White , Ingram's wife , is wonderful as Valentino's conflicted lover , torn between passion for him and duty to her honorable husband . She adds a very real touch of class and believability , just as she would in future films directed by Ingram . Standouts in the cast include Pomeroy Cannon as the old ' Centaur , ' Valentino's hot-blooded Spanish grandfather ; Alan Hale as Valentino's stern German uncle ; John St . Polis as Miss Terry's affronted spouse ; and bullying Wallace Beery as a crude German officer . Gaunt Nigel de Brulier is mesmerizing in his Epiphanic role as the mysterious lodger who explains to Valentino the significance of the Four Horsemen . Movie mavens will recognize an unbilled Jean Hersholt as Hale's bearded son . Silent star Noble Johnson portrays the first Horseman , Conquest . ( Supposedly Ramon Novarro is one of the extras in the Ball scene , probably as a dancer . This is very possible , as he would become a star in Ingram's film release of the following year , THE PRISONER OF ZENDA . ) Although nearly forgotten today , Rex Ingram was an excellent director who knew how to present epic photo dramas on a large scale which did not neglect the small , telling details , such as when the sweeping vistas of the Argentinean pampas gives way to the antics of a tiny pet monkey . His impish affection for the grotesque close-up is also in evidence . Ingram worked closely with his photographer Fred Seitz to achieve the play of light & shadow which enhanced the composition . But it's the authenticity of the performances which he consistently drew from his players that never fails to impress . It should be remembered that it was only six short years since the rather stagy acting of Griffith's THE BIRTH OF A NATION . Ingram had built on the Master's foundation and built well . THE FOUR HORSEMEN is splendid to simply look at , with its restored tints & artistic title cards . Carl Davis has graced the restoration with a splendid new score which carries the viewer along , emotionally underpinning the dramatics on screen with lilting melodies and robust orchestrations . The original references to the Four Horsemen can be found in The Book of Revelations ( sometimes called The Apocalypse of St . John ) at the end of The New Testament , Chapter 6 , verses 1-8 ( KJV ) : And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals , and I heard , as it were the noise of thunder , one of the four beasts saying , Come and see . And I saw , and behold a white horse : and he that sat on him had a bow ; and a crown was given unto him ; and he went forth conquering , and to conquer . And when he had opened the second seal , I heard the second beast say , Come and see . And there went out another horse that was red : and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth , and that they should kill one another : and there was given unto him a great sword . And when he had opened the third seal , I heard the third beast say , Come and see . And I beheld , and lo a black horse ; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand . And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say , A measure of wheat for a penny , and three measures of barley for a penny ; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine . And when he had opened the fourth seal , I heard the voice of the fourth beast say , Come and see . And I looked , and behold a pale horse : and his name that sat on him was Death , and Hell followed with him . And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth , to kill with sword , and with hunger , and with death , and with the beasts of the earth .
Oops !	A Walt Disney Cartoon with DONALD DUCKDonald demonstrates HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT IN THE HOME . This informative little film warns against the improper uses of electricity & gas , the danger of littered floors & crowded stairways and other safety hazards about the home . Followed by HOW TO HAVE AN ACCIDENT AT WORK ( 1959 ) . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Musical Murder Mystery	An MGM Colortone Musical . Murder has been committed in the old manor at Phwitterby-on-Thames , where elderly Barrister Butts was shot before the public reading of a will . Send Dr . Watkins to find the celebrated detective Philo Holmes ! Search the Piccadilly Club and bring the chorus girls & orchestra back with you ! Will Holmes make the right deduction ? And what does the homicide have to do with MY GRANDFATHER'S CLOCK ? This silly little film is a good example of the type of fluff popular with young audiences in the 1930's . Nearly all the spoken dialogue is in rhyme & the tunes from many familiar musical compositions are interpolated . The color production is very pleasing to the eye . Holmes & Watkins are played by Charles Judles & Franklin Pangborn ( who nearly steals the show with his prissy behavior . ) Film mavens will recognize Mischa Auer as one of the manor servants .
Splendid Disney Nature Documentary	A Walt Disney TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURE . Far up in the remote regions of the Rocky Mountains , IN BEAVER VALLEY , we examine the marvelous creations of Nature's Engineer , the beaver . We see how these animals transform the landscape , providing habitats for many other creatures . The dramatic story of the salmon is also shown , as are the antics of the irrepressible otters & the wily coyote . Highlight : The Soulful Serenade of the Lovelorn Frog . ' This is one of a series of TRUE-LIFE ADVENTURES presenting strange facts about the world we live in . These films are photographed in their natural settings and are completely authentic , unstaged and unrehearsed . ' Winston Hibler is the narrator .
A Bit Of A Bow-Wow	An MGM ALL BARKIE Short Subject . A couple of COLLEGE HOUNDS find that gamblers , bookies & a wanton woman cause complications the day of the big game between Airedale College and Spitz University . This zany little film in the Dogville Series , with its look at varsity dorm life , a pool hall and a football game , is great fun . . . if one overlooks the sometimes obviously distressed canines being manipulated by guide wires . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Chipmunk Knights	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Chip ' n ' Dale mistake Donald's steam shovel for a fearsome medieval monster - and fight back accordingly . DRAGON AROUND is an enjoyable little film , but both the plot and the animation are quite routine . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Great Moments With Mr . Lloyd	Some of Silent Cinema's funniest moments may be found in HAROLD LLOYD'S WORLD OF COMEDY ( 1962 ) . Although he had not appeared on screen for many years , comic genius Harold Lloyd had kept ownership of his films , storing them in special vaults at his Beverly Hills mansion . He loved sharing the gift of laughter from his old movies whenever he could . Student audiences were a favorite , as were the young patients in Shriner hospitals for children . It was here that he had experimented showing compilations of his favorite cinematic moments culled from his old classics . It is important to remember that Harold's original films were unavailable for viewing by the general public for decades . He did not want them to be shown on commercial television where they were likely to be broken up for advertisements and shown at incorrect projection speeds . He was wise , especially when one considers what TV perpetrated upon the feature films and shorts of Laurel & Hardy and the Our Gang kids . In the early 1960's , 35 years after his Silent Glory Days , he produced and released this look back . Generous selections from both silent and talkie films are shown ( including , oddly , a couple of snippets from sound pictures shown ' silent ' ) . We get to see Harold dealing with the obstreperous turkey & taking a most adventurous drive in his new car from HOT WATER ( 1924 ) . A Latin American revolution causes him problems in WHY WORRY ? ( 1923 ) . The dog on a train and the race to the church sequences from GIRL SHY ( 1924 ) are up next . After segments from THE MILKY WAY ( 1936 ) and PROFESSOR BEWARE ( 1938 ) , we are treated to the hilarious dance with Louise Closser Hale in MOVIE CRAZY ( 1932 ) and Harold's dangling from the side of the skyscraper in FEET FIRST ( 1930 ) . While this compilation film is terrific fun , nothing takes the place of enjoying the movies in their full-length versions , now newly restored & freshly scored . The great success of this film internationally , as well as a special award at the Cannes Film Festival , meant Harold would certainly have to come up with a sequel of more greatest moments , which he did the following year with HAROLD LLOYD'S FUNNY SIDE OF LIFE ( 1963 ) .
Modern Child Tames The West	A Walt Disney Cartoon . A little boy living in an affluent penthouse apartment dreams of being a sheriff during the days of the Old West . A COWBOY NEEDS A HORSE , an agreeable little film produced in the flat , limited animation style so popular in the 1950's , is fun to watch as the brave tot heroically fights outlaws & rescues fair young maidens in distress . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney Tells A Grimm Tale	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A malignant old witch tricks the BABES IN THE WOODS into entering her house of horrors . Only their new friends , the little woodland dwarfs , can save them now . . . A lot of colorful action is packed into this cartoon , which includes elements of stories from the Brothers Grimm . Charming opening , in which the story begins as a sung lullaby . The wicked witch , though now all but forgotten , is the first of Disney's great villainesses . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Edna May Oliver - Super Sleuth	This was the second of 3 films Edna May Oliver made at RKO starring as that indomitable school teacher / sleuth , Miss Hildegarde Withers . As always , Miss Oliver steals the show , sticks it in her handbag and walks off with it . This time she attempts to track down a murderer right in her own New York City school . With her gimlet eye & no-nonsense manner , the killer never really stands a chance . Miss Oliver , as always , is a joy to watch . James Gleason returns as the harried police detective Oscar Piper , now Hildegarde's boyfriend . Also on hand are Edgar Kennedy , Bruce Cabot & Tully Marshall . But , as in the other Withers films , Edna May is the real reason to watch .
Heart Warming Tale Of Mother's Courage	With her husband in the Klondike searching for gold , MRS . WIGGS OF THE CABBAGE PATCH ( the poor part of town ) valiantly strives against heavy odds to care for her five children . Based on the book by Helen Hegan Rice , this is a wonderfully sentimental look at a bygone era of Americana . While it is easy and perhaps even fashionable to scoff at films which touch the emotions , there is absolutely nothing wrong with sentimentality if the sentiment expressed rings honest & true . There are no false notes here . Noted stage actress Pauline Lord ( 1890-1950 ) , in the first of only three film appearances , is heartrending in the title role . Gentle & patient , she is the very epitome of loving motherhood . ZaSu Pitts ( 1898-1963 ) , with vague voice & fluttering fingers , gives a noteworthy performance as the Wiggs ' spinster neighbor . Had events proceeded differently and her contributions to von Stroheim's GREED justly appreciated , Miss Pitts would have been recognized as one of the screen's greatest tragediennes . Instead , she orbited into comedic roles , constantly portraying a nervous , scatterbrained female , a sort of living , breathing , Olive Oyl . Following the film's most sorrowful sequence , director Norman Taurog wanted to introduce a light touch to the succeeding scenes . The inimitable W . C . Fields was brought in for one week's work to play Miss Pitts ' gustatorial suitor . Although in much pain from a torn ligament , he is splendid , delivering what is almost a dress rehearsal for his subsequent characterization of the marvelous Micawber . His scenes with Miss Pitts are a special delight , mixing blustery braggadocio with humor & pathos . The romantic angle is nicely underplayed by Evelyn Venable & Kent Taylor , portraying upper echelon protectors of the Wiggs family . Charles Middleton does well as the obligatory villainous landlord . Young George P . Breakston is especially good as the ethereal Jimmy ; and Donald Meek scores in his tiny role as Mrs . Wiggs ineffectual husband . Movie mavens will recognize Arthur Housman in his typical role of an inebriate & Dell Henderson as the theater manager , both unbilled . Tender & charming , here is a film which the receptive viewer should cherish .
Mouse Games	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey & Pete compete in the Cross Country event at the BARNYARD OLYMPICS , each hoping to capture Miss Minnie's attentions . This enjoyable little black & white film was Disney's salute to the 1932 Summer Games , which were held in Los Angeles . Clarabelle Cow is a spectator along with Minnie , while Horace Horsecollar performs as Mickey's masseur . Among the sports depicted are boxing , diving & wrestling . The hilarious fast walkers get an unexpected reaction from a gynandroid poodle up in the stands . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Kid Trouble With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie each have a look-alike young son and they're both a couple of BRATS . While the men are trying to have a quiet evening of checkers & billiards , upstairs the two tots are into every sort of infantile mischief - destroying furniture & inflecting bodily injury upon each other . . . A hilarious little film , with the Boys each playing a dual role . Good use of oversized props . Ollie ( who looks odd without his mustache ) sings ? Go To Sleep , My Baby . '
Disney's Innovative Classic	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . As evening draws near , the various creatures living in THE OLD MILL settle in for the night . Dark , fast-moving clouds , however , signal the arrival of a fierce storm . . . Winner of the 1937 Academy Award , this lovely cartoon was important for a couple of significant reasons . It exhibited the quantum leaps the Disney artists had taken since the early Symphonies in the animation of animals - the mice and birds are particularly well drawn . The cartoon also debuted the Studio's new multi-plane camera , a complicated and very expensive machine which was able to render an astonishing illusion of depth . - notice the opening traveling shot which moves through the spider web . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mr . Keaton Saves The Day	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . Giving THE " HIGH SIGN " reveals members of the Blinking Buzzards , a nasty gang of ruffians who expect Buster to kill a wealthy old man - the same gentleman who's just hired Buster to be his bodyguard . Lots of physical comedy in this little film , as Keaton first fools around a shooting arcade and then gets to outwit the Buzzards in the old man's mansion . The ingenious cutaway set , showing at once four rooms on two floors , was sized specifically to Buster's proportions and it's fun watching him rapidly use the trap doors & secret panels while being chased by the villains . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
Fighting The Bad Guy With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . It's been a busy day for seamen Stan & Ollie . First they rescued a young woman from a forced marriage with her horrible boss . Now , low on funds , they must meet the vicious brute in a prize fighting match . But , it's ANY OLD PORT in a storm when you're destitute . A very funny little film . Highlight : the free-for-all at the Mariner's Rest Hotel . That's Walter Long as the villain .
Exciting Story of Commercial Aviation	A no-nonsense dreamer drives his men & machines to the breaking point in an attempt to establish a transpacific route for his flying CHINA CLIPPERS . Warner Brothers gives a rousing production to a story that is essentially , on analysis , a soap opera with wings . Based on the history of Pan American Airlines , the film is at its very best when it takes to the air , especially during the exciting prolonged climax with its race to beat the clock in the initial flight from California to Macao . Pat O'Brien gives a typically earnest , energetic performance as the tireless & tyrannical protagonist - a man who becomes increasingly obsessed with his lofty aviation goals , no matter what the cost in personal relationships . It's difficult to like the character , but O'Brien also makes it hard not to respect him . What is especially enjoyable in CHINA CLIPPER is to appreciate the performances of three members of the supporting cast . Henry B . Walthall , the pivotal star of silent cinema , the hero of D . W . Griffith's THE BIRTH OF A NATION ( 1915 ) , plays the gentle engineer who designs the great flying ship . His haggard appearance is not a result of makeup . He was genuinely ill with influenza and he would die two months before the release of the film . He was only 58 , although he looked far older . Warners rewarded him by ratcheting him down to 10th place billing . Ross Alexander & Humphrey Bogart play two friendly , dedicated pilots who chafe under O'Brien's dictates . These young actors had very similar acting styles & screen personas and it is quite interesting to see them perform together . Their fates , however , would be very different . Alexander had the necessary talent to become a major star , but the breaks simply didn't come his way , and , his private life spiraling out of control , he would be dead less than five months after the release of CHINA CLIPPER , a suicide at 29 . Bogart got the lucky breaks , and , with some good roles in the next five years , was on his way to eventually becoming a screen legend . Pretty Marie Wilson has a comical recurring role as a ditsy blonde enamored with Alexander . Movie mavens should spot Frank Faylen in an uncredited bit part as the company's weatherman in Columbia .
A Change of Pace for William Haines	Although this film starts off like a typical Billy Haines comedy , it quickly becomes deadly serious . Haines plays a very unhappily married man , who finds himself with a very dead body on his hands & few plausible explanations . This gives him a chance to play a role quite different from his usual silly billys . Haines ' character is a radioman and the scenes in and around the broadcasting studio are quite well done . An unusual number of lovely ladies can be found in support in this film : Anita Page , Madge Evans , Joan Marsh & Karen Morley . Jean Hersholt is also on hand to lend his grave presence to the proceedings . ARE YOU LISTENING ? was made only two years after Haines was king of the Hollywood box office . But his days at MGM were growing short . The following year , 1933 , would be his last at the studio . Today his movies are all but forgotten .
A Big Bang For Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It just isn't bike messenger DONALD'S LUCKY DAY . It's Friday the 13th and the package he is to deliver by midnight is ticking ominously . . . This is a very funny little film , with poor Donald right in the thick of trouble as usual . Some older viewers will find the bicycle radio and the happy radio jingle itself to be quite nostalgic . The story was written by the legendary Carl Barks ; Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Birds Not Of A Feather	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S COUSIN GUS Goose arrives with his inexhaustible appetite & bottomless maw . The Donald finally meets his match in this very funny & well-made cartoon . Clarence ' Ducky ' Nash supplies Donald's voice . Gus did not prove popular enough with viewers to justify his return as a featured player in further films ; when last heard from he was operating a tiny seafood restaurant in Redondo Beach , California . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Bambi , Peter Pan and Mr . Toad . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Mickey To The Rescue	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey Mouse - THE CACTUS KID - must try to save cantina hostess Minnie from the foul clutches of bandito Peg-leg Pete . Although Disney used this basic plot formula many times , this little black & white film is still fun to watch . The South of the Border soundtrack propels the action right along . Horace Horsecollar plays the Kid's faithful steed ; Walt Disney provides Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Bravo To The Brothers Barrymore	A cranky police detective suspects a French duke of being the infamous thief ARSNE LUPIN . John & Lionel Barrymore costarred together for the first time in a motion picture in this intriguing crime drama . Alike and yet so different , they are the perfect counterpoint to each other . John plays his role with suave sophistication ( when not in disguise ) and Lionel is earthy & common in his portrayal , each obviously having a wonderful time trying to out act the other . Helped by a generous script , the outcome is pretty much a draw , with the viewer the clear winner . Although upstaged by the two male stars , Karen Morley is intriguing as the mystery woman John finds naked in his bed . Tully Marshall gives a colorful performance as a silly nobleman with much to lose to the master criminal . Henry Armetta & George Davis are very enjoyable as two seriously inept security guards . John Miljan provides a sturdy presence in his small role as the police prefect . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Mischa Auer as a guide in the Louvre during the climactic scene dealing with an attempted heist of the Mona Lisa .
A Real Page Turner	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S DIARY chronicles his meeting with Daisy . . . and his descent into the horrors of matrimony . Daisy gives a terrific performance in what would prove to be her final significant role in a Disney cartoon . Huey , Dewey & Louie play her little brothers this time around , not Donald's nephews . Careful watching of the film shows that Donald & Daisy finally met in the Japanese Tea Garden of San Francisco's Golden Gate Park . Clarence Nash provides the voice for the male Ducks , but the entries to the Diary are read with a Ronald Colman-style sophistication , a nice touch . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Ramon Novarro Behaves Like A Cad	A brash cantina singer in Sevilla heeds the CALL OF THE FLESH when he romances a young postulant from a nearby convent . Sometimes movie studios make most unwise decisions , resulting in ramifications that can be quite detrimental to the careers of even their biggest stars . CALL OF THE FLESH is a case in point . Good production values & fine performances can not save this film from its one fatal flaw : it is difficult to like , or even tolerate , the hero . Ramon Novarro , usually quite the pleasant fellow , here is forced to play a repellent rogue who quickly irritates the audience with his cruel treatment of those who love him most . Oozing a smarmy charm , he alternately smirks & pouts his way through the plot , until his eventual - and much belated - regeneration . Novarro's undoubted acting abilities enable him to deliver a fine performance , but mischievousness mixed with too much meanness can result in viewer apathy . This did not help his career . The fad for the Latin Lover was wearing mighty thin already and would soon be completely eclipsed by the All American Hero , and Novarro's sexual ambiguity was always a bit of a problem for the MGM front office . The advent of Sound , while finally revealing his strong singing voice , also exhibited his Mexican accent , making it difficult to cast him in traditional roles . The Studio simply couldn't come up with a definitive screen persona for him , and so Novarro was made into their ethnic chameleon , playing everything from Chinese to Arab to Navajo . Novarro's costars come through very well . Dorothy Jordan is radiant as the innocent young woman who loves him with every fiber of her being ; she delivers a heart touching , memorable performance . Flamboyant & hammy , Scottish actor Ernest Torrence is terrific as Novarro's friend & mentor - although one has to wonder just why he was willing to put up with so much nonsense from the little squirt . Equally adept at drama or comedy , Torrence's theatrical mannerisms and the contortions of his great homely face make him both entertaining to the audience and an enjoyable contrast to handsome Novarro . French actress Rene Adore , in her final film , stirs up the flames in her role as Novarro's musical partner & lover . ( Ill health would bring about the early deaths of both Torrence & Adore in 1933 - he at 54 and she at 35 . Today , these two fine performers are virtually forgotten . ) Mention should be made of Mathilde Comont , hilarious as a rotund little diva turned landlady . Novarro is in good voice throughout , which is fortunate as the plot keeps him singing interminably .
Early Epic Still Grand	An evil Egyptian priest menaces a young Roman maiden while a blind slave girl shows great courage in attempting to rescue her beloved master , during THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII . Produced less than two decades after the birth of cinema , this silent film is considered to be the first important historical epic filmed on a truly grand scale . It also heralded the arrival of the Italian movie industry as a force to be reckoned with , however briefly , in the halcyon days before World War One . Produced by prolific director Mario Caserini ( 1874-1920 ) , it features a completely static camera which has the effect of turning each shot into a living tableau . ( The only exceptions are a few pan shots of flowing lava which were inserted in the film's final moments . ) Caserini manages his early crowd scenes very nicely , in which everyone looks like they're actually doing something and have a reason to be in the shot . The use of light & shadow on the large sets is also most commendable . The final twenty minutes , when Vesuvius blows her top and destroys Pompeii , features special effects which are still quite impressive . After more than an hour of silver toned film , the abrupt switch to red tints at the instant of the eruption is a definite attention grabber . Much of the acting is very theatrical & overripe , but that was the style back then and was probably much affected by grand opera . Two performers should be noted - Fernanda Negri Pouget is quite touching as the tragic blind girl , and Ubaldo Stefani , as the hero , is unintentionally hilarious in the scene in which he drinks a witch's poisoned brew . The film's final moments embrace a mature sensitivity and highlight the latent power of the cinematic image .
Mr . Keaton's Mistaken Identity	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . Poor Buster becomes THE GOAT ( " scapegoat " ) for a dangerous escaped murderer . This is a wonderful , hilarious little film with Keaton at his absolute best . In what is essentially a series of chases , Buster gets to exercise his endlessly inventive imagination . Big Joe Roberts appears as the highly suspicious police chief . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
A Mouse Tale With Baby	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY PLAYS PAPA - with assistance from Pluto - to Baby Elmer , a foundling who's been left on his doorstep and absolutely will not stop whimpering . This is a very enjoyable little black & white film , which begins with some good suspense and quickly dissolves into comedy . The Mouse performs excellent impersonations of Charlie Chaplin & Jimmy Durante ( it's interesting to note that while ' Durante ' delights the wee nipper , the Little Tramp merely bores him . . . ) . Walt Disney supplies Mickey's squeaky voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Mouse Tale With Nephews	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . MICKEY'S STEAMROLLER creates havoc when commandeered by his two infant nephews , Ferdy & Morty . Good animation and a lively storyline help fuel this little black & white film , which features the only screen appearance by the dreadful duo , Ferdy & Morty . Considering the devastation caused by the runaway steamroller , why is Mickey still smiling at the end of the cartoon ? The Mouse's squeaky voice is supplied by Walt Disney . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Inside Pluto's Conscious	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Pluto must LEND A PAW to save the life of a drowning kitten - but is disgusted when Mickey welcomes the tiny feline into their home . There's much to enjoy in this Oscar-winning little film , with pathos , suspense & good humor all wrapped-up into one tidy package . The use of the Angel-Pluto & Devil-Pluto to express the Pup's thoughts is an amusing conceit . This was the second of only two appearances in a Disney cartoon made by Bianca the Goldfish , the other being MICKEY'S PARROT ( 1938 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Jack & Old Mac Bring Down The House	A Walt Disney Cartoon . Mother Goose never imagined the Nursery Rhymes of JACK AND OLD MAC to be anything like this . . . This Is The House That Jack Built & Old MacDonald's Farm are given zany new interpretations in the flat , limited animation format which became so popular in the 1950's . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Pixar Does It Again	Old GERI'S GAME of chess is played with great flair and passion , against a most worthy opponent and for a very special prize . Full of small surprises & great imagination , this is a wonderful little film from the folks at Pixar . Besides the basic entertainment factor - watching the old geezer play chess is a joy - the boundaries have been pushed again in computer animation's ability to depict the human body & the natural world . Fascinating on every level . Geri would return in a cameo in Disney / Pixar's TOY STORY 2 ( 1999 ) as The Cleaner , voiced by Jonathan Harris . Winner of the 1997 Oscar for Best Animated Short .
Goofy & Humphrey	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Foolish photographer Goofy tries to get a sleepy zoo bear to HOLD THAT POSE . . . This cartoon , full of silly fun , is quite routine in terms of story & animation . A few useful facts about photography are actually included in the story before Goofy disturbs the ursine menace . This was the first appearance by Humphrey the Bear ; his ferocity was excised for the remaining six cartoons in which he would appear . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Lots of Romance - Not Much Skating	Two rival journalists in Switzerland search for a missing Nobel Peace Prize laureate - but instead discover a lovely young nurse who teaches them that EVERYTHING HAPPENS AT NIGHT . Sonja Henie was Norway's ice queen when she won Olympic gold medals in 1928 , 1932 & 1936 . After going professional , she began a celebrated movie career at 20th Century Fox in 1936 with ONE IN A MILLION , which was her American film debut . Beautiful & talented , as well as being a natural in front of the cameras , she carved out her own special niche during Hollywood's Golden Age . Although Miss Henie's ice routines may look antiquated by comparison to modern champions , there was nothing antique about her dazzling smile or sparkling personality . In this regard , some of today's snowflake princesses could still learn a great deal from her . As her career progressed , it became increasingly difficult for Fox to find decent stories for Miss Henie and the excuses for the lavish ice dancing numbers were often implausible . No matter . Audiences did not flock to her films to watch Sonja recite Shakespeare . The movies were meant to be pure escapist fantasy , plain & simple . EVERYTHING HAPPENS AT NIGHT is no exception and its story is often quite silly . Also , unbelievably , Sonja is only given one skating sequence in the film . Incomprehensible omission ! One has to wonder what the bosses at 20th Century Fox were thinking ? On the plus side , the movie must be credited as one of the first of Hollywood's films to depict the Gestapo as evil villains - a full two years before America's entry into the Second World War . A couple of script inclusions may need a bit of elucidation . The BEN-HUR film which is suggested ( and rejected ) would be the silent 1925 MGM version starring Ramon Novarro ; by 1939 it would be considered quite pass . Also , notice the sly reference to ' Ferdinand . ' This would be an allusion to Ferdinand the Bull , the flower-sniffing hero of Munro Leaf's 1936 story ( and made into an Academy Award winning cartoon by Walt Disney in 1938 ) . Ray Milland & Robert Cummings are very enjoyable as the ambitious reporters ; viewers will be wondering which gentleman will walk away with Sonja at the fadeout - both are heroic , cunning and equally deserve her . A smattering of familiar faces fill small roles ( George Davis , Frank Reicher , Paul Porcasi , Christian Rub ) . Fritz Feld is especially humorous as an officious gendarme . Jody Gilbert steals a scene or two as an abundantly sturdy Swiss miss . Ultimately , though , this is Sonja's show . She glides effortlessly into the viewer's heart , while balancing on a thin edge of silver , suspended over frozen water .
Jail House Classic Still Rocks	THE BIG HOUSE - prison of no hope - the last terminal for lost souls . Only the strong survive ; the weak crack or are corrupted . As the warden shrewdly tells a new arrival , the place won't make you go yellow , but it you already are yellow it'll bring it out . MGM was the only studio in Hollywood which would have let a female write the script for such a strong story . But in Frances Marion they not only had the most celebrated screenwriter in the industry , but also a person uniquely qualified to write about any situation . She headed off to California's notorious San Quentin Prison to observe the conditions & learn the lingo . Cheerfully deflecting the jibes & taunts of guards & prisoners alike , she reminded them that after being a frontline correspondent in the Great War there were few situations she couldn't handle . The result is a wonderful film , tough , hard-bitten & stark . MGM did itself proud by supplying a terrific cast and production values . The scene where belligerent Wallace Beery refuses to eat the commissary slop remains a classic . Chester Morris does a fine job as a resourceful crook who is actually helped by his time in prison , reformed against his will . This excellent actor is too often ignored when the histories of 1930's cinema are written . Wallace Beery , as murderous Butch , is absolutely unforgettable . Marion wrote the part with him in mind & it is difficult to imagine anyone else playing it . Lovable & dangerous in equal measure , he steals every scene he's in . THE BIG HOUSE would set Beery firmly on the road to major talkie stardom . Robert Montgomery , on the cusp of his own salad days as a sophisticated , romantic leading man , here plays quite a different role . As a weak , cowardly stool pigeon , he's cast very much against type . It would be 1937's NIGHT MUST FALL before he received another such finely-nuanced role . Lewis Stone is very effective in the small role as the tough-as-nails warden . Beautiful Leila Hyams is well-cast as Mongomery's spunky sister . George F . Marion & DeWitt Jennings are both memorable as elderly security guards . Champion stutterer Roscoe Ates provides a few moments of much needed comic relief . Karl Dane is easily spotted as a hulking convict in several scenes , but he is curiously mute . Doubtless , his thick Danish accent was already giving the Studio trouble . Even though he had been an important comic star in silent pictures , he was quickly relegated to talkie bit parts . He was eventually further reduced to selling hot dogs from a cart outside the MGM front gates . This was the final indignity . He committed suicide in 1934 . Preview audiences were curiously cool to THE BIG HOUSE , until MGM executive Irving Thalberg figured out that female viewers didn't like con Chester Morris romancing another prisoner's wife . Thalberg instructed Marion to rewrite a few scenes and refilming made it clear that Leila Hyams was Robert Montgomery's sister , not his spouse . This pleased the patrons and the movie was a big hit .
Things Go Bump In The Night With Lon Chaney	A belittled clerk uses his ingenuity as an amateur detective to track down THE MONSTER responsible for some rather eerie recent disappearances . This is a wonderfully creepy silent film . With very good acting & excellent production values courtesy of MGM , it is too bad this movie is not better known . The large amounts of humor help to lighten the load considerably and are very welcome . The Master , Lon Chaney , adds another portrait to his gallery of grotesques . Slyly underplaying his character and letting his marvelous face act for him , Chaney more than makes up for the fact that his role is rather small . It is certainly ironic that this gentle man & terrific actor should be remembered principally for his bizarre & monstrous creations . Comic Johnny Arthur receives co-star billing with Chaney and he deserves it , since he carries the bulk of the action . He does a fine job with his character , giving him backbone & spunk rather than allowing any milquetoast tendencies to ever predominate . With the coming of sound , Arthur would perfect a nervous , whiny persona . He made his last screen appearance in 1951 , the year of his death at the age of 68 . Special kudos should be given to Walter James , Knute Erickson & George Austin for their strong support as a trio of very odd lunatics , all quite different & memorable . THE MONSTER is considered by many to be the first in a long line of Mad Doctor films . It is also a prime example of the Old Dark House genre of spook stories . It certainly has many of the elements : a crumbling edifice , a distressed young lady , escaped madmen , bony hands appearing from hidden panels , secret passageways and sudden death . The Old Dark House has for long years been a respected avenue in literature & movies to maximize suspense & tension . Indeed , it's only a short walk from the Edwards Sanitarium in this film to Wuthering Heights , Baskerville Hall , Manderley & the Bates House . . .
Mickey's Big Breeze	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . THE LITTLE WHIRLWIND which blows into Miss Minnie's yard stirs up nothing but trouble for hapless Mickey . This very humorous little film features good animation & a lively plot . Movie mavens should find the big Mama Whirlwind sequence to bear more than just a passing resemblance to the storm which shakes things up in Disney's 1935 classic THE BAND CONCERT , including the use of some of the same music from Rossini . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Have Howdah , Will Travel	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Big game hunter Goofy has no idea how much TIGER TROUBLE he's about to encounter in the jungle . The characters of the Tiger & Dolores the Elephant steal the show in this enjoyable little film , which depicts another truly brainless exploit by the Goof . Bill Peet , soon to become a celebrated children's author , was responsible for the story . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Smells Like Fish	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . A mangy Mountain Lion and his cub try to scrounge Donald's good looking catch of fish . It's great to see the Duck win one for a change , and he sure comes out on top in this funny little film , HOOK , LION AND SINKER . This was one of a handful of cartoons to feature the Mountain Lion ; here he has his rapacious little son with him . Clarence Nash provided Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Vivid Version Of Old Russian Tale	A silly , greedy Tsar is taught a valuable lesson in humility by the six very peculiar friends who arrive at the Kremlin with THE FOOL OF THE WORLD AND THE FLYING SHIP . This old Russian folk tale , - produced by Cosgrove Hall , masters of the art of stop-motion animation - is most enjoyable viewing . The intricacy of the tiny costumes & sets are fascinating , while the amount of personality infused into each character model is quite remarkable . The boisterous humor of the scene depicting the banquet of the Forester's Wife is a special highlight . The production is helped tremendously by the splendid voice cast . David Suchet narrates , Jimmy Hibbert voices the hero Pyotr , while several old pros - Maurice Denham , Robin Bailey & Miriam Margolyes among them - lend their considerable talents .
Passion In Three-Quarters Time	The Monarch of Marshovia sends a romantic count to Paris to woo back THE MERRY WIDOW whose vast wealth is vital to running the tiny kingdom . Nine years after producing a non-talking film based on the Franz Lehr operetta , MGM mined the same material again , this time as a musical comedy . The Studio would give the film its trademark opulent treatment , with production values of the highest order . Celebrated lyricist Lorenz Hart was engaged to write words for the music . And , to make absolutely certain of success , director Ernst Lubitsch and stars Maurice Chevalier & Jeanette MacDonald were reunited to duplicate their previous triumphs at Paramount Studios . If , ultimately , the film does not have quite the effervescence of Lubitsch's previous pictures , this is probably understandable . MGM , while wonderful with epics and dramas , often took an unnecessarily heavy-handed approach to subjects which should have been given a lighter , airier treatment . Also , the film was released a few months after the imposition of the Production Code , which obviously had a significant effect upon the movie's final persona . Chevalier & MacDonald continue the on screen relationship already well established in their earlier films : she , the rather aloof and powerful female who needs a good man ; he , the social inferior who wins her with his enormous Gallic charm . Their singing is vivacious & charming and sometimes you can almost understand her words . Unlike the 1925 version of THE MERRY WIDOW , there is no villain here to provide dramatic tension . The costars , however , provide much comic amusement . Foremost among them is waspish Edward Everett Horton , very funny as Marshovia's nervous Ambassador in Paris . Rotund George Barbier & sprightly Una Merkel make the most of their small roles as the diminutive nation's conniving King and flirtatious Queen . Some of the smaller roles are also humorously cast : Sterling Holloway as Chevalier's loyal orderly ; Donald Meek as the King's gossipy valet ; and Herman Bing as Horton's dramatic factotum . Movie mavens will recognize Akim Tamiroff as the head waiter at Maxim's & Arthur Housman as a drunk ( what else ? ) trying to gain entry into that establishment , both uncredited .
Working In The Winter Weather With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . It's BELOW ZERO and the Boys ' attempt to make some money as sidewalk musicians has proven to be a spectacular failure . Then Stan finds a wallet loaded with cash lying in the snow . . . A funny early talkie . Highlight : the snowball fight . That's Charlie Hall as the street cleaner & Frank Holliday as the friendly cop . Ollie sings ' In The Good Old Summertime . '
Mister Duck On The Alert	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald & his Nephews create havoc while stationed at their HOME DEFENSE listening post . While it is always fun to watch Donald , the plot of this little World War Two era film is incredibly silly . Younger viewers may not know that listening posts were used to try to hear the sounds of incoming enemy aircraft . The legendary Carl Barks was one of the writers for this film and Clarence " Ducky " Nash provided the voices for the entire Duck clan . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Forgotten Film Yields Gems	A small town barber hires a flirtatious out of work actress as his new manicurist - much to the chagrin of his longtime girlfriend . Undeservedly obscure , THE MEANEST GAL IN TOWN boasts plenty of pre-Production Code sauciness and several funny performances . It is a good example of a very competent little comedy which fell through the cracks into movie limbo . At the heart of the film , ZaSu Pitts & El Brendel make unlikely , but completely compatible , comedic companions . Fluttery fingered & vague , Miss Pitts brings her considerable experience into playing a businesswoman who is very tired of waiting ten years for her beau to propose marriage . Gentle , good-natured dialect comedian Brendel - the Swedish accent was fake - enlivened a handful of early 1930's films with his genial humor . He was always enjoyable to watch and his performance here is no exception , as he portrays a fellow whose greatest ambition is to have enough clients to enable him to add a second barber chair to his shop . James Gleason scores as the local ladies ' man , always ready with the sly innuendo . Pert Kelton practically steals the show as the flirty tart who knows how to get exactly what she wants from most men . Skeets Gallagher is perfect as the brash salesman who almost trumps her ace . Movie mavens will recognize John Carradine as a stranded actor , Robert McKenzie as a hotel manager , Harry Holmes as the mayor & Vera Lewis as a lady at the Chamber of Commerce luncheon - all uncredited .
Fooling The Wife With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Stan & Ollie head for an evening at a ritzy nightclub , against the wishes of a furious Mrs . Laurel . After getting BLOTTO on a mixture of cold tea & Tabasco , the Boys make a noisy spectacle of themselves . But just wait until Mrs . L . shows up with a shotgun . . . A very funny little film . Highlight : Stan's laughing fit . The tearjerker sung by the crooner that gets the Boys crying is ' The Curse Of An Aching Heart ' , a popular ballad from 1913 . Mrs . Laurel is played by Anita Garvin .
They Had Faces Then	A romantic Prince from tiny Monteblanco attempts to woo THE MERRY WIDOW who once loved him when she was a poor dancer . Erich von Stroheim , the Teutonic genius who marched through Hollywood's Silent Days like a conquering general , had his final directorial stint at MGM Studios producing this lavish & brilliant film based on the operetta by Franz Lehr . The visuals are striking , with sets that look like actual locations - - a mountaintop village ; the Castellano Cathedral ; Maxim's in Paris - - and the occasional bizarre touch - - the blindfolded musicians sharing the Prince's seduction bed , for example - - which von Stroheim relished . The acting is flawless , with no need for dialogue . The actors ' faces speak all that need be said . Mae Murray & John Gilbert portray the passionate lovers whom Fate ( and the plot ) contrives to keep apart so successfully . Miss Murray ( she and the director loathed each other ) powerfully portrays a street-wise performer who , through a series of heartbreaks , becomes a vastly wealthy woman . Gilbert expertly plays a prince whose charm has always gotten him his way . Their scenes together , most particularly the waltz sequences , fairly blaze with unrequited sensual longing and desire . While it is entertaining to wonder what von Stroheim would have done with the role , it is difficult to imagine anyone better than Roy D'Arcy as the simpering , lusting , sneering Crown Prince ; he is pure villainy personified and his eventual fate is absolutely justified . Josephine Crowell gives a fine performance as the Queen . Tully Marshall , one of von Stroheim's favorite character actors , adds another portrait to his gallery of grotesques , this time playing a crippled baron with a foot fetish . The wonderful organ score which accompanies the film was arranged & performed by Dennis James . MGM would tackle THE MERRY WIDOW again nine years later and produce a vastly different film , this time directed by Ernst Lubitsch and starring Maurice Chevalier & Jeanette MacDonald .
An Epic , Trailblazing Western	A heroic young trail scout leads a large party of pioneers along THE BIG TRAIL to the West , with Indian attacks , natural disasters & romantic complications all part of the adventure . As sweeping & magnificent as its story , Raoul Walsh's THE BIG TRAIL is a wonderful film , as entertaining as it was more than seven decades ago . With very good acting and excellent production values , it lives up to its reputation as the talkies ' first epic Western . John Wayne , pulled from obscurity for his first important movie role , looks impossibly young , but he immediately impresses with the natural charm & masculine authority he brings to the hero's role ; he quietly dominates the film with the attributes which would someday make him a huge star . Marguerite Churchill is fetching as a lovely Southern belle who slowly warms to the Duke's attentions . Dialect comic El Brendel is great fun as a Swedish immigrant beset with mule & mother-in-law woes ; his appearance in a scene signals laughs for the viewer . Looking & sounding like a human grizzly bear , Tyrone Power Sr . , vast & repulsive , makes a wonderful villain . Slick cardsharp Ian Keith is a sophisticated bad guy . ( His famous physical similarity to John Gilbert is very apparent here . ) Silent movie character actor Tully Marshall is impressive as a wily old mountain man who helps guide the wagon train . Corpulent Russ Powell , as a friendly fur trapper , puts his vocal talent for making nonsense noises to good use . Sharp-eyed movie mavens will spot Ward Bond as one of the Missouri settlers . What will surprise many modern viewers is that THE BIG TRAIL was filmed in an early wide screen process , called Grandeur . More than living up to its name , the picture looks marvelous , with Walsh showing a mastery of the new technology . He fills the screen , every portion of it , with action . Notice during the crowd scenes , how everyone is busy doing real work , which adds so much to the verisimilitude of these sequences . Walsh deserves great credit for being one of the first directors to use wide screen . In addition , the film is blessedly free of the rear projection photography which blights so many older films . It should also be stressed that it is only natural that the soundtrack sounds a little primitive ; talkies were still in their cradle . That Walsh was able to use a microphone at all , with most of the scenes shot out of doors , is more kudos for him . THE BIG TRAIL was not a box office success . In 1930 , William Haines ' comedies were the big money makers and the public was looking for fare other than intelligent Westerns . Most of the cast slipped into obscurity , including Wayne . It would not be until 1939 , when John Ford rescued him in STAGECOACH , that John Wayne's legend would begin in earnest . And despite its grand & sweeping vistas , it would be another 25 years before wide screen caught on with Hollywood , largely as an answer to the economic threat from television .
An Outlaw Legend Comes To The Screen	British homesteaders in Lincoln County , New Mexico , find that their best protection against the local murderous sheriff is a shy young cowboy called BILLY THE KID . Director King Vidor produced for MGM one of the first epic talkie Westerns , with plenty of action and violence and frequent musical forays to explore the new medium of sound . The acting is good and the authentic outdoor locations are expansive & eye-catching . In one of his best roles , Johnny Mack Brown portrays Billy as a quiet , dependable fellow , deadly with a gun but reluctant to boast or brag , attractive to the ladies and a determined seeker for justice over evil . Everything one could want in a Cowboy Hero . He's also just a little bit dull . This allows Wallace Beery , as Billy's friendly nemesis Pat Garrett , to steal the film , using his doughy face and shapeless body to great effect . Beery was right on the edge of becoming a major movie star and it was roles like this that would push him over the edge . Lovely Kay Johnson is on hand as the wife of unfortunate Russell Simpson , one of the men Billy initially defends , but the demands of her role are few and she gets to do little besides look worried . Silent comic star Karl Dane & champion stutterer Roscoe Ates portray friends of Simpson & Billy , and they are both welcome additions to the film . Dane , however , is given very little screen time , his thick accent obviously a problem for MGM . Silent screen cowboy William S . Hart acted as creative consultant on the film , but his only contribution seems to have been the loan to Johnny Mack Brown of a pistol which had once belonged to Billy . BILLY THE KID was originally filmed in the 70 mm widescreen Realife process ( no copies are known to remain ) with two very different endings - one for American theaters in which Billy eludes capture and one in which he is shot dead , for European audiences . In the film's written prologue , New Mexico's Governor R . C . Dillon admits to the movie's ? liberties ' with the truth . Indeed , there are few true facts in the film . Most radically altered is the character of Billy himself , who in reality seems to have been a particularly loathsome human specimen , unsavory & disagreeable in almost every way . But early in production MGM's Irving Thalberg realized the studio would have a hard time promoting a film about a disgusting murderer and he ordered a radical rewrite on Billy's biography , turning him into a pleasant , noble hombre . Good entertainment , bad history . There are a lot of ambiguities about Billy . We know he was born in New York City on 23 November , but both 1859 & 1860 have been cited for the year . We don't even know the guy's real name . Was it William H . Bonney , Jr . , or Henry McCarty ? ( For awhile he muddied the waters further by calling himself Kid Antrim . ) Billy's family had moved West , and after the death of his father Billy had travelled with his mother's new husband to the territory of New Mexico , ending up at Silver City in 1873 . We may never know what toxic mixture of heredity & environment stained Billy's soul , but we do know that he became a hellion young . He claimed to have committed his first murder at the age of 12 - he would kill at least 27 men during his lifetime . Billy became involved in an outlaw gang that created havoc on both sides of the Mexican border , with robbery , murder & cattle rustling all part of the routine . At the end of the decade , Billy became a gun for hire in the so-called Lincoln County War , that particularly nasty confrontation between cattlemen , townsfolk & corrupt law officers . Billy ran a gang that killed a sheriff and a deputy , for which he was arrested by Pat Garrett in December of 1880 . Billy was sentenced to hang , but during a daring escape on 28 April 1881 , Billy murdered two more deputies before hightailing it out of town . After weeks on his trail , Garrett finally tracked Billy to a ranch house near Fort Sumner , N . M . and on 14 July Garrett killed him there . The punk was dead , but the legend was born . Patrick Floyd Garrett ( born 5 June 1850 ) had been a cowboy & buffalo hunter in his youth and moved to Lincoln County in 1879 , where he became deputy and then sheriff . After he killed Billy , Garrett became a rancher near Roswell , N . M . from 1882 until 1896 . Returning to law enforcement , he became first the deputy and then the sheriff of Dona Ana County from 1896 until 1902 . He was the collector of customs in El Paso , Texas from 1902-1906 . Garrett then bought a horse ranch near Las Cruces , N . M . , but a violent dispute over a lease left him gunned down in the road on 29 February 1908 . A fellow named Wayne Brazel claimed Garrett drew on him first , a witness agreed it was self defense , and Brazel was let go . Garrett was 57 years old . It was a nasty way to die for the man who got Billy the Kid .
Another Shirley Temple Family Film Classic	A vindictive truant officer attempts to wrest little Star from CAPTAIN JANUARY , the old lighthouse keeper who saved her from a watery grave . Shirley Temple captivates her audience once again in this , one of her most popular films . Aided by fine production values courtesy of Fox , the Tiny Tyke does not disappoint . Singing & dancing , laughing or crying , she once again exhibits all the talents which for years made her top of the Hollywood box office heap . It's difficult to imagine anyone other than cuddly Guy Kibbee in the title role . He's excellent , but he's also given firm support from old pros Slim Summerville & Jane Darwell . Sara Haden makes a nasty villainess , while OUR GANG bad boy Jerry Tucker is her obnoxious nephew . Pretty June Lang plays the sweet village schoolteacher . Amiable hoofer Buddy Ebsen joins Shirley in a wonderful song & dance number , ? The Cod Fish Ball . ' Tall & pliable , with plenty of goofy facial expressions , Buddy's performance gives a little idea as to how much he might have contributed to THE WIZARD OF OZ three years later over at Metro , had not health reasons forced him to withdrawal . Shirley also sings ? Early Bird ' and , in a delightful nursery fantasy , ? The Right Somebody To Love . '
A Little Look At Mr . Keaton	A BUSTER KEATON Silent Short . After a spate of unusually HARD LUCK , Buster tries various imaginative ways to end his life - with no success . This very amusing little film is really a cinematic flight of fancy rather than a sustained story . After the failed suicides comes a fishing expedition , a fox hunt and a confrontation with a Western bad guy . That Buster was able to tie it all together , however loosely , bespeaks of his growing expertise behind the camera . The final gag with the Chinese wife & kids , one of Buster's favorites , exists only in a still photograph . Born into a family of Vaudevillian acrobats , Buster Keaton ( 1895-1966 ) mastered physical comedy at a very early age . An association with Fatty Arbuckle led to a series of highly imaginative short subjects and classic , silent feature-length films - all from 1920 to 1928 . Writer , director , star & stuntman - Buster could do it all and his intuitive genius gave him almost miraculous knowledge as to the intricacies of film making and of what it took to please an audience . More akin to Fairbanks than Chaplin , Buster's films were full of splendid adventure , exciting derring-do and the most dangerous physical stunts imaginable . His theme of a little man against the world , who triumphs through bravery & ingenuity , dominates his films . Through every calamity & disaster , Buster remained the Great Stone Face , a stoic survivor in a universe gone mad . In the late 1920's Buster was betrayed by his manager / brother-in-law and his contract was sold to MGM , which proceeded to nearly destroy his career . Teamed initially with Jimmy Durante and eventually allowed small roles in mediocre comedies , Buster was for 35 years consistently given work far beneath his talent . Finally , before lung cancer took him at age 70 , he had the satisfaction of knowing that his classic films were being rediscovered . Now , well past his centenary , Buster Keaton is routinely recognized & appreciated as one of cinema's true authentic geniuses . And he knew how to make people laugh . . .
A Baseball Tall Tale	A Walt Disney Cartoon . The prospects were grim for the Mudville Nine that day , but all might change with CASEY AT THE BAT . . . The famous poem by Ernest Lawrence Thayer is given a lively spoof by the Disney folks in this little film which was originally a segment of MAKE MINE MUSIC ( 1946 ) . The animation is colorful and full of good humor and the boisterous musical recitation by radio comic Jerry Colonna is a tremendous asset . Our baseball hero would return in the cartoon short CASEY BATS AGAIN ( 1954 ) . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
The Game's Afoot	The world's most famous amateur detective tracks THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES , a notorious demonic fiend intent on destroying the last descendent of an ancient family . 20th Century Fox brought Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's classic tale to vivid life in this excellent mystery thriller . Whether the setting is Baker Street's cozy study , the foggy lanes of London , or Dartmoor's moody wastes , the concise direction and superior production values transports the viewer into the world of Queen Victoria's 1880's . Sir Arthur's original story is altered somewhat to meet the requirements of the cinema , abbreviated in spots and fleshed-out in others , but this happens to nearly all literature when translated to the screen and does not diminish the enjoyment a whit . This was the first of what was to become fourteen films , the only American-made movie series based on Holmes ' adventures . Basil Rathbone as Holmes and Nigel Bruce as Dr . Watson would become forever identified with the roles and they were perfect : Rathbone with his aquiline features and haughty aristocratic mien , the absolute embodiment of a supreme intelligence ; and Bruce , bumbling & pudgy , but intensely loyal and good-natured ( and also cognizant of the fact that a little comic relief would help him hold his own in scenes with Rathbone ) . Richard Greene , who actually receives screen credit above that of Rathbone , makes a stalwart young hero - - the returning heir whose life is placed in danger by the devilish Hound . The rest of the cast is also most proficient , especially sinister actors Lionel Atwill & John Carradine ( as the Baskerville lawyer & butler , respectively ) . Beryl Mercer plays Atwill's spooky little spouse and Eily Malyon , as Carradine's wife , is quite effective as a woman with secrets to hide . Pretty Wendy Barrie , and Morton Lowry as her naturalist brother , portray Baskerville's neighbors on the moor , while old Barlowe Boyland provides some humorous moments as a highly litigious rascal . Smaller roles are equally well filled : Mary Gordon is perfectly cast as a grandmotherly Mrs . Hudson ; E . E . Clive as a London cabby with surprising information ; gaunt silent screen actor Nigel De Brulier as a fugitive convict ; and , in a flashback , Ralph Forbes as the infamous Sir Hugo , the first Baskerville to meet the Hound . The climactic attack by the implacable Hound is presented with real menace & suspense and the satisfied viewer is left ready for the next film in the series which would be THE ADVENTURES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES ( 1939 ) .
Sunny Science	A Frank Capra WONDERS OF LIFE film . OUR MR . SUN endlessly makes life possible on Earth . In the mid-1950's , AT & T and Bell Science teamed with famed Hollywood director Frank Capra to produce a series of CBS television science films to educate the public about the Universe around them . A far cry from the dreary black & white fodder so often foisted off on young scholars , the Capra films would both instruct and entertain with lively scripts and eye-catching visuals shown in Technicolor . The four films - OUR MR . SUN ( 1956 ) , THE STRANGE CASE OF THE COSMIC RAYS ( 1957 ) , HEMO THE MAGNIFICENT ( 1957 ) , THE UNCHAINED GODDESS ( 1958 ) - quickly became schoolhouse favorites , where they were endlessly shown in 16mm format . The star of the series was Dr . Frank C . Baxter ( 1896-1982 ) , an affable English professor at the University of Southern California . This avuncular pedagogue proved to be the perfect film instructor , genially imparting to his audience the sometimes complex facts in a manner which never made them seem dull or boring . Dr . Baxter , who won a Peabody Award for his achievements , continued making instructional films after the Capra quartet were concluded . OUR MR . SUN , which won an Emmy for its editing , presents the information known about our solar neighbor at mid-century , using spectacular photography , animation and gentle humor . Film star Eddie Albert appears as the Fiction Writer , looking to get an angle on how to present the sun's story . Marvin Miller provides the voice for the animated Mr . Sun . Strangely uncredited is Lionel Barrymore , one of America's best loved character actors , who gives the voice for Father Time . Barrymore had died back in 1954 , making this his very final performance . Movie mavens will also recognize Sterling Holloway as the voice of Chloro Phyll . The devotional sentiments spoken by Barrymore at the end of the film are completely in tune with the tenor & tone of the production .
A Frustrated Duck Tale	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . A nighttime leaky faucet turns a very sleepy Duck into DRIP DIPPY DONALD . Here is another routine Duck cartoon - Donald is always enjoyable to watch , but nothing else about the film particularly distinguishes it . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Into The Woods With Mickey & Friends	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey , Goofy & Donald become the most inept MOOSE HUNTERS in history . There's much fun in the forest in this little film as the three pals quickly attract the attentions of the meanest moose males in the area . Goofy & the Duck act together as a team - their impersonation of a female moose is hilarious - while Mickey's rather peripheral role foreshadows his eventual eclipse as Disney's most popular cartoon star . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Into The Woods With The Goof	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Goofy's boasting to his son takes on the smack of reality when FATHER'S LION wanders into their campsite . Here is a typical Goofy film - lots of physical comedy and few intellectual presumptions . This was one of a small handful of cartoons to feature the Mountain Lion and probably gave him his best role . After a few roles in the shorts , Junior would return years later in the Goofy animated features as ' Max . ' Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Puttin ' On A Show	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey and his pals put on an ORPHANS ' BENEFIT for a theater full of little brats . This was a color remake of a black & white cartoon originally produced in 1934 . Donald's nursery rhymes , the acrobatic apache dance performed by Horace Horsecollar , Clarabelle Cow & Goofy , and Mme . Clara Cluck's operatic aria are all awfully funny . Florence Gill does the clucking for Clara , Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice , Walt Disney does the honors for Mickey . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Donald Struts His Stuff As Solo Star	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . A marvelous collection of MODERN INVENTIONS contrive to give Donald a very bad day . This is a wonderful little film , full of good humor & topnotch animation . The robotic butler ( voiced by Billy Bletcher ) and its penchant for appropriating headgear is especially funny . This was Donald's first solo star assignment and it also marked the arrival of the legendary Carl Barks as a story writer for the Duck's films . For the record , Donald runs foul of four inventions in the Museum Of Modern Marvels ( the Hitch-Hiker's Aid , the Automatic Bundle-Wrapper , the Robot Nurse Maid and the hilarious Barber Chair - voiced by Cliff Edwards ) while being deprived of six various hats ( his sailor's cap , a silk top hat , a Napoleon cocked hat , a Civil War military cap , a baby bonnet and a derby ) Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies Donald's unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
A Mighty Big Change For Mr . Duck	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . DONALD'S DREAM VOICE - and all of its benefits - comes from a precious box of little red pills . There are a lot of laughs in this little film , especially as Donald frantically tries to retrieve the last of his pills . The Duck's splendid new voice is an obvious spoof of velvety-toned English actor Ronald Colman . The story was written by Roy Williams , later to be an important adult member of television's MICKEY MOUSE CLUB in the 1950's . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his ordinary voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Early Talkie Thriller	With death stalking the darkness , members of a doomed regiment spend THE UNHOLY NIGHT in an old mansion seeking a murderer . Fine atmospherics and good performances propel this creaky creeper from the very early days of talking pictures . The opening sequence ably depicts the oppressive emotional weight of an extreme London fog . The remainder of the film becomes an Old Dark House picture , with the cast claustrophobically caught in the clutches of a clever killer . Owlish Roland Young does very well as the gentle nobleman whose grand home becomes a house of horrors . Appreciated for his comedic abilities , Young shows he's equally adept at more serious drama . Ernest Torrence - - a very enjoyable character actor of the era whose career was cut short by an early death - - plays the friendly doctor trying to deal with the brutal deaths . Lovely Natalie Moorhead portrays Young's sister , a woman fascinated by the supernatural . Dorothy Sebastian appears as a beautiful & mysterious lady from the East with a strange story to tell . Blustery Major Lionel Belmore , and John Miljan as a badly scarred Major , are two of the ' Doomed Regiment . ' Polly Moran has a few good moments as a frightened maid . Exotic Sojin is most effective as a Chinese mystic . Movie mavens will easily recognize an unbilled Boris Karloff appearing as a sinister Turkish lawyer . Director Lionel Barrymore makes good use of the new sound technology with a few well placed screams and some hearty singing from the officers of the regiment .
Art Imitates Life	Marion Davies stars in this poignant MGM drama , directed by Edmund Goulding , which features excellent performances but is relentlessly downbeat . Writers Frances Marion & Anita Loos , two of the very best , really drag their characters through the Slough of Despond , piling emotional outburst upon painful heartache almost without relief . The writers also give Miss Davies a most curious scenario : that of a lively , vivacious showgirl , not very good at holding her liquor , who , as the mistress of a wealthy , older tycoon , is settled into a life of luxury . Sound familiar ? As the girlfriend of William Randolph Hearst , the nation's most powerful media mogul , and the chatelaine of San Simeon , America's most lavish private estate , Davies must have noted , and been amused by , the script's odd similarities to her own life . Billie Dove gives a fine performance as Davies ' oldest friend and bitterest rival , an insecure woman consumed by jealousy . Suave Robert Montgomery plays the object of both ladies ' affections and he is both polished and sophisticated . James Gleason steals a few scenes as Davies ' loving , work-weakened father . The incomparable ZaSu Pitts shines in the small role of Davies ' no-nonsense older sister . Sidney Toler ( a future Charlie Chan ) is her affable , lazy husband . Sinister Douglass Dumbrille plays a lecherous tycoon who likes blondes . Jimmy Durante appears very late in the film and then only in one scene , essentially playing himself as a guest at a Davies party . His lowbrow humor is a wonderful tension reliever , especially during the few moments he and Davies spoof John Barrymore & Garbo in GRAND HOTEL , which Goulding had directed earlier that same year . It's a shame Durante doesn't get to interact with Miss Pitts , but just having him around for five minutes is a real spirit lifter . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Williams & Billy Gilbert , both uncredited , as the sleazy producers who entice Miss Dove in the film's opening scene .
A Duck Tale With Danger	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Bad behavior from Donald's Nephews draws the unwanted attention of a hungry Mountain Lion . Huey , Dewey & Louie are up to their usual high jinks again in LION AROUND , a fairly routine , albeit humorous , little film . Coupled with the Mountain Lion ( making one of his infrequent Disney appearances ) they provide poor Donald with almost more antagonists than he can handle . Clarence " Ducky " supplies he voices for the entire Duck family . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Domestic Dietrich	Billed as The BLONDE VENUS , a sultry German cabaret singer will do anything to save her sick husband and care for their child . Acting under the flamboyant direction of her mentor , Josef von Sternberg , legendary Marlene Dietrich fascinates as a tender mother fiercely protecting her small child , who spends her evenings as a seductive stage siren , captivating audiences in America & France . She is equally good in both postures , her perfect face registering deep maternal love and sphinx-like allure . Dietrich is incredibly gentle crooning an old German lullaby at her son's bedside , while the contrasting image of her emerging from an ape suit to sing ' Hot Voodoo ' in a nightclub is one of the Pre-Code Era's most bizarre images . Two British actors compete for Marlene's attention . Distinguished Herbert Marshall , with a voice like liquid honey , is ideally cast as Dietrich's conflicted husband . Playing a chemist poisoned by radium , his face reveals his humiliation at having to be supported by his wife ; later , he manifests pent-up rage when he discovers her ' betrayal . ' Cary Grant , just on the cusp of becoming a major film star , plays a powerful political boss whose arrogance mellows as he pursues Dietrich's affections . Little Dickie Moore , one of the OUR GANG members , is terrific as the infant son who is the bridge between Dietrich & Marshall . Here was a kid who could really act and tug at the viewer's heartstrings . Sidney Toler is amusing as a low-key detective . Gene Morgan , as a talent agent , and Robert Emmett O'Connor , as a theater owner , very realistically portray denizens from the sleazy underbelly of the entertainment world . Movie mavens will spot some fine performers in unbilled cameos : silly Sterling Holloway as one of the student hikers in the first sequence who discovers Marlene skinny-dipping in the forest ; Clarence Muse as a stuttering bartender ; dear Mary Gordon as Marshall's informative landlady ; big Dewey Robinson as a gruff greasy spoon owner ; wonderful Hattie McDaniel as Dietrich's New Orleans maid ; and prim Marcelle Corday as Marlene's maid in Paris . Paramount gave the film lavish , and slightly decadent , production values . The live chickens flapping about in Dietrich's apartment during the French Quarter sequence are a nice touch .
Fine - And Funny - Historical Drama	MADAME DU BARRY , a wanton , vivacious young woman , catches the eye & the heart of the aging Louis XV and quickly becomes his mistress . Through guile & intelligence , she soon finds herself the most powerful woman in France . Dolores Del Rio shines in this funny , lavish & sadly neglected film . Her Mexican accent is more than compensated for by her fiery beauty & fine acting . She is perfectly matched by Reginald Owen as Louis , in one of his finest roles , somewhat ribald & ridiculously in love . An odd cinematic couple they may be , but they are never less than entertaining . An excellent cast supports them : Maynard Holmes & Anita Louise as the childish Dauphin & strong-minded Marie Antoinette ; Victor Jory , Osgood Perkins , Verree Teasdale , Henry O'Neill & Ferdinand Gottschalk as sundry court officials & hangers-on ; Dorothy Tree , Helen Howell & Joan Wheeler as Louis ' spiteful daughters ; Halliwell Hobbes as the English Ambassador ; and Arthur Treacher as the snooty Master of the Bedchamber . Movie mavens will spot , in uncredited roles , Doris Lloyd as the madam of the royal brothel ; and Robert Greig , as Louis ' chef , who shares a hilarious omelet-making scene with Reginald Owen . Curiously , the film takes great pains in making the Dauphin & Marie Antoinette into sympathetic figures , especially during their bizarre wedding night sequence , only to turn them into villains in the very last scene . Warner Bros . must have spent a pretty penny on this film - and it shows . Its pre-Production Code status is also very evident from the somewhat salacious content & dialogue . What really happened to Marie Jeanne Bcu , Comtesse Du Barry , after the death of Louis XV in 1774 ? She retired to a life of luxury in her private chteau and kept up a schedule of intrigues & dalliances throughout the reign of Louis XVI . With the outbreak of the Revolution , Du Barry escaped to England in 1793 . Foolishly , she returned to France & was arrested on charges of conspiracy against the New Order . Du Barry had her appointment with Madame Guillotine on December 8 , 1793 . She was 50 years old .
On The Lam With Mr . Lloyd	A Hal Roach HAROLD LLOYD Comedy Short Subject . Poor Harold is living FROM HAND TO MOUTH until he meets a very pretty rich heiress who's the target for kidnappers . There is much to enjoy in this little film which boasts excellent production values , some top notch chase sequences and a typically first rate performance from Harold . His future wife Mildred Davis plays the rich young lady , Snub Pollard is the comically wicked kidnapper & little Peggy Cartwright exudes winsome charm as the spunky waif . Fans will notice that Harold's right hand is intact ; this film was made shortly before his famous accident which left him with only half a hand . Robert Israel has composed an excellent film score which perfectly complements Harold's antics on the screen .
Diving For Pearls	An MGM Short Subject . Braving great perils , Tahitian boatmen paddle their spindly SEA SPIDERS out to harvest valuable pearl oysters . This very brief documentary film takes the viewer to idyllic Tahiti and shows us a bit of the indigenous culture , with slightly ironic narration . The gathering of coconuts for copra is shown , but most of the footage deals with the pearl divers , who must fend with collapsed lungs and dangerous denizens of the deep to win their prize . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Not The Nadir	A brash tabloid columnist turns his BLESSED EVENT style of gossip mongering into a sensation , but creates many enemies along the way . This is the film that made Lee Tracy an authentic movie star - the role and the actor were perfect for each other . For the next couple of years Tracy would specialize in fast talking shyster lawyers , agents , reporters & flimflam men . In the process , he became one of the most enjoyable performers of the era , always fresh & entertaining . However , after misbehaving in Mexico while under contract to MGM , he would be banished to the Poverty Row studios to continue acting in minor films . Today , regrettably , he is almost forgotten . But in pre-Code BLESSED EVENT Tracy is at the top of his form : exasperating , maddeningly irritating & wonderfully funny . Warner Brothers gives him an excellent supporting cast to bounce off of - acerbic Ned Sparks as a disgruntled tabloid reporter ; peppy Frank McHugh as an overeager publicity agent ; porcine Edwin Maxwell as a nasty gangster ; and Allen Jenkins as a softhearted criminal ( his ? electric chair ' scene with Tracy is a classic ) . Boyish Dick Powell , in his film debut , seems an odd choice to play Tracy's nemesis , but there's no doubt about his charm & fine singing style , both of which would soon make him a major movie star . Mary Brian is lovely as Tracy's girlfriend & Emma Dunn is sweet as his mother , but each tends to be a bit smothered by Tracy's oversized personality . His true co-star is tart-tongued Ruth Donnelly as his secretary . No slacker in slinging the dialogue around , she's able to match Tracy line for line . Movie mavens will recognize Charles Lane as a reporter ; Isabel Jewell , terrific as a much-abused showgirl ; and hilarious Herman Bing as a chef - all of them uncredited .
A Classic Reconstructed	In January of 1924 , director Erich von Stroheim gathered a small group of friends to view his magnum opus , a film which would become legendary . This was GREED & when the experience was over , all there agreed that they had just seen the greatest motion picture ever created . They were the only audience to see the film in its entirety . Von Stroheim was , with Griffith & Chaplin , one of the authentic geniuses of the silent cinema . He had an unerring eye for what was visual and how to transfer mere words into astonishing images on the screen . He was also terribly adept at spending other people's money . A notorious stickler for the most authentic minute detail , he ignored concerns for time & financial budgets . The original GREED ran somewhere between 8 and 9  hours . While that would be fine for a modern TV miniseries , it is unworkable for a motion picture . The bosses at MGM had had difficulty with von Stroheim before and were in no mood to mess around . GREED was taken out of its director's control and hacked down to 140 minutes . All the excised footage was destroyed . This is the blackest spot on Irving Thalberg's memory . Von Stroheim mourned his lost masterpiece the rest of his life . The story , although incredibly detailed , is fairly straightforward . The corrupting influence of wealth is examined through the lives of seven individuals . The tragic marriage of Mac , a fake dentist & Trina , an innocent young woman , is compared & contrasted to the equally horrific relationship between the mad Maria & Zerkow the Junkman ; and to the beatific love between Old Grannis , owner of a dog hospital & Miss Baker , a sweet old lady . Shadowing Mac & Trina is her cousin Marcus , equally in love with her & the $5 , 000 she wins in a lottery . The story of Mac & Trina is the main focus & it is utterly compelling . Seldom has the destruction of a marriage been seen in such detail . Certain scenes stay in the mind a long time : the picnic lunch on the sewer ; their wedding , while a funeral procession marches by below ; their final bloody confrontation . The movie ends , as does the book it is based on , in Death Valley . Von Stroheim insisted on actually shooting there in summer . The heat was terrible & it shows on the faces of Gibson Gowland as Mac & Jean Hersholt as Marcus . The ending is as stark & unforgiving as the desert itself . Mr . Gowland & ZaSu Pitts give the performances of their lives , magnificent in every way . Mr . Gowland shows us the full extent of a simple man being driven insane , while Miss Pitts ' change from sweetness to a miserly shrew is truly frightening . Had the film not been butchered and their performances seen in their entirety , they surely would had ascended to the very heights of their profession . As it was , Gowland quickly descended back into obscurity , spending the rest of his career in mostly unbilled bit parts . Miss Pitts became a comedienne , whose vague manner & fluttery hands were seen in many comedies over the next 35 years . Von Stroheim continued with his excesses and finally met his directorial downfall a few years after GREED . He was able to continue on in films as a very good character actor , mostly in Europe . In 1999 , Turner Classic Movies had GREED reconstructed , using hundreds of still photographs taken during production , editing based on an original shooting script , an inspired use of color and tints & a new musical score . The result runs for 4 hours and is wonderful . At last we have a better understanding of Von Stroheim's blighted vision & wasted genius .
Silent Film Masterpiece	Subtitled " A Tale of the Christ " , this mixture of piety & adventure was MGM's grandest silent picture . The story tells how a Hebrew prince defies his Roman masters by beating them at their own game , literally , while becoming increasingly aware that the young Carpenter he met in Nazareth is the very Son of God and how that knowledge changes his life . Years in the making , with filming in Italy & California , and changes of script and leading man , BEN HUR could have been a disaster . Instead , it was a complete triumph , with the naval battle and chariot race scenes holding their own among the best ever filmed . This film should not be compared with the Heston remake ; it stands completely on its own merits . For decades , the only known prints of this film were 90 minutes long , in black & white . By great good fortune , in the 1980's an uncut version , over 2 hours and with the original tints and Technicolor scenes was discovered in Czechoslovakia . This is what we are able to enjoy today . Ramon Novarro got the plum male role of the entire silent period . He was a very fine actor and is excellent as Ben Hur . Sadly , the rest of his film career , in which he was typecast in every sort of ethnic role , from Chinese to Polynesian to Arab to Navajo , is virtually forgotten today .
Duck On Ice	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald , THE HOCKEY CHAMP of Duck Swamp , gets himself into trouble when he brags of his prowess on the ice to his Nephews . This enjoyable little film boasts fine animation & a funny storyline . Early on , Donald does an impression of Norwegian skating queen Sonja Henie , a big movie star at the time , even replicating her trademark tiptoe ice dancing . Clarence " Ducky " Nash supplies the unique voices of Donald & the Nephews . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Searchin ' For Buried Treasure With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Against his mother's wishes , Spanky takes Stymie & the Gang treasure hunting in a dark cave . What MAMA'S LITTLE PIRATE finds there will be a big surprise to them all . . . Lots of fun & adventure in this little film . Highlight : the attack of the Giant ( played by R . E . ' Tex ' Madsen , voice by longtime comedian Billy Bletcher ) . This was one of the films where Buckwheat is supposedly a female character .
Birds Everywhere	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . There is much flit & flutter in THE BIRD SHOP , especially after a vicious black cat gets in and goes after a baby canary . . . This is a fairly interesting little black & white cartoon , with lots of action / reaction animation . The pace really picks up with the arrival of the ferocious feline . Movie mavens will notice that four of the birds are spoofs of the Marx Brothers . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Visit To A Fishing Village In Japan	A Walt Disney PEOPLE AND PLACES short subject . This short film takes us for a fascinating look at a day in the life of a Japanese fishing village . We see how the lives of everyone is concerned in some way with the sea and harvesting its bounty . Special focus is given to the AMA GIRLS , those healthy young maidens who dive up to 60 feet beneath the waves in search of choice sea weed to sell . Scenes of domestic life are also shown , as well as how the entire village works together to process the valuable sardine catch . ' This film is one in a series presenting interesting PEOPLE and the PLACES in which they live . All scenes are authentic and the stories are factual . ' The narrator is Winston Hibler .
Barrymore , Hepburn & Burke , Oh My !	A BILL OF DIVORCEMENT is only one of the problems to confront a man returning to his family after fifteen years in an insane asylum . Although this George Cukor-directed soap opera is chiefly remembered now for Katharine Hepburn's film debut , its other strengths should not be overlooked . The film was primarily crafted to be a showcase for the histrionic talents of John Barrymore and he certainly does not disappoint his audience . Charging his way through the range of emotions from giddy elation to utter despair , Barrymore , left profile firmly planted towards the camera , gives a wonderful master class in ham acting . This is in no way to disparage his performance - - he makes leaping a bit beyond the bounds terrifically entertaining . Hepburn is a sensation , of course , very fresh & unspoilt , giving real urgency to the plight of a headstrong girl who must make a wretched decision during a domestic upheaval . The viewer cannot help but think of the many decades to come in which she would continue to delight moviegoers . The trouble is that Kate's excellence makes it somewhat easy to forget the film's real female lead . In a rare serious role , Miss Billie Burke gives a splendid portrayal of a good woman torn between duty to a man she no longer loves and the possibility of joy with the man she now adores . In the scene where Barrymore forces her to make a commitment to him , Burke's body language painfully communicates the agony of her breaking heart . A fine supporting cast adds to the film's enjoyment : sensitive David Manners , one of the ablest young actors of the era , as Hepburn's loyal boyfriend ; gentlemanly Paul Cavanagh as Burke's fianc ; waspish Elizabeth Patterson as Barrymore's strict sister ; and elderly Henry Stephenson as the wise family doctor . Movie mavens will have to look fast to spot the excellent young English actor , Bramwell Fletcher , unbilled as the fellow at the Christmas party who opens the windows for the carolers .
Disney Gives Us A Bizet Burlesque	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . A vile officer takes liberties with a barmaid , who is the girlfriend of EL TERRIBLE TOREADOR . The bullfighter then proceeds to proudly show-off his skills in the bullring . An interesting & somewhat violent little black & white cartoon , with a great many of Disney's obligatory posterior gags . Most of the music , appropriately , is from Bizet's Carmen . The surprisingly gynandrous bull could almost be seen as a precursor of the celebrated Ferdinand . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Cinematic Taste Of The Big Apple	An MGM Short Subject . Beginning at the Statue of Liberty , this delightful little film conducts us on a rapid tour of MIGHTY MANHATTAN , NEW YORK'S WONDER CITY . After gazing at the famous bridges spanning the Hudson & East Rivers , we travel along Broadway , Fifth & Park Avenues , visit the Empire State Building & Rockefeller Center , linger a moment in Chinatown & Times Square , and take a horse-drawn carriage through Central Park - where we get to enjoy feeding time at the Zoo . We finish our filmed excursion with an evening at the Starlight Roof , enjoying the music of Xavier Cugat . This is one of a large series of succinct travelogues turned out by MGM , beginning in the 1930's . They featured Technicolor views of beautiful & unusual sights around the globe , as well as vivid , concise commentary . These films were produced & narrated by James A . FitzPatrick .
A Small Triumph For Miss Wycherly & Mr . Lugosi	In British India , a sance in Calcutta leaves a dead man sitting in THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR . . . Under the able direction of Tod Browning , this antique talkie weaves a taut tale of murder & suspense . The oppressive atmosphere & limited use of sets creates a claustrophobic sense of eerie unreality . The excellent utilization of sound during the sequences of almost total screen blackout demonstrate the director's understanding of the potentialities of the new medium . Conrad Nagel & Leila Hyams receive top billing , but they have little to do beyond looking frightened or concerned . This they accomplish quite well . The film is dominated by two fascinating performances . Bela Lugosi makes a rather bizarre police inspector , his mesmeric eyes , claw-like hands & compelling voice giving an early demonstration of the qualities which would make him one of the screen's top monsters ( Lugosi & Browning would have to wait two more years for the huge success of their next collaboration , DRACULA ) . Elderly Margaret Wycherly , as a wily Irish medium , is a delight and easily steals scene after scene . It is she who comes up with the plan to ultimately unmask the killer .
Aboard A Haunted Ship With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . After helping a conniving captain kidnap seamen for his ship , Stan & Ollie end up shanghaied themselves . The trouble really starts , however , when the Boys accidentally ' kill ' one of their cabin mates . Dumping the body overboard , they are terrified to see THE LIVE GHOST stalking the decks . Lots of laughs in this little film . Watching the Boys ' reactions when they see the ' ghost ' is hilarious . That's Mae Busch as the captain's girlfriend .
Humor On The Range	A naive country boy desperately tries to rescue his silly sweetheart from the affections of a shyster lawyer . Unseen for decades , THE BOOB is a wonderful surprise , a delightful silent comedy Western , full of the right mixture of good humor & pathos . At barely an hour in length and with the support of an excellent new piano score by Arthur Barrow , it will inevitably invite favorable comparison with Harold Lloyd's masterpiece , THE KID BROTHER ( 1927 ) . Scots actor George K . Arthur , a popular MGM comic star at the end of the silent era , wins immediate sympathy with his sad face and diminutive stature . All decked out in cowboy duds he looks ridiculous , and the audience instinctively knows he'll have to endure much humiliation before the final fade-out . Character actor Charles Murray is hilarious as the boozy bowlegged old buckaroo who grubstakes Arthur - just watching his droll facial expressions is a joy . Special mention should be made of the uncredited African American lad playing the part of Ham Bunn , who , with his trusty mutt Benzine , faithfully shadows Arthur to keep him out of trouble . Pretty Gertrude Olmstead plays Arthur's fickle girlfriend ; Antonio D'Algy is all hair oil and suavity as the sinister lawyer . A very young Joan Crawford is rather incongruously cast as the undercover leader of a team of agents tracking dangerous bootleggers . Movie mavens will recognize an uncredited Edythe Chapman as the impoverished old lady befriended by Arthur . In a very funny sequence that has little connection with the rest of the film , soda jerk Hank Mann receives tips on etiquette from his enormous sweetheart , an unbilled Babe London , while dining at a swanky speakeasy . The film enjoys all the customary MGM spit & polish .
A Charming Keek At Auld Scotland	A mysterious & headstrong gypsy girl falls in love with THE LITTLE MINISTER called to pastor in a small Scots village . Soon her influence has him behaving in a most unclerical manner , with repercussions for the entire community . Although sadly neglected & overlooked , this fine , sentimental film , based on a 1891 novel by Sir James M . Barrie , features excellent performances and superior production values . RKO lavished care & money to get the details just right ; it is a fine example of how Hollywood films of the period could evocatively portray other times , other places . Katharine Hepburn has one of her most fetching roles in the exuberant Babbie . Full of boundless energy & good humor , yet fiercely protective of those weaker & less fortunate than she , Hepburn turns in a beguiling , always entertaining , performance . While there is really no mystery as to the true identity of her character , this in no way hinders Hepburn from continually delighting her expectant audience . In the title role , John Beal ( born James Alexander Bliedung in 1909 ) had doubtless the best role of his career in this , his second , film . By underplaying his scenes , he holds his own with the vivacious Hepburn . Exhibiting real star quality , it is unfortunate that the good movie roles failed to materialize . Beal did quite a bit of work through the years on the stage and had a triumph in television's THE ADAMS CHRONICLES in 1976 . John Beal died in 1997 at the age of 87 . A very fine supporting cast lends depth to the smaller roles : Andy Clyde as the lonely village policeman ; Donald Crisp as the local doctor ; Reginald Denny as a pompous army captain ; Mary Gordon as an elderly indigent ; Alan Hale as the community's repentant drunk ; Lumsden Hare as a strict & powerful church deacon ; Eily Malyon as a member of the aristocracy ; Beryl Mercer as Beal's devout mother ; and Dorothy Stickney as a fluttery maid . Mention should be made of Max Steiner's lovely score , which incorporates old & familiar tunes . A couple of historical notes : the Auld Licht ( Scottish for ' Old Light ' ) is mentioned many times in the film . This was the very conservative Church of Scotland , or Presbyterian Church in America , which had the allegiance of a majority of the Scots people . Barrie's original novel was of the Kailyard ( Scottish for a small cabbage patch near a cottage ) School of writing which had great favor in Scotland in the late 19th Century . This style featured highly idealized & sentimental representations of Scottish village life . Thrums in THE LITTLE MINISTER would certainly be a prime example .
Shirley's Star Maker	A tiny child , left as an IOU at a race track by her insolvent father , charms her way into the hearts of a group of hard-boiled gamblers . Shirley Temple - not quite six years old - became a full-fledged movie star with LITTLE MISS MARKER . Loaned out to Paramount for the one picture , she emerged as a top of the bill powerhouse prepared to return to Fox Studios and become the most popular performer in Hollywood for the next five years . With genuine talent & an infectious sparkle , she would carve out her unassailable niche in film history . To its credit , the fast moving script allows her to be a little less than saintly , with a normal dose of cranks & crotchets . Even so , her costars , as well as the audience , become her willing slaves in short order . Adolphe Menjou , as the cynical gambler who takes her in , and Charles Bickford as his tough boss , find themselves completely overwhelmed by the mighty moppet . Both of these gentlemen were abundantly experienced actors , used to controlling viewers ' attentions in their screen scenes ; it must have been somewhat odd for them to be reduced to so much stage dressing - but Shirley's ascendant flood swamped all other boats . The Damon Runyon story is well served by the rest of the colorful cast , but it is easy to regret every minute the Small One does not appear on screen . Shirley became quite close to pretty Dorothy Dell , playing a nightclub chanteuse involved with both Bickford & Menjou . The news of Miss Dell's tragic death in a car wreck soon after filming completed was kept from Shirley for some time . Movie mavens will recognize Willie Best as a friendly janitor & Tammany Young as a bettor , both uncredited .
A Duck Tale With Apples	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . Donald's Delicious Apples is a thriving enterprise until Chip ' n ' Dale begin to eat a large percentage of the produce . DONALD APPLECORE is a fairly routine little Duck versus Chipmunks film - humorous , but all these characters have trudged this road before . The title refers to a rowdy old children's rhyme . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Thoughtful Film Provides Atmospheric Chills	The Apothecary General of BEDLAM finds his asylum a convenient place to immure his personal enemies . This was the third of three RKO thrillers which Boris Karloff starred in for producer Val Lewton ( the other two being ISLE OF THE DEAD & THE BODY SNATCHER , both 1945 ) . Lewton had the knack of producing films full of atmosphere & menace on a very low budget . BEDLAM is no exception and Karloff gives an especially compelling performance . Gaunt & leering , calmly accepting death and torture as part of his grim business , he shows the monstrous depths to which brutish humanity is able to sink while yet retaining a veneer of civility . His behavior is the stuff of nightmares & his fate is thoroughly deserved . Anna Lee is spirited in the role of a nobleman's protge who gradually becomes a champion of fairer treatment for the inmates . Richard Fraser quietly underplays his part as a stern Quaker stonemason who attempts to rescue Miss Lee from Bedlam . Billy House as an obese lord & Ian Wolfe as a barrister confined to Bedlam both offer fine support . Movie mavens will spot an unbilled Ellen Corby as one of the lunatics . Built as a priory in 1247 for the order of the Star of Bethlehem , the structure was first used as a hospital in 1330 . Mental patients began arriving by 1403 and Henry VIII made it exclusively a lunatic asylum in 1547 . At the time portrayed in the film , the Hospital of St . Mary of Bethlehem had been moved from Bishopsgate to Moorfields and the name had generally been corrupted to ? Bedlam . ' Great abuses did take place there during the 18th Century and members of refined society were allowed for a fee to view the inmates . Now located in Shirley , near Beckenham , it is known as the Bethlehem Royal Hospital and is England's leading facility for the treatment of the mentally ill . The term ? bedlam ' has come to mean ? a confused uproar . ' The paintings seen throughout the film are by William Hogarth ( 1697-1764 ) , whose 1735 series A Rake's Progress included a scene set in Bedlam .
Whimsical One-Reeler	An MGM ROBERT BENCHLEY Short Subject . Trying to quietly spend A NIGHT AT THE MOVIES isn't so simple for hapless Robert Benchley . Nominated for the Best One-Reel Short Subject Academy Award , this was one of a series of little films to feature the gentle humor of Robert Benchley ( 1889-1945 ) . Watching him deal with the unexpected difficulties of simply enjoying a movie elicits much quiet amusement . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something akin to writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
The Story Of A Gem	An MGM MINIATURE Short Subject . THE JONKER DIAMOND , a marvelous 726-caret crystal discovered in the Transvaal in 1934 , brings happiness to all those associated with it . This quickly paced little film is both informative & entertaining to watch , as it succinctly unfolds the history of the fabulous gemstone ( although why it states the Jonker was cut into twenty smaller jewels , when the correct amount is twelve , is something of a mystery ) . It is also a good example of the early American work of director Jacques Tourneur , who would gain fame in the 1940's with his horror films at RKO . Movie mavens should recognize an unbilled Hugh Marlowe , in his film debut , as the younger Jonker . Often overlooked or neglected today , the one and two-reel short subjects were useful to the Studios as important training grounds for new or burgeoning talents , both in front & behind the camera . The dynamics for creating a successful short subject was completely different from that of a feature length film , something like writing a topnotch short story rather than a novel . Economical to produce in terms of both budget & schedule and capable of portraying a wide range of material , short subjects were the perfect complement to the Studios ' feature films .
Sandy Classic	THE LOST PATROL from the British Army in Mesopotamia desperately defends itself in a tiny oasis from Arab attackers . John Ford directed this powerful Great War tale of agonizing heartbreak and desperate perseverance . The film becomes a character study as the eleven soldiers succumb , inevitably , to madness and snipers ' bullets . Ford craftily keeps the Arabs unseen for an hour , making the implacable desolation of the sun scorched desert the men's worst enemy . British actor Victor McLaglen is the absolute backbone of the film . Beefy McLaglen - - who had his own distinguished military career in World War One - - is perfectly believable as the stalwart sergeant with the task of keeping his men alive at the water hole until relief can arrive . Bullying , blustering , brave , his is a heroic performance of a man fighting titanic odds . Gaunt Boris Karloff appears as a religiously fanatical private ; his final scene , carrying a large cross up a dune , is especially memorable . Also in the patrol are Wallace Ford as a lively music hall performer and Reginald Denny as a gentleman with a past . Among the other men are good-natured Billy Bevan , sturdy Alan Hale and naive teenager Douglas Walton . Max Steiner's powerful soundtrack propels the plot onward to its inevitable conclusion .
A Tale From Mother Russia Retold	The bizarre demand of a foolish Tsar is met in a most surprising way by THE FOOL AND THE FLYING SHIP - and five very peculiar friends . This old Russian folk tale is given a most lively interpretation by the folks at Rabbit Ears . Full of sound , color & good humor , it is sure to engage the imagination . Robin Williams provides a hectic , hilarious narration in dialect , perfectly underscored by the Klezmer Conservatory Band . Henrik Drescher's highly individualistic illustrations will delight or depress , depending on the mood of the viewer .
Graveyard Humor	Spooky young VINCENT Malloy wants to grow up to become Vincent Price , in the worst possible way . . . Darkly humorous , especially in shadowy black & white , this little stop motion animated cartoon is filmmaker Tim Burton's homage to his great friend , fright master Vincent Price ( 1911-1993 ) . With its bizarre characters , grotesque story line & eerie visuals , it is a direct forerunner of Burton's feature length A NIGHTMARE BEFORE CHRISTMAS ( 1993 ) . A treat for those who enjoy the macabre . Narrated with creepy perfection , appropriately enough , by Vincent Price .
Dirty Doings For A Clean Cat	A Walt Disney FIGARO Cartoon . As if BATH DAY wasn't bad enough , a pampered & pomaded Figaro the kitten has a most nasty encounter with the meanest alley cat on the block . This was one of a short series of cartoons that featured the little feline from PINOCCHIO ( 1940 ) . There's plenty of good humor here , with the mangy villain getting exactly what he deserves . Minnie Mouse has a small role as Figaro's hygienically obsessed owner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Let's All Sing Like The Birdies Sing - With Disney	Winging into action , our feathered host leads us on a short flight into the world of all things avian . After learning about the vital impact - yet sad history - of our little flying friends , we are left with the inescapable conclusion that IT'S TOUGH TO BE A BIRD . This delightful Disney cartoon , winner of the 1969 Oscar for Best Animated Short , is great fun . It is most enjoyable to see the antique film clips & to be reminded of the old birdie tunes . But beyond the laughs are some important elements dealing with bird biology & preservation . Ward Kimball , authentic genius , master animator & one of Walt's Nine Old Men , co-authored & directed this short , infusing it with his unique brand of quirky humor . Movie mavens will spot him as the bird watcher holding the tape recorder . Richard Bakalyan does a fine job as the narrator with attitude ; that's Ruth Buzzi hilariously warbling ' When The Buzzards Return To Hinckley Ridge . ' Give yourself a golden goose egg if you can spot Donald Duck .
A Simple Little Cartoon From The Folks At Disney	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . THE BEARS AND THE BEES are enjoying the beautiful Spring day - the bees making honey & the bear cubs eating it - until the arrival of a fierce , cranky male bear threatens to ruin everyone's morning . . . This black & white cartoon is mostly filled with action / reaction animation and an amazing number of posterior gags . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most fascinating of all animated series . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
Mister Brown & Mister Kibbee Score Comedic Success	Alexander C . Botts - a natural born salesman - tries to sell EARTHWORM TRACTORS to a most unwilling businessman . Based on William Hazlett Upson's short stories for the Saturday Evening Post , this very funny , fast-paced film is an excellent vehicle for Joe E . Brown . His great rubbery face registering amusement , determination or frustration , Brown propels himself from one slapstick situation to another . His goofy antics - moving his girlfriend's house without her permission is just one of them - are genuinely hilarious . Human pepper pot Guy Kibbee is Brown's perfect foil . Eyes bulging & voice booming , he inevitably finds himself involved in Brown's more dangerous schemes . At one point , words utterly failing him , he discovers his only possible response to Brown's incredible behavior is a quick sock on the jaw . Mention should be made of laconic Olin Howlin , shoe polish guzzling Gene Lockhart & telephone operator Rosalind Marquis , each of whom add bright moments to the film . Alert movie mavens will spot two humorous goofs early in the film : 1 ) In the first scene , when rival Dick Foran parks his car in front of pretty Carol Hughes ' home , the cameraman & camera are perfectly reflected in the convertible's driver side window ; 2 ) A little later on , Joe E . Brown's white suit is mad-splattered when he tries to extricate lovely June Travis ' auto from a puddle - but when he jumps in with her moments later the fabric has miraculously laundered itself .
Goofy Takes Center Stage	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . GOOFY AND WILBUR , his tiny grasshopper buddy , go fishing and encounter danger in & out of the water . Goofy had his first solo starring role in this very funny little film . The animation is first-rate and the laughs are genuine as the Bug acts as bait to entice fish for the Goof to catch - the bullfrog & stork simply add to the fun . Although full of spunk and obvious talent , this was to be Wilbur's only appearance in a Disney cartoon . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Hurry Up & Wait	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . It's just FALL OUT-FALL IN for poor Private Duck , whose Army experience is becoming nothing but one long march . This World War Two era cartoon features better than average animation and a funny performance from the Duck . Clarence Nash provides Donald with his unique voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work will always pay off .
Flirtin ' With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy ShortAlfalfa , president of the newly formed He-Man Woman Haters Club , has MAIL AND FEMALE woes : he is frantic to retrieve a love letter he sent to Darla and if that means disguising himself as her Cousin Amelia , and flirting with Spanky & Spike , so be it . . . A funny little film . Alfalfa in drag is a fearsome sight to behold .
Hospital Fun With Mr . Laurel & Mr . Hardy	A LAUREL & HARDY Comedy Short . Ollie is blissfully relaxing in the COUNTY HOSPITAL with unspecified problems with his right leg . His peace is shattered when Stan arrives for a visit . After innocently proceeding to wreck the room & nearly killing the doctor , Stan sits on a hypodermic full of sleeping medication . He then attempts to drive Ollie home ( he's been thrown out by the infuriated doctor ) . Chaos ensues as sleepy Stanley proceeds down a very busy city street . A fine little film , though not in the same class as the Boy's classics . One has to wonder - again - how Ollie could engage in such rough physical comedy without breaking his neck . That's Billy Gilbert as the harassed & harried doctor .
Dumb Duck Versus Magical Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Donald Duck will live to regret the evening he decided to heckle the performance of MAGICIAN MICKEY . This is a wonderful little film from Disney's Golden Age , full of excellent animation and truly hilarious legerdemain . The pyrotechnic prestidigitation at the conclusion , involving stagehand Goofy , makes a spectacular use of Technicolor . Walt Disney provides Mickey with his squeaky voice ; Clarence Nash does the honors for Donald . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
By The Sea With Mickey & Minnie	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Lifeguard Mickey saves Minnie from the ocean's WILD WAVES . Such bravery surely deserves a musical celebration and a little romance . This enjoyable early black & white film has a plot propelled entirely by its lively soundtrack . Walt Disney supplies Mickey with his squeaky speaking voice . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Garbo & Company Sizzle In Steamy Melodrama	During nights scented with the perfume of WILD ORCHIDS , a Javanese prince woos the beautiful wife of a visiting American tycoon . Although really little more than a story about a romantic triangle , the excellent acting & superb presentation make this a very enjoyable film . Greta Garbo , exquisite & serene , shows once again that she was more than just a perfectly sculpted face . She was also a very disciplined actress who used her tightly controlled body to convey emotional depths and subtle nuances . Even in what for her was a rather minor film , she is a marvel to watch , beyond superlatives , exhausting all adjectives . She is simply Garbo and that is enough . For sheer exoticism , few Hollywood male stars of the period could compete with Garbo . Nils Asther was one of these . Although Scandinavian , something about the bone structure of his face made him ideal for Asian roles . He had already enjoyed much success as a matinee idol by the time WILD ORCHIDS was filmed . A fine actor , he seems loath to accede all of the viewers ' attention to Garbo . ( Swedes both , they must have had some interesting private conversations on the set . ) Asther makes his characterization of the Prince a compelling blend of charm & cowardice - a creature quite capable of seducing his sultry costar into marital infidelity . The onset of talkies would prove difficult for Asther , his heavy accent making it hard for MGM to cast him effectively and he would eventually return to Sweden . However , when given the right role , as in Frank Capra's THE BITTER TEA OF GENERAL YEN ( 1933 ) , Asther was able to exhibit the natural talent he was seldom called upon to use . Lewis Stone is the solid fulcrum over which his two extravagant costars teeter . While they exude passion & sensuality , he revels in the simpler virtues - duty , dignity , and , when he finally catches on to the Prince's depredations , righteous wrath . He manages to infuse all this with a quiet sense of befuddled humor , which only makes his character all the more human . The film's first rate production values make the heat & hedonism of Java come alive for the viewer . The Javanese dancing is of particular interest . The use of sound effects in this late silent film is of some significance - they perfectly illustrate where some film purists thought the cinema should remain : with music and effects , but definitely no dialogue .
Takin ' A Train Trip With The Little Rascals	An OUR GANG Comedy Short . Disguised as orphans , six of the Rascals take a chaotic CHOO-CHOO train trip under the disgusted guidance of railway employee & first-rate nellie , Mr . Henderson . A funny little film , with the turmoil slowly building for the poor train passengers as the Rascals run amuck .
Wonderful Cinematic Gem	THE RED BALLOON rescued by a small Parisian lad will transform his life in unbelievable ways . This is a marvelous film , full of love & hope , searing sorrow & overwhelming joy . It is also a classic example of what can be done in a very limited time frame , with a compelling story and genius behind the camera . The special effects are still entrancing , with wonderful editing & camerawork which turns the byways & alleys of old Paris into the canvas on which this fantasy is painted . Director Albert Lamorisse's young son , Pascal , is the very fortunate star of this urban fairy tale . If the tribulations & persecutions of the Red Balloon appear to be a type of Epiphany , that is probably no coincidence .
Speed Demon	A Walt Disney GOOFY Cartoon . Even the most mild mannered pedestrian becomes afflicted with MOTOR MANIA when he gets behind the steering wheel of a car . This little film is not only humorous - in a bone-jarring sort of way - but it also deals with a serious problem : emotional drivers who are a danger to everyone else on the highway . This was the first of Goofy's car safety cartoons and would later be followed by FREEWAYPHOBIA NO . 1 and GOOFY'S FREEWAY TROUBLE ( both 1965 ) . John McLeish narrates in his best documentarian manner . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a storm of naysayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Back To The Past With Mr . Mouse	A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon . Mickey & Minnie discover true love in THE NIFTY NINETIES - the 1890's , that is . This highly nostalgic little film is a delight , transferring Mickey & Minnie back about fifty years to the age of bloomers & bustles . In the vaudeville theater , the ' Father , Dear Father ' slide presentation is an unexpected hoot . The song and dance guys ( ' Two Clever Boys From Illinois ' ) are caricatures of the animators Fred Moore & Ward Kimball . Goofy and the entire Duck clan make quick cameos riding antique bicycles . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by pictures & drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew comic figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that childlike simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
Disney's Cartoon That Failed	A Walt Disney SILLY SYMPHONY Cartoon Short . Little ELMER ELEPHANT has a crush on Tillie Tiger & his affection is reciprocated ( don't try to figure it out ) . Trouble is , the pint-sized pachyderm is beset by bullies who ridicule his trunk and make his life miserable . Then a conflagration breaks out at Tillie's tree house . . . A very cute little film , very nicely drawn , with a sound moral message . It could have been the start of a series of Elmer Elephant shorts , but , alas , that was not to be and Elmer & his friends went into almost immediate cartoon oblivion . The pelicans , for those too young to know , are spoofs of Jimmy Durante . The SILLY SYMPHONIES , which Walt Disney produced for a ten year period beginning in 1929 , are among the most interesting of series in the field of animation . Unlike the Mickey Mouse cartoons in which action was paramount , with the Symphonies the action was made to fit the music . There was little plot in the early Symphonies , which featured lively inanimate objects and anthropomorphic plants & animals , all moving frantically to the soundtrack . Gradually , however , the Symphonies became the school where Walt's animators learned to work with color and began to experiment with plot , characterization & photographic special effects . The pages of Fable & Fairy Tale , Myth & Mother Goose were all mined to provide story lines and even Hollywood's musicals & celebrities were effectively spoofed . It was from this rich soil that Disney's feature-length animation was to spring . In 1939 , with SNOW WHITE successfully behind him and PINOCCHIO & FANTASIA on the near horizon , Walt phased out the SILLY SYMPHONIES ; they had run their course & served their purpose .
A Duck Tale With Mountain Lion	A Walt Disney DONALD DUCK Cartoon . The Little Ranger enjoys his job as guide at the Grand Canyon , until tourist Donald and a ferocious Mountain Lion give him a really bad day . . . This enjoyable little comedy doubtless got its name as it was one of Disney's first releases in Cinemascope . It also marked the final appearance in a Disney cartoon of the Mountain Lion , who retired to a cave in California's Hollywood Hills . Clarence " Ducky " Nash provided the voice for Donald ; Bill Thompson did the honors for Ranger J . Audubon Woodlore . Walt Disney ( 1901-1966 ) was always intrigued by drawings . As a lad in Marceline , Missouri , he sketched farm animals on scraps of paper ; later , as an ambulance driver in France during the First World War , he drew figures on the sides of his vehicle . Back in Kansas City , along with artist Ub Iwerks , Walt developed a primitive animation studio that provided animated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movie theaters . Always the innovator , his ALICE IN CARTOONLAND series broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoon universe . Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in 1923 , where Walt's older brother Roy became his lifelong business manager & counselor . When a mildly successful series with Oswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor , the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt's imagination , ensuring Disney's immortality . The happy arrival of sound technology made Mickey's screen debut , STEAMBOAT WILLIE ( 1928 ) , a tremendous audience success with its use of synchronized music . The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared , and Walt's growing crew of marvelously talented animators were quickly conquering new territory with full color , illusions of depth and radical advancements in personality development , an arena in which Walt's genius was unbeatable . Mickey's feisty , naughty behavior had captured millions of fans , but he was soon to be joined by other animated companions : temperamental Donald Duck , intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto . All this was in preparation for Walt's grandest dream - feature length animated films . Against a blizzard of doomsayers , Walt persevered and over the next decades delighted children of all ages with the adventures of Snow White , Pinocchio , Dumbo , Bambi & Peter Pan . Walt never forgot that his fortunes were all started by a mouse , or that simplicity of message and lots of hard work always pay off .
